Report No. PID9057
Project Name                     Algeria-Telecommunications and Postal...
Sector Reform Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Telecommunications & Informatics
Project ID                       DZPE70308
Borrower(s)                      DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REP. OF ALGERIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF POST AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
4 Bd Krim Belkacem, Alger, Algeria
Contact Person: Project Coordination
and Implementation Unit
Tel: 213-2 73 17 69
Fax: 213-2 71 28 87
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 7, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 26, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 27, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector IssuesInadequate provision of serviceDespite recent investments,
telecommunications services in Algeria remain inadequate (see Table 1).
The telephone, mobile and internet densities are low compared to other
countries in the region. The unmet demand has continually increased since
1992 and is now estimated at about 800,000 (October 1999) for fixed lines,
and approximately 250,000 for GSM (December 1999) with a waiting time of
several months to more than a year for connections (fixed service and
GSM). The quality of service is poor (only 66t of lines signaled to be out
of service are repaired within 48 hours in 1998) and productivity is low
(81 main lines per employee in 1998). Furthermore, there is limited
development of value added services.Need to reform and rebalance tariffs
In comparison to other countries in the region, telecommunications tariffs
in Algeria are generally low for installation, connection and local calls.
International telephone tariffs, however are high, ranging from US$0.72
per minute for calls to southern Europe, to US$2.13 per minute to Asia,
with the exception of calls to other Maghreb countries which cost only
US$0.20 per minute. Given the dominant position of the main operator,
tariff rebalancing will be an important step in establishing an efficient
liberalized sector.Inadequate legal, regulatory and institutional
framework. The Constitution of November 28, 1996 specifies that the State
is the owner of public telecommunications and postal facilities. The
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications is the regulator and also the
operating entity. It has the monopoly for telecommunications and postal
services (including postal financial services) operating these services as
departments of the Ministry. MPT's responsibilities, organization and
operations are governed by presidential ordinances and decrees, including



Ordinance 75-89 of December 30, 1975, and subsequent updates. In order to
prepare the telecommunications sector for increased competition, GoAL
needs to update its legislation and move towards the separation of postal
services from telecommunications services creating separate commercial
entities. Operating, policy and regulatory functions must also be
separated, with subsequent creation of a regulatory body. Given Algeria's
commitment to regional integration and to a development strategy which is
outward oriented, greater attention now needs to be given to building
institutional capacity and to developing a regulatory framework more
harmonized with emerging global trends, notably those reflected in the
Fourth Protocol of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) under
the aegis of the World Trade Organization.Lack of a development strategy
for the postal sectorAlgeria has an extensive postal network with
approximately 3,300 postal outlets, 700 of which are interconnected by a
private telecommunications network operated by MPT. The postal outlets
offer traditional postal services as well as financial services (checking
and savings accounts, money orders), the latter representing 75t of total
transactions. Although Algeria's postal sector performance compares
favorably with Morocco in some respects, as shown in Table 2 below, there
is considerable opportunity for sector growth. The volume of letter mail
has significantly declined since 1997 (total mail volume in 1997 was 517
million dropping to 303 million in 1999). A sector development strategy,
including a plan for the development of postal banking services and
development of new products (e-mail, CyberPost), to ensure the viability
of the postal sector after separation from the telecommunications
operations, is essential. This may require substantial restructuring and
productivity improvements in the new postal operator.Government
StrategyThe Government is expected to issue a telecommunications policy
statement by the end of Q2 2000 and has asked the Bank to assist in its
implementation. The main elements of the Government's strategy are :
Establishment of a new legal, regulatory and institutional framework. The
new legal, regulatory and institutional framework is aimed at putting all
operators on an equal competitive footing with respect to regulatory
provisions on tariffs, interconnection, and universal access. A new Post
and Telecommunications Law will be adopted by Parliament by Q3 2000,
enabling the emergence of a multi-operator market structure. Principal
decrees to be issued by Ql 2001 include : the organization of the
Regulatory Authority, universal access obligations, tariff regime and
interconnection principles. By establishing a new and attractive
regulatory framework, GoAL intends to increase private investment in the
telecommunications and postal sectors.Gradual liberalization of all market
segments of the telecommunications and postal sectors. The Government
intends to open up segments such as mobile services, paging and other
value added services as soon as a proper regulatory framework, based on
the new Telecommunications and Postal Law, is in place. The Government
intends to create an ad-hoc committee to oversee the award of GSM
license(s) to be granted to a private operator(s) through a transparent
and international competitive bidding process by Ql 2001. Gradual
introduction of competition in all other segments, such as fixed wired
telephony or international access, will be completed before the end of
2005. Shares of public telecommunication operator offered for sale to a
strategic investor : The Government plans to privatize the main
telecommunications operator through a strategic partnership. Shares from
the public Telecommunications Company will be offered for sale to a
strategic partner through a competitive and transparent bidding process by
-2 -



Q3 2002. The aim of privatization is to allow greater flexibility and
efficiency in the management of the main operator and to thereby prepare
the company to face competition from new entrants. Postal Development
Strategy : As part of the sector liberalization, the Government intends to
define a new postal strategy aimed at ensuring the commercial viability
of the new postal entity in an open environment. The strategy will
include the development of postal financial services in a way which is
consistent with the overall reform program for the financial sector.
2. Objectives
The project objective is to create an enabling environment to improve
access to efficient and affordable communications services by opening the
telecommunications and postal sectors to competition and private
participation. The project will support the Government of Algeria's
(GoAL) program to (i) establish a new legal, regulatory and institutional
framework; (ii) implement gradual liberalization of all market segments in
the sector; (iii) privatize the main telecommunications operator through a
transparent and competitive bidding process, and (iv) elaborate a
comprehensive postal development strategy, towards ensuring the financial
viability of the postal operator.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is involved in dialogue on telecommunications sector reform in
fifty countries all over the developing world, including several countries
in the Middle-East and North Africa region (Morocco, Jordan, Lebanon).
The GoAL recognizes the Bank's extensive international experience in
telecommunications and postal sector reform, and has sought Bank guidance
as they embark on their reform program.
4. Description
1. Establish a new legal and regulatory framework
- Consultant services to establish new regulatory framework, prepare
generic licenses and set-up and design regulatory authority.
- Consultant services to assist Regulatory Authority on specific
regulatory issues
- Training
2. Implement liberalization policy
- Consultant services to award GSM license(s)
3. Restructure the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
- Consultant services to restructure MPT and prepare opening balance
sheets for new postal and telecommunication entities
- Workshops, study tour
4. Privatize Telecommunications Entity
- Consultant services to conduct audit of balance sheet of
telecommunications entity according to IAS.
- Consultant services to structure and execute the privatization
transaction
5. Elaborate Postal Development Strategy
- Consultant services to elaborate postal development strategy
-Training
-3-



6. Strengthen Communication Strategy and Capacity Building
- Consultant services to launch information campaign
- Consultant services and equipment for PCIU and project audit
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       1
IBRD                             9
IDA
Total Project Cost               10
6. Implementation
Implementation Period: The project will be implemented over a three and
one-half year period from June 30, 2000 to December 31, 2003. Executing
Agency: The Executing Agency responsible for the implementation of the
sector reform program and the project is the Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications. The Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications will
consult with other Ministries, as necessary for finalizing the
privatization transaction strategy and for the development of the
financial services for the postal entity. Implementing Agency: The
implementation agency of the project is the Project Coordination and
Implementation Unit (PCIU). The key PCIU staff, namely the Project
Manager, financial /accounting manager and procurement specialist, will be
appointed before project effectiveness. The Project Manager will report
to the Minister of Posts and Telecommunications. Project Administration:
The Project Manager, heading the PCIU, is responsible for supervising the
consultants financed by the project and for ensuring proper procurement
and financial management. The Project Manager will be assisted by a
procurement specialist and an accountant/financial management
specialist.Financial Management : The Financial Management System (FMS)
currently in place in the MPT, is based on principles and procedures
defined by the legal framework applicable to the pubic sector and more
specifically to governmental institutions. MPT is maintaining an
accounting system based on the cash basis and the outline of budget
components according to the provisions of the Public Accounting Law. The
management information system is quite developed and allows an acceptable
monitoring of the operational activity. Although globally satisfactory,
the existing financial management system should be improved in order to
meet the Bank requirements and to achieve the required efficiency. The
improvements are reflected on an agreed time bound action plan, which will
be implemented by project effectiveness. Complimentary actions will be
taken in order to set up a financial reporting system by June 30, 2001.
Financial management arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex 6
and summarized below.Accounting and financial reporting: Upon
implementation of the required financial management system, the Project
Manager, with the assistance of the financial management specialist, will
maintain acceptable project accounts. They will also be responsible for
setting up an adequate reporting system, as described in the time-bound
action plan, in order to meet the Bank's recommendations in terms of
financial reporting. The project team will assure that the annual project
financial statements and the quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR),
acceptable to the Bank, are issued and submitted to the Bank and to the
auditors. Procedures for accounts and financial reporting as well as
internal control mechanisms specific to the project which aim at meeting
-4 -



the Bank's requirements, will be put in place by the financial management
specialist. Audit : The project account, special account and all
disbursements under Statement of Expenses (SOEs) will be audited annually
according to International Standards by qualified independent auditors,
following the Bank's Guidelines (e.g. Financial, Accounting, Reporting and
Auditing Handbook, "FARAH") and TORs acceptable to the Bank. The auditor
will express a professional opinion on the annual project financial
statements and will submit to the Bank an annual audit report within 6
months after the end of the fiscal year. Disbursements : Disbursements
from the Bank loan would be initially made on the traditional system
(reimbursements with full documentation and against Statements of
Expenditure - SOEs, and direct payments). GoAL could opt to the PMR based
disbursement after the assessment of the financial management system,
which aims at ensuring that this system is operating satisfactorily. This
assessment will take place by no later than September 30, 2001. Monitoring
and evaluation: The PCIU will be responsible for monitoring progress via
performance indicators. Monitoring and evaluation will be guided by the
Project Design Summary in Annex 1 and the Project Implementation Plan. The
Project Implementation Plan will specify reporting responsibilities for
each component, and will require the PCIU to generate and submit to the
Bank quarterly progress reports. The Bank will conduct at least eight
supervision missions during project implementation as well as annual
progress reviews. A mid-term review will be conducted to monitor progress
on performance indicators (Annex 1) and to ensure that satisfactory
secondary legislation is in place. The Government will transmit to IBRD a
project completion report, within six months of loan closing.
7. Sustainability
By developing a competitive framework for market-based telecommunications
and postal service provision, the project will help accelerate investment
and improve service levels by new private operators. Incentives to sustain
project objectives include codification of rights and obligations of the
incumbent and new operators, not only in legislation and decrees, but also
in licenses. Improved service coverage and quality at more competitive
telecommunications prices will be sustained as private investment grows in
both telecommunications infrastructure and services. Empowering the new
regulatory authority to charge levies and fees on telecommunications
operators will enable regulatory functions to be sustained without
dependence on budgetary support.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned in other telecommunications restructuring and
privatization projects are reflected in the project design:A clear and
reliable regulatory framework is a prerequisite to attracting private
investments in the sector.The establishment of a self financed and
effective regulatory entity to prepare recommendations for new
authorizations, solve disputes among operators and service providers, and
protect consumer interest is essential for the development of a
competitive telecommunications market.Policy for the sector should include
a set of incentives to promote access to telecommunications services to
remote populations and to improve the affordability of services to poor in
both rural and urban areas
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
- 5 -



10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         This is a postal and telecommunications
restructuring project which involves only policy/institution-building
components. There are no environmental issues in this project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Paul Noumba Um
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: +1 (202) 473-0151
Fax: +1 (202) 522-3001
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 9, 2000.
- 6 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
-7-



