Document of
The World Bank
Report No.:    20509 AL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND POSTAL SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
June 2, 2000
Middle East and North Africa Region
Global Information and Communication Technologies Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2000)
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DZD)
DZD 1.0 = US$ .014
US$ 1.0 = 72.26
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAD           -   Banque Algerienne de Developpement
CAS           -   Country Assistance Strategy
EU            -   European Union
FARAH         -   Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FMS           -   Financial Management Specialist
FMPM          -   Financial Management Procedures Manual
GATS          -   General Agreement on Trade in Services
GoAL          -   Government of Algeria
GSM           -   Global System for Mobile communication
L4AS          -   International Accounting Standards
ITU           -   International Telecommunications Union
LIL           -   Learning and Innovation Loan
MNA           -   Middle East and North Africa
MOF           -   Ministry of Finance
MPT           -   Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
NGO           -   Non-Governmental Organization
OED/OEG       -   Operations Evaluation Department / Operations Evaluation Group
PCIU          -   Project Implementation and Coordination Unit
PIP           -   Project Implementation Plan
PMR           -   Project Management Report
RA            -   Regulatory Authority
SME           -   Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE           -   Statement of Expenditure
TOR           -   Terms of Reference
UNDB          -   United Nations Development Business
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:    Emmanuel Forestier / Mohsen Khalil
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Paul Noumba Um



ALGERIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND POSTAL SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           11
2. Financial                                                                          11
3. Technical                                                                          12
4. Institutional                                                                      12
5. Environment                                                                        12
6. Social                                                                             13
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 13
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     14
2. Critical risks                                                                     14
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     15



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            15
2. Other                                                                              15
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          17
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             22
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         25
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   26
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               27
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       28
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     38
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   39
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  40
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            42
MAP(S)



ALGERIA
Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
CITPO
Date: June 2, 2000                                Team Leader: Paul Noumba Um
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie       Sector Manager/Director: Emmanuel Forestier
Project ID: P070308                               Sector(s): CC - Telecommunications & Informatics
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): Telecom & Informatics
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
N Loan         Cl Credit        1I Grant        O Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 9.00
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 3                                Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.85% of
undisbursed balances for first 4 years,
standard charge of 0.75% on
undisbursed balances thereafter,
beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Fia  E      n_     S                                                         r  n 
GOVERNMENT                                                      0.78           0.22           1.00
IBRD                                                            0.00           9.00           9.00
Total:                                                          0.78           9.22          10.00
Borrower: DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REP. OF ALGERIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Address: 4 Bd Krim Belkacem, Alger, Algeria
Contact Person: Project Coordination and Implementation Unit
Tel: 213-2 73 17 69               Fax: 213-2 71 28 87                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
;:: . st. 2_01             2002 : :----           -tt 2003 ii- : 20w  --... _04
Annual     2.9           4.3          1.4        0.4
Cumulative     2.9          7.2          8.6         9.0
Project implementation period: 3.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2003
OCS PAD F- Ra MWM



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project objective is to create an enabling environment to improve access to efficient and affordable
communications services by opening the telecommunications and postal sectors to competition and private
participation. The project will support the Government of Algeria's (GoAL) program to (i) establish a new
legal, regulatory and institutional framework; (ii) implement gradual liberalization of all market segments
in the sector; (iii) privatize the main telecommunications operator through a transparent and competitive
bidding process, and (iv) elaborate a comprehensive postal development strategy, towards ensuring the
financial viability of the postal operator.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
Progress towards the development objective will be monitored with the following key performance
indicators:
* Overall telephone density (fixed and mobile access lines) from 5.4 (1998) to 12 lines per 100
inhabitants by 2004
* Gradual decrease in price of urban and inter-urban 2Mb/s leased lines towards the level of prices in
neighboring countries (Greece, Spain, Morocco and Portugal).
*  At least one GSM license awarded to private operator by Ql 2001
* New Postal and Telecommunications entities are created and operational by 2001
* Shares of public telecommunications operator offered for sale to a strategic investor by Q3 2003
• Improve productivity of postal sector (no. of mail items treated per employee) to a level greater than or
equal to: (i) the average productivity in the MNA region, and (ii) the service productivity index in
Algeria.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 15316-AL         Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/27/96
The project will contribute to the 1996 Country Assistance Strategy objective of achieving sustainable
economic growth through increased private sector participation. The legal, regulatory and institutional
reforms supported by the project will create an enabling environment for increasing private investment
flows in the telecommunications and postal sectors.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues
Inadequate provision of service
Despite recent investments, telecommunications services in Algeria remain inadequate (see Table 1). The
telephone, mobile and internet densities are low compared to other countries in the region. The unmet
demand has continually increased since 1992 and is now estimated at about 800,000 (October 1999) for
fixed lines, and approximately 250,000 for GSM (December 1999) with a waiting time of several months
to more than a year for connections (fixed service and GSM). The quality of service is poor (only 66% of
lines signaled to be out of service are repaired within 48 hours in 1998) and productivity is low (81 main
lines per employee in 1998). Furthermore, there is limited development of value added services.
- 2 -



Table 1: Algeria Telecommunications Sector Performance in Comparative Perspective
Cote       South                   MNA
Algeria     Morocco     d'Ivoire     Africa      France     Average
No. of fixed lines per 100    5.02         5.44        1.19        11.45      56.95        8.05
inhabitants (1998)                      _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
Mobile subscribers per 100    .26          1.44        1.80        11.05      34.25       2.71
inhab._(1999)                           _ _ _ _ _    _ __ _ _                _ _ _ _
Number ofIntemet hostsper     .06          .72         .41         38.3       155.36      10.95
10.000  inhab._(1999)       _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _
% of digital lines   (1998)  57.90/o      99.5%        100%        82%         97%        87.8%
(1999)      78%
No. of lines per employee     81.3        107.07        47          84         201        96.39
(1998 )                     _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _
Source: ITU, Global Mobile
Need to reform and rebalance tariffs
In comparison to other countries in the region, telecommunications tariffs in Algeria are generally low for
installation, connection and local calls. International telephone tariffs, however are high, ranging from
US$0.72 per minute for calls to southern Europe, to US$2.13 per minute to Asia, with the exception of
calls to other Maghreb countries which cost only US$0.20 per minute. Given the dominant position of the
main operator, tariff rebalancing will be an important step in establishing an efficient liberalized sector.
Inadequate legal, regulatory and institutionalframework.
The Constitution of November 28, 1996 specifies that the State is the owner of public telecommunications
and postal facilities. The Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications is the regulator and also the operating
entity. It has the monopoly for telecommunications and postal services (including postal financial services)
operating these services as departnents of the Ministry. MPT's responsibilities, organization and
operations are governed by presidential ordinances and decrees, including Ordinance 75-89 of December
30, 1975, and subsequent updates.
In order to prepare the telecommunications sector for increased competition, GoAL needs to update its
legislation and move towards the separation of postal services from telecommunications services creating
separate commercial entities. Operating, policy and regulatory functions must also be separated, with
subsequent creation of a regulatory body. Given Algeria's commitment to regional integration and to a
development strategy which is outward oriented, greater attention now needs to be given to building
institutional capacity and to developing a regulatory framework more harmonized with emerging global
trends, notably those reflected in the Fourth Protocol of the General Agreement on Trade in Services
(GATS) under the aegis of the World Trade Organization.
Lack of a development strategy for the postal sector
Algeria has an extensive postal network with approximately 3,300 postal outlets, 700 of which are
interconnected by a private telecommunications network operated by MPT. The postal outlets offer
-3 -



traditional postal services as well as financial services (checking and savings accounts, money orders), the
latter representing 75% of total transactions. Although Algeria's postal sector performance compares
favorably with Morocco in some respects, as shown in Table 2 below, there is considerable opportunity for
sector growth. The volume of letter mail has significantly declined since 1997 (total mail volume in 1997
was 517 million dropping to 303 million in 1999). A sector development strategy, including a plan for the
development of postal banking services and development of new products (e-mail, CyberPost), to ensure
the viability of the postal sector after separation from the telecommunications operations, is essential. This
may require substantial restructuring and productivity improvements in the new postal operator.
Table 2: Algeria Postal Sector Performance in Comparative Perspective
Algeria       Morocco         France
Average no. of inhab. served by perm. office (1998)  9,188      18,700          3,500
% of inhabitants with postal giro account (1998)  16.7%          1.9%           17.3%
Average no. of domestic letters per inhab./year     10              7             425
(1998)_ _ _ _ _ _                                                                   _ _
No. of domestic letters handled per employee (1998)  16,000     19,800          87,600
Total investment / employee (SDR) (1998)            157           472            1,900
Source: UPU
Government Strateav
The Government is expected to issue a telecommunications policy statement by the end of Q2 2000 and has
asked the Bank to assist in its implementation. The main elements of the Govemment's strategy are:
Establishment of a new legal, regulatory and institutional framework. The new legal, regulatory and
institutional framework is aimed at putting all operators on an equal competitive footing with respect to
regulatory provisions on tariffs, interconnection, and universal access. A new Post and
Telecommunications Law will be adopted by Parliament by Q3 2000, enabling the emergence of a
multi-operator market structure. Principal decrees to be issued by Q I 2001 include : the organization of the
Regulatory Authority, universal access obligations, tariff regime and interconnection principles. By
establishing a new and attractive regulatory framework, GoAL intends to increase private investment in
the telecommunications and postal sectors.
Gradual liberalization of all market segments of the telecommunications and postal sectors. The
Government intends to open up segments such as mobile services, paging and other value added services as
soon as a proper regulatory framework, based on the new Telecommunications and Postal Law, is in place.
The Government intends to create an ad-hoc committee to oversee the award of GSM license(s) to be
granted to a private operator(s) through a transparent and international competitive bidding process by QI
2001. Gradual introduction of competition in all other segments, such as fixed wired telephony or
international access, will be completed before the end of 2005.
Shares of public telecommunication operator offered for sale to a strategic investor: The Government
plans to privatize the main telecommunications operator through a strategic partnership. Shares from the
public Telecommunications Company will be offered for sale to a strategic partner through a competitive
and transparent bidding process by Q3 2002. The aim of privatization is to allow greater flexibility and
-4 -



efficiency in the management of the main operator and to thereby prepare the company to face competition
from new entrants.
Postal Development Strategy: As part of the sector liberalization, the Government intends to define a new
postal strategy aimed at ensuring the commercial viability of the new postal entity in an open environment.
The strategy will include the development of postal financial services in a way which is consistent with the
overall reform program for the financial sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
A.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project
*   Establish a modem legal and regulatory framework to lay the foundation for open, market-driven
telecommunications and postal sectors.
*   Implement a liberalization policy starting with the award of new GSM licenses to private investors
*   Establish new institutions and restructure existing ones to promote competition, to ensure a level
playing field among operators, clarity and consistency of rules applied by the autonomous
regulator, and an effective separation of policy, regulatory and operational functions of current
MPT.
*   Design and implement a privatization strategy for the incumbent telecommunications operator.
* Develop a strategy for postal and postal financial services
B. Strategic choices
The development agenda of the telecommunications and postal sectors, as outlined in the new policy
statement, has led the Government to make several strategic decisions which have been reflected in the
project design:
(i) Creation of an autonomous regulator: The Government has committed to divest the Ministry of Post and
Telecommunications of its existing regulatory functions and to empower and staff an independent
regulatory authority. The regulatory body will cover post and telecommunications. Accordingly, the
government will corporatize all operational entities, while reorganizing the ministry to limit its mandate to
policy issues.
(ii) Private versus public ownership: The Government has opted to increasingly introduce private capital
and management into utilities, which is consistent with its strategy to primarily direct public resources on
social sectors. In the case of telecommunications, it is envisaged that the shares of the public
telecommunications operator, will be offered for sale to a strategic partner by Q 3 2002.
(iii) Postal Services: Following the separation of telecommunications and post, the Government 's strategy
for the postal sector will be to ensure that the postal network and accessibility of postal services is
maintained, while at the same time taking the opportunity to develop new services (hybrid mail, e-mail),
thus enabling the postal operator to become a more commercially-oriented entity.
-5 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Establish a new legal and       Institutional        2.13       21.3      2.13       23.7
regulatory framework :              Development       .
- Consultant services to establish new
regulatory framework, prepare generic
licenses and set-up and design
regulatory authority.
- Consultant services to assist
Regulatory Authority on specific
regulatory issues
- Training
2. Implement liberalization policy:  Telecommunicati    0.69        6.9       0.69       7.7
- Consultant services to award GSM  ons &
license(s)                          Informatics
3. Restructure the Ministry of Posts    Institutional   2.92       29.2       2.92      32.4
and Telecommunications:             Development
- Consultant services to restructure
MPT and prepare opening balance
sheets for new postal and
telecommunication entities
- Workshops, study tour
4. Privatize Telecommunications Entity  Privatization   1.88       18.8       1.88      20.9
- Consultant services to conduct audit
of balance sheet of telecommunications
entity according to IAS.
- Consultant services to structure and
execute the privatization transaction
5. Elaborate Postal Development    Public Enterprise    1.29       12.9       1.29      14.3
Strategy:                          Reform
- Consultant services to elaborate
postal development strategy
-Training
-6 -



6. Strengthen Communication Strategy  Institutional    1.00       10.0      0.00       0.0
and Capacity Building:             Development
- Consultant services to launch
information campaign
- Consultant services and equipment for
PCIU and project audit
Total Project Costs                    9.91       99.1      8.91      99.0
Front-end fee                    0.09        0.9      0.09       1.0
Total Financing Required                    10.00     100.0      9.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
*  Establish a new regulatory framework, opening the sector to progressive competition, and creating an
autonomous regulator.
*   Award licenses/ authorizations to private operators and service providers on liberalized market
segments.
*   Reorganize the ministry of post and telecommunications and limit its activities to policy setting.
*   Corporatize newly created postal and telecommunications entities,
*   Privatize the incumbent telecommunications operator through a competitive and transparent bidding
process,
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will benefit all businesses and residential consumers in Algeria by increasing the availability
and affordability of traditional and modem telecommunications and postal services. The introduction of
competition and a more effective regulatory framework will lead to more competitive services in terms of
price, quality and variety.
The improvement and expansion of telecommunications and postal services will contribute to sustainable
economic growth. Businesses, which increasingly depend upon communications services to be competitive,
will benefit especially from lower costs and a greater variety of value added services. A modem
telecommunications framework, ensuring market innovations and competition, will make Algeria more
attractive to foreign investors.
For residential consumers, expanding and improving telecommunications and postal services will help
reduce the waiting time to be connected and reduce information isolation for populations living in rural
areas. Also, the large Algerian community living abroad will benefit from improved efficiency and
affordability of communications services to Algeria.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: The project will be implemented over a three and one-half year period from June
30, 2000 to December 31, 2003.
Executing Agency: The Executing Agency responsible for the implementation of the sector reform program
and the project is the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications. The Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications will consult with other Ministries, as necessary for finalizing the privatization
transaction strategy and for the development of the financial services for the postal entity.
-7 -



Implementing Aeencv: The implementation agency of the project is the Project Coordination and
Implementation Unit (PCIU). The key PCIU staff, namely the Project Manager, financial /accounting
manager and procurement specialist, will be appointed before project effectiveness. The Project Manager
will report to the Minister of Posts and Telecommunications.
Project Administration: The Project Manager, heading the PCIU, is responsible for supervising the
consultants financed by the project and for ensuring proper procurement and financial management. The
Project Manager will be assisted by a procurement specialist and an accountant/financial management
specialist.
Financial Management: The Financial Management System (FMS) currently in place in the MPT, is based
on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the pubic sector and more
specifically to governmental institutions. MPT is maintaining an accounting system based on the cash basis
and the outline of budget components according to the provisions of the Public Accounting Law. The
management information system is quite developed and allows an acceptable monitoring of the operational
activity. Although globally satisfactory, the existing financial management system should be improved in
order to meet the Bank requirements and to achieve the required efficiency. The improvements are reflected
on an agreed time bound action plan, which will be implemented by project effectiveness. Complimentary
actions will be taken in order to set up a financial reporting system by June 30, 2001. Financial
management arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex 6 and summarized below.
Accountinz and financial reporting: Upon implementation of the required financial management system, the
Project Manager, with the assistance of the financial management specialist, will maintain acceptable
project accounts. They will also be responsible for setting up an adequate reporting system, as described in
the time-bound action plan, in order to meet the Bank's recommendations in terms of financial reporting.
The project team will assure that the annual project financial statements and the quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMR), acceptable to the Bank, are issued and submitted to the Bank and to the
auditors. Procedures for accounts and financial reporting as well as internal control mechanisms specific to
the project which aim at meeting the Bank's requirements, will be put in place by the financial management
specialist.
Audit: The project account, special account and all disbursements under Statement of Expenses (SOEs)
will be audited annually according to Intemational Standards by qualified independent auditors, following
the Bank's Guidelines (e.g. Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook, "FARAH") and
TORs acceptable to the Bank. The auditor will express a professional opinion on the annual project
financial statements and will submit to the Bank an annual audit report within 6 months after the end of the
fiscal year.
Disbursements : Disbursements from the Bank loan would be initially made on the traditional system
(reimbursements with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure - SOEs, and direct
payments). GoAL could opt to the PMR based disbursement after the assessment of the financial
management system, which aims at ensuring that this system is operating satisfactorily. This assessment
will take place by no later than September 30, 2001.
Monitoring and evaluation: The PCIU will be responsible for monitoring progress via performance
indicators. Monitoring and evaluation will be guided by the Project Design Summary in Annex 1 and the
Project Implementation Plan. The Project Implementation Plan will specify reporting responsibilities for
each component, and will require the PCIU to generate and submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports.
- 8 -



The Bank will conduct at least eight supervision missions during project implementation as well as annual
progress reviews. A mid-term review will be conducted to monitor progress on performance indicators
(Annex 1) and to ensure that satisfactory secondary legislation is in place. The Govemment will transmit
to IBRD a project completion report, within six months of loan closing.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed project approach is consistent with the Bank's strategy for the telecommunications sector,
which calls for shifting the govemment's role from ownership and operations to policy making and
regulation, promoting efficiency and service quality, and increased private sector participation in
investments and provision of services.
Rationale .
GoAL's comprehensive reform plan is consistent with the above strategy. However, given the political
priority to award a GSM license before the end of 2000, there is a risk that the Government will proceed
without first establishing a proper regulatory framework. Hence this project is being prepared with a
fast-track approach in order to (i) respond rapidly to GoAL's request for assistance, (ii) ensure a
transparent and competitive bidding process for the second GSM license, and (iii) set up an adequate legal
and regulatory framework before implementing the liberalization policy.
Alternatives
Combine this project with Algeria Privatization project currently under preparation. This approach was
rejected on the basis of a recent OED/OEG study which showed that telecommunications projects yield
better results when imnplemented as a stand-alone project rather than as a component of a multi-sector
project.
Provide a limited assistance to ensure full transparency of the first competitive bidding process to award
GSMlicense(s). That alternative was not fully compliant to the Bank's strategy, as there was a high risk
that the sector policy and legal environment would not be satisfactory.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest SupervWiion
Sector Issue                      Project             - (PSR) Ratings
l- -tBank-financed  projt only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Improve telecommunications        First Telecommunications          S             S
infrastructure, strengthen MPT's  Project (Loan No. 2370)
organization and financial management (completed - June, 1992)
capabilities, and restructure tariffs
-9-



Stimulate private sector-led growth,   Structural Adjustment Loan  S            S
protect poor during transition to  (Loan No. 4005) (completed -
market-based economy, and enhance   April, 1998)
country's ability to mobilize external
resources.
Acceleration of the Government's  Privatization Support Project -
privatization program            LIL (planned)
Private sector development       First Private Enterprise
Development Project (planned)
Other development agencies                                             -t~  . .......
Canadian International Development   Private Sector Development
Agency                            Fund for Maghreb countries
(on-going)
European Union                    Privatization TA project
(on-going)
MEDA2 - Post and                    I
Telecommunications Reform
TA EURO 15-17 million
(planned)
Agence Francaise de Developpement   Credit line for SMEs - EURO
15 million (planned)                    A
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
This project has been prepared in collaboration with the EU who participated in the identification mission.
The EU project (MEDA2), expected to begin in 2002, would provide long-term TA to strengthen newly
created institutions in the telecommunications and postal sectors.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learned in other telecommunications restructuring and privatization projects are reflected in the
project design:
*  A clear and reliable regulatory framework is a prerequisite to attracting private investments in the
sector.
* The establishment of a self financed and effective regulatory entity to prepare recommendations for
new authorizations, solve disputes among operators and service providers, and protect consumer
interest is essential for the development of a competitive telecommunications market.
*   Policy for the sector should include a set of incentives to promote access to telecommunications
services to remote populations and to improve the affordability of services to poor in both rural and
urban areas
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The extent of the Government's commitment to opening the telecommunications and postal markets and
establishing an effective regulatory framework is demonstrated by:
- 10 -



*   issuance of a draft policy statement which includes commitment to: (i) restructure the ministry of post
and telecommunications to enable the corporatization of both telecommunications and postal activities
into public owned companies no later than 2001; (ii) privatize the newly created telecommunications.
entity no later than Q3, 2002; and (iii) open the telecommunications market to full competition by
2005.
* decision to recruit two international telecommunications experts to assist in the preparation of a new
pro-competitive telecommunications policy and Postal and Telecommunications Law, both to be
adopted by Q3 2000; and
*   commitment to award at least one GSM license to a private investor through a transparent and
competitive bidding process by Q 1 2001.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is involved in dialogue on telecommunications sector reform in fifty countries all over the
developing world, including several countries in the Middle-East and North Africa region (Morocco,
Jordan, Lebanon). The GoAL recognizes the Bank's extensive international experience in
telecommunications and postal sector reform, and has sought Bank guidance as they embark on their
reform program.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Given the small size and nature (technical assistance) of the project, an economic analysis is not required.
The project focuses on institutional and policy reforms which, if successfully implemented, will enable
supply and demand of telecommunications to evolve favorably for consumers.
The economic benefits of the project are likely to include: improved range and quality of service provision,
reduced prices for advanced services that will allow businesses and the Government to reduce business
costs and expand their use of information technology.
Increased telecommunications access to international markets will allow for reduced purchasing costs and
new export opportunities, especially in the services sector. Advanced information services also have
wide-ranging applications in health care and education, and these will become more affordable as prices
fall. Such indirect benefits, although difficult to quantify, are certain.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Given the small size and nature (technical assistance) of the project, a financial analysis is not required.
Fiscal Impact:
The project will have a significant positive fiscal impact. First, revenues can be expected from Government
divestiture of the main telecommunications operator and from the sale of various licenses, including GSM.
For instance, in Jordan 40% of the incumbent operator was sold for US$508 million, and in Morocco the
second GSM license was sold for US$ 1.1 billion. Second, the telecommunications and postal operators
arising from restructuring MPT will be subject to the same tax treatment as all other telecommunications



and postal operators.
3. Technical:
The project will establish an enabling institutional and regulatory environment to help attract and sustain
investment in the telecommunications sector. Under this framework, technology choices in the sector will be
market-driven.
4. Institutional:
The irnplementing agency faces an ambitious schedule for carrying out a set of closely inter-related project
activities which are relatively novel and complex for the Borrower. A Project Implementation Plan will be
prepared by the implementing agency to define the various roles, responsibilities, individual work programs
and includes a timetable to be closely followed for successful and timely project execution. In order to
enhance the quality of project govemance, contracts for all project management personnel feature
performance criteria linked to the project timetable and outputs. Local and foreign technical assistance and
training are envisaged for the (i) implementing agency to reinforce its financial management and
procurement capecity; (ii) the Regulatory Authority to develop its economic, technical, and legal skills; and
(iii) the corpoeatized postal operator to help implement the corporate strategy which will also be developed
under the project.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
4.2 Project management:
MPT has limited experience in implementing World Bank projects. However, in order to adhere to World
Bank guidelines, MPT is planning to appoint an experienced project manager, a financial management
specialist, and a procurement specialist for the PCIU. Contracts for all project management staff will
include performance criteria linked to the project timetable and outputs. Local and foreign technical
assistance and training are envisaged for the PCIU to reinforce its financial management, accounting and
procurement capacity. The Project Implementation Plan will include detailed arrangements for project and
financial management, procurement and accounting procedures.
4.3 Procurement issues:
See Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
During project preparation, an evaluation of MPT's financial management capacity was carried out by a
Financial Management Specialist in order to assess the PCIU's ability to meet IBRD requirements. The
action plan iesulting from this assessment has been incorporated into the Project Implementation Plan. The
PCIU will procu,re a computerized financial management and accounting system (including, installation,
soitware and training) to be used uniquely for management of the World Bank project.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
This is a postal and telecommunications restructuring project which involves only
policy/institution-building components. There are no environmental issues in this project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
-12 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
There are no resettlement or specific social issues in the project. The Government will include in its policy
statement a commitment to adopt appropriate safeguard measures regarding the potential lay-offs of :taff
from MPT restructuring and privatization of the telecommunications entity. Technical Assistance will be
provided under component 3 to assist the Government in drafting a safeguard policy. In addition, to
promote social acceptance of the privatization plan, the project includes the launch of a media campaign on
the overall benefits of telecommunications and postal reform.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The senior management team of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications has been involved in project
design from the beginning, including the preparation of terms of reference for project consultant services
and of the detailed project implementation timetable. Ministers and senior officials of three key ministries -
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Participation and Reform
Coordination - have participated closely in project preparation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not applicable
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard 2olicies a pl to the project?
Pol--!                                      -;-;;:--i -   - ---y---  ;-   A-pplicab#~;-; ili
LI Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.011            Li Yes I No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    Li Yes 3 No
L Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      LI Yes 1 No
L Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        LiYes   No
L Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    Li Yes Z No
- 13 -



El Indigenous Peoples COD 4.20)                                  l Yes 1 No
I lnvoluntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                            O]Yes 1 No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                            E Yes _ _ _ No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50. GP 7.50)  O Yes Z No
EL Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60, GP 7.60)       EL Yes 1 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
By developing a competitive framework for market-based telecommunications and postal service provision,
the project will help accelerate investment and improve service levels by new private operators. Incentives
to sustain project objectives include codification of rights and obligations of the incumbent and new
operators, not only in legislation and decrees, but also in licenses. Improved service coverage and quality at
more competitive telecommunications prices will be sustained as private investment grows in both
telecommunications infrastructure and services. Empowering the new regulatory authority to charge levies
and fees on telecommunications operators will enable regulatory functions to be sustained without
dependence on budgetary support.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
The new law only provides framework        S         The project includes Technical Assistance for
legislation. The regulation of the sector,          preparation of secondary legislation and the
in particular, will be pursuant to detailed         adoption of secondary legislation, satisfactory to
secondary legislation, which by its nature          the Bank, is a covenant of the mid-term review.
creates less legal certainty for potential          Further, the rights and obligations of the
investors. This uncertainty could be                incumbent and new operators will be included in
factored into the technical and financial           the licenses as well as in the legislation and
offers for the cellular licenses and the            decrees.
privatization of the incumbent operator.
Government commitment to implement         M        The telecommunications policy statement and
reform program.                                     law provide a clear framework for the
development of a competitive, market-based
sector. A draft policy statement satisfactory to
the Bank was submitted prior to Negotiations
and the draft law was approved by the Conseil
du Gouvernement prior to Board presentation.
In addition, the mid-term review will ensure that
the reform is proceeding in conformity with the
policy statement.
- 14 -



The award of a second GSM license by       M        The project will fund a regulatory consultant to
the end of 2000, before the establishment           assist the Government in drafting all regulatory
of coherent and complete regulatory                 decrees as well as the GSM license.
framework, may result in inadequate                 This will ensure that key regulatory aspects are
sequencing of reform.                               included in the license if the framework is not
yet in place. Further, the draft law includes the
principle of competitive and transparent
tendering and the Government intends to
establish an ad-hoc committee to supervise the
process for awarding the GSM license.
From Components to Outputs
Social risk: labor unions may oppose      M         Government included in its policy statement a
reform program                                      commitment to adopt appropriate social
safeguard measures regarding MPT
restructuring and privatization of the
telecommunications entity. The project includes
Technical Assistance (component 3) to assist the
Government in drafting a social safeguard
policy. Further, MPT union has publicly
expressed their support to the overall reform
program.
Overall Risk Rating                        S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Lack of social acceptance of reform program: in order to minimize potential controversy, the Government
has publicly stated its commitment to maintain employment in the sector in the context of the reform
program and the project includes the launch of a media campaign on the overall benefits of the
telecommunications and postal reform.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* Borrower to put in place proper computerization accounting and financial management system in the
PCIUJ.
* Borrower to appoint project manager, financial manager, and procurement specialist for PCIU.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions to be met not later than 12 months following effectiveness of the Loan Agreement:
*   Borrower to adopt regulations specific to the telecommunications and postal sectors which shall: (A)
define the organization and functioning of the Telecommunications and Postal Sector Regulatory
Authority, the Postal Operator and the Telecommunications Operator; and (B) establish principles for
(a) interconnection; (b) competition; (c) universal service; (d) tariffs; (e) scarce resources (frequencies,
numbering, infrastructure sharing); (f) licensing regime; (g) dispute resolution; and (h) postal financial
services.
- 15 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
CI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Paul Noumba Umrr                   Emmanuel Forestier                    stian
Team Leader                        Sector Manager/Director            CeM anager/Director
- 16 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALGERIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
H-    c  of Objecties           .dc M. -nitoripngEvaluation    Ctal Assurnpatns
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Achieve sustainable economic *Increase in Foreign Direct   *National Statistics  Stable macroeconomic
growth through increased    Investment as share of GDP  *ITU indicators         environment and political
private participation     * Increase in % of private                            stability.
financing in
telecommunications sector
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Create an enabling        *Achieved overall telephone  *ITU indicators          Continued Government
environment to improve      density (fixed and mobile   *Independent consultant  commitment to develop
access to efficient and     access lines) of 12 lines per  reports              private sector participation,
affordable communications   100 inhabitants by 2004  *Project supervision       competitive market structure,
services.                 eNumber of Internet        *Annual Progress report from  independent regulator, and
subscribers multiplied by 15   PCIU                transparent licensing and
by 2004                                             regulation.
*Gradual decrease in price of
urban and inter-urban 2Mb/s
leased lines towards the level
of prices in neighboring
countries (Greece, Spain,
Morocco and Portugal).
eAt least one GSM license(s)
awarded to private operator
by Ql 2001
lmprove productivity of
postal sector (no. of mail
items treated per employee)
to a level greater than or
equal to: (i) the average
productivity in the MNA
region, and (ii) the service
productivity index in
Algeria.
- 17-



Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Establish a new legal and                             Draft secondary legislation    oTimely execution of project
regulatory framework       Output #l - Secondary      Supervision Reports         by Governunent
Legislation Enacted                                   oRegulatory authority has
*Telecommunications                                    qualified staff and adequate
secondary legislation                                 financial resources
including organization and                          oSocial acceptance of
functioning of regulatory                             privatization plan
authority, interconnection,                         *Sufficient interest from
competition, licensing,                               private investors
universal service, tariffs,
scarce resources
(frequencies, numbering
plan, infrastructure sharing),
and dispute resolution Ql
2001
*Secondary legislation
adopted for postal (postal
financial services and the
organization of the postal
operator) adopted by Ql
2001
Output #2 -               Consultant reports
Telecommunications
Regulatory Authority
established and capacity built
*Head of the regulatory
authority appointed by Q4
2000
oPlan for organization of
regulatory authority finalized
by QI 2001
oTraining plan finalized by
[Q2 2001.
Output #3 - Class licenses for Draft and finalized class
Network and Services       licenses, authorizations and
Providers                  Declarations
*GSM License and license
obligations prepared by Q4
2000
oMain operator license and
license obligations prepared
by Q4 2000
* Class Authorizations and
declarations prepared by Q4
2000
*Postal class authorizations
prepared by Q4 2000
- 18 -



Implement liberalization  Output #4 - New GSM        Draft bidding documents,
policy                    License(s) Awarded         Finalized license agreement(s)
*At least one GSM license
awarded through a
transparent, international
competitive bidding process
to private operator(s) by QI
2001.
Restructure the Ministry of Output #5 - MPT          Draft legislation
Posts and                 Restructured and creation of Consultants reports
Telecommunications (MPT) separate corporatized entities Opening balance sheets
for telecommunications and
postal operations
-Organization and staffing
plans finalized by Ql 2001
- Opening balance sheets
finalized for the postal and
telecommunications entities by
Q3 2001
Privatize                 Output #6-                 Audit report
Telecommunications Entity  Telecommunications entity    Bidding documents
Offeredfor Sale           Finalized Sale Agreement
- Audited balance sheet of
telecommunications entity
according to IAS by Q3 2001
- Telecommunications entity
offered for sale through a
transparent, international
competitive bidding process by
Q3 2002
Elaborate Postal          Output #7 - Postal         Consultant Reports
Development Strategy      development strategy
- Strategy finalized by Q2
2001
- Training program finalized
by Q2 2001
Strengthen Communication  Output #8 - Increased      Communication strategy
Strategy and Capacity     awareness on the benefits of  Consultants reports
Building                  sector reform
- Communication Strategy
adopted by Q2 2001
- Organization of workshops,
study tours
- 19 -



Output #9 - PCIUestablished Contracts
- Project manager appointed
by Q2 2000
- Procurement specialist and
financial management
specialist appointed by Q3
2000
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
Establish a new legal and    US$ 2.15 million        Project supervision and    *Adequate capacity to
regulatory framework                                 consultant progress reports    implement project
*Intl. Consortium composed                                                      *Timely procurement in
of legal, regulatory and                                                        accordance with Bank
technical experts to finalize                                                   guidelines
regulatory framework
*Intl. consultant services to
assist on specific regulatory
issues
*Training
Implement Liberalization    US$ 0.7 million
Policy
*Intl. Consortium to award
GSM license(s).
Restructure Ministry of   US$ 2.95 million
Posts and
Telecommunications
*Intl. Consortium to
restructure MPT and create
separate corporatized postal
and telecommunications
entities
*Workshops, study tours
Privatize                 US$ 1.9 million
Telecommunications Entity
*Consultant to audit balance
sheet of telecommunications
entity
* Intl. Consortium to execute
the sale strategy and
privatization transaction for
the incumbent
telecommunications operator
- 20 -



Elaborate Postal          US$ 1.3 million
Development Strategy
*Int. consultants to develop
postal strategy
*Training
Strengthen Communication US$ I million
Strategy and Capacity
Building
oIntemational and local
consultants to prepare
communication strategy
*Workshops
oLocal consultants (PCIU)
*Office equipment and
software (PCIU)
-21 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ALGERIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
The project consists of six components, all of which mainly involve services for consultants to provide
assistance to implement the postal and telecommunications sector reform program.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$2.15 million
Establish a new legal and regulatory framework
This component will finance international consultants to assist the Govemment and subsequently the new
Regulatory Authority (RA) in:
la) Enacting secondary legislation:
The consultant will review and amend existing legal and regulatory framework of the postal and
telecommunications sectors in Algeria and draft new regulation as needed. The secondary legislation will
cover organization and functioning of regulatory authority, competition, licensing, interconnection, tariffs,
universal service, dispute resolution, numbering plan, frequency management plan, dispute resolution,
postal financial services and organization of the postal operator, among others.
I b) Establishing a new regulatory framework:
The consultant will formulate several key provisions of the new regulatory framework which are needed to
promote private sector development. These include:
(a) Interconnection regime: consultants will assist the regulatory authority in establishing principles
for interconnection covering its technical, commercial, and financial aspects. Consultants will also
prepare default interconnection agreements and mechanisms to help resolve interconnection disputes.
(b) Cost-oriented tariffs: After analysis of existing tariffs, consultants will make a recommendation
for a tariff re-balancing plan within a reasonable time frame taking into account key dates in the reforrn
agenda including the granting of new cellular licenses and the privatization of the main operator.
(c) National frequency management plan and assessment of spectrum  management system
Consultants will formulate a comprehensive national frequency plan, assignment, allocation and
monitoring procedures. They will also identify specific equipment and information system needs for
frequency monitoring.
(d) Universal access policy: Consultants will define a new policy on universal access obligations and
identify financing options for universal access.
(e) Class license! authorization / declaration : Taking into account related assistance given to the
regulatory authority on issues of tariff policy, interconnection regime, and universal access obligations,
consultants will prepare class licenses for all services including draft license for the main operator and
GSM service providers.
- 22 -



1 c) Set-up and design of Regulatory Authority:
Following the adoption of the decree creating the RA, the consultant will design the organization of the
Authority, draft the operations manual, determine human resource and financial requirements, develop staff
training plan and define key job profiles.
This component also includes the financing of various studies on regulatory issues (e.g. interconnection,
internet service provision, etc. and training for the RA staff.
Project Component 2 - US$0.70 million
Implement Liberalization Policy
This component will finance the retainer fee and reimbursable expenses charged by investment bankers for
the GSM license transaction.
The consultant will prepare a detailed transaction strategy for the award of GSM license(s). In particular
the consultant will prepare a financial evaluation of the following options : (a) award two licenses
immediately, or (b) award one license immediately with another to follow after a short time period. Once a
specific transaction strategy is agreed, the consultant will assist the Government in executing this strategy,
by : (i) preparing an initial prospectus; (ii) inviting initial expressions of interest from potential investors;
(iii) short-listing investors; (iv) selecting and negotiating; and (v) finalizing the transaction.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.95 million
Restructure the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MI)
This component will finance a consultancy to assist the Government with the separation of the
telecommunications and postal operations from MPT including : (i) procedures for accounting and budget
during the transition period; (ii) inventories of assets and liabilities; (iii) valuation of assets and allocation
between the two entities (telecommunications and post); (iv) organizational structure for each entity with
staff allocation, personnel statute and operational policies; (v) legal documentation for the separation and
establishment of the new entities; (vi) financial arrangements between entities; (vii) opening balance sheets
for the new postal and telecommunications entities; (viii) develop a business strategy and commercial plan
for the new telecommunications and postal entities; and (ix) establish a unit to monitor sector competition
and technology trends.
This component also includes financing of workshops and study tours to observe best practice reform /
privatization models in other countries.
Project Component 4 - US$1.90 million
Privatize Telecommunications Entity
This component will finance the audit of the telecommunications operator's financial statements according
to IAS and the retainer fee and reimbursable expenses charged by a consortium of consultants (investment
bankers and legal advisers) for the transaction.
The consultant will prepare a detailed transaction and marketing strategy for the privatization of the
Telecommunications entity. Once a specific privatization strategy is agreed, consultants will assist the
Government in executing the strategy, by : (i) preparing an initial prospectus; (ii) organizing a road show;
-23 -



(iii) inviting initial expressions of interest from potential investors; (iv) short-listing investors; (v)
organizing a data room; (vi) selecting and negotiating with strategic partner; and (vii) completing due
diligence and finalizing the transaction.
Project Component 5 - US$1.30 million
Elaborate Postal Development Strategy
This component will finance consultants services to elaborate a comprehensive postal development strategy
focusing on long term competitiveness, modernization of the postal network, improving quality of service,
market orientation, and new product development. Consultants services will also: (i) assess the IT needs
of the postal network in light of the new strategy; (ii) develop a plan for the expansion and diversification
of postal financial services; (iii) prepare a managerial and operational reorganization plan, including
staffing and training requirements.
This component will also finance hands-on training for postal managers and staff to initiate implementation
of new strategy.
Project Component 6 - US$1.00 million
Strengthen Communication Strategy and Capacity Building
This component will finance international and local consultants to : (i) inform potential domestic and
foreign investors on the new business opportunities created by the reforms; (ii) build general public support
and investor confidence; and (iii) ensure transparency of the reforn program through wide dissemination of
licensing and privatization procedures, disclosure of results of each transaction, and general information on
the overall results and impacts of the program.
This component will also finance the establishment of the Project Management Unit : (i) local consultants
(project manager, financial specialist, and procurement specialist); (ii) office equipment and software; and
(iii) consultant services (audit firm) to undertake annual project audit.
-24 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALGERIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Local       Forign         Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million     $i         US $rmillion
Establish a new legal and regulatory framework            0.00          1.93         1.93
Implement liberalization policy                           0.00          0.63         0.63
Restructure MPT                                           0.00          2.65         2.65
Privatize telecom entity                                  0.00          1.71         1.71
Elaborate postal development strategy                     0.00          1.17         1.17
Strengthen communication strategy & capacity building     0.71          0.20         0.91
Total Baseline Cost                                       0.71          8.29         9.00
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.07          0.84         0.91
Total Project Costs              0.78         9.13          9.91
Front-end fee                    0.09         0.09
Total Financing Required               0.78         9.22         10.00
Local       ForeIgn.       Tot1w
-Project Cost By Category               US $million   US $million. US Smillion
Goods                                                       0.07          0.00         0.07
Works                                                       0.00          0.00          0.00
Services                                                    0.71          7.88          8.59
Training                                                    0.00          1.25          1.25
Total Project Costs     0.78          9.13          9.91
Front-end fee                    0.09         0.09
Total Financing Required      0.78          9.22        10.00
Price contingencies 10% applied to all.
- 25 -



Annex 4
ALGERIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Not applicable
- 26 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALGERIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Not applicable
-27 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALGERIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Procurement
The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in Table A.
1.    Procurement Responsibilities and Planning. The Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications will
make sure that proper procurement procedures are followed. The procurement capacity of the PCIU has
been assessed and it is agreed that a procurement specialist and financial management specialist will be
hired to handle procurement management (drafting bidding documents, evaluating bids, administrative
management of contracts) and project accounting.
Procurement of goods will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines for
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (dated January 1995, revised January and August
1996, revised September 1997, revised January 1999). Consultant services and technical assistance will
follow the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999), using standard contract forms agreed with the
Bank. Items procured under the project are almost exclusively consultant services.
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be advertised in "United Nations Development
Business" (UNDB). All consulting services with an estimated contract value above US$200,000 equivalent
would be advertised in UNDB and in at least one local newspapers, seeking Expression of Interest before
the shortlist is prepared for Bank's approval. The proposed procurement plan for the project shall be
fumished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. A procurement implementation plan compiled by the Borrower was
reviewed and agreed at appraisal.
2. Goods Shopping (National): ($0.07M)
Goods required for the project will consist of computer equipment, software, accessories, and other
small equipment estimated to cost a total of US$ 70,000, would follow national shopping procedures, using
requests for quotation which would indicate the description, quantity and required delivery time of the
procured goods. Competitive quotations may be obtained from usually at least three local suppliers in
accordance with Paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3. Technical Assistance. Workshops. Study Tour and Training ($9.93M)
3.1.1. Technical Assistance and Consultancy Services ($8.68M) Consultants activities relate to studies,
technical assistance, workshops and training. All consultant services with an estimated contract value
above $200,000 equivalent would be advertised for expressions of interest in the UNDB and in at least one
local newspaper. Consultant services with an estimated value between US$50,000 and US$200,000
equivalent would be advertised nationally for expressions of interest. The selection method for all contracts
equal to or exceeding $100,000 will be based on quality and cost (QCBS). Below a contract value of
US$100,000 equivalent, the selection method would be Consultants Qualification (CQ), except for the
project audit to be chosen by least-cost selection because of the standard nature of the assignment.
Consultant contracts costing less than US$50,000 per contract may, with the Bank's prior approval, be
procured through single source.
- 28 -



3.1.2 Training. Study Tour. Workshop. ($1 .25M): Training of staff will be at selected institutions and
universities. The method of procurement shall be based on consultants qualification and procured directly
subject to clearance with the Bank on course content, number and details of personnel to be deputed and
course fee. The Bank will review annually, the training program containing names of candidates, costs
estimates, courses, period of training and institutions. Study tours and workshops would be arranged by
the PCIU.
4.     Prior Review. The following Bank prior review thresholds will apply. All other contracts would
be subject to post-review on a random basis during supervision missions and procurement audits. The
Bank's review process is presented in Table B.
4.1 Prior Review Threshold (Table B)
4.1.1 Technical Assistance. Studies and Training
The following would be subject to prior review by the Bank:
*   Contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost more than $50,000;
3   Contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost more than $50,000;
3   All Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) selection of consulting firms/individuals;
3   All Single Source (SS) selection of consulting firms/individuals;
3   Amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$50,000 or above;
3   Assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; and
3   Amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 or above;
3   For contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 and except for single source and consultants'
qualification selections and for contracts critical to the project (for example audit firm), the Bank's
prior review would be limited to terms of reference only.
- 29 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                             0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.00           0.07            0.00           0.07
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           8.59            0.00           8.59
(0.00)         (0.00)         (7.66)          (0.00)         (7.66)
4. Training                          0.00            0.00            1.25           0.00           1.25
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.25)          (0.00)         (1.25)
5. Front-end fee                     0.00            0.00           0.09            0.00           0.09
._________ _  (0.00)     (0.00)          (0.09)         (0.00)         (0.09)
Total                             0.00            0.00           10.00           0.00           10.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (9.00)         (0.00)         (9.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
IGB is not expected to apply in this project.
- 30 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ... .....  - . :. .  Mot-:    
A. Firms            7.85     0.00      0.00       0.16      1.70      0.00      0.00       9.71
(7.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.70)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (9.00)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.22      0.00      0.00       0.22
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
Total   7.85      0.00      0.00      0.16      1.92      0.00       0.00      9.93
(7.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.70)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (9.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 31 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works
2. Goods
3. Servicesand Training
Firms                      >$100,000                  QCBS              >50,000 All contracts
<$100,000                CQ/LC              >50,000 All contracts
<50,000 TORs only
Individuals
>50,000            See Section V of the    All (TORs, Contracts,
Guidelines                CVs)
<50,000            See Section V of the
Guidelines              TORs only
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   All
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 32 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
xpdt"                       Amounti bi                   F -    -eF
Goods                                      0.00
Consultants' Services                      7.14                         100%
Training                                   1.14                         100%
Unallocated                                0.63
Total Project Costs                        8.91           _
Front-end fee         0.09
Total                                      9.00         1
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement against consultants' contracts exceeding $50,000 for firms and individuals will be fully
documented. For all other expenditures, disbursements could be made against statements of expenditures
(SOEs). Supporting documents for SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the
Banque Algerienne de Developpement and made available to the Bank staff during supervision.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
(MPT) will open a Special Account (SA) at the Central Bank of Algeria, to be operated by them under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank will, upon request, make an authorized allocation
of US$800,000 to the SA. Initially, the allocation would be limited to US$400,000, while the full
allocation could be claimed when disbursements reach US$3.0 million. MPT will submit replenishment
applications for the SA on a monthly basis with all supporting documentation as required by the Bank.
Agreement on the above procedures will be sought during negotiations.
Financial Management
The Financial Management System (FMS) in place in the Ministry of Posts and telecommunications
implementing agency for the project, is based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework
applicable to the pubic sector and more specifically to governmental institutions. The main characteristics
of the current financial management system are summarized below.
Accounting system. An accounting system based on the cash basis and the outline of budget components is
operational and reflected on legal books according to the regulation described in the Public Accounting
Law. In parallel the information system is quite developed and allows, through numerous applications, to
generate the necessary information for the management of operational activity.
Budgeting svstem. Based on the programs and actions to be undertaken the MPT issues an annual budget
for commitments related to the planned expenditures. The annual budget is submitted for approval to the
Ministry of Finance, structure in charge of a close control through its specialized units. The budget
execution is also subject to authorization for payment on a transaction level. This specific authorization
process aims to ensure that the expense to be paid has been budgeted, and to issue the official instruction to
- 33 -



make the payment. This process is supported by a computer system called "BUDG", which, the Ministries
use presently at the central level to commit expenditures and which assures that all commitments are
covered by the annual approved budget. The DBC (Direction du budget et de la comptabilit6) is playing an
important role for the issuing of the annual budget and its execution, since this Department is the structure
responsible of the issuing of the periodical monitoring reports.
Disbursements. Payments through the governmental budget are decentralized and processed by the CR
(comptable regional) or the DC (Directeurs Centraux). Each payment is submitted to the control of the CF
(Controleur financier).
Control of the budget execution. A fiduciary responsibility of control of the budget execution and
monitoring is assigned to MOF through a specialized audit department "Inspection Gn&rale des Finances"
(IGF); and to the Audit Court (Cour des Comptes) that has a judiciary role of supervision of the public
finances. It is the authority which gives final approval ("quitus") to the management and accounts of public
funds.
General Assessment and Scope for Improvement
General Assessment. Even if no accountability issues were identified during the assessment, the financial
management system in place in the MPT still have some insufficiencies to be addressed. These are mainly
related to the following areas: (i) non-computerization of the accounting system, (ii) non-official definition
by writing of the financial management procedures, and (iii) incomplete Management Information System.
It should be noted that MIPT is in the process of addressing several of these issues mainly through the
modernization of its management information system, however, substantive improvements will require
several years of concerted efforts and mobilization of the needed funds.
Scope for improvement. Although it is globally satisfactory, the existing financial management system
should be improved in order to achieve the required efficiency. The main improvements are: (i)
harmonization of the management information system in terms of technology solutions; (ii) the
implementation of a comprehensive analytical accounting system, and (iii) the development of general
training program for the staff of the MPT. Indeed most of these actions aim at implementing a more
effective management information system in order to monitor the operational activity with the required
efficiency.
Financial Management System for the Project. Since the implementation of the actions related to the
upgrade of the management information system is in close relation with the planned reorganization and thus
will require several years of concerted efforts there is a need during the transition period to set up special
arrangements for the management and monitoring of the proposed project. The main actions, to be
implemented by project effectiveness, are the following:
* Hiring of a high-qualified short-term consultant specialized in accounting, finance, and information
system in order to issue a Financial Management Procedures Manual (FMPM) for the project
according to TORs acceptable to the Bank. This FMPM will define the flows of funds, the internal
control rules, the finance and disbursement procedures, the relationship between all the internal and
external entities involved in the project implementation, the chart of accounts, and the reporting
procedures and rules.
o Acquisition of the needed hardware for the project team. This action will allow the implementation of
adequate communication tools and launching of a training program which aims at developing
- 34 -



computer' skills. The whole action could be considered as prerequisite to the implementation of an
adequate accounting and reporting computerized system, specific to the project.
a Development of a specific application (e.g. Access data base) in order to maintain computerized
project accounts and financial reporting.
Financial Management Characteristics
Financial and accounting policies for the project have to be developed. These policies are crucial for
ensuring transparency, providing clarity regarding financial aspects to the various stakeholders and finance
staff, ensuring uniformity, and enforcing accountability. These policies interalia cover the following
aspects: (i) expenditures which, would be treated as project expenditures including their classification; (ii)
expenditures, which would be eligible for reimbursement from Bank loan; and (iii) project accounting
policies. These policies would be expanded and refined if needed, to include aspects such as efficient
management and deployment of funds, intemal control policies, etc.
Project Accounting System. The PM would maintain under its responsibility, accounting records, prepare
and disseminate project accounts and Project Management Reports. It would also ensure timely submission
of these accounts and reports to the Bank and to the auditors. The contents of this PMR would be gradually
expanded and refine if needed, to include all the evaluation and performance indicators.
The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
* Books of accounts for the project would be maintained on cash basis principles. Project accounts
would be maintained using the application developed for this purpose and which, will be implemented
by no later than December 2000. The implementation of a data base specific to the project will be used
by the PCIU team to reflect all the transaction flows and to issue the periodical reports and the annual
project financial statements.
* Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds, and all utilization of project funds. This
would include payments made to and expenditures incurred. All project-related transactions (whether
involving cash or not) would be taken into accounts in the reporting system. Disbursements made by
the World Bank and the transaction proceeded through the Special Account maintained by BAD would
also be included in the project accounting system. Funds received from different sources would be
identified separately.
* Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other activities. This distinction
would be reflected at the data-capture stage. An identifiable Trial Balance for the project capturing all
projects receipts, expenditures, and other payments under the project would be prepared. A Chart of
Accounts for the project has to be developed. The Chart of Accounts should conform to the
classification of expenditures and sources of funds as indicated in the project documents (Project
Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document). The Chart of Accounts should allow data to be
captured in a manner to facilitate financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project components;
(ii) expenditure categories; and (iii) disbursement categories.
* A system of reconciliation between the Project Financial Statements /financial reports and the legal
records (mainly BUDG) have to be defined.
* Physical information on key performance indicators that can be readily linked to financial costs would
- 35 -



be maintained as part of the project financial management system. Initially this would be maintained
for some high cost items that represent a significant portion of the project cost, and for items for which,
data on physical activities can be easily captured. These items have to be identified and indicated in the
FMPM. This list would be gradually expanded as needed, during implementation.
*   Issuing of the accounting procedures manual for the project which will outline at a minimum: (a) job
responsibilities within the PCIU, (b) monthly and annually accounting ledger closing and reconciliation
procedures including centralization and consolidation of data, (c) accounting policies, and (d) banking
and cash procedures. It is important that this manual be in writing so it can be distributed to all project
staff.
* The FMPM should reflect the PCIU's role including a description of: (a) staff positions and
responsibilities, (b) transaction's flows, and (c) relation with the MPT's technical departments as well
as extemal authorities/administrations such as Ministry of Finance, BAD, etc. This system would be
reviewed in the light of implementing experience and modified as necessary.
Information Flow for Accounting Purposes. The information flow will be as follows:
(i) PCIU will generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures on activities
directly managed.
(ii) MPT's structures will be involved in the procurement and disbursement procedures according to the
existing legal framework and the Bank's guidelines.
(iii) Expenditures incurred by PCIU, would be reviewed by the project auditors following the International
Standards of Auditing and the World Bank guidelines; and
(iv) This system would be reviewed in the light of implementation experience, and modified as necessary.
Internal Controls . The project financial management system should include the following internal
control mechanisms:
* Operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with budgets
and targets;
*   Adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which would
govem financial management of and accounting for the project. These policies and procedures have to
be included in the Financial Management Procedures Manual.
* Establishment at the transaction level of policies, procedures and systems for ensuring acceptable
internal controls mechanism such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of
authorization, segregation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, easy access to
supporting documents etc. These policies and procedures would be reviewed and updated periodically;
and
*   Implementation of a comprehensive system which aims at issuing on a timely basis of: (i) the annual
financial statements; and (ii) the periodical monitoring reports.
- 36 -



Financial Management Reports
Quarterly project management and monitoring reports for the project would be generated from the
computerized financial management system. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e., summaries
rather than transactional details) and would be used for project monitoring and implementation. The PMR
should include the 3 following parts:
(i)    Financial Statements
(ii)    A monitoring report using contract management information and Output monitoring
report using unit variance as monitoring indicator
(iii) Procurement management report
Formats of the reports should be part of the Financial Management Manual.
Annuallv: Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to the Bank. PFS would
include: (i) a statement of sources and utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received from
various sources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project; (ii) schedules classifying
project expenditures by components and expenditure categories; (iii) a Special Account Reconciliation
Statement; and (iv) a Statement of Withdrawals made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
Audited PFS would be submitted to the Bank not later than 6 months after the end of the Fiscal Year.
Audit Arrangements
MTP will appoint an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank to carry out an annual audit according to
the International Standards on Auditing, the Bank's Guidelines (e.g. Financial, accounting, reporting and
auditing handbook, "FARAH") and specific Terms of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank. The
auditor will express a professional opinion on the annual project financial statements and will submit to the
Bank an annual audit report within 6 months after the end of the fiscal year
The audit would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project, including audit of the Special
Account and disbursements under Statement of Expenditures. The audit will be carried out in accordance
with International Standards of Auditing as issued by the International Federation of Accountants, the
Bank's Guidelines (e.g. Financial, accounting, reporting and auditing handbook, "FARAH") and specific
Terms of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank. Terms of Reference (TORs) for this assignment
should cover an audit of financial transaction, and an assessment of the financial management system,
including review of internal control mechanisms through the issuance of a management letter six months
after effectiveness. The PCIU as well as structures at the MPT, would provide the auditor with access to
project-related documents and records, and information required for the purposes of the audit. The Auditor
would carry out a concurrent audit during the fiscal year, to bring to management's attention any issues,
which need to be addressed. This would strengthen internal controls, and would also facilitate early
completion of the annual audit.
Readiness for Implementation
The start of the project implementation shall be preceded by the set up of the following actions:
* Development of the financial management procedures manual.
* Development of the data base to be used to maintain project accounts and financial reporting.
- 37 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALGERIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
NdftRE27              ____-'_
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     3                            3
First Bank mission (identification)            02/26/2000                   02/26/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    04/26/2000                   04/26/2000
Negotiations                                   05/10/2000                   05/23/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  09/15/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
Preparation assistance:
PPIAF grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Paul Noumba Um                   Telecommunications Specialist, Task Manager, CITPO
Emmanuel Forestier               Sector Manager, CITPO
Yann Burtin                      Operations Officer, CITPO
Pierre Guislain                  Lead Private Sector Development Specialist, PSDPP
Kashmira Daruwalla               Procurement Analyst, CITPO
Cina Lawson                      Consultant, CITPO
David Satola                      Sr. Counsel, LEGPS
Maris Fernandez-Palacios         Portfolio Manager, MNCMG
Samia MSadek                     Financial Management Specialist, MNSRE
Dominique Bichara                Counsel, LEGMN
Jurgen Lohmeyer                  Postal Expert, CITPO
Catherine Doody                  Program Assistant
- 38-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALGERIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft "Manuel de Procedures" - May 24, 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Identification Mission Feb. 26-29- Back to Office Report, dated March 7, 2000
Appraisal Mission April 26- May 5, Back to Office Report with Aide Memoire, dated May 9, 2000
C. Other
Algerie: Reglementation des Marches Publics (1998)
Draft Telecommunications Sector Policy Statement - May 20, 2000
*Including electronic files
- 39 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALGERIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions         disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                     IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P004964       1992 Algeria                   ALG-CADASTRE                                      33.00      0.00       2.27       5.93      8.20       4.78
P004954       1993 Algeria                   BASIC& SEC. EDUCATI                              40.00       000        0.00      11.92      10.25      0.00
P004907       1995 Algeria                   DZ-HIGHWAYS VI                                   130.00      000        0.00     69.16      50.56      -6.72
P042940       1998 Algeria                   DZ-LOW INCOME HOUSING                            150.00      0 00       0.00     140.00     48.40       0.00
P004974       1994 Algena                    DZ-WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                     110.00      0.00       0.00      93.29     75.29       1.03
P004960       1996 Algera                    IND.POLLUTION CTRL.                               78.00      0.00       0.00      70.00     27.78       6.00
P043724       1997 Algeria                   RURAL EMPLOYMENT                                  89.00      0.00       0.00      68.88     64.28       5.55
P004978       1996 Algeria                   SOCIAL SAFETY I                                   50.00      0.00       0.00       7.80      7.14       7.14
Total:     680.00        0.00        2.27      466.98    291.90     17.78
-40 -



ALGERIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Commifted                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998                ABCA                           0.00     2.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    1.88     0.00    0.00
1992                Helios                         3.33     0.00    0.00     0.00     3.33    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                SGA                            0.00     1.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.19     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         3.33     3.00    0.00     0.00     3.33    2.07     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               AIP                                0.00      0.00    300.00       0.00
1999               Aldaph                          7274.75      0.00   1700.00   6236.00
Total Pending Commitment:      7274.75       0.00   2000.00   6236.00
-41 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALGERIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
M. East   Lower.
POVERTY AntISOCIAL                                              & North   mtddle                 -______
Aloeria     Africa   Incoma i i e  Development diamond'
Poottlation  ofti-vear (mIllIons)  30 0    285 ~~~~~l05                    Life expectancy
(GNP o  c.anile (Afaa.'mntehod. USS)                    1 550      70.50     1~71f)
GWP (Alias ma haod QJSS billions);                       46l 5i      W       1 557~~
Averaoe allnt4f orowth.42992-98,
PonuitainA ?% )                                            22         2         1
I ahnr1hrrA M%                                            44         in         1       GNP                                Gross
moat moe8nt estimsate flateat vear availabla. 1992.8*1peprmy
capita                          -nmIlmant
Povfi 1% of' nooolaf ion belSw national pooertv lknot      23
Urban onoulation (#ftotalnaouletionl58                 58        58
I ifet ffyrfcadpm&at birh (vearsl                         70)        17         SR.
Infant *ortality (oer NOOlve births)                      32         Al         3
Chltd matnutritio f% of cihWdre, under 5)                  13         14                           Access to safe water
Access to safe wateir (% of onLulation)                              F5l        7S
llltiracv f% Of oboUlation 4*0 15+)                      40         38         14!
Cirosa orinlary enroflilment 1%ofschool-ade oooulafionll  108         Rk       105i              AlgeOia
MAale                                                  113        103~      1103           -Lower-middle-income group
Femal",                                                102         AA       100
KEY ECON4OMIC RtA ISadLN-TERM TREiNOS
t(flP fUS$ biflions)                           2110      54~5       45,9                EcnmiRAto
GrOSS tiGmestlcinvestmentlGDP                  48 8      30.0~      23.8l     272
FxnortSa nfooodS and 4rvices/t(O               30n4                 58        74Trade
Gross domestic savinaa/GOP                     35.7      31.9       32.2      27.2
("mss nARtionai 409100%5WtI)P                  345            319    98       2~,1A
Curren~t account balanceGDP                    .11.0      0,1        74        .1 9
lntresat navmnentsilc,) 000                               24    - I                 ..Invomestnc
ToP&Rht/rMaueo tlhltfP                                              65A        n
Total de1~~~~~1I~~~flP             50.~~4    375        85                  Savings                        Ivsmn
Total det srvIr/axnnrts1                       753      -1AR3       27:21     409
~Prserot value of debt/esoolts                    ..180 9
Indebtedness
1977-87  19848        1987       1998   1999-08:
(avereoc annual cowtoh)
fInp                                   4 4      0         1      ~ 511         80                 Algenia
GNP oer caoits                         1.1~    .14      -0.6         .7        40Lower-middle-income grouip
Fxnrtortof ooodsand servir-As                   1 A       531       :I         44 A
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of outptttandlInvestment(%
M% of GDP) 0I
Aoriculture                                     10.0     12.4       10.3      12.1
Induistrv                                      51 2      43 4       523.      47 3      10a
Manufacturina                                  9.3     13.5        9.3       10.8
Services                                       3558      44 2       37 4      40.5                    9
Private consumotion                            51.0      49.5       51.0      54.7      1I 
G~eneral novermment cnnsujmntinn               13 3      15 5       1)1 7     1s 1                   -GDl        -*GDP
Imnorts of noods and servires                  41 6      125a       22 2      23 3     -__________________
(averaoe annual arowfh)1977-87  1988.98                 1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Aorlcullijire                                   4 9       25R      -1315      11 4      10
Industrv                                        39A      -0 7        4 3       4 1      5
Manufacturina                                 10.7    -10.7       -3.8        8.4 
Servic,es                                       5.3       25         25C        4 4                         9           9     9
Private consumotton                             5.8      -1.4       -2.8        1.6
(f eneral oovermment coinsttmntion             F54        4 0        2 0        3 0
Gross domestic Investment                       0.1      -1.9       -0.4      17.4 
Imoorts of noods and Servicesq                 -0 2      -2 3        2 4       5 5                -Exports   l,-mports
frmss national nrciduct                         4 3       0 9        2 7       ss--
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds %how fouir key Indicators in the countrv (in hold) comnared with its inconme-orottn averanep If data are mission the diamond will
he inrornnlele
- 42-



Al-eria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1977    1987       1997      1998     Inflaton%
(% change)                                                                       40 ;
Consumer prices                             12.2      7.4      75.7      5.0     3
Implicit GDP deflator                       11.8      6.2       6.5     -4.2    20
Govemment finance                                                                10_
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               0      l
Current revenue                                      30.4      33.5     27.8    -10      93   94   95   96   97   96
Currentbudgetbalance                                  9.4      10.2      4.0                -GDPdeflator    OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -7.2       2.4     -3.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1977    1987       1997      19S8     Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 8,745    13,820   10,145    18,000
Natural gas                                         852     5,847    4,371
Refined products                                  1,975     2,358    1,487    12,000.
Manufactures                                         37        40       42
Total imports (cif)i                                7,904     8,130    8,629
Food                                              1,745     2,166    2,481      4000
Fuel and energy                                     161       103      102
Capital goods                                     1,893     1,927    2,492         o
Exoort Drice index 1995=100)                 67      110        111       78
Imoort orice index (1995=1001                65       67        96        88               a Exports    *lmports
Termsoftrade(1995=100J                       104     163        116       88
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1977    1987      1997      1998     Current account balance to GDP ratio ()
Exports of goods and services              6,331    9,290    14,890   10,903     8
Imports of goods and services              8,476    9,407    10,280   10,940     6 -
Resource balance                          -2,146    -117      4,610      -37     4                            l
Net income                                  -367   -1,332    -2,220   -1,946     2                            l
Net current transfers                        190    1,487     1,060    1,064
Current account balance                   -2,323      39      3,450     -919    -2  02    3
Financing items (net)                      1,943       9       260      -175     4
Changes in net reserves                      380     -48    -3,710     1,094    4
Memo:
Reserves includina cold (USS millions)     1.684    4.341    10.190    8.138
Conversion rate (DEC. localJUSS)             4.1      4.8      58.9     57.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      10,600   24,402    30,890   30,666
IBRD                                       138     924      1,795    1,676                   G: 188  A: 1,676
IDA                                         0        0         0         0                           _        2,011
Total debt service                         1,686   -1,837     4,420    5,136         F: 9,054                    2,714
IBRD                                        10     141       354       332               }
IDA                                         0        0         0         0                             _
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              -                30        55
Official creditors                         -46   -3,297       122     -125
Private creditors                        1,994    1,003      -557   -1,328
Foreign direct investment                  -58    -109       260       505
Portfolio equity                            0        0         8         2                            E: 15,025
World Bank program                                                                A - IBRO                    E - Bilateral
Commitments                               170      464        89       150      B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Disbursements                              53      129       256        56     C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Pnncipal repayments                         0       79       234       208
Net flows                                  53       50        22      -152
Interest payments                          10       62        120      124
Net transfers                              43      -13        -98     -276
MNCMG                                                                                                              9/9199
-43 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 29992
(~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a  'e'a/'{   7p 
ALGERIA2ALGERIE                                                                                               NA                                                                         ;                      *  23
d,                                                                                                                                                            41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o, RM04> ~ nooore
23 ANNABA  24 GUELMA  19 SETIF                                    31                                                                                             ->2826  19  ,
6 BE)AIA   40 KHENCHELA   4 I SOUK AHRAS                                                                                                                                   g mdoof      ',  A&rorn r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.01010  ~Oo  ARoo 3~I /  94   ~9
77 BISKRA  3/ LAGHOUAT  I I TAMANGHASSET                                                       _,_    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARtES                                44>,         |       |, o               33  |
9JBLIDA-29 MASCARA   12 TEBESSA                                                                 LIMITES INTERNATIONALES                                fo; s          ]  ( 8      t_1     ; Izi 5 _
35 ;                                    287_                                                     -    0TA                        42 TIPmoo L
.       Ml. .j      2                    I,                                                                                                     _                                 . 1V                                                                    k D  D 1n
TIeroce~'2oD~I.                                                                             1/                       ,o.OIomk                        N0,O *                          /    0   ~                   I.T
0   P. SMo                                                                           I                           6OoodDIl                                          J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E 
T.                                                                                                                                                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~  .
1 3                20                                                                        DpIf.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  .~I7.
17 ~     ~      4      22/                                                                                         . 2-~
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
WILAYA NAMES                                                                PAVD  ATONA RAD
ROUTES NAT(ONALES                                    VILLES ET ViLLAGES                                                    t0
NOMS DES WILAYATE                                                      -        AE  AINLRAS0                                         ON   N   ILGS.                                                           ___
IADRAR                 32 EL BAYADH               30 OUARGLA                                    -PAVED WILAYA ROADS               ~)                    WILAYA HEADQUARTERS 
I                                44 AIN DEFLA  39 EL OUlED  4 0DM EL BOUAGHI                         ROUTES SECONDAIRES                                   SIEGES OES W1LAYATE                                                   No112   ma0/o
46 ANT EMOUCHENT         36 E TARF                 4E RELIZANE                                      RA [ROADS                                             NAIALCPTL-                                                                    7     2
16 ALOIEES        47 OSGARDAIA              20 SAIDA                                         VOIES FERRETS                                         CAPiTALERoo/~   47                                                                     Ool
23 ANNAEA                 34 GUELMTA                1 9SETIF                                                                                                                                                   0- .'//3                                 .' 
5 BATNA                  33 ILLIZI                 22 SISI EEL ABESS                               AIRPORTS                                         - WILAYA BOUNDARIES                                                . 
R REC HAR                IS 8JIJEL                 2I SKIKDA                                       AEROPORTS                                             LIMITES DES WRLAYATE                                j     3 7
6BEJAIA                40RECEA4   02   RA                                                                                                                                                                               -Ad-G             ---
RISKRA                3 LAGHOUAT                 1TAMANGHASSET                                                                                        INENTINLRONAIE                                                      j000 
P REIDA                 239 MASCARA                13 TEBESSA                                                                                            LIM 1TES INTERNA130NALES 5,1
34 BGORDJ ROU ARRERIDJ    26 MEDEA                  14 TIARET                                                                                                                                                 2
15 DOUIRA                 43 MILA                   37 TINDOUF'..                                                                                                                                                                                               
35 ROSMERDES             27 MOSTAGANEM             43 TIPAZA                                                                                                                                                                                    *0~Mo         -
SCHLEF                 38 MSi LA                 38 TISSEMOSILT                                                                                   T,, mop -O p-.. I lOodyISOMop Joo.g UO,ITho W-1d2o 6-k0 
25 Co NSTANTINE           45 NIAAMA                 13 TIZI OUZOU                              5            5           5           13               TIAo,Iloollr  oo,OI,0  oo,oS,,1o.Io                                                                 >
17 DJTF                  II EA                      I3  LEC                                                                                          _Eoooh,o.."oo. .Ply, o. APooloTh. WodRokOoo-IG,p,                             OO."      ~
JELFA  31 ORAN       13 TLEMCEN                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS29 ,d.oIonhSgI00.0Pon 1111101172210101                                                          '
1lI-1 -h000   b-ow00 , f,do,                                             0         -     raa



