Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7027-AL
Loan Agreement
(Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 23, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7027-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 23, 2000, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR 
REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B) the Bank has received a letter, dated May 20, 2000, from the 
Borrower, through its Ministry of Post and Telecommunications, describing 
the Borrower’s reform program for the telecommunications and postal 
sector for the period 2000-2003 (the Program), setting out certain 
measures required to carry out the Program and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 
1, 1999 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Page  2
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Banque d'Algérie" means the Borrower’s central bank, 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, 
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest 
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in said Interest Period;
(c)
"MPT" means the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications of 
the Borrower;
(d)
"Maturity Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 
date on which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is 
established, such date being the first day of the Interest Period next 
following the Interest Period in which said Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn;
(e)
"PCIU" means the Project Coordination and Implementation 
Unit to be established within MPT in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)
"Postal Operator" means the operator to be created pursuant 
to the Telecommunications and Postal Legislation (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) with the purpose of providing postal services to 
consumers;
(g)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Borrower’s plan, 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, for the implementation of the 
Project which, inter alia, identifies targets and indicators to be used 
in evaluating progress towards the achievement of the objectives of the 
Project;
(h)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
"Telecommunications and Postal Regulatory Authority" means 
the authority to be created pursuant to the Telecommunications and Postal 
Legislation (as this term is hereinafter defined) with the purpose of 
regulating and supervising the activities in the telecommunications and 
postal sector;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(k)
"Telecommunications Operator" means the operator to be 
created pursuant to the Telecommunications and Postal Legislation (as 
this term is hereinafter defined) with the purpose of providing 
telecommunications services to consumers;
(l)
"Telecommunications and Postal Legislation" and 
"Legislation" mean collectively the Legislation referred to in Part A.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as the pre-condition for the adoption of 
the Telecommunications and Postal Regulations (as this term is 
hereinafter defined), as the same may be amended from time to time, which 
shall, inter alia, establish a framework for the liberalization of postal 
and telecommunications services; and
(m)
"Telecommunications and Postal Regulations" means the 
implementing regulations of the Legislation, to be issued in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 4.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equal to nine million Dollars ($9,000,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect 
of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the Banque d’Algerie on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to ninety thousand Dollars ($90,000). The Borrower agrees 
that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions, to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in 
respect of each Interest Period at the variable rate; provided, that upon 
a conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the conversion period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan 
in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15, the 
first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the thirtieth (30th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said 
Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be equal 
to one-twenty fourth (1/24th) of said Disbursed Amount. The last 
installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of said 
Disbursed Amount.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, if any one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed 
Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph (a), be 
payable after October 15, 2018, the Borrower shall also pay on such date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization 
schedule for each Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing 
Date for said Disbursed Amount.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) 
Page  4
of this Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any 
portion of a Disbursed Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so 
converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", 
as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless 
otherwise notified by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate 
for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, technical, and administrative practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, and except as the Borrower and Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Page  5
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2001, or such later 
date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
Page  6
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
Section 4.03. In order to achieve the objectives of Part A of the 
Project, the Borrower shall take all action necessary on its part to 
adopt and issue, not later than twelve (12) months following the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, regulations specific to the 
telecommunications and postal sectors which shall: (A) define the 
organization and functioning of the Telecommunications and Postal Sector 
Regulatory Authority, the Postal Operator and the Telecommunications 
Operator; and (B) establish principles for (a) interconnection; (b) 
competition; (c) universal service; (d) tariffs; (e) scarce resources 
(frequencies, numbering, infrastructure sharing); (f) licensing regime; 
(g) dispute resolution; and (h) postal financial services.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; and
(b)
the Telecommunications and Postal Legislation shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the 
opinion of the Bank, affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to carry out the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, the 
event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions, namely that:
(a)
the Borrower has established the financial management system 
referred to under Section 4.01(a) of this Agreement; and
(b)
the Borrower has established the PCIU under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Immeuble Maurétania
Place de Pérou
Algiers 16000
Democratic and Popular Republic
  of Algeria
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINPLAN
67073
(213) 
2-736440
Algiers
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC
  OF ALGERIA 
By /s/ Idriss Jazairy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  8
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Categories
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'
   7,137,000
100%
services
(2)
Training, study tours
   1,137,000
100%
and workshops
(3)
Fee
      90,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 
of this 
Agreement
(4)
Unallocated
     636,000
TOTAL
9,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for services supplied from the territory of 
the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) 
services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each for 
consulting firms; (ii) services under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each for individual consultants; and (iii) training, study 
tours and workshops, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to create an enabling environment 
to improve access to efficient and affordable communications services by 
opening the telecommunications and postal sector to competition and 
private participation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Legal and Regulatory Framework
1.
Provision of legal advisory services to assist in the drafting of 
implementing regulations to the Legislation, including but not limited 
to: (A) the organization and functioning of the Telecommunications and 
Postal Sector Regulatory Authority, the Postal Operator and the 
Telecommunications Operator; and (B) the establishment of principles for 
(a) interconnection; (b) competition; (c) universal service; (d) tariffs; 
(e) scarce resources (frequencies, numbering, infrastructure sharing); 
(f) licensing regime; (g) dispute resolution; and (h) postal financial 
services.
Page  9
2.
Provision of advisory services to assist in the drafting of reports 
(main regulatory instruments) with a view to ensuring private sector 
participation, including: (i) the interconnection regime, (ii) the review 
of tariffs, (iii) principles for management and control of assigned 
frequencies, (iv) the policy on promoting universal access, and (v) model 
class licenses, authorizations and declarations.
3.
Carrying out of training activities, organization of study tours 
and seminars.
Part B:
Liberalization Policy
Provision of technical assistance to assist in the structuring and 
implementation of the award of a mobile license through a competitive and 
transparent tender.
Part C:
Restructuring of MPT
Provision of technical assistance to assist the Borrower in 
restructuring MPT by separating its telecommunications operations from 
its postal operations, such restructuring to include, without limitation: 
(i) the establishment of a unit, within MPT, to monitor sector 
competition and technology trends; (ii) the development of: (a) 
accounting and budgetary operating procedures; (b) inventories of assets 
and liabilities; (c) procedures to value and allocate assets between the 
Postal Operator and the Telecommunications Operator; (d) legal 
documentation, financial arrangements and an organizational structure for 
each of the Postal Operator and the Telecommunications Operator; (e) a 
business strategy and commercial plan for the Telecommunications 
Operator; (f) the preparation of the opening balance sheet; and (iii) the 
organization of training activities, study tours and seminars.
Part D:
Privatization of the Telecommunications Operator
Provision of technical assistance to assist in: (a) the structuring 
and execution of a privatization transaction of the Telecommunications 
Operator; and (b) the auditing of the records and accounts of the 
Telecommunications Operator.
Part E:
Postal Development Strategy
1.
Provision of expert services to prepare a comprehensive postal 
development strategy focussing, inter alia, on long-term competitiveness, 
modernization of the postal network, improvement of the quality of 
service, the development of new products and new postal financial 
services.
2.
Carrying out of training activities in enterprise management, new 
marketing concepts, and use of new information technologies.
Part F:
Communication Strategy and Capacity Building
Provision of expert services to: (a) design and implement a 
communication strategy with a view to informing potential investors of 
the new business opportunities created as a result of the Borrower’s 
regulatory reform and privatization program; (b) build general support 
from employees of the telecommunications and postal sectors and from the 
public at large, and develop investor confidence; and (c) ensure 
transparency of the Borrower’s reform program through wide dissemination 
of licensing and privatization procedures of the Telecommunications 
Operator, and disclosure of the results of every transaction.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Employment of Consultants
Page  10
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-Cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Contracts for services awarded to individual consultants shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
Page  11
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation, Management and Coordination
1.
The Borrower shall vest MPT with the overall responsibility for the 
implementation of the Project. In order to ensure proper management and 
coordination of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that PCIU is 
maintained with professional staffing in adequate number, whose 
experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank. PCIU 
shall be managed by a the Project director who shall operate under the 
auspices of the Borrower’s Ministry of Telecommunications and Post. PCIU 
shall be responsible for, inter alia, the procurement and disbursement 
processes under the Project and the supervision of its execution.
B.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about March 1, 2002 a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by May 30, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $400,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
Page  12
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 
the Loan Account under the eligible Categories, and 
in the equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
Page  13
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
