                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                          Report No:ICR0000374




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-70270)

                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 9 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                     TO THE

                PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA

                                     FOR A

     TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND POSTAL SECTOR REFORM PROJECT




                                   June 30, 2007




Middle East and North Africa Region
Global Information and Communication Technologies Department
Policy Division (CITPO)




                                        1

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective May 2000 )

                    Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DZD)
                             DZD 1.00 = US$ .014
                               US$ 1.00 = 72.26

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 December 31


                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

          ADSL           Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line
          ANDI           Agence National du Développement de l'Investissement
          ARPT           Autorité de Régulation des Postes et Télécommunications
          CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
          CEO            Chief Executive Officer
          EC             European Commission
          ICT            Information and Communication Technologies
          GMPCS          Global Mobile Personal Communications by Satellites
          GSM            Global System for Mobile Communications
          MEDA           Euro-Mediterranean Partnership
          MNA            Middle East and North Africa
          MPT            Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
          MPTIC          Ministry of Posts and Information and Communications
                         Technologies
          M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
          PAD            Project Appraisal Document
          PDO            Project Development Objective
          PMU            Project Management Unit
          PRSE           Programme de Relance Economique et Social
          RTA            Reimbursable Technical Assistance
          SOE            State-Owned Enterprise
          WTO            World Trade Organization




     Vice President: Daniela Gressani
   Country Director: Theodore O. Ahlers
    Sector Manager: Philippe Dongier
Project Team Leader: Yann Burtin
  ICR Team Leader: Isabelle Huynh




                                       2

                                              ALGERIA
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND POSTAL SECTOR REFORM PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................. 12
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 14
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 19
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 24
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 26
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 28
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 30
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 34
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 35
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 36
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 38
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 39
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40
 MAP




                                                       3

D A T A S H E E T




       4

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Telecommunications
Country:                Algeria               Project Name:         and Postal Sector
                                                                    Reform Project
Project ID:             P070308               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-70270
ICR Date:               04/30/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    DEMOCRATIC AND
Lending Instrument:     TAL                   Borrower:             POPULAR REP. OF
                                                                    ALGERIA
Original Total
                        USD 9.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 7.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Posts and ICT
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/20/2000    Effectiveness:       01/29/2001         01/29/2001
Appraisal:             04/26/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/27/2000    Mid-term Review:                        10/10/2002
                                     Closing:             06/30/2004         12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                             5

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                          Highly Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 62                 62
Law and justice                                                   24                 24
Postal services                                                   14                 14


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                          Primary            Primary
Law reform                                                       Primary            Primary
Legal institutions for a market economy                          Primary            Primary
Regulation and competition policy                               Secondary           Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization            Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:            Daniela Gressani                   Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:          Theodore O. Ahlers                 Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:            Philippe Dongier                   Emmanuel Forestier
Project Team Leader:       Yann Burtin                        Paul Noumba Um
ICR Team Leader:           Isabelle Huynh
ICR Primary Author:        Isabelle Huynh



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Create an enabling environment to improve access to efficient and affordable
communications services by opening the telecommunications and postal sectors to
competition and private participation.



                                                6

  The project will support the Government of Algeria's program to (i) establish a new
legal, regulatory and institutional framework; (ii) implement gradual liberalization of all
market segments in the sector; (iii) privatize the main telecommunications operator
through a transparent and competitive bidding process, and (iv) elaborate a
comprehensive postal development strategy, towards ensuring the financial viability of
the postal operator.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Achieved overall telephone density (fixed and mobile access lines) of 12 lines
                per 100 inhabitants by 2004.
Value           5.4 lines per 100          12 lines per 100
quantitative or                            inhabitants by                    60 lines per 100

Qualitative)    inhabitants                2004                              inhabitants

Date achieved 12/31/1998                    12/31/2004                       06/30/2006
Comments        Actual value exceeded original target.
(incl. %        Telensity (fixed) reached 8.64% in 2006 (5.02% in 2000). Teledensity (fixed and
achievement)    mobile) reached72.34% in 2006 (5.28% in 2000)
                Gradual decrease in price of urban and inter-urban 2Mb/s leased lines towards
Indicator 2 :   the level of prices in neighboring countries (Greece, Spain, Morocco and
                Portugal).
                                           2 Mb/s leased
                Cost of 1 Mb/s (access + lines towards the                   Cost of 1Mb/s

Value           monthly subscription) = level of prices in                   (access + monthly

quantitative or 350,000 DA (net-of-        neighboring                       subscription - Half

Qualitative)    taxes) (When? - need       countries (Greece,                circuit & more than

                baseline date)             Spain, Morocco                    50km) = 145,000

                                           and Portugal).                    DA (net-of-taxes)

Date achieved 12/31/1998                    06/30/2006                       06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   At least one GSM license awarded to private operator by Q1 2001.
                                                                             2 GSM licenses

Value           One GSM provider           At least one GSM                  awarded to private

quantitative or (Mobilis) operated by      license awarded to                operators: Orascom

Qualitative)    Ministry of Post and       private operator by               (on July 25, 2001)
                Telecommunications.        Q1 2001.                          and Wataniya (on
                                                                             December 2, 2003).
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    06/30/2006                       06/30/2006
Comments        The Beneficiary exceed indicators by awarding two licenses during the project



                                                 7

(incl. %        duration, albeit with a limited delay on the initial schedule for the first
achievement)
                Improve productivity of postal sector to a level greater than or equal to (i) the
Indicator 4 :   average productivity in the MNA region; and (ii) the service productivity index
                in Algeria.
                                            Productivity of
                Productivity : About        postal sector to a
Value           10,000 mail items per       level greater than
quantitative or employee (indicator can or equal to the                        5,300 mail items

Qualitative)    only be collected on an     average                            per employee

                annual basis)               productivity in the
                                            MNA region
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    06/30/2006                         12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Productivity is lower than at start of project and lower than postal productivity in

achievement)    MNA Maghreb countries

Indicator 5 :   Number of Internet subscribers multiplied by 15 by 2004
Value
quantitative or No ADSL customers           120,000 customers                  150,000 ADSL

Qualitative)                                by June 2006                       subscribers

Date achieved 12/31/2000                    06/30/2006                         06/18/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Number of suscribers exceeded original forecast.

achievement)    Government claims 700,000 access to ADSL


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                 approval           Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Secondary legislation enacted: telecom secondary legislation, as spelled out in
                Section 4.03 of Loan Agreement, by Q1 2001
Value
(quantitative   Secondary legislation not All secondary                        All secondary

or Qualitative) yet enacted                 legislation enacted                legislation enacted

Date achieved 12/31/2000                    06/18/2004                         06/18/2004
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Telecom regulatory authority established and capacity built: head of reg. auth.
                apptd by Q4 2000, org. plan by Q1 2001, training plan by Q2 2001.
                                            Telecom                            Post and Telecom
                                            regulatory                         regulatory authority
Value           Telecommunications          authority                          established and
(quantitative   regulatory authority not    established and                    capacity built.
or Qualitative) yet established             capacity built.                    [Head of regulatory
                                            [Head of                           authority appointed,
                                            regulatory                         organization and


                                                 8

                                           authority                         training plan
                                           appointed,                        finalized.]
                                           organization and
                                           training plan
                                           finalized.]
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   05/31/2002                        06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Class licenses for network and service providers prepared by Q4 2000: GSM lic.
Indicator 3 :   & obligations; main operator license and obligations; class authorizations &
                obligations; and postal class authorizations
                                           Class licenses for
                                           network and                       Class licenses for

Value           Class licenses for networkservice providers                  network and service

(quantitative   and service providers not prepared and all                   providers prepared

or Qualitative) prepared                   other                             and all other

                                           authorizations                    authorizations

                                           completed.                        completed

Date achieved 12/31/2000                   10/04/2002
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                MPT restructured & creation of separate corporatized entities for telecom and
Indicator 4 :   postal operations: org. and staffing plans by Q1 2001, opening balance sheets for
                new entities by Q3 2001
                                           MPT restructured
                                           & creation of                     MPT restructured &

Value                                      separate                          creation of separate

(quantitative   Restructuring not yet      corporatized                      corporatized

or Qualitative) undertaken                 entities for                      entities for telecom

                                           telecom and postal                and postal

                                           operations.                       operations.

Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Telecom entity offered for sale: audited balance sheet (IAS) of telecom entity by
Indicator 5 :   Q3 2001; telecom entity offered for sale through a transparent, international
                competitive bidding process by Q1 2002
                                           Algerie Telecom
                                           offered for                       First preparatory
Value                                      privatization                     diligences were
(quantitative   Telecom entity not ready through a                           performed, but
or Qualitative) for sale                   transparent,
                                           international                     Government has not

                                           competitive                       taken action

                                           bidding process
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2005                        12/31/2006



                                                 9

Comments       in 2006, the transaction advisors have been recruited. The teaser has been

(incl. %       published. The transaction strategy has been prepared and submitted to GoA for

achievement)   approval. However the Government did not take action.


Indicator 6 :  Postal development strategy: strategy finalized by Q2 2001; training program
               finalized by Q2 2001.
Value                                      Postal
(quantitative  Strategy not formulated     development                       No formal postal

or Qualitative)                            strategy finalized                strategy.

Date achieved 12/31/2000                   06/30/2006                        12/31/2006
Comments       MPTIC considers that the 2005 Decree reducing Algerie Poste's monopoly
(incl. %       threshold to 50g by 1/1/2008 a(pproved by Conseil des Ministres in 12/2004) is
achievement)   de facto the policy line followed by the Government.

Indicator 7 :  Increase awareness on the benefits of sector reform: communications strategy
               adopted by Q2 2001, organization of workshops/study tours
Value
(quantitative  No communications

or Qualitative)strategy

Date achieved 12/31/2000
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 8 :  PCIU established: project manager appointed by Q2 2000; procurement and FM
               specialists appointed by Q3 2000.
Value
(quantitative  PCIU not established
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP               Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     07/27/2000           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     12/19/2000           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     06/18/2001           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.71
  4     12/14/2001           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    2.19
  5     06/05/2002           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    2.84
  6     11/22/2002           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    3.48
  7     06/16/2003           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    4.16
  8     12/04/2003           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    4.80
  9     06/22/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    5.60
  10    12/16/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    6.25



                                                10

  11  02/07/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    6.76
  12  11/23/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    7.53
  13  04/18/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    7.53
  14  08/29/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    7.53



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      11

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the end of the 1990s, the Government of Algeria began to shift away from a long-
established socialist economy to a newly-oriented economic policy open to both domestic
and foreign private sector participation. As part of this effort, the Government identified
reforms in the telecommunications and postal sectors as catalysts for broader structural
reforms in other industries and sectors.

When the Government of Algeria called upon the World Bank in 2000 to provide support
for the design and implementation of an ambitious post and telecommunications reform
strategy, both sectors were operated by the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (in
charge of policy, regulation, and operations) under full monopoly market structures
(except for a few private Internet service providers and two international postal express
operators), and Algeria ranked poorly within regional standards. Investment in the
telecommunications sector was less than US$150 million per year, global teledensity
(fixed and mobile) was barely 5.6 percent, mobile telephony was almost non-existent
(250,000 subscribers), the number of Internet users was less than 100,000, and mail
delivery within Algiers could take up to several weeks.

The Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project was intended to contribute to
the 1996 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objective of achieving sustainable economic
growth through: (i) increased private sector participation involving a new and enabling
legal, regulatory, and institutional framework; and (ii) the development of the financial
sector (in which postal financial services would provide access to the financial sector to
low- and middle-income households and act as an important channel for salary payments).
For the World Bank, this was one of the very first re-engagements with the Government
of Algeria, after almost a decade of limited dialogue and operations.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


Original Project Development Objective: The project objective was to create an enabling
environment to improve access to efficient and affordable communications services by
opening the telecommunications and postal sectors to competition and private
participation. The project would support the Government of Algeria's (GoAL) program
to (i) establish a new legal, regulatory and institutional framework; (ii) implement
gradual liberalization of all market segments in the sector; (iii) privatize the main
telecommunications operator through a transparent and competitive bidding process; and
(iv) elaborate a comprehensive postal development strategy, towards ensuring the
financial viability of the postal operator.

Original Key Indicators:
    - To increase the percentage of private financing in the telecommunications sector;



                                              12

    - To reach overall teledensity (fixed and mobile access lines) of 12 lines per 100
       inhabitants by 2004;
    - To multiply by 15 the number of Internet subscribers by 2004;
    - To decrease the price of 2Mb/s leased lines toward the level of prices in
       neighboring countries;
    - To award at least one GSM license to the private sector by the first quarter of
       2001;
    - To create new postal and telecommunications entities that would be operational
       by 2001;
    - To offer shares of the public telecommunications operator for sale to a strategic
       investor by 2003; and
    - To improve postal productivity (no. of mail items treated per employee) to a level
       greater than or equal to: (i) the average productivity in the MNA region, and (ii)
       the service productivity index in Algeria.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
n/a

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Businesses and consumers, including Algerians living abroad, were to be the main
beneficiaries of this reform through increased availability, affordability, and quality of
telecommunications and postal services.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1- Establish a new legal and regulatory framework - US$2.15 million
This component would finance international consultants to assist the Government and
subsequently the new Regulatory Authority in (i) enacting secondary legislation, (ii)
establishing a new regulatory framework, and (iii) designing and forming a Regulatory
Authority.

Component 2 - Implement Liberalization Policy - US$0.69 million
This component would finance the design and implementation of a transaction strategy
for one mobile license.

Component 3 - Restructure the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MPT) -
US$2.92 million
This component would finance the preparation and implementation of the restructuring of
MPT into four entities each with a new mission and organization: Telecommunications
Operator, Postal Operator, Post and Telecommunications Regulator, and the Ministry.

Component 4 - Privatize Telecommunications Entity - US$1.88 million




                                             13

This component would finance the design and the implementation of a privatization
strategy for the telecommunications operator.

Component 5 - Elaborate Postal Development Strategy - US$1.29 million
This component would finance consultant services to design a comprehensive postal
development strategy focusing on long-term competitiveness, modernization of the postal
network, improving quality of service, market orientation, and new product development.

Component 6- Strengthen Communication Strategy and Capacity Building ­
US$1.00 million1
This component would finance the preparation and implementation of a communication
strategy vis-à-vis potential domestic and foreign investors and the general public at large.
In addition, the component would support capacity building for the Project Management
Unit (PMU).

1.6 Revised Components
n/a

1.7 Other significant changes

The project closing date was extended three times:

1. Extension #1: A twelve-month extension from June 30, 2004 to June 30, 2005. A
series of consultancies, originally outlined in the procurement plan and key to completing
main PDOs, had not yet been carried out. In particular, the project team still needed to
assist in: (i) liberalizing key market segments (international, long distance, local loop,
VSAT, GMPCS); (ii) completing the restructuring of the new telecommunications
operator, Algerie Telecom (AT); (iii) effecting the AT privatization transaction; and (iii)
training key stakeholders (including the Ministry, the new postal operator, Algerie Poste
(AP), AT and ARPT, the regulator).

2. Extension #2: A twelve-month extension from June 30, 2005 to June 30, 2006. The
main rationale for the extension was to finalize key actions, namely, the completion of:
(i) AT restructuring; (ii) AT privatization transaction; (iii) training for key stakeholders
(including the Ministry, AP, AT and ARPT).

3. Extension #3: A six-month extension from June 30, 2006 to December 31, 2006. The
main rationale for the extension was to finalize the consultancy providing technical
assistance for the AT privatization transaction. This extension was linked to a
cancellation of uncommitted funds of US$280,124.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes



1This component was financed entirely by the Government, for US$ 1 million.




                                                14

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The data available at the time of project preparation suggested a significant gap between
the country's performance on sector indicators and both regional standards and
international best practice. This was clearly linked to a lagging reform agenda. The
Government's determination to move ahead rapidly with reform led to agreement on an
ambitious set of objectives to be met within a short timeframe of three and a half years.
The timeline was chosen to match that of the Telecommunications Sector Policy adopted
in 2000. (At project negotiations, this timeline was extended to four years.) In many
other postal and telecommunication sector reform projects, the transformation of the
ministry into four entities itself has constituted the entire scope of the project. Here, given
the Government of Algeria's strong desire to move concretely and quickly, it was decided
that the scope of work would cover not only the institutional restructuring, but also sector
liberalization and the privatization of the telecommunications incumbent as well.

To achieve its objectives, the Government, in coordination with the World Bank team,
defined key reform steps and a detailed roadmap based on recognized best practices
during project identification. A PPIAF grant was then mobilized to assist the Government
in drafting a new Telecommunications Sector Policy and a new Postal and
Telecommunications Law. The sector policy was adopted before project negotiations and
the law before project implementation. This early groundwork allowed the World Bank
team and the Government to undertake a fast-track project preparation process and start
key sector reforms in line with client expectations.

The project was demanding on the Borrower and the implementing agency (MPT, later
MPTIC): the Government's intentions were very ambitious, and the work required to
achieve those intentions was substantial. These circumstances also called for sustained
project implementation capacity. Given the implementing agency's limited experience
with Bank projects, a key part of project design was to set up a separate project
management unit (PMU) with a project manager and procurement and financial
management staff. This proved critical not only for implementation of the Bank project,
but also for coordinating the interventions of other donors in the sector (see Section 5.2).

The Bank's assessment of risks at the appraisal stage was largely accurate and the
mitigation measures chosen were largely effective, as the following points demonstrate:

    (i)     The drafting and enacting of enabling regulation, or regulation that would
            provide a fair and competitive environment for sector liberalization, was
            critical to the ability of the sector to attract investors;
    (ii)    The Government's commitment was indeed key, as was demonstrated by
            lagging implementation at the end of the project (especially with regard to the
            privatization of Algerie Telecom); and
    (iii)   Sector liberalization was considered a key success factor in the increase of
            teledensity. However, privatization of Algerie Telecom was the most
            potentially difficult objective, given the social impact and political



                                                15

            interference. In the context of the country at that time, privatization and
            liberalization were very controversial topics. Therefore, a communication
            campaign was launched early on to gain support from all stakeholders (civil
            society, parliament members, unions, etc.) for the overall reform agenda. The
            the Government was committed to carry out the restructuring of the ministry
            and the privatization of Algerie Telecom with limited redundancies and no
            layoffs in order to win trade union acceptance of sector liberalization. As a
            result, thousands of less-than-qualified civil servants were transferred to the
            newly-created state-owned enterprises (SOEs), Algerie Telecom and Algerie
            Poste, which translated into a weakened market position for the incumbents.
            But these concessions proved a winning strategy in the long run, as sector
            liberalization helped to introduce competition, leading to impressive market
            development and phenomenal results (see Section 3.2).

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The first three years of project implementation were the most productive, demonstrated
by the quantity and scope of reform-oriented actions and their overall positive impact on
the sector. The slower pace in reform-oriented actions thereon can be explained by their
greater complexity, and AT's privatization has not been achieved as of today. With the
success of mobile telephony and Internet penetration, the Government felt less pressure
to move on the privatization agenda, which had also become more complex in an
environment of reduced private investor appetite for fixed-line incumbents. In the postal
sector, the European Commission's MEDA program and the country's WTO discussions
provided enough incentive to move the liberalization agenda forward, although with
some delays compared to the initial project timeline.

The technical capacity of the PMU, non-existent at the time of project preparation, was
built up rapidly and efficiently, which allowed for the prompt implementation of a
successful monitoring and evaluation system, as well as good coordination with project
beneficiaries.

From this context, the following observations can be offered on the key factors affecting
implementation that were under or outside the control of the Government and of the
implementing agency:

    1. One notable factors outside the control of the Government and the implementing
        agency that contributed to the slowdown in the second phase was the worsening
        international investment climate for fixed line incumbents.

    2. With regard to factors under the Government's control, the main success factor of
        this reform was the presence at the beginning of the project of a
        telecommunications and postal minister who was a strong and empowered
        champion with a clear government mandate, which facilitated the launch of
        planned activities. Conversely, privatization was inherently subject to political


                                              16

        interference, and the successive delays experienced on this project component
        were partly due to four changes in telecommunications/ICT ministers during
        project implementation. Despite the continuity and commitment from the ministry
        team (the same General Secretary managed the reform and implementation from
        project start to end), it was difficult for the sector ministry to gain governmental
        support for this key transaction before project closing.

    3. With regard to factors under the control of the Government, one can note the early
        effectiveness of the Telecommunications and Postal Regulatory Authority
        (ARPT) (thanks to a rapid appointment process), which in turn contributed to the
        acceleration of the telecommunication liberalization process.

Implementation efficiency was high given the complexity of the project. At the PMU, the
two successive managers worked effectively despite the lack of staff with experience in
procurement and financial management (several experts recruited left for the private
sector after having acquired 12-18 months experience). While all key stakeholders
outside the ministry itself benefited significantly from the ministry restructuring, which
enabled them to contribute toward efficient implementation of the reform, in contrast, the
ministry remained understaffed as a result of the opportunity offered to its staff to move
to one of the three new entities created by the reform, as well as the chance to find better-
paying jobs in the ICT sector. This in turn explains the relative difficulties faced by the
ministry during implementation, including in the postal sector reform agenda.

As indicated in Section 1.7, the project was extended three times, bringing the
implementation period from four years to five and a half years. The project was initially
extended for only twelve months at the request of the government, which necessitated the
subsequent additional extensions. These extensions enabled the Government to finalize
key actions including: (i) the liberalization of key market segments (international, long-
distance, wireless local loop, VSAT, GMPCS); (ii) the completion of Algerie Telecom's
restructuring (including auditing its financial statements); (iii) training for key
stakeholders (including the ministry, Algerie Poste, Algerie Telecom and ARPT); and the
hiring of the transaction advisers for Algerie Telecom's privatization. They have carried
out most the preparatory work for the transaction (including the privatization strategy,
pending final government approval). Their contract will continue past project closing and
is being directly financed by the Government.

Despite the problems described above, the majority of project objectives were met early
on rather than later in project implementation.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design: Indicators to monitor progress toward the PDO were adequately identified
overall. For the telecommunications sector, indicators on teledensity and Internet
subscribers (which have both multiplied greatly over the course of the project) are the
standard indicators used in projects to monitor improved access to communication
services. The price of leased lines provided an indicator for monitoring the affordability


                                                17

of this access, and the GSM license award was an appropriate indicator for monitoring
how effectively the sector opened to competition. In the postal sector, the productivity
indicator was relevant to some extent for tracking the increase in mail volume, a proxy
for increased competition and improved performance. However, comparison of Algeria's
postal sector with other MNA countries was difficult to interpret, as each country was at a
different stage of sectoral development and reform. In addition, a cross-sectoral
comparison, such as a service productivity index in Algeria, was not possible given that
such an index was not available. In the last year of the project, market intelligence
provided by the regulator showed an increased number of competitors in the sector, but
lacked indicators evaluating access or efficiency.

Implementation: Overall the PMU implemented a relatively successful monitoring and
evaluation system, and coordinated well with project beneficiaries. With respect to the
telecommunications sector, data were adequately collected, albeit with some delays. With
regard to the postal sector, no specific market intelligence study or tool was developed,
with the exception of a delayed launching of postal sector data collection in the
regulatory authority, limiting the data collection sources for the most part to license
applications. MPTIC is currently establishing a Statistical Observatory for the
Telecommunications, Postal and IT Sector to be funded by the European Commission.
This will improve the overall monitoring and evaluation capacity of the sector.

Utilization: The main lesson taken from the project's monitoring and evaluation
implementation is that more varied sector data needs to be collected and promptly
analyzed to sustain momentum for the reform both domestically and internationally.
When the regulator ARPT aggregates and analyses monitoring and evaluation data in its
annual repost, overall market intelligence is enriched. Thus, those data are become a key
element of internal and external communication and help strengthen MPTIC and ARPT
credibility by highlighting its ability to present information on market opportunity to the
private sector and to maintain buy-in for the reform from Algerian society by
demonstrating its ongoing positive impacts.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
n/a

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

In 2003, the Borrower suggested that a project for the next phase of sector reforms be
prepared. This project aimed to consolidate the results of the first project and to provide
further support for ICT development in Algeria.

A presidential directive adopted during the spring of 2005 suspending the Government's
borrowing from the international financial institutions due to increases in its oil revenues
has limited the Bank's ability to use standard financial instruments such as loans.


                                                18

However, given the positive contribution of the Bank team in the sector, the sector
ministry is currently envisaging the use of reimbursable technical assistance (RTA) to
acquire three important services: (i) support in the preparation of a new ICT policy; (ii)
assistance in carrying out the privatization of Algérie Telecom; and (iii) strategic
guidance on improving the corporate governance of Algerie Poste.

The assistance under preparation targets actions that were not finalized during the project
(AT privatization) as well as actions needed to strengthen the ICT sector environment
that were identified during the project. Adoption of an updated ICT policy should enable
the Government to launch a new wave of reforms in the broader regulatory environment
of a converged ICT sector as opposed to a postal and telecommunications sector.




3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project's objectives have remained relevant from the initial CAS (1996) to the
current formation of the new CAS (2008). The Government's continued emphasis on
opening up the country's economy to private sector participation through investment and
privatization and its ongoing focus on the importance of both infrastructure and the
information society have put the communication sector at large (telecommunications,
posts, internet, broadcast) at the center of several strategic policy discussions. In
particular, ICT development is key to improving the investment climate, one of the
ongoing CAS strategic objectives.

The Bank's implementation assistance has been responsive to the changing environment
in the sector and the Government's priorities. The three project extensions in particular
allowed the Government to complete key objectives, including sector liberalization and
restructuring and beginning the privatization of Algérie Télécom.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The project succeeded in creating an enabling environment and improving access to
efficient and affordable communication services by opening the telecommunications and
postal sectors to competition and private participation. During the first two years, a new
sector law as well as all key secondary legislation, was adopted. The Post and Telecom
Regulatory Authority (ARPT) was established in 2001. The two state-owned enterprises,
Algérie Poste and Algérie Télécom, were created shortly after the law was enacted,
although it took until early 2004 to finalize their opening balance sheets and have them
certified by auditors. The MPT was effectively reorganized by September 2003 into the
Ministry of Posts and Information and Communication Technologies (MPICT).



                                                19

All institutional objectives (except for AT's privatization) were met by 2004, and all
sector development outcome results significantly exceeded original targets. Those results
are all the more remarkable in that they were realized by a relatively small technical
assistance project (US$9 million). In the telecommunications sector, access improved
significantly. Teledensity increased from 5.6 lines per 100 inhabitants at the end of 2000,
to 60 lines per 100 inhabitants at the end of 2006 (against a project objective of 12 lines
per 100 inhabitants by the end of 2004). This improvement was mostly driven by the
introduction of competition. Two new mobile licenses were awarded, through a
transparent and competitive bidding process, to private operators (Orascom for US$737
million in 2001 and Wataniya for US$421 million in 2004). High-speed internet access
(ADSL) was also rolled out more quickly than initially forecast by the project. The
country attracted foreign direct investment in the telecommunications sector of US$4
billion over the life of the project.


                                                   25000
                                       )
                                                   20000
                                 s      ndsa       15000
                                  Line
                                            houst( 10000

                                                    5000

                                                      0
                                                        2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006

                                      12/31/2001          12/31/2002  12/31/2003  12/31/2004  12/31/2005  12/31/2006

     Lacom/CAT - Fixed                                                                                       40

     Wataniya - Mobile                                                               300        1500        3000

     Orascom - Mobile                                        380        1300        3400        7800       10000

     Mobilis (AT) - Mobile                        120        130         160        1200        5200        7000

     Algerie Télécom (AT) - Fixed                 1880      1950        2100        3000        3200        3200




Beyond considerably increased access, consumers now enjoy manifold benefits which
have arisen from the competitive environment, including more choices in providers, as a
result of service diversification; improved quality of service; and tariff rebalancing (at
project approval, tariffs were administrative, not cost-based; therefore, there was a high
tariff for international and mobile communications and low rates for national and local
calls, but this has changed markedly as noted in the table below).

Telecom services                                                    2000        2006        Price Variation
                                                                                                2006/2000
Fixed International to US ­ USD/Min.                                 1.16        0.26               -78%
Fixed National ­ USD/Min.                                            0.04        0.07               +75%
Mobile Connection Cost for Postpaid (Mobilis)                        265         16                 -94%
­ USD
Mobile In-network Call for Prepaid (Orascom)                         0.251       0.11               -56%
­ USD/Min.
1Prepaid was only available from August 2002.



                                                                 20

Sources: ARPT, OTA, MPTIC, ITU

The mobile operators are currently leading the development of the sector in Algeria (the
incumbent network helped them to jumpstart operations). Nonetheless, today's increased
market dynamism highlights AT's inefficiencies. Both corporate governance and
shareholder decision processes remain inadequate to adapt to the new market realities.
All stakeholders currently admit the need for a thorough change within Algérie Télécom
that only a privatization could trigger. While this project objective was not achieved (as
noted above, largely due to a lagging political commitment), the incumbent's decreasing
market share, and the expansion of the private operators could likely soon force Algerie
Telecom to complete its privatization (although this could depend on the political balance
after the 2007 parliamentary elections and the evolution of oil prices).

Although this objective was not achieved, it should also be underlined that a number of
preparatory steps for the privatization have been completed under the project, namely: (i)
restructuring; (ii) preparation of opening balance sheets; (iii) international audit of
statement accounts; and (iv) hiring of privatization advisors, who have done much to
advance the transaction (see Section 2.2).

The postal sector observed a significant transformation, including: (i) the successful
corporatization of Algérie Poste; (ii) its financial profitability in 2005 and 2006 (in
contrast to the usual trend in developing countries of incumbents with heavy network
fixed costs and low volumes tending to incur structural deficits); (iii) modernization of
Algérie Poste (financed by DA 6 billion from a Government investment program, PRSE)
that resulted inter alia in the construction and renovation of post offices and
augmentation of the transportation fleet, as well as the implementation of an IP platform
to sustain its information systems, intranet and post offices automation programs; (iv) the
introduction of competition to the letter market in 2005 (the market segment of letters
over 250g is now liberalized; this weight limit will decrease to 50g in 2008, following the
European Union's implementation of progressive market opening).

However, productivity of the incumbent remains relatively low by regional standards.
The international express segment is a fast-growing segment, although its volume
represents a small share of total market (about 150,000 vis-à-vis 135 million standard
letter items).

Most importantly, the Government focused on updating the postal regulatory framework
to allow for effective sector liberalization, but did not produce an overall strategy that
would provide for a broader view of the Government's actions and objectives and would
have helped to attract potential private sector investors and business partners to leverage
the potential of the postal network as a platform for service delivery.

The causal relationship between the Bank's intervention and positive project outcomes is
strong for the telecommunications sector. The institutional redesign and the creation of
four entities were directly carried out through the project. It is also the assistance
provided through Bank's project that made possible the award of the two mobile licenses
(2002, 2004) as well as the three VSAT licenses (2004) and the three GMPCS licenses


                                              21

(2005) that contributed to sector liberalization and the growth in overall teledensity. The
causal link between the Bank project and positive outcomes is less clear for the postal
sector; however, it can be said that the policy dialogue carried out through the project
contributed to preparing the sector for liberalization (begun in 2005 in the letter market)
and future transformation of postal financial services.

In the larger picture, however, it should be again noted that although implementation
slowed down in the project's later years, the Government's program goals over an initial
four-year timeframe were quite ambitious. Thus it is not surprising that the project would
need to be extended to move ahead on some of the more difficult objectives. Even
though some of these more difficult project objectives were not achieved (such as the
privatization), this should be balanced against the spectacular sector results noted above
(and below in Section 3.3) that were achieved over five and a half years, a shorter
timeframe than for similar reforms in many countries.


3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
Given the limited costs involved to achieve project objectives, the project was
remarkably efficient: a US$9 million loan led to institutional reforms which resulted in
US$4 billion in foreign direct investment and an additional US$1 billion of local
investment. The consumer surplus attached to expanded mobile phone access and lower
cost under competitive provision is estimated at over US$1 billion per annum2. The cost
of mobile telephony per minute went down by 56 percent, while the number of mobile
subscribers increased eightfold to 20 million. The fiscal impact was also significant: the
various license awards brought in US$1.5 billion

The social impact was also significant, with 120,000 jobs created in the
telecommunications sector during the life of the project.

In the postal sector, efficiency and quality of service have slowly improved; Algérie
Poste has recently been able to regain some large-volume customers by guaranteeing
improvements in quality of service.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating:
The overall outcome rating is satisfactory.




2 With the conservative assumption that average monthly usage dropped from 1000
minutes in 2002 to 100 minutes in 2006.



                                              22

Results have exceeded set targets, and are truly impressive. This is especially apparent
with regard to sector liberalization, telecommunications penetration, and broadband
Internet deployment.

While there is no comprehensive postal sector policy, the Government has aligned with
the European postal policy practice of progressive sector liberalization.

The institutional restructuring, with the creation of four entities, represented a
challenging program in itself and called for complex project management. Whereas in
many other countries, such institutional restructuring often experienced major delays and
hurdles, it was successfully implemented in Algeria during the course of the project. The
technical capacity of the MPTIC and ARPT (for postal regulation) remains limited,
although postal regulation has recently improved. In the telecommunications sector,
regulatory capacity was built rapidly and was a key factor for the successful
implementation of the liberalization agenda.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Access to quality communications services is considered an important contribution to
poverty alleviation, sources of growth, and an improved investment climate. Both in the
telecommunications and in the postal sector the topic of universal access has been
debated thoroughly. But in the postal sector, the universal service obligation and its
funding have not been addressed in an in-depth manner, and no official line of action has
been decided yet by the Government.

Although the project did not look specifically at gender issues, a prominent figure of the
postal reform in Algeria has been the chairwoman of Algerie Poste. She has led this large
SOE since its creation in 2002 and has been highly visible in the media in a country with
few success stories by businesswomen. She was awarded the France-Maghreb title of
best manager in 2004 and opened new opportunities to female staff in Algerie Poste by
allowing them to serve as mail deliverers ("facteur"), a career up to that point open
exclusively to men.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The creation of the four entities from the MPT (MPTIC, ARPT, AT, and AP) has been
the most obvious institutional development result of this reform. This is to be seen as the
first significant reform step in implementing sector liberalization and moving the reform
process towards more private sector participation.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
n/a




                                               23

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
n/a



4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to development outcomes is Low. Today the telecommunication sector and its
mobile segment are dynamic with investment, innovation, and competition. This trend is
likely to continue thanks to the basic reforms funded under the project (legal, regulatory
and institutional framework, liberalization process). These reforms, in turn, make it likely
that the privatization of Algerie Telecom will take place sooner or later depending on
other political and economic factors (see Section 3.2).

However, it is also important to note that the Telecommunications Sector Policy and the
Postal and Telecommunications Law of 2000 need to be updated if the Government
intends to build productively on the strong foundations inherited from the initial reform.
An updated sector policy encompassing telecommunications, Internet, and broadcasting
(to take into account the quickly-evolving convergence of technology), together with
postal (to harness the sector's potential as a high capacity multi-service delivery
platform), was strongly advised to the Government by the Bank team during the last year
of project implementation and is one of the activities to be covered by the proposed RTA
(see Section 2.5). With regard to the legal framework, most stakeholders in the
telecommunications sector recognize that the 2000 law is outdated and needs to be
revised.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory. The project design was
simple and clear, ambitious yet realistic. The strategic relevance was high, at a time when
several other developing countries had undertaken similar reforms. With support of
advisory firms, the technical, financial and economic dimensions of the reform,
especially those of the state-owned enterprises, were well appraised, implemented, and
assessed. The Bank was able to jump-start the project by using a PPIAF grant that gave
assistance for the preparation of the new Postal and Telecommunications Law in 2000.

There were minor shortcomings in the social development aspect. The PAD did not
sufficiently cover the relative importance of access to basic communications services for
all citizens throughout the country as a social mandate held by the Government. The
PAD also did not take sufficient note of the potential for creation of employment which
usually results from similar reforms.


                                              24

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Quality of Bank supervision was assessed twice during project implementation and was
assessed "highly satisfactory" in the first instance. The team proactively identified
obstacles and risks and sought solution and mitigation in coordination with the Borrower.
The dialogue with the Borrower and implementing agency has been continuous and
constructive throughout project implementation.

Project implementation deteriorated for a while due to limited support from the MNA
Regional Procurement Advisor's office. This mainly explains that the second quality of
Bank supervision was rated "moderately satisfactory". To solve this problem, the TTL
hired an individual consultant in procurement, to the satisfaction of the Borrower.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the quality at entry and quality of supervision ratings, overall Bank
performance is satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

With very strong support and engagement during project preparation and the first two
years of implementation, the Government's performance can be rated "satisfactory". As
mentioned above in Section 2.2, this early success was due in large part to the active
participation of the Minister at the time of project approval, who was a champion for
sector reform. However, it should also be noted again that the presence of the same
General Secretary throughout the life of the project was a strong factor in the
Government's ability to maintain a high-quality candid and constructive policy dialogue
with the Bank in which problems could be discussed and the reform momentum sustained
(if perhaps not always at the pace of the project's first phase). This did much to mitigate
two problems, brought on in part by the succession of four different ministers during the
project: (i) the aforementioned slowdown in political support for Algerie Telecom's
privatization in the project's later phases, and (ii) the lack of policy formulation and
implementation in the postal sector due to the secondary importance given to the postal
sector, although a decree was promulgated in 2005 to advance sector liberalization (see
Section 3.2), considered a cornerstone of the reform.

The relationship and coordination with other donors (European Commission, African
Development Bank for Africa) was good. The PMU stayed in continuous contact with all
donors involved in the sector, and this enabled effective coordination.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance



                                                25

Rating: Satisfactory

The implementing agency for this project was the Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications (MPT), later restructured as the Ministry of Posts and Information
and Communication Technologies (MPTIC).

Implementation arrangements and capacity were stretched thin during most phases of
project implementation, resulting sometimes in slow action. This difficulty is not specific
to this project, but reflects overall lack of capacity throughout the central administration
in Algeria, and management of scarce human resources is usually a constraint to project
implementation. However, resolution of implementation issues was usually timely thanks
to the exceptional dedication and professionalism of the managers, and the fiduciary
dimension of project implementation was never in question.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall the Borrower ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied
with covenants and agreements towards the achievement of development outcomes.

The Borrower's main weakness was in the postal component. MPTIC underestimated the
need for postal policy development. As the sole shareholder of Algérie Poste, the
Government did not request enough improvements in corporate governance so that
Algérie Poste still lacks a real corporate strategy. The performance contract that is
supposed to determine operational and financial performance indicators to be agreed
upon by the two parties (operator, shareholder) was still not signed at the end of the
project.




6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

    - Competition, brought about by liberalization in the telecommunications sector, is
        the most effective driver for sector performance.

    - Telecommunication sector liberalization often has a significant demonstrative
        effect and can pave the way to other sector reforms: the Government of Algeria is
        now working on opening up its banking sector.

    - Consistent and strong political support is critical in a project that aims to
        introduce more private sector participation in the postal and telecommunications
        sector, especially in an economy that has long been driven by Government
        intervention. An empowered Government champion can be especially key. In
        such a case, the Bank can be responsive and mobilize adequate resources in order



                                               26

        to provide support to client-driven reforms, which can make possible in turn a
        strong project design and successful implementation.

    - Under a telecommunications sector liberalization policy in the
        telecommunications sector, employment creation within the sector (120,000
        during this project) is foreseeable, although the sequence usually calls first for a
        redundancy plan for the incumbent compensated later by employment creation.

    - In a project supporting telecommunications sector liberalization, an upfront solid
        institutional communication strategy is needed to convey and rally all
        stakeholders, in particular the unions (traditionally strong in the sector), to the
        strategic objectives of the reform and the project.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
None

(b) Cofinanciers
n/a

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g., NGOs/private sector/civil society)

The European Commission (MEDA Program) implemented a twin project with MPTIC
at the same time as the Bank's operation. The EC provided mostly grants for technical
assistance (long-term experts based in Algiers at the ministry, Algérie Poste and ARPT),
complemented with short-term interventions of experts on specific issues, as well as
procurement of goods (mostly hardware and software).

The implementing agency for the MEDA Program was the same as for the Bank's
operation. This allowed for good coordination, avoidance of redundant or overlapping
interventions, and maximization of institutional intervention. At the ministry, the MEDA
expert focused mostly on capacity building and strengthening the telecommunications
schools in Algiers through twinning arrangements with French universities. At ARPT, the
expert focused on telecommunications issues. At Algérie Poste, the expert helped mostly
on operational issues (mail delivery, quality of services, information systems, accounting).

MEDA's experts and the Bank team coordinated transparently and constructively
throughout the implementation of the respective operations.




                                              27

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                              Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest
         Components                                                   Percentage of
                                (USD millions)       Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)       Appraisal

1. ESTABLISH A NEW LEGAL
AND REGULATORY
FRAMEWORK : -
CONSULTANT SERVICES TO                 2.13                 0.55            26
ESTABLISH NEW
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK,
PREPARE GEN ERIC LI
2. IMPLEMENT
LIBERALIZATION POLICY :-
CONSULTANT SERVICES TO                 0.69                 2.25            326

AWARD GSM LICENSE(S)
3. RESTRUCTURE THE
MINISTRY OF POSTS AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS :-
CONSULTANT SERVICES TO                 2.92                 1.87            64
RESTRUCTURE MPT AND
PREPARE OPENING BAL
ANCE SH
4. PRIVATIZE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ENTITY :- CONSULTANT
SERVICES TO CONDUCT                    1.88                 1.39            74
AUDIT OF BALANCE SHEET
OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ENTITY ACCORDI
5. ELABORATE POSTAL
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY :-
CONSULTANT SERVICES TO
ELABORATE POSTAL                       1.29                 0.89            69

DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY-
TRAINING
6. STRENGTHEN
COMMUNICATION
STRATEGY AND CAPACITY
BUILDING :- CONSULTANT                 0.003                0.60          300.00
SERVICES TO LAUNCH
INFORMATION CAMPAIGN-
CONSULTANT SERVICE



3Originally, this component was meant to be totally funded the Government, for US$ 1
million.



                                         28

            Total Project Costs    8.91    7.55    81.89
Front-end fee IBRD                 0.09    0.09    100
     Total Financing Required      9.00    7.64     85




                                    29

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1- US$2.13 million
Establish a new legal and regulatory framework

A new legal, regulatory and institutional framework was enacted. In addition, dozens of
secondary legislation to allow implementation of the 2000 Postal and
Telecommunications Law were passed. The outputs for this component have been fully
produced in line with project's PAD.

Component 2 - US$0.69 million
Implement Liberalization Policy

In the telecommunication sector, awards of several licenses in different market segments
as well as delivery of almost a hundred authorizations have allowed a rapid development
of competition: 3 mobile licenses, 3 VSAT licenses, 3 GMPCS licenses, 2 fixed
telephony licenses, 11 VoIP authorizations, 11 audiotex authorizations, 5 call center
authorizations, and 71 ISP authorizations.

In the postal sector, the reserved area has been progressively reduced and is planned to be
lowered to 50g in 2008. For reference, the European Union is targeting a full opening of
the postal internal market in 2009. To some extent, Algeria is following the European
model of progressive liberalization.

               PDO                                          Milestones
1. Establish a new legal          Post and Telecom Law: 2000
regulatory and institutional      Creation of ARPT: 2001
framework                         Creation of Algerie Telecom: 2000
                                    Opening balance sheet: 2003
                                  Creation of Algerie Poste: 2000
                                    Opening balance sheet: 2003
                                  Transformation of MPT to MPTIC: 2001
2. Implement gradual              Telecom
liberalization of all market       1st GSM license                 July 2001
segments in the sector             2nd GSM license         May 2002
                                   3rd GSM license                 January 2004
                                   VSAT: 3 licenses in 2004
                                   GMPCS: 3 licenses in 2005
                                   Fixed: 2 licenses in 2005 (including regularization for
                                   Algerie Telecom)
                                  Postal
                                   4 licenses for international express courier in 2004
                                   (regularization)
                                   2005 decree - Letter monopoly down to 350g: Jan. 1, 2005;
                                   down to 250g on Jan. 1, 2006; and to 50g on Jan. 1, 2008.
3. Privatize the main             Transaction advisors hired in 2006. Teaser published. The



                                              30

telecommunication operator        transaction strategy was prepared and submitted to GoAL for
through a transparent and         approval. However, the Government has not yet taken action.
competitive bidding process
4. Elaborate a comprehensive      Postal corporate strategy was prepared under the EC MEDA
postal development strategy       program.
towards ensuring the financial
viability of the postal operator



Component 3 -US$ 2.92million
Restructure the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MPT)

After the Postal and Telecommunications Law was passed in 2000, the postal and
telecommunications sector went through a progressive revamping of its regulatory and
institutional framework, in line with the orientation of the overall reform: (i) The two
state-owned enterprises, Algérie Poste and Algérie Télécom were created shortly after the
law was enacted, although their opening balance sheets took longer to be finalized and
certified by auditors. This delay was mainly due to the size of the companies and the lack
of recent identification and valuation of their assets. This was done by early 2004, so
much of the official opening balance sheets applies to calendar year 2003. (ii) The Post
and Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (ARPT) was created in 2001. (iii) The
MPTIC was effectively created in September 2003.

Project Component 4 - US$1.88 million
Privatize Telecommunications Entity

Preparation of the transaction strategy was almost completed, but in 2006 a new level of
uncertainty was introduced because of the absence of the President for health reasons.
Since then, while all stakeholders understand the urgency of privatizing, no action has
been undertaken by the Government.

Project Component 5- US$1.29 million
Elaborate Postal Development Strategy

There was significant transformation in the postal sector. The Government directly
supported the modernization of Algérie Poste through the national Program for Economic
and Social Relaunch (PSRE), which financed the renovation of post offices as well as the
renewal and extension of the transportation fleet. Competition was introduced in the letter
market in 2005. The market segment of letters above 250g is now liberalized. This weight
limit will go down to 50g in 2008, following the European Union's practice of
progressive market opening. However, the productivity of the incumbent remains
relatively low by regional standards.

Statistics on the overall market are still in the process of being gathered. ARPT started its
assignment of collecting sector data only recently, after other priority activities such as
awarding licenses and determining the price increase for postal services. The




                                               31

international express segment is a fast-growing segment, although its volume represents a
small share of total market (about 150,000 against 135 million standard letter items).

In relative terms, the productivity of Algérie Poste has dramatically dropped in terms of
letters per employee (Table 1) but not in term of revenue per employee. Overall revenue
nearly doubled between 2002 and 2006, while the number of staff increased by 25%.
However, Table 1 indicates that either the data collected by Algérie Poste is incorrect or
that its mail productivity has in effect decreased significantly.

Table 1: Postal productivity of 4 MNA countries
             source: UPU                                  2001         2005
             Algeria
             letters per inhabitant                       11.3         6.18
             letters (domestic) Mns                        341            68
             letters (international outward) Mns            10            25
             letters (international inward) Mns             13            42
             number of employees                         20115       24651
             number of letters per employee             18 096        5 476

             Egypt
             letters per inhabitant                          3 n/a
             letters (domestic) Mns                        123            97
             letters (international outward) Mns            79            73
             letters (international inward) Mns             87            80
             number of employees                         38231       46205
             number of letters per employee              7 559        5 411

             Morocco
             letters per inhabitant               n/a          n/a
             letters (domestic) Mns                        231          230
             letters (international outward) Mns            18            31
             letters (international inward) Mns             24            70
             number of employees                          8773         8040
             number of letters per employee             31 118       41 169

             Tunisia
             letters per inhabitant                         12            14
             letters (domestic) Mns                         83          122
             letters (international outward) Mns             5             4
             letters (international inward) Mns             12             9
             number of employees                          8847         8918
             number of letters per employee             11 303       15 138



Most importantly, the Government focused on updating the postal regulatory framework
to allow effective sector liberalization, but did not produce an overall strategy that would
give a broader view of the Government's actions and objectives. A postal sector strategy
is a cornerstone in policy debate and formulation. Similar to the telecommunications
sector, without such a reference document that provides a clear framework for all
stakeholders including potential investors, experience indicates that harnessing the


                                                32

potential of the postal network as a platform for service delivery will be virtually
impossible.


Project Component 6 - US$1.00 million4
Strengthen Communication Strategy and Capacity Building

Capacity building was originally budgeted at US$1 million. The amount was slightly
reduced as the European Commission program was also providing substantial support in
this field, and there was only so much capacity building that the entities could absorb
without affecting their daily operations.




4This component was financed entirely by the Government, for US$ 1 million.




                                                33

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Given the nature of the assistance, an economic and financial analysis were not required.
The table below provides some milestones expressed in financial value. The table
suggests that the economic rate of return was in the range of thousands, and the consumer
surplus above US$1 billion.

                                          2000                            2006

Project Key Indicators:
  - private investment in      US$150 million                 US$5 billion
    the telecom sector
  - overall teledensity        5%                             71%
  - Internet users             120,000                        3 million
  - leased line cost           350,000 DA (1Mbs)              145,000 DA (-94%)
  - mobile licenses            0                              3
  - postal productivity        10,000 letters per agent       5,500
  -

Other indicators:
  - 1 mn call fixed
    international              US$ 1.16                       US$ 0.26 (-78%)
  - 1 mn call mobile in-
    network                    US$ 0.25                       US$ 0.11 (-56%)
  - Fiber optic                7,000km                        26,000km
  - ADSL access                0                              700,000
  - ISPs                       <5                             71




                                            34

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                               Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Paul Noumba Um                 Lead Infrastructure Specialist       CITPO TTL

Yann Burtin                    Operation Officer                    CITPO   Telecommunication
                                                                            Specialist
David Satola                   Sr. Counsel                           LEG    Legal Advisor
Jurgen Lohmeyer                Postal Sector Specialist             CITPO Postal Specialist
Catherine Doody                 Program Assistant                   CITPO Program Assistant

Supervision/ICR
Paul Noumba Um                 Lead Infrastructure Specialist       CITPO TTL
Yann Burtin                    Senior Operation Officer             CITPO TTL
David Satola                   Sr. Counsel                           LEG    Legal Advisor
Isabelle Huynh-Segni           Postal Policy Specialist             CITPO Postal Specialist
Mather B. Pfeiffenberger       Senior Program Assistant             CITID Sr. Program Assistant
Lacinda Barrow                 Program Assistant                    CITPO Program Assistant
Kashmira Daruwalla             Senior Procurement Specialist        CITPO Procurement
Francesco Sarno                Consultant                           AFTS3 Fiduciary
Rachele Gianfranchi-Hirschhofer Consultant                          CITPO ICT


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                            No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY00                                              37                       128.41
   FY01                                               3                        11.41
   FY02                                               2                         5.34
   FY03-07                                                                      0.00
                              Total:                 42                       145.16
Supervision/ICR
   FY00                                                                         0.00
   FY01                                              17                        88.71
   FY02                                              15                        78.31
   FY03                                              19                        82.64
   FY04                                              21                        90.39
   FY05                                              15                        59.67
   FY06                                              26                       112.94
   FY07                                               8                        44.03
                              Total:               121                        556.69




                                                 35

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

None




                                    36

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

None




                                  37

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The Borrower provided a comprehensive draft ICR that remains to be sent to us under a
final format, with the following contents:

           1 - Introduction
           2 - Project framework
           3 - Project achievements
           4 - Project implementation
           5 - Project management
           6 - Conclusion
           7 - Annexes :
                 Annex 1 : Letter of sector policy - Table
                 Annex 2 : Procurement activities and list of contracts
                 Annex 3 : Capacity building and training
                 Annex 4 : Financial balance as of Dec. 31, 2006
                 Annex 5 : Legal and regulatory texts adopted


The report is factual and does not bring qualitative assessment as to the results, but the
list of initial objectives and actual achievement speaks for itself.

Regarding the privatization transaction, the Borrower's report notes that technical
assistance under the project was undertaken to prepare the transaction; however, this
activity was not completed under the project. The completion of the transaction is said to
be in the hands of the Government.

The Borrower also mentions the feasibility study related to the Sidi Abdellah Cyberpark.
The team felt that this activity would facilitate the preparation of a new operation geared
towards ICT sector development.

The Borrower's report also mentions the amount of the European Commission MEDA
Program that benefited Algérie Poste (EUR 4.8 million) and the Government investment
program (DA 6.2 billion). The report is quite positive with regard to the postal
component.




                                              38

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
None




                                    39

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

CAS 1996-2001
CAS 2003
PAD (June 2, 2000)
Aide-mémoires
Government's implementation report

"A policy note on telecommunications restructuring in Algeria", Paul Noumba Um, 2003
Arab Advisors Group ­ Strategic Research Note on Cellular Market Index (May 2007)




                                          40

MAP




       41

42

