Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15171-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
May 20, 1996
Rural and Social Development Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1, 1996)
Currency Unit      Yuan (Y)
$1.00          Y 8.4
Y 1.00          $0.119
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)     3.28 feet (ft)
I cubic meter (mi3)   35.31 cubic feet
I millimeter (mm)   =  0.04 inch
I kilometer (km)   =  0.62 miles
I square kilometer (km 2)   =  1 00 hectares
I hectare   =  15 mu
I ton (t)   =  1,000 kg
I kilogram (kg)   -  2.2 pounds
I kilovolt (kV)    1,000 volts
I kilowatt (kW)      1,000 watts



ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AAPQS       -   Administration of Animal and Plant Quarantine Services
ASSP        -   Agricultural Support Services Project
ATES        -   Agrotechnical Extension Station
BOA         -   Bureau of Agriculture
BOD         -   Biochemical Oxygen Demand
BOF         -   Bureau of Finance
BSF         -   Bureau of State Farms
CAAS        -   Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CAS         -   Country Assistance Strategy
CAD         -   Computer Aided Design
CAM         -   Computer Aided Manufacturing
CNSC        -   China National Seed Corporation
CPMO        -   Central Project Management Office
CSC         -   County Seed Company
DOA         -   Department of Agriculture
EPB         -   Environmental Protection Bureau
ERR         -   Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP      -   Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FIS         -   International Federatioii for Seed Trade
FRR         -   Financial Rate of ketum
GOC         -   Government of China
ICAMA       -   Institute for Control of Agricultural Chemicals
ISTA        -   International Seed Testing Association
MOA         -   Ministry of Agriculture
MOF         -   Ministry of Finance
MSC         -   Municipal Seed Company
NATESC    -   National Agricultural Technical Extension Service Center
NCVEACO  -   National Crop Variety Examination and Approval Committee Office
NFPT        -   National Field Production Trial
NRT         -   National Regional Trial
NSTC        -   National Seed Testing Center
PEPB        -   Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau
PFPT        -   Provincial Field Production Trial
PIA         -   Project Implementation Agreement
PLG         -   Project Leading Group
PMD         -   Project Management Office
Ppm         -   Parts per Million
PPMO        -   Provincial Project Management Office
PPS         -   Plant Protection Station
PRT         -   Provincial Regional Trial
PSC         -   Provineial Seed Companies
SD          -   Seed Division
SF          -   State Farm
SOE         -   State-owned Enterprise
TSSS        -   Township Seed Supply Station
UPOV        -   International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants






CHlNA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                People's Republic of China
Implementing Agenc:    Ministry of Agricuittire (MOA) and 14 provinces
Beneficiaries:           MOA, participating provincial governments and seed
companies.
Poverty:                 Not applicalble.
Amount:                  Loan:  $80.0 million
Cre lit: SDR 13.8 million ($20 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Loan:  20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar
single currency loans
Credit: IDA standard terms with 35 years' maturity
Commitment Fee:          Loan:   Standard
Credit:  Standard
Onlending Terms:         From Provincial Bureaus of Finance to seed companies for
up to 20 years with 5 years' grace at an annual interest rate
of at least 6.5 percent and the foreign exchange risk to be
borne by seed companies
Financing Plan:          See para. 3.30
Economic and Financial
Rate of Return:         Overall economic rate of return of the project: 42 percent
Overall financial rate of return: 27 percent
Map:                     13RD 27647
Project ID Number:       CN-PE-3638






CONTENTS
1. BACKGROUND                                          ..1.................I
A. Introduction .............. ..................................................1
B. Agricultural Sector ............. ..............................................................................1
C. Bank Group Lenaing in Ao'riculture .........................................2
D. Seed Subsecter .........................................3
E. Seed Technclo6y and Performance .........................................8
2. SEED '' ECTOR DEVELOPMENT                                                  ............................................. 10
A. Historical Background ..............................................                                                      10
B. Constraints ..............................................                                                                10
C. Recent Developments ..............................................                                                        15
D. Lessons Learned  from   Previous Bank  Group  Projects ..................................... 17
E. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement ........................................                                              19
F. Design Considerations ........................................                                                             19
3. THE PROJECT ..............................................                                                                             22
A. Project Objectives ..............................................                                                         22
B. Project Components ..............................................                                                         22
C. Detailed Features ..............................................                                                          22
D. Status of Preparation ..............................................                                                      30
E. Implementation Schedule ..............................................                                                    31
F. Cost Estimates ..............................................                                                             31
G. Financing ..............................................                                                                  32
H. Procurement ..............................................                                                                33
I. Disbursements ..............................................                                                              36
J. Accounts and Audits ..............................................                                                        37
K. Land Acquisition ..............................................                                                           37
L. Environmental Impacts ..............................................                                                       37
4. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .                                                                  .......................................... 40
A. Project Organization ..............................................                                                       40
B. Project Management ..............................................                                                         41
C. Financial Managemcnt ..............................................                                                       42
D. Project Launch Workshop ..............................................                                                    42
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to China in September/
October 1995. Mission members were Ms. R. Jaisaard (Mission Leader), Messrs. D. Gue,
C. Tay, M. Buechting, K. Boyce, C. Delouche and Ms. Tong Zhong (consultants). Peer
reviewers comprised Messrs. J. Srivastava (AGRTN), 0. Honisch (EA4NR), E. Chobanian
(ASTEN) and M. Lundell (EC4NR). The Division Chief is Joseph Goldberg and the
Department Director is Nicholas C. Hope.



- ii -
E. Training and T echnical Assistance .............................................                                   42
F. Supervision, Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting ......................................... 43
5. PRODUCTFION, MARKETS AND PRICES ..............................................44
A. Productinn .............................................                                                            44
B. Markets ............................................. 44
C. Prices ............................................. 47
D. Financial Analysis ............................................                                                    48
6. BENEFITS, JUSTIFiCATION AND RISKS ............................................                                                 50
A. Benefits ............................................. 50
B. EmLployment and Inicomes .............................................                                             51
C. Cost Recovery ............................................. 52
D. Impact on Government Budget ............................................                                           52
E. Economic Aralysis ............................................                                                     52
F. Risks ............................................                                                                  54
7. AGREEM:ENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .............................................                                                    55
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 3.1 Project Cost Suwnnary ............................................                                                      32
Table 3.2: Procuremttwi Piofile ............................................                                                      34
ANNEXES
1.  Description of Se.-.d Enterprises
2. Planter Bucx Seed Surveys
3. Pilot Companies for Commercialization
4. Project Cost, Procurement and Disbursement Summary
5. Project Benefits and Financial Analysis
6. Economic Analysis
7. Performance Indicators
8. Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
9. Training Plan
10. Supervision Plan
11. Selected Documents and Data available in the Project File



- Ill -
FIGURES
1. Seed Organizational Structure in China
2. Seed Company's Implementation Schedule
3. Procurement Schedule for Equipment and Materials
MAP
Map Showing Project Locations.






1. BACKGROUND
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Government of China (GOC) has requested World Bank assistance in
financing a national seed commercialization project. The project would help develop a
conducive environment for the development of a commercial seed sector through the
adoption cf necessary policies and an appropriate regulatory framework. It would
modernize, rationalize and commercialize a number of seed companies and strengthen the
public seed sector so that it can provide effective services to farmers. It would provide
support to several national and provincial seed organizations and would modernize seed
companies from 14 provinces. The project aims ultimately to facilitate the development
of a vibrant seed sector, which can not only provide increased amounts of quality seed to
farmers but also operate through efficient and self-sustaining commercial enterprises.
Incremental benefits would come from improved yield, lower sowing rates and reduced
seed costs for major crops such as hybrid rice, hybrid maize, wheat, soybeans, cotton,
vegetables and fruit trees. This in turn would increase farmer incomes and employment.
The project was identified by a Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
(FAO/CP) mission and a World Bank team in November 1993 and prepared in May and
November 1994. It was preappraised and then appraised by World Bank missions in
April 1995 and September/October 1995.
B. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
1.2   Agriculture continues to play a major role in the Chinese economy. It is estimated
that agriculture accoun s for 20 percent of GNP and provides employment for about 200
million farm families. Less than 15 percent of China's land area is arable, and farming
systems are generaily very intensive with heavy inputs of labor and fertilizer. Nearly half
the cropped area is irrigated. This intensive farming has enabled China to meet the great
bulk of its basic food requirements.
1.3   As a result of policy reforms in the late 1970s-in particular the introduction of
the household production responsibility system and the development of rural markets-
the value of agricultural output grew at an impressive average of 6 percent per year over
the period 1978-1990. The growth rate increased to over 7 percent during 1990-93 but
declined substantially to 2.4 percent in 1994. Grain production, which ranged between
376-402 million tons during 1985-1988, was the Government's central agricultural
concern during the late 1980s. Major efforts were made to increase grain production, and
by the 1990s production had risen to a new plateau of around 450 million tons (435456
million tons between 1990-94).



- 2 -
1.4   In 1994, the Government was concerned about the decline in rice and wheat
output. The official estimates of paddy production were 189 million tons in 1990 but
only 176 millic.n tons in 1994. Likewise, wheat production fell from 106 million ton in
1993 to 99 million tons in 1994. This has resulted in an increase in wheat and rice
imports and a suspension in exports of rice and corn due to insufficient stocks. The
nationwide inflation in 1993-94 combined witH "lagging commodity price management"
placed farmers in a cost/price squeeze that discouraged fertilizer purchases and
contributed-along with the bad weather-to the drop in agriculture production and a
substantial decline in gross value of agricultural output in 1994.  Since then, the
government has improved its monetary policy to stabilize inflation and to maintain
suitable terms of trade for grain production with respect to input prices. Farmers were
able to farm more intensively with improved varieties of seeds, and output has increased.
Grain production was reported to reach another record high of 466 million tons in 1995.
C. BANK GROUP LENDING IN AGRICULTURE
1.5   Bank Group lending to China for agriculture is designed to support the
government's efforts to increase and diversify agricultural production. Specific policy
considerations include reforms designed to make government agencies more efficient and
commercialize enterprises and services. Bank Group lending to date has comprised 43
operations, amounting to more than $6.2 billion and has covered a wide spectrum of
geographic areas and subsectors, with major efforts in land development, irrigation and
drainage, flood control (11 projects), upgrading of agricultural support services including
agricultural research, extension, seed improvement (3 projects), development of
specialized subsectors including forestry, fruit and fisheries (9 projects), agroindustry,
credit, and logistics (8 projects), watershed rehabilitation and poverty alleviation (5
projects) and area development (7 projects). This lending has been designed to support
the govemmeni's efforts to increase and diversify agricultural production through more
efficient use of land, water, capital and labor and through the improvement of support
services such as credit, research, extension and veterinary services.
1.6   Since 1987, the Bank Group has supported a series of provincial development
projects in which an area development approach has been applied. The projects were
designed to alleviate poverty and to assist the Government in its ongoing reform process.
The Rural Seclor Adjustment Loan (Cr. 1932-CHA and Ln. 2967-CHA), which was
approved during 1988, contributed to the articulation of the overall reform process, and
involved the Bank Group in increasingly intensive policy dialogue in agriculture and
poverty allevialion, sustained through the process of project development and several
major sector stLdies (e.g., on grain, poverty alleviation, animal feed, the management of
the Yellow River and marketing of agricultural crops) and project formulation exercises.
1.7   Implementation of most ongoing Bank Group-financed projects in the agriculture
sector is on schedule. Experience in previous Bank Group agricultural projects in China
is that physical works have been completed on time or ahead of schedule. Disbursements
for agricultural projects, in fact, usually outpace those in other sectors. Notable features



- 3 -
of all the projects are the high standard of project management, the active participation of
farmers and the effective collaboration of government authorities at all levels. Sixteen
projects have been completed. The completion reports for these projects indicate that
implementation was generally successful, that most economic rates of return reached or
exceeded appraisal estimates, and that the technology used was sound and appropriate for
wider application.
1.8   The Bank Group's current lending strategy in agriculture, while maintaining
subsectoral development and poverty alleviation objectives, is putting greater emphasis
on commercial development. The new projects under preparation such as the Animal
Feed Project, the State Farms Commercialization Project and this project, all aim at
strengthening the commercial orientation of these subsectors and enabling future private-
sector participation.
D. SEED SUBSECTOR
1.9   Advances in seed technology are one of the most important channels for
improving productivity in agriculture. The government recognizes the crucial role of the
seed industry in achieving national targets of grain production and agriculture production
goals generally. For this reason, it sees as a major constraint the present structure of the
seed sector, which allows low-productivity, low-quality, unresponsive, loss-making seed
producers to persist. There is full recognition of the need for major steps in the direction
of commercialization, if only to stop the drain on the budget from the need to cover seed
company losses. Central government strategies, while ensuring seed supply to farmers,
will also promote efficient seed commercialization. At the macro level, the Government
aims to create a conducive environment to support the seed commercial development by
drafting policy and regulatory reforms. Its policies are designed to promote seed-sector
commercialization by shifting from an administrative hierarchy of seed companies
(provincial, prefecture and county) to a competitive structure and by supporting efficient
companies. At the enterprise level, it emphasizes high-quality and new-variety seeds,
modernization of seed processing and packaging equipment and seed enterprise
profitability. The success of commercialization strategies will be influenced by overall
economic reform in China. In particular, it will be influenced by the overall reform
program for state-owned enterprises (SOEs), since the sector is now dominated by
jurisdictional seed companies and state farms.
1.10 The formal seed sector in China is large and complex. In 1993 there were more
than 2,700 seed companies in China, one for almost every administrative division within
the country. The companies are loosely networked in a pyramidal structure with the
China National Seed Corporation (CNSC) at the apex. Beneath the CNSC, each of the 30
provinces has a provincial seed company, and below these are some 500 prefecture and
2,200 county seed companies. All the seed companies are state-owned enterprises known
as executive/business management units. In addition there are 2,500 Township Seed
Supply Stations (TSSS) owned by farmer collectives, whose main function is to distribute
seeds to farmers. They are also responsible for organizing the production and local sale



- 4 -
of conventional (i.e., nonhybrid) seed of crops such as rice and wheat by farmer
cooperatives.
1.11   The uset of seed produced by the organized sector has increased from about 1.3
million tons in 1976 to over 3.5 million tons in 1994. This is about 25 percent of the total
annual seed requirement of about 12.5 million tons. The balance is met by the informal
seed sector, i.e. by farmers' own seed or farmer-to-farmer sales. Given that conventional
crops, such as wheat and self-pollinated rice, make up the bulk of crop production and
that much of the area under these crops does not need new seed every year, the ratio of
processed to farmer seed is reasonable. It is officially projected that in the year 2000 the
total demand For seed will be 12.0 million tons (the reduction being due to reduced
seeding rates and a reduction in the total sown area) and that the organized sector will
supply about 44 percent of this demand.
1.12  In addition to the seed companies, a large number of state farms (SFs) and a few
collective seed companies are also involved in the production of seed. While most SF
seed production is for own use, a nunber of farms specialize in industrial crop seed
production (e.g., sugar beet, cotton or oilseed rape) for sale to other state farms. At
present there are a veiy limrited number of private seed companies due both to the general
difficulty in establishing private sector enterprises and also to specific regulatory
requirements in the seed sector.
1.13   1 he organization of agricultural seed activities in China can be summarized as
follows:
(a)    Selection and Breeding: The selection and breeding of varieties is mainly
done at agricultural research and educational institutions such as agricultural
science academies and agricultural universities. Some seed companies are
increasingly giving emphasis to selecting and breeding their own varieties.
There are no restrictions in this area, and individuals and collective entities
are also encouraged to carry out breeding.
(b)    Adaptation and Regional Trials:  Trials are jointly organized by the
national and provincial agricultural research institutions and seed
administration stations in the provinces. Any new promising line has to
un-crgo tv. o to three years regional adaptability trials and one to two years
field production trials for consideration for registration and approval for
release.
(c)    Variety Examination:  Evaluation of trial results is done at national,
provincial or prefectural/municipality level by the respective crop variety
examination committees, which comprise members from local governments,
seed administrations, and research and academic institutions. A promising
candidate line, which possesses definite quality advantages over existing
varieties, will be awarded a variety certificate, registered and announced by
the agricultural department at the corresponding administrative level.



- 5 -
(d)   Seed Production: Seed production is mainly managed by county seed
companies and state fanns and is done in their own seed production bases.
Early generations are produced in state stock seed farms. Hybrids of
important crops are only produced by government designated companies.
Townships and individuals also produce seed in their seed production bases
mainly for use in their own administrative areas.
(e)   Seed Marketing and Distribution: Seed companies are still the main
marketing channels in China, and hybrids of important crops are marketed
only by the designated companies that produce them. Conventional seed
and vegetable seed are marketed through different channels, and collectives
and individuals are allowed to trade in these seeds. The basic requirement
for marketing seed is to obtain a seed business operation permit from the
local seed station and the permit in turn is used to obtain a business
operation license issued by the local Industrial and Commercial
Administration office. Since 1992, the Ministry of Agriculture, through
regulations on producing and marketing crop seed and animal vaccines by
agricultural, scientific, research and educational units, has pemitted research
and educational institutions to produce and market all kinds of crop seed.
(f)   Seed Quality Inspection and Quarantine:  Seed quality inspection is
enforced by the Department of Agriculture seed administration stations at
the county level and above. Quarantine inspection is done by the
Administration of Animal and Plant Quarantine Services at its 280 border
and port/airport district and subdistrict stations in all the provinces and
autonomous regions.
Seed Industry Structure
1.14  Seed companies are primarily responsible to government agencies at their
administrative levels. Thus the China National Seed Corporation is responsible to the
Department of Agriculture (DOA) of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Provincial Seed
Companies (PSCs) are responsible to the provincial Departments of Agriculture, and
similarly at prefecture, municipal and county levels.
1.15 The lines of command and responsibility for the state farms vary somewhat from
province to province, but at the national level, the Bureau of State Farms within MOA
has overall responsibility. An organogram indicating the organizational structure of the
seed industry and its position within MOA is provided in Figure 1.
Regulatory Agencies And Institutions
1.16 MOA has four main agencies concemed directly with seed regulations and policy,
as follows:



- 6 -
(a)   DOA Seed Division (SD): This unit is responsible for drafting seed laws,
regulations, plans and policies and for supervising seed management.
(h)   National Agricultural Technical Extension Service Center (NATESC):
The National Seed Administration Station and the Plant Protection Station
became part of a new National Agricultural Technical Extension Service
Center (NATESC). Seed activities are grouped into three divisions within
the center-the Seed Industry Management Division, the Seed Testing
Division (which contains the National Seed Testing Center) and the Variety
Trial and Seed Multiplication Division. These Divisions are responsible for
the implementation of seed extension and national seed security, application
of new technologies and methods of seed production and seed processing,
control and regulation of the seed industry and seed quality, and vocational
training. The provincial, prefectural and county seed administration stations,
however, have not been reorganized as part of their respective extension
services.
(c)   National Crop Variety Examination and Approval Committee Office
(NCVEACO):  This unit is responsible for coordinating, supervising,
examining and registering new varieties at the national level. Registration of
new crop varieties at the provincial level is carried out by the provincial
CVEACO.
(d)   Adwinistration of Animal and Plant Quarantine Services (AAPQS):
This is anothler MOA executing unit that is responsible for quarantine in the
international exchange of plants and animals.
1.17  Ir. addition, the National Patent Office through the patent law is responsible for
the prot'ction of new plant varieties by pa.enting their breeding methodologies.
Apvlications for patent are coordinated by the Patent Division of the MOA Department of
Science, Technology and Quality Standardization in Beijing.
Seed Companies
1.18 China National Seed Corporation (CNSC). CNSC was incorporated into MOA
in 1982 with responsibility for planning, coordinating and distributing domestic seed
production and the import and export of all seed. CNSC is an integrated company,
involved in research, production and trade with more than 40 subsidiaries and joint
ventures. The main seeds produced by these in eight provinces are: vegetables (200 tons
in 1993), melon, hybrid maize (150,000 tons) and rice (2,000 tons), cotton, jute, oilseeds,
herbs and flowers. It owns 46 retail outlets in China and has trading arrangements with
more than 80 clients in 40 countries worldwide. In 1992, under the market reform
program, CNSC became an autonomous seed trading company. It no longer has
responsibility for administrative planning of domestic seed production, nor does it have a
monopoly on exports and imports. It remains involved in seed policy-making at the
national level and in the coordination of the seed trade among the provinces.



1.19  Provincial Seed Companies (PSCs). In general the PSCs are responsible for
preparing annual provincial seed development prograns and plans, which provide
guidance for lower-level seed companies. Until recently they were also exclusively able
to undertake interprovincial trade in seeds. The PSCs concentrate on the multiplication
of breeder seed obtained from research academies or universities. Breeding material,
previously supplied free, is now paid for either by outright purchase or by the payment of
royalties. Some PSCs have established joint ventures with overseas companies to
produce special high-value seeds, usually horticultural crops for export.
1.20 Prefectural/Municipal Seed Companies (MSCs). The main responsibility of
the MSCs is to produce foundation seed from the breeder seed supplied by the PSCs.
Most MSCs also produce breeder seed, production or certified seed, and many specialize
in producing seed of particular crops. Seed is produced on production bases selected and
supervised by the MSCs. A considerable number of MSCs have processing plants to
clean, grade and pack seeds.
1.21   County Seed Companies (CSCs). These are the backbone of the Chinese seed
industry, being responsible for the production of certified seed from foundation seed
supplied by the MSCs. Commercial seed is actually produced by farmers under contract
to Village Committees, which are usually organized into production bases by
agrotechnical extension stations (ATES). Contracts detail the price to be paid for the
seed, the quantity to be supplied, the procurement time and penalties for failure to meet
requirements. CSCs are responsible for ensuring the supply of inputs (foundation seed,
maternal and paternal parent seed for hybrids, fertilizer and pesticides). Inputs are
generally supplied on credit, but at full cost. However in some cases such as fertilizer for
hybrid rice seed, the price is subsidized. The CSCs provide technical advice to growers
and are responsible for monitoring the seed crop for certification purposes. CSCs
undertake seed processing and testing according to the standards and quality of their
facilities.
1.22  State Farm Seed Companies. State farm seed companies are usually subfarms
or teams within the administration of state farms, most lacking independent financial
accounts. Normally, these seed producers have no official relationship with seed
companies under the agiicultural system. However, they also sell their surplus seed in
nearby farm markets. Specialty seed may be supplied to a much wider area.
1.23  Informal Seed Sector. It is reported that about 20-25 percent of the seeds
produced in China for self-pollinating crops of conventional varieties are obtained from
seed companies/extension stations while the rest (75-80 percent) are seeds saved by
farmers for planting the next crop. Except for local specialty crops, there appears to be
virtually no direct marketing of seeds by farmers-production is either strictly for own
use or umder contractuai arrangements with the seed companies.
1.24  Private Seed Sector. Private seed companies do not really exist at present. A
few county seed companies and research institutes have spun off snall subsidiaries that



- 8 -
produce seed of high value crops such as hybrid grain seeds, vegetables and horticulture
crops and have an ownership structure that includes some private parties, mostly through
worker sharehiolding. Almost all have other activities in addition to producing and
marketing seeds, and most are profitable. The number and size of these companies will
probably increase in the future due to continuing increase in the demand for vegetables
and thus vegetable seeds. The area under vegetable production is now estimated at 4.5
million ha or 3 percent of the area under crops, requiring about 1.2 million tons of
vegetable seed each year.
E. SEED TECHNOLOGY AND PERFORMANCE
1.25   Rice.  In the 1970s, the Chinese Government searched for solutions to the
prevailing food grain shortages that had resulted from increasing population and stagnant
grain yield. Rice, wheat and corn were chosen for research and development due to their
potential for increased yields. The first hybrid rice was identified in 1974, and by 1975,
hybrid rice was ready to be released for commercial production. The parent lines were
from the best selected local varieties and imported ones from the International Rice
Research Institute (IRRI) and Thailand. Initially, the average seed yield of hybrid rice
seed farms was low (0.4 tiha) but by 1991 the average yield of seed was 2.25 t/ha. In
some areas, it has reached 4-5 t/ha.' The great improvement in hybrid rice seed
production was due to the development of efficient seed production methods, improved
parent lines and a good production system. The Government has used its information
systems to create awareness of the existence and benefits of hybrid seed among farmers.
Responsibility was assigned to one or more officials at each level to monitor the progress
of adoption of hybrid rice, which was promoted by training and extension.
Demonstration plots were emphasized.
1.26  The farm yield of hybrid rice increased from 4.2 t/ha in 1976 to 5.5 t/ha in 1991.
The area under hybrid rice increased from 0.1 million ha in 1976 to 15.4 million ha in
1991, representing 45 percent of the total rice production area. The government plans to
increase the area under hybrid rice by another 10 percent by the year 2000 and to increase
the farm yield to 6-7.5 tlha. To achieve this high yield, China will need new germplasm
from international sources.
1.27 Wheat is the second major grain crop after rice, occupying about 29 million ha
per year with a total output of 99 million tons in 1994. Spring wheat, accounting for 17
percent of the total area, is planted in March-April and harvested in July and is largely a
single crop. ][t is grown in the north of China in Heilongjiang, Jilin, Liaoning, Inner
Mongolia, Gansu, Xinjiang and other provinces. Winter wheat, accounting for 83 percent
of the sown wheat area, is planted in late September and harvested in mid-June.
Average seed yields are always lower than the grain yields of farns using that seed, inter alia, due to the need to
reject much unpure seed production.



-9-
Depending on the availability of irrigation water, double cropping of wheat followed by
com, millet, beans and other cash crops is practiced. Production of winter wheat is
concentrated in 5 zones: North China, Upper Yellow River, Yangtze River, Southwest,
and South Chine.
1.28  Wheat yields increased moderately, from 2.8 t/ha in 1984 to 3.4 t/ha in 1994,
because of improved varieties of seed, which are early maturing and have better
resistance to disease, drought and cold. For example, cold resistant varieties (Fengkang
and CA837) have marginally improved yields in the northern region (21 percent over the
last 10-year period). But the development of still better varieties through research and
development should be a priority because wheat imports have been increasing due to
increases in domestic demand and lagging production.
1.29 Corn is the third main grain of China, after rice and wheat. In 1994, the corn
sown area was 21 million hectares (18.7 percent of the country's grain sown area), and
total corn production was 99 million tons, accounting for 22.3 percent of the country's
total grain production of 445 million tons. Most of the production is located in the north
and northeast regions, which has 70 percent of the sown area and 85 percent of total
production. The country's average corn yield is 4.7 t/ha, 15 percent higher than the
average grain yield of 4.1 t/ha
1.30 The increase in China's corn production has mainly been due to improved hybrid
varieties, such as Dan Yu and Yie Tan, which have "compact" seed. The development of
hybrid corn began in the 1950s. Double cross was introduced in the 1960s and single
cross in the 1970s. The development and popularization of compact hybrid corn seed
alone resulted in a yield increment of 1.5 t/ha. In 1965, hybrid com accounted for about
10 percent of the com sown area, and the average yield was 1 tlha. The area sown to
hybrid corn progressively expanded to 79 percent by 1975 and 90 percent by 1994, and
the corn yield increased to 3.6 t/ha in 1975 and 4.7 ttha in 1994. The average yield
differs significantly by region, ranging from 5.3 t/ha in the northem region (Jilin,
Liaoning and Heilongjiang) to 3 t/ha in the southem region (Sichuan, Yunnan and
Guizhou). Corn breeders believe that average yields could be increased to 6.5 t/ha, if
they could get arctcss to improved breeding materials. The aim is to produce seeds with
high but stable yield and disease and pest tolerance. Better water supplies and inputs
would aiso contribute to increased production.



- 10-
2. SEED SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
A. HISTORICAL BACKGROUND
2.1   After the establishment of the People's Republic, food production was the
principal concern of the Chinese Government and seed development was given priority.
In 1949 the Government established a Seed Division within the Ministry of Food to plan
and manage tho supply of seed in the country. The separate Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) was given the responsibility for variety evaluation and recommendation, and the
results were transferred to the Food Ministry for implementation. In 1958, due to the lack
of seed technicians in the Food Ministry, all responsibilities for seed, encompassing
administrative, techlical and business functions, were transferred to MOA.
2.2  In 1978, the China National Seed Corporation (CNSC) was set up to plan,
coordinate and distribute domestic seed and handle overseas dealings. It was also known
as the National Seed Bureau. Seed stations, which had the combined responsibilities of
seed administrations and seed companies, were also set up. In 1980, the State Council
issued a decree to separate the administrative functions of the CNSC from its business
activities. The separation was achieved in 1982, resulting in the establishment of the
MOA Seed Division (SD) and the National Seed Administration Station (NSAS). In
1991 the National Crop Variety Examination and Approval Committee Office
(NCVEACO) was formed to be responsible for new variety evaluation.
2.3   The development of the Chinese seed industry can be broadly divided into three
phases: (a) the period 1950-1977 when all seed sector activities were service oriented
and profit was not to be mentioned; (b) the period 1978-1989, when seed companies were
established, allowed to make minimal profits, and encouraged to produce seeds in which
they had a cornparative advantage; and (c) the period 1990-present, which marks the
beginning of seed market liberalization. Seed market liberalization started with removal
of CNSC monopoly power, the freeing up of the market for vegetable seed, the relaxation
of seed prices and the toleration of seed trade across political boundaries and
intemationally.
B. CONSTRAINTS
2.4   Policy, :regulatory, technical and financial factors present major inhibitions to the
growth in the seed sector, as follows.
Policy and Regulatory Constraints
2.5   The Secd Administration Regulations of May 1989 contain administrative policy
guidelines forrmulated to strengthen the development of seed activities by insuring



..ppropriate seed quality standards and safeguarding the rights and interests of seed
breeders, distributors and users in a centrally planned economy. The regulations contain
policies on germplasm management, plant variety registration, strategic seed reserve
management and quarantine. Government considers they are inadequate for supporting
the new policy to develop a commercial seed sector. In particular, they do not deal with
issues of domestic trade across political boundaries, truth in labeling, distribution, breeder
rights, farmers rights, liability and compensation, and research institutions.
2.6   Plant Breeder Rights. At present, China has no legislation to protect intellectual
property rights in plant cultivars. Without such protection, it is currently very difficult
for breeders to sustain themselves financially in the current climate of diminishing
government subsidies for new cultivar development. The 1992 patent law provides some
measure of protection for hybrid seed. This law protects the breeding methods and
techniques used to produce new cultivars, but not the cultivars thernselves. In the case of
hybrid seed, users must return to the seed supplier for each growing season, and where
the availability of parent lines is tightly controlled, the patentability of the breeding
process affords protection to the cultivar. For open pollinated species such as wheat,
however, it is generally not possible for the breeder to gain adequate financial
remuneration after the initial release of seed, since farmers may produce seed for their
own use without consideration of ownership.
2.7   The lack of plant cultivar protection has discouraged foreign breeders from
introducing new germplasm from outside China. It is impossible to quantify the lost
opportunity represented by lack of access to the latest germplasm, but it has been
estimated by scientists ftom a multinational seed company that yields of strategically
important crops such as corn could be increased by as much as 15 percent if new
germplasm is introduced from outside China.
2.8   Seed Testing. The testing of seed for the physical attributes of germination,
purity and moisture content is a pivotal procedure in the management of seed quality.
MOA has acknowledged the requirement for seed testing within its regulatory framework
through promulgation of national seed standards and the establishment of a national seed
testing laboratory and associated laboratories at provincial and lower levels. In practice,
however, most of the seed laboratories are inadequately equipped and staff poorly trained.
The rules and procedures utilized by laboratories are outdated and do not reflect modem
knowledge in the area of seed science. The Bank-assisted Agricultural Support Services
Project (ASSP, Cr. 2462-CHA) (para. 2.31) is currently addressing some of these
deficiencies, and the present project would do considerably more.
2.9   Since 1991, China has been a member of the International Seed Testing
Association (ISTA), the primary international organization concerned with the
development and promulgation of seed testing methods. China's membership has been
through the Bureau of Animal Husbandry with the Forage Seed Laboratory of Beijing
Agricultural University being the sole accredited member laboratory. The National Seed
Testing Laboratory is currently not a member of ISTA.



- 12 -
2.10   Seed Certification. Most countries have developed programs for the certification
of the genetic integrity of plant cultivars within their seed regulatory framework. These
programs associated with the production of seed, essentially maintain an evidentiary trail
on the seed of cultivars as it is multiplied through successive generations. They are an
assurance to seed users that the cultivar stated on a label is true to type. At present China
does not have a reguilated seed certification scheme, as cultivar assurance has been the
responsibility of government operated seed companies, and this process has operated
satisfactorily. As the seed industry becomes more deregulated in the future, particularly
if seed companies cease to be state-owned enterprises, it may be necessary to have a
v oluntary seed certification scheme available in the public interest. However, this is not
Seen as an immediate necessity.
2.11   Most, if not all seed exported from China at present is of vegetable species, for
which seed certification is not required internationally. Should seed of other species, e.g.,
corn, be exported, China may need to conform to the OECD Seed Scheme for the
certification of seed in international trade, since importing countries usually require
internationally acceptable certification procedures. While possibly useful in the future,
the development of seed certification programs for either internal or external markets is
not seen as a current constraint on the development of the seed sector.
2.12 Crop V7ariety Examination, Evaluation, Approval and Registration. China
has had a formal system for the examination, evaluation, release and registration of crop
varieties for more than 30 years, now under the authority of Articles 12 and 13 of the
1989 Seed Regulations. All crop varieties developed in China or imported have to be
examined, evaluated, approved and registered before the seeds or vegetative propagules
can be multiplied and marketed to farmers. This system has the hierarchical structure of
most institutionls in the agricultural sector: NCVEACO coordinates and supervises the
examination and approval of new crop varieties at the national level with assistance of 14
professional crop-group subcommittees and the Provincial Crop Variety Evaluation and
Approval Corrumittees have responsibility for the examination and approval of crop
varieties at the provincial level also typically with the assistance of 14 provincial expert
subcommittees.
2.13   Under this two-tier examination, evaluation and approval system, the application
for release and approval of a new crop variety is usually made at the provincial level with
testing/examination in provincial trials for one year before it is entered into national
trials. A minimum of two years in provincial regional trials (PRT) for distinctness,
uniformity and stability and two years in provincial field production trials (PFPT) for
crop value and p:oductivity are generally required before a decision is made on provincial
relea:e ind the same for national approval, i.e., two years national regional trials (NRT)
and two years national field production trials (NFPT). Since the PFPT and the NRT
ornmence after the first PRT, the time to approval and registration of new and/or
imported crop varieties is three to four years at the provincial level and four to six years
at the national level. Varieties approved and registered for national usage carry a GS
prefix. Variety names are assigned by the NCVEACO.



- 13 -
2.14  Although they are very formal and very conservative, the crop variety
examination, evaluation and registration system and requirements have not been viewed
as a significant constraint on either crop productivity or seed industry development until
rather recently. The present view, however, is that with increasing emphasis on the
adoption of advanced technologies to increase crop productivity coinciding with the
commercialization of the seed industry, the present system will now be a significant
impediment to increased agricultural productivity unless it is substantially reformed and
liberalized. An example cited is an important and much needed IRRI rice variety that
took four years for registration. Reforms especially needed include shortening of the
period for approval and registration, relaxation of cropping area restrictions and
permission for breeders to name varieties. Additionally, NCVEACO is ill-equipped to
carry out its assigned role. Among other things, it needs: (a) a modem computerized
information system to record, analyze and store the voluminous data on provincially and
nationally registered varieties, so that crop variety catalogs and databases can be
efficiently assembled, and (b) an adequate temperature- and humidity-controlled seed
store to maintain samples of seeds under trial prior to their being stored in perpetuity with
the National Institute of Germplasm Resources.
2.15   Prices and Trade. Until 1992, procurement and selling prices of improved seeds
were decided by provincial seed corporations within a price range suggested by the
provincial DOA and the provincial price bureau, which in turn was based on prices
established for commodiity grains. In principle, the seed prices were set at 10-15 percent
more than the prevailing free market grain price. Thus, seed prices did not reflect the
costs actually involved in producing and marketing seeds. A second level of controls
affecting seed prices comes from government limitation of the profits that state
enterprises can make from seed operations. Since 1992, there has been considerable
liberalization of seed prices. In many cases seed prices are now determined by the
market. For instance, hybrid corn seed is usually now about three times the commercial
corn price, and hybrid rice six times. However, in some provinces the prices of these
seeds are still constrained to be only 10-15 percent above the commercial price.
2.16   Until recently trade was limited to within a seed company's jurisdiction, typically
a county, but in the case of a provincial seed company, the province. Interprovincial and
even inter-county trade was small and occurred mostly under specific government
instructions. Official regulations also restricted trading and marketing of seed to seed
companies. It llow appears that there are no longer any enforced controls on trade
between provinces. 1Nevertheless, a number of restrictions remain, except in times of
shortage: (a) only designated companies, invariably state or provincial companies, can
distribute hybrid seeds for the rmain crops, (b) most provinces insist that seed produced in
anc-her province is sold only through the importing province's provincial seed company,
(c) interprovincial imports are frequently subject to a levy of up to 10 percent ad valorem,
(d) there are a large number of permits required to establish a seed company, and
(e) the present system of certification and seed control discourages competition. Freedom
to enter or exit the market, or a sector of a market, is essential, if farmers are to be given



- 14 -
the choice of ivhere to purchase their seeds. This is being addressed under the new seed
law (para. 2.22).
2.17   State-0)v ;aed Enterprises.  A major constraint for the development of a
comr.e_ciaii.cd seed sector is the fact that all seed producers are state owned enterprises
(SOEs) with all the ramifications that this entails. SOEs typically receive their orders
From the state system and, as government services, do not compete with each other. The
seed companies are now in an ambiguous situation. On the one hand, they are expected
to continue to play a social role by providing farmers with quality seed at set, minimum
prices; on the other, they are now expected to become commercial. In general, they are
still more concerned with the volume of output to meet state requirements than with
profit generation and sustainable investment. As a further aspect of their status as SOEs,
they remain obliged to provide housing, health, education and pension services for staffs
that are usually much larger than actual labor need.
Technical Cornstraints
2.18   There are two major technical constraints for the development of a modern
commercialized seed industry. Once recognized, they can only be addressed by major
investment. The first technical constraint is the lack of sufficiently developed seed
production bases. Quality seed production has to be done in seed production bases to
achieve proper isolation, uniform crop management and efficient operation.
Unfortunately, because farms in China are small (averaging 0.1 ha/capita), organizing
efficient production bases composed of individual farmers is difficult.  Thus, seed
companies desiring to enter the market for quality seed will typically plan to develop
production bases on tracts that they manage. In this regard, state farms, with readily
available plots, will have an advantage. In all cases, the development of quality
production bases will require significant investment and upgraded production technology.
2.19  The lack of seed testing laboratoiies equipped with full-time seed testing
personnel and seed testing equipment is another major technical constraint to improved
seed quality. A shortage of modern, efficient processing equipment and facilities and a
sLonage of manpower trained in modern seed production regulation and control
procedures is a second major technical constraint to seed quality.  Together these
deficiencies make it very difficult for most seed companies to produce and market seed of
good physical and genetic quality. The experience of companies that have been re-
equipped with modem facilities demonstrates the benefits to be obtained from the use of
efficient processing facilities (threshers, driers, cleaners, graders, delinters, chemical
applicators, and packaging equipment etc.). A prerequisite for the modernization of the
industry is therefore a major program of investment in new machinery and the related
training of opeirating staff.
Finarcial Constraints
2.20  Most seed enterprises appear to be affected by a shortage of working capital for
the operation of production bases (i.e. annual purchase of inputs for supply to farmer-



- 15-
p.-oducers) and for the purchase of raw seed. An analysis of the typical cost structure of a
provincial seed companay in 1994 indicates that during peak periods purchasing of raw
seed represents some 80 percent of the capital requirements of a seed company.
2.21   Most enterprises also appear to find it difficult to raise adequate amounts of
investment capital for the purchase of new equipment, especially for foreign exchange for
imported machinery, and for the improvement of production bases (e.g., irrigation and
drainage facilities, and access roads). At the most basic level, the firms' financial
difficulties are a reflection of the limited ability they have to generate and retain surplus
revenue over and above immediate financial needs. The margin between the sale price of
processed seed and the procurement price paid to farmers is insufficient to cover
processing costs in fill, let alone generate sufficient profit to finance reinvestment.
Analysis of seed company proposals submitted for inclusion under this project indicated
that only about one third were viable on the basis of 1994 selling prices. The long term
viability of a commercial seed industry will depend on improved access to short and long
termn capital, rationalization of the industry leading to fewer but more competitive
enterprises, and fiL-'her liberalization of prices (para. 2.15) to allow adequate profit
mar gin-.
C. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
Poliky and Regulatory Framework
2.22   Seed Policy. China's overall seed policy aims to increase the use of improved
agricuitLiral and horticultural seeds in order to increase the country's food and fiber
production. Policks to promote seed-sector commercialization include shifting from an
administrative hierarchy of seed companies (provincial, prefecture and county) to a
competitive structure and to support efficient companies.
2.23   To achieve this goal the following seed sectoral objectives are under consideration
by the government for the year 2000:
(a)    Law drafting. To prepare and enact "the Seed Law of China" and "New
Plant Variety Protection Regulations" and detailed implementing particulars,
including participation in the Intemational Union for the Protection of New
Varieties of Plants (UPOV) Convention;
(b)   Separation of the administrative and business functions of existing
administrative seed companies. To create an independent official seed
administration and monitoring system to regulate the seed industry and to
promote the establishment of modem seed corporations;
(z)    Replacement of cereal varieties. To replace present varieties of main
cereals such as rice, wheat and corn with new varieties to firther increase
yield by 10 percent;



- 16 -
(d)   Increase in the business volume of state-owned companies. To increase
the business volume of state-owned companies from 3.5 mil tons to 5.0 mil
tons; and
(e)   Improvement in seed quality. To achieve at least the usage of national
class 2 seeds in all field crops.
2.24   Seed Legislation. Certain areas of seed law are to be amplified and strengthened,
while other aspects of the seed sector are to be deregulated. The overall effect will be to
facilitate comrnercial trade on the one hand and tighten official control of seed quality on
the other. The changes proposed by Government would have the effect of:
(a)    Simplifying the procedures for examination and approval of varieties for
cultivation and use and upgrading of the registration system;
(b)   Providing for intellectual property protection for plant cultivars;
(c)    Strengthening official inspection as a quality monitoring tool of the
government to ensure user protection;
(d)   Ending the current seed production monopoly and strengthening of seed
production contract between seed companies and farmers; and
(z)    Strengthening the requirement of marketers to label and package seeds in
accordance with prescribed standards.
2.25   Crop 'Variety Examination, Evaluation, Approval and Registration. Reforms
under consideration would aim at: (a) speeding up procedures at the provincial level with
automatic registration of provincially approved varieties in the National Registry;
(b) reducing t!.e minimum time required for the introduction of new varieties of strategic
crops to two years; (c) eliminating any distinction in terms of procedures or requirements
for domestic or imported varieties; (d) reducing the time required for most vegetable
crops, omamentals and other nonstrategic crops to a maximum of one year for
observation trials; and (e) permitting breeders of new varieties to name them.
2.26  Plant Breeder Rights. In September 1994, a series of seminars were organized
in China in ccnjunction with the International Union for the Protection of New Varieties
of Plants (UPOV) to discuss the legislative framework of intellectual property protection
for plants in the international context. In April 1995, a committee with members from
MOA, the Miinistry of Forestry and the Patent Bureau began drafting legislation for plant
breeder rights protection. The text of an initial draft was reviewed by an official from
UPOV in October 1995 to ensure conformity with the 1978 Act.
2.27  Seed Testing. The former National Seed Administration Station completed a
translation of the latest International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) rules and
procedures into (Chinese in 1994 as a prelude to strengthening seed quality testing.



- 17 -
Manuals containing these rules and procedures were printed in early 1995 and officially
released on August 18, 1995 and will be widely distributed to seed companies and official
seee quality control laboratories. The NATESC laboratory is anticipating the completion
of new laboratory facilities in 1996 under the ASSP, after which time it will be in a
position to join ISTA.
2.28  Seed Production. 'The Government plans to extend seed production authorization
to allow production outside the breeding location, to allow foreign seed companies to
produce in China and to allow for contract seed multiplication for re-export. In times of
high seed denrand, contracts for seed production have often been broken by farmers,
causing trade problems for seed companies. The new seed law would attempt to address
this issue.
2.29  Seed Marketing. Currently, only seed companies are allowed to market seed
(except for farmer-to-farmer trade which is allowed). The Government proposes revision
that would allow any appropriately qualified body to market seed. A license will still be
required. The requirements for labeling and packaging of seed will be strengthened with
greater adherence to truthful labeling principles. Consumer information on labels would
be required. These provisions are directed at increasing the responsibility of the seed
marketing sector for product quality.
D. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREvIOus BANK GROUP PROJECTS
2.30 The Seeds Project (Cr. 1577-CHA), which was completed in 1990, provided
modern seed processing equipment and trained staff in sced processing, testing and
certification at 18 seed centers. The project was successful in establishing modem
processing facilities and expanding the capacity of some 80 seed production bases. The
project was less successful in introducing modern methods of seed quality assurance and
control procedures. The Project Management Office (PMO) established under the project
to supervise project implementation across 12 provinces and 2 autonomous regions was
very effective. The most important lessons were in the area of marketing and pricing as
follows:
(a)   Greater attention should have been given to estimating market demand for
the project's seed output. Estimates for conventional, self-pollinated grain
and oil seeds were too optimistic, resulting in substantial quantities of
unsold seed, which were disposed of as grain or feed. The shortfall in
demand occurred in part because, with increased freedom of action, farmers
used more of their own rather than purchased seed, and additionally because
of shifts in cropping patterns away from grain and oil seed crops.
(b)   The project should have provided for adequate processing margins based on
a full analysis of costs. The controlled seed prices anticipated by the project
were set at levels that in actual operation did not allow seed companies to
cover costs. Production of quality seed, made possible by the superior
equipment provided under the project, required among other things, a costly



- 18-
5-15 percent seed reject rate. Controlled prices for quality seed needed to be
set higher; or prices should have been liberalized.
2.31 The Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP-Cr. 2462-CHA), which
became effective in 1993, assists in upgrading the facilities of 10 provincial, 14
prefecture and 41 county seed companies, in strengthening the plant quarantine system
ani in establishing a seed quality control system that is independent of seed companies.
It is significant that t.e Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) current policy is that in the
future all provinces will be expected to establish external quality control systems that are
independent of szed companies.  It also contains a small pilot program  of
cor1;mercialization of three seed companies. A recent review of these model seed
companies revealed that they have become financially independent entities (although the
ownership of capital assets has yet to be resolved within the framework of State owned
enterprises) and have restructured their operations to take advantage of commercial
opportunities. The companies are doing very well. In all three cases, the Government
has provided budgetary financing for the seed quality control agencies.
2.32  Under the government policy at the time the ASSP was initiated, both seed
company management and regulation operated within a strict hierarchical structure with
the national agencies determining policy and the provinces conducting operations. The
system clearly did not allow for independent monitoring of the quality of the seed
reaching the market and therefore was an unsatisfactory procedure. Under the ASSP, the
Government agreed to institute policies requiring the separation of official seed quality
control from the commercial activities of the seed companies by transferring staff and
budget from the seed company structure to government regulatory agencies at provincial,
prefectural and county level in the target provinces. Financing was made available
through the Project to equip these regulatory agencies with vehicles and laboratory
equipment to operate an efficient and effective monitoring system.
2.33  Full implementation of the ASSP has not yet been completed and a recent review
revealed certain lessons learned in the management and implementation of the project
that will need to be applied in the proposed project as follows: (a) training delay can
affect project progress; and (b) delay in procurement of laboratory equipment can
severely curtail quality control activities and delay the separation of quality control from
production.
2.34 The Henan ADP (Cr. 2242-CHA), which became effective in August 23, 1991,
supported the construction of 20 seed processing centers to produce, process and market
good quality wheat, rice, corn and soybean seeds to meet existing and additional demand
in the project area. The centers are now in operation. Lessons learned from this project
have been used in designing this project, as follows: (a) the processing plants should be
close to the production base; (b) for efficient operation and convenient relocation, the
processing plants should be prefabricated; (c) the quality of seed stores is important in
keeping seeds in good condition; (d) adequate equipment technical specifications are
essential (to ensure that the equipment will incorporate new technology and that a service



-19-
contract, a supply of spare parts, installation and training of operators are included in the
bid package); and (e) processing lines should be procured as a single procurement
package from a single supplier to ensure that the responsibility for satisfactory operation
remains with o-.e company.
2.35  The Seed Development Project (SDP) (Ln. 3891-UA) in Ukraine, effective in
1995, also incorporates some relevant lessons learned in other Bank Group projects in,
among others, Indonesia, India and Pakistan. It aims to improve agricultural productivity
through increasing the supply of high-quality seeds for corn, sugar beets and sunflowers.
It would support the development of private seed production enterprises, improve the
regulatory framework and support germplasm maintenance and improvement. Lessons
reflected in this project are: (a) the ability of seed companies to operate independently is
crucial to private seed sector development; (b) price and trade liberalization are essential
to plomote seed trade and international cooperation; (c) technical assistance is required
for introdu_ing new management systems and preparing operating plans; (d) maintenance
and improvement of germplasm benefit from a research and development program and
from income generation from licensing of new varieties. These lessons have been taken
into consideration while preparing the proposed project.
E. RATIONALE FOR BANK GROUP INVOLVEMENT
2.36  The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in June 1995
commits the Bank Group to assisting China to implement market-oriented reforms,
particularly the reform and restructuring of state enterprises. The proposed project would
support that strategy and enterprise restructuring by transferring technical and managerial
know-how to seed enterprises, which would also benefit from increased managerial and
fmancial autonomy. Involvement of the Bank Group in the project would, in addition,
allow it to contribute its experience to key aspects of the modemization and
commercialization- of the seed sector. Its experience in technology transfer would be a
particularly valuable contribution in the areas of advanced seed varieties, new seed
development techniques, good research management, efficient seed certification, modem
processing technology, effective quality control and appropriate effluent treatment. The
Bank Group's experience in commercialization in many countries in the areas of
enterprise govemance, market liberalization, private sector development, regulatory
development, reform sequencing, legal restructuring, financial development, and efficient
business practice would assist in the implementation of the project. Indeed, project
preparation itself has already assisted project staff and policy-makers in leaming about
development of commercial seed industries of other countries through seminars and a
study tour. It also facilitated the opening of links with multinational seed enterprises,
which may lead to possible joint ventures.
F. DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS
2.37  Modernization of the seed sector and the development of a commercial focus will
be ineffective without policy reform at all levels of government. The central government



- 20 -
is committecl to developing a modem seed sector and has already begun to introduce a
number of policy reforms with respect to the liberalization of seed prices and the
separation of quality control from seed production. These are encouraging developments,
which began with the implementation of the ASSP, and need to be further developed and
consolidated. This proposed project would provide support for the separation of seed
quality management systems in four provinces (Guizhou, Shandong, Shanxi and
Zhejiang) not supported under the ASSP. This is essential if seed quality control is to be
improved in China. The project in addition would support a number of other policy
reformrs, in particular the liberalization of trade, the revision of the seed laws, the
development and implementation of plant breeders rights protection, the use of modem
ii'ternational standards for seed testing, the revision of the crop varietal evaluation and
registration system, and the development of a voluntary system of seed certification for
use in iaitemational trade in seed. All of these developments are under active review by
the authorities in China.
2.3R   China s seed sector is in a transitional stage. As described in para. 2.17, seed
compariaes are still state owned enterprises (SOEs). The government is seriously
discussing overall state enterprise reform and such general reforms will affect seed
enterprises. State-owned seed enterprises are also subject to their own regime of controls
and guidance. Seed pricing and trade are still not fully liberalized for certain strategic
crops, and only vegetable and horticulture seeds are fully liberalized. Under these
circumstances, profitable seed enterprises have been able to develop a mix of activities,
augmenting production of less profitable conventional grain seeds with production of
more profitable hybrid grain seeds and those sold in liberalized vegetable and horticulture
markets. Since it is likely that the seed sector will still not be fully liberalized within the
next three years, the overall rationale for the project is therefore the development of the
foundations of a commercial seed industry by modernizing those forward looking seed
enterprises that could subsequently become the leading companies in a national seed
industry, after SOE reforms and fuller liberalization of prices and trade in the seed
industry have taken effect.
2.39   Stated in other terms, the project aims to commercialize the seed sector, not
necessarily to privatize it. Commercialization under the project would increase efficiency
by improving management and creating incentives for seed enterprises to behave like
seed enterprises in other countries. All companies would be required to provide an
opening balance sheet with all items, including transferred equity valued according to the
1993 accounting standards.
2.40   The project would not directly address the social responsibilities of the seed
companies.  Project companies would not provide housing, but rather compensate
workers with. higher salaries. Companies would provide for pensions and health
insurance rather than direct provision.
2.41   Seed enterprises will evolve within the framework of a facilitative national seed
sector policy. But without a program of support to evolving firms, this evolution could



- 21 -
be too slow to generate an efficient seed industry in a reasonable time frame or even to
sustain the momentum of commercialization. What is needed is a nucleus group of
active, technolugically adept, competitive seed companies. At preparation, almost 100
seed enterprises were interested in joining the project. Bank Group missions established
technical, financial and business criteria to evaluate their proposed investments, business
and marketing plans and selected 31 seed enterprises and one seed machinery firm.
These seed enterprises are located in Fujian, Gansu, Guangxi, Guizhou, Henan, Hubei,
Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Shandong, Shanxi, Sichuan and Zhejiang. The seed machinery
firm is located in Shanghai. The selection criteria were as follows:
(a)   Technical: The proposals for the production, processing, storage and
marketing of seeds are technically feasible.  Production would meet
national quality specifications (or international specifications where
exports were proposed).
(b)   Business Risk: The proposal adequately addresses the commercial and
business risks associated with creating or expanding production, processing
and marketing operations. The enterprise would have more than one
product line and would not be reliant on untried or new products or
processes.
(c)   Funding Adequacy: The firn would provide at least 20 percent of their
oNvn equity and would have government guarantees for the repayment of the
project loan, counterpart funding and loans for working capital.
(d)   Investment Analysis: The investment and production plan would produce
sufficient financial rate of return to support the loan repayments, interest on
the loans, and dividends to shareholders, in addition to providing funds for
investnent in long tern growth, even at 80 percent production capacity or
with variation of 10 percent in production costs and selling prices.
Assurances werc obtained that subloans would be made for subprojects that are
determined, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank Group, to be technically
feasible and economically, financially and commercially viable.
2.42  In addition, eligibility criteria were established for provinces to be included in the
project so as to ensure successful implementation of the project at the provincial level.
These criteria were agreed during negotiations as follows:
(a)    Separation of extemal quality control from the seed companies, and the
provincial government guarantee of budgetary support for the external
quality control agencies after its separation (para. 3.7).
(b)   Acceptance of at least one seed company for inclusion in the project.
(c)   Execution of project implementation agreements (PIAs) with MOF and
MOA (para. 4.5).



- 22 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   The main objective of the project is to assist the Government in developing a
viable commercial seed sector, which can not only produce high quality seeds in
sufficient quantity and variety to satisfy farmer needs but also operates through efficient,
self-sustained commercial enterprises.
3.2   The project would assist in the commercialization of the seed sector by:
(a) helping the Government establish a seed policy and a regulatory framework that
would enhance the competitiveness of the seed sector and encourage international
cooperation, (b) supporting the modernization and rationalization of selected seed
companies, and (c) assisting in strengthening institutions so they can provide effective
service and technical support to the seed sector.
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.3   The project would have three major components as follows:
(a)   Policy and Regulatory Framework;
(b)   Commercialization of Selected Seed Companies; and
(c)   Institutional Strengthening.
C. DETAILED FEATURES
Policy and Regulatory Framework
3.4   This component is designed to:
(a)   Assist the Governmenit with assessment and, where needed, strengthening of
seed laws, regulations and administrative instructions in respect of the
official examination and approval of cultivars for use, authorization for seed
production and commercialization activities, labeling and packaging
standards and strengthening of seed inspection and quarantine provisions;
and
(b)   Assist the development and implementation of a suitable legal framnework
for protection of plant breeders rights legislation and the Government's
accession to the UPOV convention on intellectual property protection for
plants.



- 23 -
3.5   MOA is in the initial phase of strengthening national seed legislation and
operating regulations and implementation protocols.  The general thrust of new
legislation has been developed and the areas to be strengthened have been identified. It is
important for the effective operation of the project, which aims to facilitate
commercialization of the seed sector, that this process be expedited and that the new
legislation is both comprehensive and facilitative of international trade in seeds. The
project would provide a few person-months of technical assistance to assist the seed law
drafting committee in reviewing technical parameters and the draft seed laws. A study
tour would be provided for four persons for two weeks during the early part of project
implementation, to study application of seed laws and seed labeling as a quality control
mechanism in seed marketing.
3.6   The government intends to develop and implement a legal framework for the
protection of intellectual property rights for plant varieties. This legal protection is
vitally important for the acquisition of new varieties by seed companies and would
buttress the commercial viability of the seed marketing sector. In addition to providing
for plant variety protection within the country, the Government has indicated its desire to
accede to the 1978 Act of the UPOV Convention to facilitate international trade and
access to improved germplasm of crop species from abroad. The legal framework will
therefore need to be compatible with the provisions of the 1978 Act of UPOV as well as
having the appropriate operatioiial mechanisms for its effective operation in China. The
prcject would provide for an international legal expert, preferably from UPOV, to assist
the technical group in China to finalize the proposed framework. It would also provide
an additional study tour for four persons for two weeks to study application of plant
breeders' right registrations.
3.7   The Government's policy is to separate internal seed quality management by seed
companies from official seed quality control by regulatory agencies (para. 2.32). In 1995,
separation was carried out in eight provinces under the ASSP; namely Liaoning,
Shanghai, Hunan, Sichuan, Guangxi, Jiangsu and Shaanxi. The other ASSP provinces,
Heilongjiang and Hebei, are expected to achieve separation by the end of 1996 upon
completion of office and laboratory buildings and the procurement of laboratory
equipment, providing remaining budget problems are solved.  Since a complete
separation is essential to further reform under this project, a condition of eligibility to
participate in the project would be that the provinces have completed the above-
mentioned separation and established a suitable, financially sustainable system of seed
quality control.
Commercialization of Selected Seed Companies
3.8   The main objective of this component would be to prepare a core group of about
31 active, technically adept and competitive seed companies as a foundation for a viable
commercial seed sector-15 seed companies and 16 state farm companies.  These
enterprises would introduce new genetic materials, improve seed quality and strengthen
their institutional, marketing and sales networks by forming liaisons with Chinese and



- 24 -
foreign institutions, suppliers and marketing agencies. The project would encourage joint
venture agreements with foreign suppliers to upgrade the seed processing equipment and
technology of the companies. A detailed description of the selected companies and a
summarv of their business plans can be found in Annex 1.
3.9   These companies would, upon completion of agreed eligibility requirements for
participation in the project, receive subloans from their respective provinces to carry out
the following activities:
(a)   Improve Company Seed Production Bases. In order to develop their
production bases, a number of the seed companies need investment in land
development, irrigation facilities, drainage, power supply and rural roads.
The project would also finance farm machinery and equipment such as
tractors, trailers and seed drills.
(b)   Improved Variety of Seed. The project would assist about half of the
companies in improving their seed stock by producing or purchasing new
genetic materials or improved varieties of seed. The project would finance
the purchase of domestic and international license agreements for new
varieties, new parent lines from research institutes for multiplication,
construction of greenhouses, development of mother-tree gardens, and
equipment for dissue culture laboratories. It would also finance a small
quantity of production inputs such as fertilizer and pesticides.
(c)   Improve Storage and Processing Facilities. Incremental production under
the project would need to have proper storage facilities and improved
processing technologies in order to increase the quality of the seeds. A
number of companies proposed to enlarge their storage areas. A few
companies proposed cold storage facilities and seed silos. Most of the
companies requested finance for construction of processing facilities,
including processing equipment, drying floors and buildings to house
processing equipment, power and boiler equipment and seed storage areas.
The processing line equipment would include intake conveyors, intake
storage bins, driers, cleaners, graders, sorters, coating machines, weighers,
packing machines, associated switchgear and control panels. The equipment
would be supplied as integrated processing lines, the design of which would
depend on the seeds to be processed. Capacities would be either 1.5 t/hr,
3 t/hr or 5 t/hr.  Some cotton seed producers require acid delinting
machinery. The investment would also include design and commissioning
costs, spare parts and chemicals for seed treatment. Two person months of
technical assistance would be required to assist in preparing technical
specifications and bidding documents for these processing equipment.
(d)   Internal Quality Control. The project would finance construction of small
laboratories and supply them with equipment for quality control according



- 25 -
to International Seed Testing Authority standards. Depending on the size of
the company, the labs would be equipped and staffed to handle between
2,000 to 5,000 samples per year.  Staff would be trained in modem
inspection procedures.
(e)   Company Management. The project would provide technical assistance to
each company in the area of management. Several companies are in the
process of consolidation and are changing the structure of their management.
The project would provide technical assistance and training in the following
management areas: management of the enterprise, financial control, seed
handling technology, and plant operation and maintenance. Joint ventures
with foreign companies would be encouraged under the project as a means
to  improve  company  management.   The  project would  finance
refurbishment of office buildings and provide vehicles, computers, office
equipment and training equipment.
(f)    Marketing and Pricing.  The project emphasizes effective marketing.
Thus, the project would provide training to managers and staff in market
analysis, sales strategies and effective pricing. The project would encourage
the establishment of sales networks and alliances with other companies in
other provinces and countries and help seed companies develop the capacity
to gather market intelligence and collect and analyze data. The project
would finance construction of sales offices, office equipment, showrooms,
storage rooms and retail stores. To improve distribution of seed, the project
would finance the procurement of trucks and other vehicles.
(g)   Initial Seed Stock. Seed stock is a major part of the materials requirement
tor the seed companies. Seed companies generally purchase seeds after
harvesting, and process and store them for six months or more until the
subsequent year's planting season. Lack of operating funds has been a
major constraint limiting quantities purchased and processed. Under this
project, there would be a need for $57.4 million to nurchase the initial stock
of seed. The project would finance 50 percent of the stock purchased. The
rest would be financed by commercial banks. Insofar as the seed stocks
embody improved genetics, the investment in such stocks constitutes an
investment in advanced technology.
(h)   Seed Machinery.  The project would support the modernization of
Shanghai Xiangmin Machinery Company, which manufactures a wide range
of agricultural machinery and seed processing equipment. The company is
well recognized as providing good seed processing equipment, including 20
sets for the Henan ADP financed by IDA (para. 2.34). The company lacks
good designs for key equipment such as air screen separators and gravity
tables. It also needs high quality machine tools, screen presses and
perforators to produce accurate drum separators and screens. The company



- 26 -
does not have computer aided design (CAD) facilities, which are now used
by most foreign suppliers to produce plant layout drawings to each client's
requirements, or computer aided manufacturing (CAM) equipment, which
translates CAD designs into shop floor manufacturing instructions.
The project would finance the construction of a new workshop, necessary
machine tools and CAD/CAM design and manufacturing equipment. To
upgrade their processing equipment technology, the best approach would be
a joint venture with a seed equipment manufacturer. Should such a joint
venture be established, the project would finance a contract for technology
transfer on a direct-contract basis.
3.10 The total base cost of the investment in this component is estimated at Y 1,390
million.
Institutional Strengthening
3.11  The project would strengthen government institutions which provide services to
the seed sector as follows:
(a)   Variety examination, release and protection:
(i)    National Crop Variety Examination and Approval Committee
Office (NCVEACO). The objective is to develop the present
NCVEACO into a variety release and protection office. The two
subcomponents to be established and developed are computerization
of variety information and establishment of a plant variety protection
implementation unit.   NCVEACO  would be provided with
additional staff. The project would provide a computer system and
computer training, other training, study tours and workshops on the
protection of new plant varieties, and a small prefabricated cold
store. The investrnent cost is estimated at Y 1.4 million.
(ii)    Provincial Crop Variety Examination and Approval Offices.
Similar interventions are planned for the four project seed
administration stations in four provinces. The cost is included in the
investment cost of the individual seed management stations.
(b)   Seed quality control and seed certification:
(i)    National Seed Testing Center (NSTC). NSTC of the National
Agricultural Technical Extension Center would be equipped and its
staff trained to initiate pilot work on management and certification of
fruit tree seedlings and ornamental plants for later introduction
throughout China. The investment cost would be Y 2.0 million.



- 27 -
(ii)    Provincial Seed Administration Stations. The project aims to
ensure the existence in the project provinces of an official
independent seed regulation and control system, including a working
"truth in labeling" mechanism and a voluntary seed certification
system. Most project provinces already have independent quality
control agencies, with assistance from the ASSP. The project would
support the establishment of such independent quality control
agencies in Guizhou, Shandong, Zhejiang and Shanxi Provinces,
which did not benefit from the ASSP in thls regard. For these
provinces, the project would support seed laboratory and office
construction, seed testing equipment, greenhouses, vehicles and
computers, and local and foreign training on field inspection,
laboratory testing and cross-check testing. The total investment cost
in the four provinces would be Y 36.1 million.
3.12  Strengthening of the Central Project Management Office (CPMO).  The
CPMO would raise part of its operating funds through management fees charged to the
seed companies. The project would support project management by providing office
equipment, training and study tours. It would also provide operating funds (not Bank-
financed) and training to carry out the supervision, monitoring and evaluation required
under the project.
Informal Seed Sector
3.13  It is claimed that about 20-25 percent of the self-pollinating, conventional seeds
needed in China are obtained from seed companies/stations, while the rest are seeds saved
by farmers for planting the next crop. If this estimate of the rate of seed replacement is
correct, it is higher in China than in other countries in the region with well developed
crop agriculture. While the rate of seed replacement for self-pollinated crops in China
appears to be at a level judged to be satisfactory by Chinese farmers and many
professional agronomists (seed prices are quite low and there do not appear to be any
general and chronic supply shortages), a government decision has been made to increase
the seed replacement rate gradually to about 40 percent through organized seed
promotion campaigns. In fact, there is no substantial and consistent evidence in other
countries or in China that conventional self-pollinating crop replacement seeds from local
seed companies are significantly more productive than seeds of the same variety saved
on-farm for planting and therefore no evidence that there would be substantial economic
gains from the considerable effort that would be involved in these campaigns.
3.14  The project would finance relatively simple surveys and studies to provide good
data on the relative performance of farmer saved and company-supplied seeds, which
could be used by the seed companies in marketing and for guidance on the type and
degree of involvement in production/marketing of self-pollinating seeds. The surveys/
studies would be done for two years for relatively modest costs by selected provincial
seed management administrations for conventional rice and soybeans in Shandong and



- 28 -
wheat in Henan. An appropriate model for the surveys/studies would be the so-called
planter box seed surveys, i.e., samples collected from farmers as they are planting their
crop. The cost of six such surveys of three crops is estimated to be about Y 65,000.
Details can be found in Annex 2.
3.15  Pilot Program. The objective of the pilot program is to give more intense attention
to three companies receive subloans under the commercialization component of the project
and provide them with training and technical assistance to ensure successful
implementation of activities promoted under the project. The preparation team has already
given special assistance to the three pilot companies by reviewing their proposed internal
management structure and their business and marketing plans. The companies are required
to provide an opening balance sheet with all items, including transferred equity, valued
according to generally accepted accounting principles (para. 2.39). They would minimize
expenditures on social services, substituting higher wages and salaries for such things as
free housing for permanent employees and hiring temporary workers in the peak season
rather than permanent staff. They would also provide insurance plans for pensions and
health coverage, rather than providing these items directly. They would have effective
quality assurance systems, which would not only test seeds but also ensure the production
of high quality seed. Benchmarks have been established for the three pilot companies and
would be closely monitored during supervision. At the mid-term review, progress would be
evaluated and the experience gained from the pilot program shared with the other project
seed companies. Description of the pilot program can be found in Annex 3.
3.16  The three pilot companies are being developed from (a) a state farm seed
company, CD) a prefecture seed company, and (c) a provincial seed company. The
proposed operations of these companies will represent three different company structures,
all of which could be adopted by other entities pursuing the objective of
commercialization.
3. 1 7 The state farm model is based on Zhangqiu Leek Seed Company (ZLSC), a seed
business that is io be spun off from the state farm and establish itself as a limited liability
company. The company would have a Board of Directors to give guidance on all major
operating and financial issues. This company would have a licensing agreement with
ZhLtngqiu Municipal Leek Research Institute (ZMLRI), the only institute in China which
has de,-doped new varieties of leek. ZLSC would be responsible for the production and
marketing of foundation and commercial seed. The general manager of the company
would have autonomy for company management. He would be assisted by two deputies,
one being responsible for finance and marketing, the other responsible for seed
production and conditioning. The company would establish an internal quality control
system reporting directly to the management of the general manager.
3.18 The company would arrange with ZMLRI to be supplied with new, improved
germplasm on a regular basis. ZMLRI would have the responsibility of describing these
varieties and obtaining protection under plant breeder rights regulations. ZLSC would
have the responsibility of ensuring varietal purity so that the marketed product truly



- 29-
reflects the characteristics described by ZMLRI. ZLSC would pay a license fee (royalty)
to ZMLRI for the right to produce and market the products developed by the institute,
and this license would be established as a percentage of the price at which ZLSC sells its
seed. This arrangement would significantly change the marketing of seeds; ZLSC would
regularly launch new products into the market and it would have to manage "product
cycles" including the phasing out of products on the decline.
3.19 ZiBo Prefecture Seed Compoany (ZPSC), a prefecture company model, would
operate as a limited liability company. ZPSC would have a Board of Directors to monitor
and guide the actions of management. The company intends to continue operating as a
stand-alone operation but to increase its market share in hybrid com and to expand
interregional marketing of vegetable seeds. It has an in-house research program for
Chinese cabbage and recently acquired the production and marketing rights to a corn
hybrid.
3.20  In vegetable seeds, ZPSC has about 1,400 accessions of Chinese cabbage as its
proprietary germplasm pool, and its research effort is directed towards the development
of hybrid.;. While the company considers its genetic basis sufficient and its hybrids
superior as regards quality and earliness, ZPSC would change its products release policy
to regularly launch new products, as described above for Zhangqiu, and also seek
protection of new varieties under PBR. ZPSC would begin significant efforts to identify
other sources of improved germplasm nationally and intemationally (for Chinese
cabbage, com and other crops). These products would be secured for the company either
through licensing or otherwise. The company currently has production and marketing
rights for a hybrid com developed by Shandong Agricultural Research Institute.
3.21  ZPSC has already established proprietary packaging for "ZiBo Cabbage Seed,"
which clearly distinguishes it from any other source; this package also has created a brand
image for the company in the interregional market. The company would accomplish its
sales objectives by building on and expanding this brand identity. ZPSC currently sells
its corn seeds within the prefecture; the company recently concluded contractual
arrangements with 6 county seed companies to sell ZPSC corn seeds exclusively. ZPSC
would also pursue sales opportunities outside the prefecture, most likely through some of
its vegetable seed dealers. The company expects this strategy to be successful and
projects an increase in sales of corn seeds from 500 tons to 5,000 tons annually.
3.22 Guangxi Provincial Seed Company (GPSC), a provincial seed company model,
decided to convert to a limited liability stock company whose shareholders would be five
county seed companies in addition to the province. The management of the company
would be supervised by a board of directors elected by the shareholders. The company
would be managed by a general manager who would not be a member of the board; this
general manager would be assisted by three deputies. One deputy general manager would
be responsible for seed production and conditioning, one for sales and marketing, and one
for finance and administration. The departments of quality assurance and new product
evaluation will report directly to the general manager. The company would operate from



- 30 -
its central location in Nanning where it also maintains its foundation seed farm; away
from this center there will be five seed production locations and one sales office near the
Viet Nam border. They would produce hybrid rice, hybrid corn, peanuts and kenaf seeds.
3.23   The shareholders would contribute to the company the right to use certain
facilities for the production of seeds; five seed conditioning lines would be installed at
these facilities. The shareholders would also make available to GPSC certain personnel
during the harvest and conditioning season to allow the company to manage its seed crop
and to keep its permanent staff at a minimum. GPSC would have, through its own staff,
supervisory responsibility for operating and maintaining all seed production operations.
The number of shares held by each shareholder would be determined based on the value
of their contributions.
3.24  The clepartment for the evaluation of new varieties will perform  a critical
function, as none of the companies forming GPSC has any proprietary products or
research programs or holds any licenses to such products. GPSC therefore must urgently
obtain new varieties for testing from both national and international sources and evaluate
them at multiple locations throughout the province and in the interregional markets.
GPSC has been put in contact with potential international sources for new varieties and
the implementation of an accelerated testing program for such new products will be one
benchmark b) which this company will be evaluated.
D. STATUS OF PREPARATION
3.25 The Crovernment is seriously committed to the policy and regulatory reforms.
Several activities have been initiated and have estimated dates for completion. However,
the speed of change will depend on the economic and political situation of the country.
The government has concurred on the need for technical assistance, as provided for in the
project (draft TORs in Annex 8). Detailed government institutional strengthening has
been developed by the concerned institutions.
3.26  The preparation for commercializing seed companies is well-advanced.  All
participating seed enterprises have submitted feasibility reports, containing data on their
seed production, processing, storage and marketing plans. Most enterprises have also
provided preliminary designs and specifications for their administrative buildings, trading
and retail cenlers, storage buildings and processing plants.
3.27  Detailed investment schedules have been prepared, together with production and
operating cost schedules, cash flow statements, working capital computations, and
financing plans. Local government guarantees have been secured by the participating
seed enterprises for repayment of their Bank Group-financed subloans and for provision
of counterp3: funds and working capital. Each enterprise has presented audited annual
accounts to show that they have 20 percent equity available for investment in their project
component. All of these documents are satisfactory.



- 31 -
E. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
3.28  The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year period, starting from
1996 through 2001. Investment in land development, civil works and buildings would
start in year one, while niachinery and equipment delivery and installation would start in
year two. In preparation for project implementation, training for personnel of the seed
enterprises and the PMOs would be in the first two years. The seed enterprises are
projected to start incremental production in year three or year four. This scheduling is
considered reasenable, given that almost all the seed enterprises are already involved in
seed processing and have experienced staff. Seed company's key activities schedules can
be seen in Figure 2.
F. COST ESTIMATES
3.29  The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, is estimated at
Y 1,824 million or $185.5 million at the existing initial exchange rate of Y 8.4 to $1. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at $63.8 million or 34 percent of total project
cost. The base cost estimates are computed from unit prices prevailing at the time of
appraisal in October 1995. The total costs include value added taxes and import duties of
$26.5 million or 14 percent of total project costs. Physical contingencies are estimated at
15 percent for equipment, 10 percent for materials and vehicles, 5 percent for civil works
and zero for seed stocks, working capital, technical assistance, training, management cost
and labor. Price contingencies are based on annual international price escalation rates for
all goods and services when expressed in US dollars of 3.3 percent in 1996, 2.3 percent in
1997 and 2.5 percent from 1998 to 2001. Total contingencies over the five-year period
amount to 8 percent of base costs in US dollars. When expressed in Yuan, annual price
escalation rates of 17.5 percent were used for 1996 and 8.5 percent, 7.0 percent, 6.5
percent, 6.2 percent and 6.2 percent for 1997-2001. Total contingencies amount to 26
percent of base costs expressed in Yuan.



- 32 -
Table 3.1 PROJECT COST SUMMARY
%      % Total                                         %      % ToWa
(Yuan '000)               Foreign    Base                 (S '000)               Forwip    Be
Local      Foreign       Total    Exchange    Cosa         Local    Focign    Total   Exchmde   Cod
Policy h Regulaory
TA for Policy                      73.4      1,395.6      1,469.0      95         -          8.7       166.1      174.9       95          -
ExternaiCQualityControl        34,541.1    18,913.6      53,454.7      35        4       4,112.0     2,251.6    6,363.7       35         4
Subtotal                      34614.5    20309.1       54.923.7      31         _       4,1208      2XA7 S    6.538 S5
Seed Quality Control &           1,722.9     1,681.3      3,404.1      49         -        205.1       200.2      405.3       49
Certification
Project Manage nent Ofc.           69.5       939.6       1,009.0      93         -          8.3       111.9       120.1      93
Subtotal                       1,792.3     26208        4.413.1      52         2        213 4   S     2 5.4                52
C  nmercali-tion
SeedCompanies                 645,713.6   255.1042    900,817.9        28       62      76,870.7    30,369.6  107,240.2       28        62
SF Seed Companies             305,697.1   i83,540.3    489,237.5       38       34      36,392.5    21,850.0   58,242.6       38        34
Subotal                     29514107   438.644.6   1390,055.3        22       aL    1132632    52.719.6  16542A             32        2
IoW riaselwC281C             987.817.6  451.574.5   1.449-392.1       32      1N      117.597.3    54-949.3  172-546,7      32       1
Physical Contingencies              23,700.1    53,292.4     76,992.5       69        5       2,821.4     6,344.3    9,165.8      69          5
PriceContingencies                 288,821.7    68,972.7    297,794.4       23       21       1,309.3     2,519.5    3,828.8      66         2
ITttEnitCo4aU in           1240339.4  583.839.6  1.824.179.0           2      12&    121-722.1   63813.2  115-541-2          4       IEl
IntuessduringconstrucionLi               -    173.811.5    173,811.5       100       12           -      17,354.2   17,354.2     100         10
TtlFirtjn       uid    124024   757.651.1   1.997.991.0             23        1       121228.1    811674  202899,5          42       in
a1 Included taxes and duties of $26.5 million.
1b Interest during construction is based on the Bank's variable interest rate.
G. FINANCING
3.30 Bank Group financing would be an IDA credit of SDR 13.8 million ($20 million
equivalent) and an IBRD Loan of $80 million. This would cover 54 percent of total
project cost. The remaining 46 percent would be financed by national and provincial
governments, commercial banks and self-raised funds. The contributions from each
source are as follows:
$ Million
(a)  IDA Credit                                                                               20.0
(b)  IBRD Loan                                                                                 80.0
(c)   Central and Provincial Governments                                                        4.0
(d)  Commercial Banks                                                                          28.7
(e)   Enterprise Self-raised funds                                                             52.8
Total Financn                                                                       18 5u~



- 33 -
H. PROCUREMENT
3.31  All procurement of works and goods would be carried out in accordance with the
Bank CGroup's guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January
1995 and revised in January 1996, and all procurement would use China model bidding
documents, prepared in consultation with the Bank Group, and based on the Bank
Group's standard bidding documents for ICB. Procurement arrangements are detailed in
Annex 4, Table 5 and summarized in Table 3.2 on the following page.
3.32 Works. Project works consisting of civil works and buildings valued at $31.4
million, are widely dispersed in 14 provinces and would be difficult to consolidate into
larger packages. All of them are relatively small, the largest being less than $2.0 million,
and would therefore, not be of interest to foreign contractors. Approximately 81 percent
of works ($25.4 million) would be procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank Group. All buildings, valued at $22.2 million,
would be procured on the basis of NCB. Building construction contracts would cover the
supply of construction materials and the construction work at each project site. Of the
civil works ($9.2 million), including land development and earth works for access road
and irrigation ditches, only 35 percent ($3.2 million) can be packaged for NCB
procurement. The remaining civil works valued at $6 million are small and widely
scattered throughout the project and will not be of interest to contractors. They would
therefore be undertaken through force account managed by county engineers in
coordination with the seed companies.
3.33  Goods. To an extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. Project goods consisting
of machinery, equipment, vehicles and materials are estimated at $61.1 million. ICB
procedures would be used for seed processing equipment ($26.2 million), truck and
utility vehicles ($4.5 million) and fertilizer ($11.0 million), valued at $41.7 million or 68
percent of all goods. Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference
on ICB equal to 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the prevailing custom
duty, whichever is lower.
3.34  Small office and electrical equipment ($2.2 million), farm  machinery and
implements ($0.8 million), and other equipment ($0.7 million) would be dispersed in
location, spread over the project period and subject to continuing after-sale service
requirements to the extent that none of them can be grouped in packages of more than
$200,000 and would therefore be unlikely to be of interest to foreign suppliers without a
significant local presence. They would, therefore, normally be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank Group.



- 34 -
Table 3.2: PROCUREMENT PROFILE
($ Million)
Procurement method
Proicct element                                     ICB          NCB         Other       NIF       Total
Land acquisition &k crop compensation                -              -            -       4.5          4.5
(0.0)       (0.0)
Works
Civil works                                       -              3.2         6.0                   9.2
(1.6)       (3.0)                 (4.6)
Buildings                                         -             22.2         -        -           22.2
(11.1)                            (11.1)
Goods
Machinery & ecluipment
Seed processing equipmenL                     26.2             -           -        -          26.2
(26.2)                                           (26.2)
Office, electric & farm machinery               -              3.7         -                     3.7
(2.8)                             (2.8)
Technology transfer package                     -              -           2.0      -            2.0
(1.8)                (1.8)
Specialized equipmcnt                          -               -           2.5      0.1          2.6
(1.8)    (0.0)       (1.8)
Vehicles                                         4.5             -           -        0.8          5.3
(4.0)                               (0.0)        (4.0)
Materials
Fertilizer & pesticides                       11.0             -           2.6      -           13.6
(I 1.0)                     (1.8)                (12.8)
Genetic materials & licenses                   -               -           2.6      -           2.6
(1.3)                (1.3)
Market survey                                  -              3.6          1.5      -           5.1
(1.8)       (0.7)                 (2.5)
Other materiads                                -               -           0.2      -           0.2
(0.1)                (0.1)
Seed stock                                           -                         57.4       -          57.4
(28.7)               (28.7)
Training and Tectinical Assistance
Overseas training & technical assistance          -              -           1.4      0.3          1.7
(1.4)    (0.0)       (1.4)
Domestic training & research                      -              -           0.9      -            0.9
(0.9)                (0.9)
Working capital                                      -              -            -        1.1         1.1
(0.0)       (0.0)
Taxes & duties                                       -              -            -      26.5         26.5
(0.0)       (0.0)
Recurrent cots                                       -              -            -       0.7          0.7
(0.0)       (0-0)
Total                                            41.7           32.7        77.1    34.0         185.5
(41.2)         (17.3)      (41.5)    (0.0)      (100.0)
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by IBRD/IDA, including contingencies.
(2) NF == Not IBRD/IDA-financed.
(3) Otiiers = Other procurement methods include (a) force account for works; (b) direct contract for a
technology transfer package, training, research and consultant contracts and seed stocks;
(c) Limited Intemational Bidding (LIB) for specialized equipment, fertilizer and pesticides,
genetic materials and licenses; and (d) national shopping for genetic materials and licenses valued
at lesv than $200,000 and small market survey contracts and small orders of miscellaneous
mateiials valued at less than $50,000.



- 35 -
3.35  Goods that should be procured as an extension of an existing contract or must be
purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or are of a
proprietary nature may, with the Bank Group's prior agreement, be procured on the basis
of direct contracting. A technology transfer package from a joint venture partner, valued
at $2.0 million, would be procured on a direct contract basis acceptable to the Bank
Group. Specialized equipment for quality control laboratories, valued at $2.5 million,
and a small amount of fertilizer costing less than $50,000 per contract and pesticides,
valued at $2.6 million, would be procured through LIB. Due to the specialized nature of
the genetic materials required under the project and the limited number of suppliers of
such materials, 77 percent ($2 million) of the procurement of germplasm and seed
licenses, valued at more than $200,000 per contract, would be procured through LIB, and
23 percent ($0.6 million), valued at less than $200,000 per contract, would be procured
through national shopping (with at least three quotations).
3.36  Of market surveys valued at $5.1 million, 70 percent ($3.6 million) would be
contracted out on an NCB basis. The remaining 30 percent ($1.5 million), composed of
small contracts for remote seed companies, valued at less than $50,000 for each contract,
would be procured by national shopping (with at least three quotations). Procurement of
very small orders and various miscellaneous materials, estimated at less than $50,000
each, valued at $0.2 million would be by national shopping. Procurement of seed stock
by the 31 seed companies over the period of three years, valued at $57.4 million, would
be by direct purchase according to the companies' production contracts with farmers,
which would be specified in their business development plans.
3.37  Training and Technical Assistance would cost $2.6 million in total, of which
$0.2 million would be for foreign-supplied expertise ($43,800 for institutional
strengthening, $123,000 for policy and $52,900 for project implementation), $1.5 million
for international training and study tours, and $0.9 million for domestic training and
research. Employment of all consultants would be in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, and the Bank Group Standard Form of Contract
for consultants' services dated June 1995 would be used. Domestic and international
training and study tours would be according to annual plans acceptable to the Bank
Group.
3.38  Land acquisition and compensation for lost crops ($4.5 million), working capital
($1.1 million), recurrent costs ($0.7 million) and taxes and duties ($26.5 million), a total
of $32.8 million, would be locally funded. Passenger vehicles, valued at $0.8 million,
would be provided by the provincial governments and seed enterprises. Equipment,
training and technical assistance for the seed offices in Beijing, valued at $0.4 million,
would be provided by the Ministry of Agriculture.
3.39 IDA/World Bank Review. All procurement for works and goods in excess of
$200,000 or more would be subject to prior review and approval. That would cover 75
percent of the civil works and buildings and about 93 percent of goods under ICB and
NCB procurement and would consist of approximately 60 contracts. Other contracts



- 36 -
would be subject to ex-post review by supervision missions. In addition, in view of the
large number of contracts likely to be secured under NCB procedures, the CPMO would
use standard documents approved by the World Bank for these contracts. Consultant
contracts costing $100,000 or more for firms and $50,000 for individuals would be
subject to prior review. In addition, all terms of reference and sole-source selections of
ccisu!tants, regardless of the contract value, are subject to the Bank Group's prior
review.
1. DISBURSEMENTS
3.,0  Disbursement for equipment, machinery, vehicles, licenses and materials would
be n.Tade at 100 percent of foreign expenuitures for direct imports, 100 percent of the
local, ex-factoiy cost for locally manufactured items, and 75 percent of expenditures for
other items procured locally. Disbursement against civil works would be 50 percent of
expenditures. Disbursement for seed stock wouid be 50 percent of the seed purchase.
Disbursement For training, study tours and consultant services would be at 100 percent of
expenditures.
3.41   Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure in the case of
overseas training, study tours, and contracts for goods and works costing less than
$200,000 and consultant contracts costing less than $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for
individual. A condition of disbursement for the seed stock for each subproject would be
that operation plans for the subproject acceptable to the Bank Group have been prepared
and the subproject's seed processing lines have been installed and are ready for
operation. Disbursements for all works carried out under force account would be made
against statements of physical progress achieved at each site at unit prices agreed with the
Bank Group at the start of the project and subject to annual review. In order to facilitate
disbursement, Special Account would be opened at a commercial bank acceptable to the
Bank Group, with an initial deposit of $6.0 million, representing the average of four
months eligible expenditures. Applications for replenishment of these accounts would be
submitted monthly or when the account is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial deposit.
Retroactive finincing for training and preparation activities necessary for a smooth start-
up of the project, up to SDR 5.8 million ($8.4 million equivalent), would be made against
expenditures made between October 15, 1995 and the date of signing of the Loan/Credit
Agreement.
3.42  The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001, and the closing date
would be June 30, 2002. Disbursement experience in China has been favorable and better
than Bank-Group-wide and East Asia regional averages. The project disbursement
profile is essenlially in line with that for previous agricultural development and institution
building projects in China. The estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 4
Table 6.1.



- 37 -
J. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
3.43  Records of expenditures on civil works, equipment and materials would be
maintained individually by the participating seed companies. The records would be
consolidated by the project provincial PMOs for review and submission to the CPMO at
MOA in Beijing. The provincial PMOs would make sure that the accounts are audited
annually and would submit the audit reports to CPMO. The latter office would be
responsible for submnitting project consolidated accounts and consolidated audit reports to
the Bank Group. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (a) the Special Account
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group, (b) the
provincial PMOs would maintain consolidated accounts for all components for annual
aaditing by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group, (c) audited accounts for
the entire project together with the auditor's report would be submitted to the Bank
Group within six months of the close of each calendar year, and (d) the seed companies
would have their financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank Group.  The consolidated audit report would contain a summary of all the
provincial audit reports and audited accounts of MOA's project expenditures. It would
include details of withdrawals from the Credit/Loan accounts made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure and the auditor's opinion as to whether such withdrawals were
against expenditures eligible for reimbursement by IDA/IBRD.
K. LAND AcQUISITION
3.44  Land acquisition under the project by the 31 project seed companies would total
only about 39 ha, mainly commercial or unused land. They typically already own the
land designated for expansion or will contract with smallholder outgrowers to multiply
seeds on their own land. Out of 39 ha, only 1 ha is being farmed by three families. These
families would be allocated new farm land of equal quality and would get crop
coinpenisation according to applicable Chinese laws. They would not be relocated from
their houses. Details can be found in Annex 1, Table 9. Assurances were obtained at
negotiationzs that, .if any of the subprojects would involve any resettlement, it has to be
carried out according to agreed principles and procedures and, if the numbers of
primary affected persons in ary subproject reach 200, the province concerned will submit
a resettlement action plan to the Bank Group for review as a condition of eligibility for
inclusion of the subproject in the project.
L. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
3.45  The project was classified as a B category. It would not be expected to produce
any significant detrimental environmental impacts in the project areas.   Standard
environmental analysis for subprojects would be conducted by Provincial Environmental
Protection Bureaus (PEPBs), as needed, for new and existing facilities. The processing
plants have a limited potential for localized water, air and noise pollution within and
around the plant buildings, but procurement specifications for processing equipment
would maintain air emissions below the national thresholds for particulate matter, and



- 38 -
would include full environmental protection measures to maintain pollution within
national EPB standards. The project proposes to treat the effluent of all processing plants
and administrative and marketing buildings in septic tanks where necessary or, where
possible, to discharge effluent into municipal sewers. The combined effluent at the 31
project locations is estimated to be < 1,000 m3/d with BOD concentration of 350-500
ppm.
3.46  The domestic heating system boilers and seed dryers will generate ash, and it has
been standard practice to use this ash in road construction and as an extender in brick
manufacture. The disposal of the negligible volumes of ash and clinker generated by
project activities should therefore not pose any problem. The cotton delinting plants
would use dilute acid foam delinting systems that were developed in the United States to
meet EPA standards. Similar plants have been used in China since the mid-1980s.
Concentrated acid is diluted for application to the cotton seeds and reacts with cellulose
linters to produce hydrolyzed cellulose, mainly sugars, that can be used as animal feed
enhancers. The residual acidity in the processed seed is neutralized in the process with an
alkali solution. It would be a condition of eligibility for inclusion in the project that each
subproject be in compliance with environmental standards acceptable to IDA and with
Chinese regulations.  Thus, the designs and equipment specifications of the seed
processing plants would be reviewed and approved by the relevant PEPB as part of its
environmental analysis and clearance of each facility. The PEPBs would monitor that
these processing plants maintain at all times the environmental protection standards.
3.47  The improvement and expansion of seed production under the project does not
differ from crop production for the same crops, except in terms of additional labor for
greater inspection and supervision. Similarly, since the seeds and planting materials
produced and distributed would be of crops already in production with variety or
genotype being the only change, the works of the project would not significantly change
interactions between crop agriculture and the environment.  -The fertilizers and
agricultural chemicals used in the production of seeds would be standard fertilizers,
pesticides, herbicides etc., as used in major agricultural economies for similar types of
seed production. All farm chemicals procured through the project would be ICAMA-
approved products. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. Assistance
would also be required in bidding documents from chemical suppliers to provide training
of safe use, handling and storage in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank
Group. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. Optimal seed coatings
and coating systems would be determined during the project with the aid of foreign
technical assistance and would be ICAMA-approved products.  Seed treatment
technologies and chemicals (pesticides) would be the same as those used in the major
industrialized countries for the same kinds of seeds. Pesticides applied to seeds usually
substitute for pesticides applied in the furrow (i.e., soil) at the time of sowing or
sprayed/dusted on young plants, and are favored environmentally, since much less
pesticide is required and its placement on the seed ensures that it is positioned where it is
needed and not scattered in the soil or atmosphere.



- 39 -
3.48   Germplasm Conservation and Genetic Diversity. China has been very diligent
since the 1950s in collecting and preserving the germplasm of its major crops. Over
200,000 accessions were assembled by 1958 after completion of a national campaign on
gerrpplasm collection begun in 1953. Some of these accessions were lost due to
inadequate and improper storage so that only 160,000 remained in 1979. A decision was
then taken to construct a proper gene bank in Beijing to be operated by the Germplasm
Resources Institute of Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS). The bank
was completed in 1983 and a second was begun with support from the Rockefeller
Toundation and other sources and completed in 1986. Presently, 350,000 accessions are
it, the central gene banks, which are world-class in terms of facilities and information
processing. An additional 25 field gene banks have been organized in various areas. As
en extra precaution the entire collection is duplicated in another gene bank in a "dry"
province. Additional specialized collections of germplasm, e.g., forest species, are under
control of other institutes and ministries. The germplasm collections in China admittedly
have an cconoinic bias. Recently, however, noneconomic and endangered species in the
et -system have received attention. In the fringe areas, when new improved varieties
replacc traditional varieties, there might be loss of biodiversity. Therefore the project
would encourage participating seed companies to assist germplasm resources institutes in
collecting existing species, so as to maintain biodiversity.
3.49  The genetic diversity in crop species in China is about the same as in other
countries with a high yield agriculture. The project will have a positive effect on the
genetic diversity of the crops involved in several ways. Firstly, commercialization of the
seeds sector will increase competition among the companies, which they will address in
large part by acquiring or developing proprietary varieties, i.e., varieties that are different
from others in the market in ways perceived to be important to farmers. The result will be
a more diverse array of varieties available to farmers. Secondly, liberalization of the crop
variety examination and registration requirements and procedures will facilitate the
importation of varieties from other countries, thus increasing the diversity of varieties.
Thirdly, enactment and implementation of a legal framework for the protection of plant
variety rights, as seems likely, will provide additional strong incentives for crop
improvement, research and development and make feasible the introduction of very
important germplasm and transgenetic products.



- 40 -
4. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
4.1   Project organization would be quite complex, involving central and provincial
authorities. At the central level, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would be responsible
for overall project implementation. MOA would assign responsibility to the Bureau of
State Farms (BSF) to oversee the implementation of activities concemned with state farm
seed companies and to the Department of Agriculture (DOA) for all other project
activities, including strengthening of DOA offices at the central level. Both the BSF and
the DOA would delegate responsibility for implementation of provincial-level activities
to participating provincial governments, which would deal directly with project seed
companies.
4.2   Project Leading Groups (PLGs). PLGs would be as small as possible to
maximize efficiency. The central PLG would be chaired by a Vice-Minister of MOA in
Beijing and the provincial PLGs by the Vice-Governors responsible for agriculture. The
members of the provincial PLGs would be the Directors of the Bureaus of Agriculture
(BOAs), the General Managers of the provincial-level BSF, the Directors of the
Provincial Academies of Agricultural Sciences, the Managers of the provincial-level
Agricultural Bank branches, and the Directors of the Bureaus of Finance. The two groups
would have representation from seed companies. PLGs at both levels would coordinate
and monitor implementation and resolve any disputes that may arise. They would have a
major role to play in the promotion, adoption and implementation of policies related to
the seed industry, and they would assume responsibility for ensuring provision of
adequate counterpart funds. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the PLGs
would be maintained with terms of reference, composition and resources acceptable to
the Bank Group.
4.3   Project Management Offices. Project management offices would be set up at
MOA and in participating provinces to coordinate project implementation. The Central
Project Management Office (CPMO) would be staffed with personnel from the DOA and
the BSF. It would: (a) assist the Provincial Project Management Offices (PPMOs) in
drawing up implementation schedules, (b) coordinate project activities with the line
agencies at the national and provincial levels, (c) arrange for combined procurement
under ICB or LIB, (d) coordinate overseas training, study tours and technical assistance,
(e) assist the PPMOs in withdrawing funds from the Credit/Loan, (f) ensure that
consolidated accounts, audits and progress reports are prepared and submitted to the Bank
Group on time, (g) undertake project monitoring, evaluation and supervision (para. 4.13),
and (h) arrange for the project launch workshop (para. 4.1 1), a mid-term evaluation of the
project and a completion report after the project completion (para. 4.13).



- 41 -
4.4   PPMOs would be staffed with trained and qualified personnel from both the
provincial BOAs and BSFs. The PPMOs would assist the seed enterprises in liaison with
provincial and central authorities regarding assistance needed to facilitate project
implementation. They would also coordinate project works with the CPMO. Assurance
was obtained at negotiations that the borrower would maintain and support the CPMO
and the PPMOs with terms of reference, composition and resources acceptable to the
Bank Group.
4.5  The Ministry of Finance (MOF) would be responsible for the financial
management of the project and the maintenance of consolidated financial accounts. In
order to ensure the effective implementation of the project, and confirm the terms and
conditions of relending of Loan/Credit proceeds, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Borrower would enter into Project Implementation Arrangements
(PIAs) with each project province. Conclusion of at least nine PIAs satisfactory to the
Bank Group would be a condition of loan/credit effectiveness.
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
4.6   The CPMO would assist the project provinces in liaison with design institutions
on the designs and technical specifications where identical facilities or processes are to be
p.ovided for several seed enterprises. These would include the design and specification
of standard seed enterprise administrative buildings, standard seed stores and standard
processing buildings. The CPMO would also be responsible for engaging technical
assistance to review the designs, flow charts, layouts and technical specifications of the
seed processing lines. The TOR for this technical assistance can be found in Annexi.
4.7   Seed company managements would have autonomous responsibility for managing
the seed companies, including the state farm seed companies, as the enterprises would be
established as limited liability companies or limited liability stock companies under the
Chinese Company Law. A condition of eligibility to receive a subloan would be that
enterprises would have been established in accordance with this law, that they have
established a suitable benefits system for employees, and that they be creditworthy, have
a soundfinancial structure and suitable organization and management.
4.8   Some companies, notably state farm zompanies, would produce their own breeder
seeds or parent-line seeds. Some state farm companies own and operate the farms
producing commercial seed. For most project companies, however, the production of
seed would normally be undertaken as at present by individuals contracted under the
household responsibility system. Under the project, seed growing would however be
closely supervised by technical staff from the seed companies, who would provide
extension advice. The companies would supply production inputs on credit to those
farmers unable to purchase inputs from the township agroextension centers.  The
companies would supply foundation or mother seed, together with fertilizer and
chemicals not generally available in many counties. Fields would not be subject to
routine inspection for certification, but sample fields would be inspected by staff of the



- 42 -
seed companies to monitor physical and genetic purity. Competent technicians would
also be responsible for sampling and testing all batches of seed before packing to ensure
that the technical description on the seed label is accurate.
4.9   Management of the new independent external quality control agencies will be the
responsibility cf the provincial agriculture bureaus. The present seed station staffs will
form the core staffs of these new units. The heads of the units will report to the heads of
the agriculture bureaus and not to seed companies.  Assurance was obtained at
negotiations that each project province would introduce, no later than December 31,
1996, a program of random field crop inspection and testing ofpacked seed In the event
that a field does not meet the necessary standards of uniformity they would have the
responsibility to prevent use of the crop for seed purposes. In the event that a sample of
seed failed routine tests they would immediately carry out tests on all packs from the
batch and if a sufficient number of samples failed to meet the necessary standards they
wgould prohibit sale of seed from the batch. They would also carry out tests on behalf of
farmers or groups of farmers in the event that seed fails to meet the specifications on its
p ick label. The results of these tests would be used by the farmers in pressing their case
for zompensation .-om tiie seed company.
C. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
4.1   MOF v. uid allocate the IBRD Loan and IDA Credit to the Provincial Bureaus of
Finance .o be onlent to the seed companies.  The interest rate from MOF to the
participating provinces would be 5.5 percent with a repayment period of 20 years,
inclusive of 5 years grace period. The participating provinces would onlend funds to
eligible seed cornpanies at an interest rate of at least 6.5 percent, with a maturity of up to
20 years, including 5 years of grace; the enterprise would bear foreign exchange risk
Assurances were obtained at negotiations to this effect.
D. PROJECT LAUNCH WORKSHOP
4.11  The project is complex and involves the introduction of radically new approaches
to doing business whereby seed companies would become financially independent units
rather than line agencies of government supplying subsidized seed to farmers. To
familiarize staff of the seed companies, BOAs, BSFs and PMOs with the project
concepts, staff of the Bank Group and local experts would conduct project launch
workshops, during the first six months after project approval, in selected provincial
capitals. The purpose of the workshops would be to: (a) train staff in the commercial
operations of seed businesses, (b) clarify the individual tasks and responsibilities of all
staff involved in the project, (c) review seed company implementation plans, and
(d) clarify the operational and reporting procedures of the Bank Group.
E. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
4.12  The training program for the project is shown in Annex 9. Each year, the CPMO
would submit a detailed plan to the Bank Group for review before the end of the



- 43 -
preceding year. Overseas training and study tours would have to be detailed with
objectives, place, time and participants. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
annual overseas training and study tour plans would be submitted to the Bank Group by
October 31 of the preceding year for prior approval and all consultants would be hired
in accordance with IBRD 's guidelines on the selection and use of consultants.
F. SUPERVISION, MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTING
4.13  The project management at the central and provincial levels would monitor
project progress. In order to ensure smooth implementation, the CPMO would establish
procedures for project supervision. Regular supervision would be carried out to assess
the physical, technical and financial aspects of the project. Details of the supervision plan
are described in Annex 10. Each seed company has its own implementation plan and
progress would be evaluated against that plan.  Monitoring indicators, including
performance indicators, were established and would be used to evaluate progress under
the project. These are (a) completion of the draft seed and plant variety legislation;
(b) accession to UPOV and ISTA; (c) development of external quality control offices in
the project provinces; (d) successful establishment of seed companies as autonomous
commercial entities; and (e) formation of these seed companies of alliances with seed
companies in other provinces and countries. The CPMO would assist the PPMOs to
evaluate the impact of the project on agricultural production, farm incomes and selected
environmental parameters (details in Annex 7). Progress reports would be produced by
all PPMOs, summarized by the CPMO and forwarded to the Bank Group every six
nonths, by September I of each year for the preceding January-June, and by March I for
the preceding July-December. A mid-term review of the project would be undertaken by
the CPMO by June 30, 1998 to assess progress according to the key performance
indicators, and chart implementation of the project for the remaining period. The CPMO
would make a broad assessment of the project's implementation in a draft project
completion report to be submitted to the Bank Group no later than six months following
the completion of the Credit/Loan disbursement. Assurances regarding the preparation
and timing of progress and completion reports and mid-term review were obtained at
negotiations.



- 44 -
5. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. PRODUCTION
5.1   Incremental Seed Production. The project would result in about 272,600 tons
of increased seed production annually at full production (Annex.S, Table 1). The
additional seed would likely include 210,997 tons of major grains (hybrid and
conventional rice, wheat, hybrid maize and barley), 22,400 tons of oilseeds (rapeseed,
peanuts, and soybeans), 39,200 tons of cash crops (cotton, vegetables, melons and other
crops), and 480,000 seedlings (fruit and flowers). Among the grains, hybrid maize seed
would entail the largest increment (64,000 tons). Wheat seed, just behind hybrid maize,
would increase by 46,700 tons. Hybrid rice seed would increase by 48,500 tons, while
conventional rice seed would increase by 32,700 tons. Increments of cash crops would be
led by cotton seed (35,000 tons) and those of oilseeds by hybrid rapeseed (2,700 tons),
peanuts (9,700 tons) and soybean (9,900 tons). Vegetable and melon seeds in eight
provinces would increase by 4,200 tons. Barley seed would be increased by 18,600 tons.
Other seeds (kenaf, grass seeds, herb seeds and sugar beet seeds) would be increased by
4,430 tons.
5.2  Incremental Product. The main objective of the project is to increase product
yield through improved seed quality, including that of existing seed production. The
incremental product would be derived from a combination of an increase in overall crop
yields due to greater varietal purity and reduced seed requirements due to higher
germination rates. Commercially purchased seed would replace the seed previously
retained for seed by farmers from their own production, thus freeing up this quantity for
consumpticn or sale.  The incremental volume of improved seed would replace
unimproved or retained seed on about 6.3 million ha, including 1.6 million ha of hybrid
rice, 0.2 miilion ha of conventional rice, 0.3 million ha of wheat, 1.4 million ha of hybrid
maize, 0.3 million ha of rapeseeds, 0.7 million ha of cotton seeds, .05 million ha of
peanuts, 0.13 million ha of soybean and 1.4 million ha of vegetables. Incremental crop
production due to the project is expected to be 10.9 million tons (3.2 and 7.6 million tons
for grains and other crops, respectively). Detailed incremental yield and production can
be found in Annex 5, Tables 1-3.
B. MARKETS
5.3   Overall the marketing of improved seed is not expected to present major
difficulties. Restrictions on marketing previously imposed on the seed market, especially
on intercounty and interregional trade, would be removed under the policy reforms
introduced under the project. In 1994, the formal seed sector provided only 3.5 million
tons of seed, which was only 25 percent of the national seed requirement of 12.5 million



- 45 -
tons. The inciernental volume of seed and seedlings to be produced would be substantial,
but in the context of total demand within China, it would be only 1.5 percent of the total
demand for seeds. Most currently traded seed is of poor quality and is not expected to
present much competition. Grain seed other than hybrids is primarily marketed locally.
Vegetable seeds, especially specialty varieties, such as the Chinese cabbage seed of Zibo
County, are marketed in considerable amounts outside the region of production, with
prefessional traders taking an active distribution role. Cash-crop seed marketing varies
with the varieties, some, e.g., cotton, only being supplied locally and others being sold to
seed companies in other provinces.
5.4   Locally, some marketing problems may arise.  No seed companies have
undertaken any formal market research, and only a few have established marketing
arrangements with seed companies in other provinces. Almost certainly some project
companies will experience difficulties in building up their local market share and will
face unanticipated competition from other suppliers in the interprovincial market. As part
of their business development plan (para. 2.40), all seed companies have to develop
marketing strategies. Some have already started the marketing process and obtained
purchase commitments from seed companies in other provinces. One particular area of
opportunity is to sell to provinces with no local sources of high-quality seed of the
particular varieties involved but which have not imported seed in the past.
5.5   Domestic Demand. Demand for high quality seed has been growing rapidly,
reflecting increased product demand due to population and income growth and farmers
switching to imp,oved seed. The government policy of ensuring food supply and
maintaining per capita grain production of 450 kg per capita has put pressure on
increasing agricultural productivity, which can only be achieved through better seeds.
S.C   Corn is a prime example of this policy. At present, 75 percent of the corn area
already uses hybrid corn seed and must purchase seed every year. The government's
target is to increase usage to 95 percent, which would increase demand by 19 percent.
The higher quality seed produced under the project would find a ready market, since the
incremental production of 65,000 tons under the project would only be 17 percent of total
requirements.
5.7   Domestic demand for hybrid rice declined during the last few years, but has
started to pick up again this year. The decline was due to the low quality of many
varieties of hybrid rice seed, and the more discriminating purchases of higher income
consumers. The pick up is due to the improved hybrid varieties now available, including
hybrid glutinous rice, which is in high demand in the northern provinces. In general,
there is considerable room to improve hybrid rice seed to achieve higher yield, resistance
to disease and better product flavor.  With increased commercialization, the seed
enterprises under the project would need to take account of particular regional demands
for various hybrid varieties.



- 46 -
5.8    The government is also promoting the use of hybrid rice seeds and has targeted an
increase in the area under hybrid rice from 45 percent to 70 percent. The incremental
high quality hybrid rice seed under the project would only be 12 percent of the total
incremental demand for hybrid rice and marketing problems are not expected.
5.9   The demand for high quality conventional cereal seeds (rice, wheat) is expected to
be significantly increased due to the desire to increase yields. Most seed for conventional
varieties is produced by farm households for self-use, but this practice entails declining
yields as varietal purity degenerates. Farmers then purchase seed to replace their retained
seed with pure varieties and restart the cycle. Progressive farmers, now typically on a
three-year cycle are moving to a two-year cycle, and the average farmers are also
decreasing their seed replacement period.
5.10   The demand for high quality cotton seed is also expected to increase. This is due
to the greater profitability under the new higher cotton price and higher demand for
cotton lint from the textile industry. Very poor germination rates of cotton seed due to
poor seed quality is a factor in the current high seeding rates which resulted in the
shortage of cotton seed.  Farmers typically save their own seeds, but with higher
purchasing prices, better seed produces better returns and provides the incentive to invest
more in seeds. Germination of cotton seed would be improved with the acid delinting
seed produced under the project.
5.11   Vegetable production has increased substantially during the last few years due to
high market demand and prices. Vegetables are the only crop category that can be traded
freely in both crop and seed. Hybrid vegetable seed is immensely superior to retained
seed of local varieties, and demand for the hybrids is growing rapidly. In 1994, 1.2
million tons of vegetable seeds were sold for the growing area of 4.5 million ha of
vegetables. The demand for seed is expected to increase rapidly, due to an increase in the
area under cultivation, especially around cities, and an increase in investment in
greenhouse production.
5.12  Interpirovincial Trade. Theoretically, restrictions on interprovincial trade in
seed have beeii removed. However, a national seed market has not yet formed, and local
protection still. exists in some areas. Clear seed policy statements by the government
would be required to end such practices and facilitate interprovincial trade. Currently
interprovincial trade, or so-called "varietal exchange", continues to be largely on barter
terms arnong long-term clients, and seed companies lack information about market
demand and supply. Vegetable seed is an exception, in which interprovincial trade is
quite active and market information is obtained from an annual seed fair in Wuhan,
Hubei, in which more than 5,000 vegetable producers and traders participate. Factors
limiting the clevelopment of interprovincial trade in grain seed include inadequate
transportation and an administrative requirement of three years' testing by seed
companies befDre new varieties of grain seed can be introduced into a region.



- 47 -
5.13   All participating seed companies have proposed to increase their sales to
interprovincial markets, and when the new seed policies are fully implemented it is
expected that trends will be similar to those in the vegetable market. On average, 30-40
percent of the incremental production under the project would be sold to interprovincial
and international markets.
5.14   Export Market. Until recently, Chinese seed exports have been very limited and
are still small. The most extensive development has been in the vegetable seed trade
through the agency of joint ventures with intemational businesses, and exports of
vegetable seed are now significant. Chinese vegetable seed producers have become
members of the International Federation for Seed Trade (FIS).
5.15   Several factors have inhibited the development of other seed exports. China's
previous disinclination to join intemational seed organizations or meet intemational
export standards is one. For instance, grain seed exports have not become significant,
because China has not met the standards of the OECD Scheme for Seed Certification.
However, border trade with Viet Nam and Korea is active in border provinces such as
Guangxi and Liaoning. China's delay in joining the Intemational Union for the
Protection of Plant Varieties (UPOV) has also inhibited the import of germplasm for
production and export. A second factor inhibiting exports in the past has been the seed
trade monopoly of the China National Seed Corporation (CNSC). This monopoly has
now been abolished, and all seed enterprises are free to develop intemational business.
The project would encourage project seed companies to enter the intemational market.
5.16  Joint Ventures. Although there are very few joint venture seed companies in
China at present, the initial ventures in vegetable seed have shown the profitability of
international trade. A major deterrent to joint ventures has been the absence of plant
breeder's rights. The Chinese government is now focusing its attention on this issue,
which is closely related to other aspects of property rights reform. Many of the project
seed companies have expressed interest in establishing joint venture companies and
producing and marketing proprietary germplasm from foreign breeders. A number of
international seed companies are also interested in improved Chinese germplasm and
willing to negotiate with potential Chinese partners.
C. PRICES
5.1 7 Grain Prices. A three-tier system of prices still applies in grain marketing:
administered or "quota" prices for the portion of the crop that each farmer must deliver to
the State (in effect a form of taxation or rent payable for the use of the farmland),
"negotiated" prices, which apply to the part of the crop that the Government buys from
farmers over and above the quota, and free market prices. Administered prices have been
periodically adjusted in response to inflation, following a sharp increase in free market
prices in the preceding year (see Annex 5, Table 6). This led to increases in average
producer prices from 1993 to 1994: for rice (in eight selected provinces) 91 percent, for
wheat (seven provinces) 65 percent, and for corn (six provinces) 35 percent.



- 48 -
5.18  Seed Prices. The price of seeds of basic grains in the past has been set in
accordance with rigid central government rules, the price paid to growers being linked by
fixed ratios to commercial grain prices, which allowed the seed companies a minimal
markup. The ratios have in fact served more as guidance than as rules, and- in practice
actual markups have been determined by policy decisions at various national and
provincial levels, with the result that seed prices differ substantially from one province to
another. In general, the prices of processed grain seed (but not that of other crops) have
been too low to enable profitable processing. At present, although the market has been
liberalized and seed companies have the authority to adjust prices without administrative
permission, some governments continue to control seed marketing and prices. An
understanding was obtained at negotiations that the Government would continue to relax
price control and that seed companies under the project would be allowed to pursue
competitive and market-oriented pricing strategies.
5.19 Hybrid Seeds. The ratio of the price of hybrid seed to commercial grain is much
higher than that of conventional seed, reflecting the higher production cost. In normal
years, for hybrid rice, the ratio has been 6-8:1, whereas for hybrid corn, it has been 34:1.
However, when the demand for seed has been high, the ratio has jumped to 10 or more to
one. In 1994, the price of hybrid rice seed varied between 12-17 Yuan per kg in different
provinces.
5.20  Conventional Seeds. The price ratio for conventional seeds (conventional rice
and wheat) has been 1.2-1.5:1. The price ratios of other kinds of seeds, like peanuts,
cotton seed, soybean and rapeseed have also fallen in this administrative category.
5.21  Vegetable Seeds. The prices of vegetable seed are free to vary according to
rmarket supply anid demand. Prices vary from Yuan 400/kg for sweet pepper seed to Yuan
8/Kg for garlic seeds. Other vegetable prices are listed in Annex 5, Table 7.
D. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
5.22  Financial analysis has been carried out for all selected seed companies. Costs and
benefits are derived from the individual business development plans, and are based on the
inciZmental costs and benefits of the preproject existing companies.  Costs were
separated into investment and operating costs. Investrnent costs include those of land
development, building construction, equipment, materials and incremental working
capital. Unit costs are based on the prevailing domestic prices for locally procured items
and international prices for imported items, with all costs updated to 1995 values. Unit
costs also include import duties and value added tax (VAT) on all ICB procured materials
and equipment. Locally procured items attract VAT only. Tax and duties amount to
approximately 24 percent of capital investment cost. Physical contingencies are included
as part of investment cost. Working capital estimates are based on requirements for
unprocessed seed storage, consumable materials in stock, work in progress (including
field crop production where relevant), processed and packed production in stock, and
accounts payable for one month including water, power, fuel, salaries and insurance.



- 49 -
5.23  Operating costs included fixed and variable operating costs, including charges on
borrowed working capital. Fixed operating costs include social and welfare bonuses
estimated at 11 percent of staff salaries, overhead at 2.5 percent of full production
turnover, insurance at 1.5 percent of capital investment and marketing costs at 3 percent
ef full production turnover. Annual maintenance cost is included at 2 percent of building
costs, 10 percent of vehicle costs and 3 percent of equipment costs.
5.24  Incremental benefits calculated for financial analysis are based on the price
differentials the companies receive from producing high quality seed. The margin
between the wholesale price of seed and the price that a company paid to contract farmers
is considered revenue to the company. An example of the financial analysis of a
participating seed company can been found in Annex 5, Table 9.
5.25 Financial Rate of Return (FRR). FRR was calculated, based on the above cost
and benefit assumptions for all seed companies. The FRRs ranged from 20 percent to 30
percent. The overall FRR of all subcomponents is estimated at 27 percent. A summary
of FRRs for all participating companies can be found in Annex 5, Table 8. Each
company has to produce a FRR of at least 20 percent at full operating capacity in order to
cover taxes and debt service payments and to allow growth in retained earnings of the
organization. Having a FRR of at least 20 percent was also a criterion for qualification as
a participating subproject.
5.26 Sensitivity Analysis. Sensitivity analysis was carried out for all seed enterprises
to establish the effect on FRR of changes in major variables, such as prices, investment
costs and operating costs. These variables were also tested against changes in production
volume varying from full capacity of 100 percent down to 80 percent The results of the
analysis show that all the FRRs are not very sensitive to changes in prices, costs and
production. (Details can be found in Annex 5, Table 8.)



- 50 -
6. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
6.1   The major benefits of this project would be threefold. At the sector level, an
environment conducive to commercial development would be developed through policy
and regulatory reforms. At the enterprise level, a core group of seed companies would
learn to develop profitable commercial business in response to domestic and international
commercial demand. At the farm level, there would be an improvement in farm
production, yield and incomes.
6.2   The reforms in seed policy would vitalize the seed sector in several ways. First,
they would facilitate the elimination of the present monopoly-ridden commercial
environment by promoting intercounty and interprovincial trade.   Second, by
streamlining the examination and registration system and authorizing seed production
outside breeding areas, they would facilitate commercial activity by expediting the
movement of new cultivars into commerce. Third, as a result of the introduction of
improved quality control procedures, they would make a major contribution to the overall
improvemenit in the standards and quality of agricultural seed produced and sold in
China. Fourth, the development and implementation of a legal framework for the
protection of plant breeder rights wouid stimulate plant breeding activities within the
country since ownership of new cultivars would be possible and institutes could set
reasonable prices for new products.
6.3   Fifth, the inflow of foreign germplasm to China would increase due to domestic
companies seeking new and improved genetic materials from abroad and foreign firms
seeking more business ventures, knowing that their property rights would be protected.
Domestic seed enterprises would also seek cooperation with international seed breeders
to combine the improved Chinese varieties with the improved foreign germplasm.
Through the broadening of the germplasm base and the establishment of research
cooperation vith foreign companies, seed companies with integrated research, production
and marketing functions would probably develop as they exist in most western countries.
6.4   Participating companies would have a chance to develop into profitable,
independent companies with clearly defined structures and ownership. The companies
would be managed by trained management teams with responsibility for planning,
production and marketing. Due to their profitability, the companies would be able to pay
taxes and retain cash flow for future expansion. The transparency of structure, ownership
and management would facilitate the flow of foreign capital into joint ventures to produce
seeds for export. International companies would also be expected to significantly



- 51 -
increase their presence in the Chinese market through variety licensing, variety
registration and breeding cooperation.
6.5   The major quantifiable benefits from the project would be in the area of
incremental production resulting from the improved quality of seeds. The introduction of
new germplasm would lead to further yield increases of crops such as hybrid rice and
corn. The latter could increase by 10-20 percent, based on yields currently achieved in
China compared with those of France and the United States. In addition, good quality
seed would reduce the existing excess seeding rates. For instance, farmers would save
about 90 kg/ha when hybrid rice seed is used instead of conventional rice and would save
5 kg/ha when improved hybrid rice seed is used instead of ordinary hybrid rice. Acid
delinted cotton seed would save about 15 kg/ha of cotton seed. Improved varieties of
wheat would reduce the seeding rate by 30 kg/ha, and improved corn would reduce the
seeding :ate by 5 kg/ha. In total, the saving from using improved hybrid seed would be
about Y 126 million ($15 million) per year for the project area.
6.6   The total incremental production would be 3.2 million tons of grains (rice, wheat,
corn, and barley), 316,000 tons of oil crops (rapeseed, peanuts and soybean), 280,000
tons of cotton and 7 million tons of vegetables. Total seed saved is estimated at 49,000
tons. The annual financial value of incremental production would be Y 10.0 billion ($1.2
billion), while the annual economic value would be Y 14.6 billion ($1.7 billion) based on
economic prices (Annex 5, Table 1). The net economic value would be Y 7.8 billion
($0.98 billion) (Annex 6, Table 8.2).
B. EMPLOYMENT AND INCOMES
6.7   At the farm level, the demand for labor for planting would be reduced due to less
seed being used. However, the demand for labor would be increased in the areas of crop
maintenance and harvesting due to higher yields. The incremental demand for labor is
assumed to be met from household laborers. Additional employment may be created for
harvesting and post harvesting activities. The seed companies would provide 1,360 new
jobs in the seed processing industry in 31 modernized seed processing plants, and I seed
machinery plant.
6.9   The project would have a positive impact on the incomes of project beneficiaries.
Farm budget analysis indicates that net income would be increased due to better yield and
production. For example, in Guangxi, the net farm income per hectare of hybrid rice
would be increased from Y 4,51b ($538) to Y 5,437 ($647), from Y 1,870 ($223) to
Y 3,073 ($365) for hybrid com and from Y 3,759 ($448) to Y 7,268 ($865) for peanuts.
Farm budget analysis for each province is summarized in Annex 6, Table 1. Farm model
analysis shows that per capita income of farmers in Guangxi would be increased from
Y 414 ($49) to Y 640 ($76) with the project, an increment of Y 226 ($27) or 35 percent.
The average per capita income of the project's farmers as a whole would be increased
from Y 580 ($69) to Y 905 ($108), an increment of Y 325 ($39) or 56 percent. Results of
farm model analysis by province are summarized in Annex 6, Table 3.



- 52-
C. COST RECOVERY
6.9   Cost recovery for this project would come from service fees and tax revenue from
the seed companies and incremental crop production. Fees would be established for seed
registration, certification and testing services. Assurance was obtained at negotiations
that the Borrower would develop, no later than December 31, 1997, a fee system for
variety testing and registration, field inspection and seed testing to cover the cost of these
services. Such system would be introduced no later than June 30, 1998 in at least six
Project Provinces, with a view to introducing such systems nationwide no later than
June 30, 2000. A draft of the proposal would be reviewed at the project launch
workshop. The cost of external quality control, research and extension would be
recovered through the 5 percent provincial crop tax which would be imposed on the
incremental crop production under the project.
6.10 The government would receive incremental tax revenue from the VAT and the
corporation tax levy by the central government and City Construction Tax levied locally.
The companies would generate total annual tax revenue of Y 280 million of which Y 110
million would be VAT, Y 160 million corporation tax and Y 10 million city tax. The
seed companies would be responsible for repaying the principal plus interest on their
borrowings. Repayments to MOF would be guaranteed by all participating project
provinces.
D. IMPACT ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET
6.11  The total incremental recurrent budget required to keep the project seed stations
operating at the same level of efficiency following the loan disbursement period is
estimated at Y 6.5 million ($0.8 million). The percentage impact of this incremental
recurrent expenditure on the administrative budgets of the 13 provinces is very small.
E. ECONOMIc ANALYSIS
6.12  Economic analysis has been carried out for each province and for the project as a
whole. As described in paras. 6.5-6.6, the economic benefits of the project would come
from: (a) the net value of incremental grain production resulting from better varieties of
seed, and (b) the saving of seed from the use of higher quality seed at recommended
seeding rates.  The incremental economic benefit is estimated from per hectare
incremental production based on farm budget analysis of the future situation with and
without the project, using economic prices for inputs and outputs (Annex.6, Table 7).
The net economic value of annual potential incremental production would be
Y 7.8 billion per annum, on the assumption that 100 percent of the farmers using
improved seeds in the project area would achieve the expected incremental yield.
6.13  The total hectarage for each crop in each province is estimated on the basis of
incremental seed production under the project. The incremental economic values by
province are shown in An= 6, Table 8. Project costs include all project investment
costs for seed companies and seed stations (excluding the MOA project office and the



- 53 -
Shanghai Xiangmin Machinery Company) and the fixed and variable operating costs of
the seed companies, the incremental recurrent cost of the seed stations, the incremental
farm production costs and an allowance for physical contingencies. Buildings are
assumed to last 20 years and vehicles and equipment 7-8 years. Recurrent costs are
assumed to continue at the same level for the remainder of the 20-year period as during
project Year 6.
6.14  World price projections or average export prices actually realized by China in
1995 were used to estimate constant farm-gate economic prices for traded inputs and
outputs (Aanex 6, Table 5). Economic prices for nontraded goods were estimated using
conversion factors (Annex 6, Table 6) based on the analysis of the deviations of social
opportunity costs from the actual financial prices prevailing in China, which are caused
by taxes and price distortions. All economic values were converted to local currency at
the prevailing official exchange rate of Y 8.4 to $1.
6.15  A conservative approach was made in claiming the benefits of the project. In
general, a concentrated area development effort would be needed to realize the full
benefits of an agricultural project. Since seed production under the project would be used
in extensive areas, it is unlikely that the full incremental benefit would be totally achieved
without such efforts. For instance, farmers may not have access to the inputs or support
services that would be necessary to fully exploit the benefit of improved seeds.
Furthermore, it is difficult to disaggregate the result of improved seeds from that of
improved irrigation, input supply, marketing and credit. Hence, for this economic
analysis, benefits attributed to improved seed are assumed to be only 25 percent of the net
potential incremental value of production. Based on the above, the economic rates of
return of investment in each province range from 18 percent to 77 percent. The project's
economic rate of return is estimated at 42 percent, with a net present value of Y 1.7
billion ($205 million). A summary of the analysis can be found in Annex 6, Table 9.
6.16  Sensitivity analysis has been carried out to evaluate the sensitivity of the
project's ERR to price and cost variations. The project is not very sensitive to an increase
in investment and operating costs; if the investment costs increased by 10 percent, the
ERR would be reduced to 39 percent, and if the operating cost increased by 10 percent,
ERR would be reduced to 30 percent. Labor cost has a very small impact on the ERR; 10
percent and 20 percent increases in labor costs would reduce ERR to 41 percent and 40
percent, respectively. However, the ERR is sensitive to prices of output: if price falls by
10 percent, ERR would be reduced to 24 percent.
6.17  Sensitivity analysis has also been carried out to identify the minimum incremental
value of production due to seeds that would still result in a satisfactory ERR. Usage
would have to drop to a very low 20 percent of farmers to bring the ERR down to 12
percent, the opportunity cost of capital. If 30 percent of farmers achieved the expected
yields, the ERR would increase to 74 percent. A summary of the sensitivity analysis can
be found in Annex 6, Tables 10-16.



- 54 -
F. RisKs
6.18  A risk with respect to the policy framework would be that not all of the measures
under the draft seed sector policy would be approved by the Government. This is
lessened by the open reiteration of this policy in several high-level speeches and the
initiation of several key activities to achieve this policy by the Government. Seed sector
modernization and commercialization is also the main thrust in the new government's
Seed Industrialization Program. In the project, seed companies are being restructured to
be independent companies under the Chinese Company Law. Policy actions to separate
seed administration from seed commercialization have already been achieved in more
than 10 provinces. The new seed law and a legal framework for plant variety protection
is being drafted. And, finally, the price of seed is now set according to market conditions,
and interprovincial trade for seed has become significant.
6.19  A risk with respect to the legal framework would be a significant delay in
enacting the seed law and the legal framework for plant variety protection. This is
lessened by the strong government commitment to seed commercialization and the desire
to enter the international seed trade. The first drafts of the seed law and the legal
framework for plant variety protection are being refined and are expected to be submitted
to the State Council by the end of this year. The risk of poor regulatory follow-through in
implementing the law and regulation is lessened by the involvement of provincial
governments in the drafting and the government's plan to draft implementing particulars.
6.20  The risk that no effective, profitable seed companies will emerge or they will
decline to compete outside of traditional boundaries is reduced by the selection process
already undertaken. It would be further reduced by the improved business environment
and by technical assistance to firms in business practice and management. The risk of
ineffective financial management would be minimized by training and institutional
development financed under the project. The risk of nonavailability of new superior
products would be minimized by the ability to access new genetic materials via
international trade. Production risk is very small since seed has been produced for
several millennia in China.



- 55 -
7. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a)   The participating provinces would onlend funds to eligible seed companies
at an interest rate of at least 6.5 percent, with a maturity of 20 years,
including 5 years' grace; the enterprise would bear the foreign exchange
risk. Subloans would only be made to enterprises and to subprojects that
meet the agreed eligibility criteria (paras. 2.41, 3.44, 3.47, 4.7 and 4.10);
(b)   Project Implementation Arrangements (PIAs) would be concluded between
the Borrower and the 14 provinces when they (i) have separated the quality
control functions from their seed companies and (ii) propose to make at least
one eligible subloan to a seed company (para. 2.42);
(c)   A condition of disbursement for the seed stock under a given subproject
would be that operation plans for the subproject acceptable to the Bank
Group have been prepared and the subproject's seed processing lines are
installed and ready for operation (para. 3.41);
(d)   Special account(s) would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank Group, the provincial PMOs would maintain
consolidated accounts for all components for annual auditing by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group, audited accounts
together with the auditor's report would be submitted to the Bank Group
within six months of the close of each year, and the seed companies would
have their financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank Group (para. 3.43);
(e)   If any of the subprojects have any resettlement, it has to be carried out
according to principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank Group and,
if the numbers of primary affected persons in any subproject reach 200,
the province concerned will submit a resettlement action plan to the Bank
Group for review as a condition of eligibility for inclusion in the project
(para. 3.44);
(f)    All farm and seed coating chemicals procured through the project would be
ICAMA-approved products. Chemical use, handling and storage would be
according to guidelines acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 3.47);
(g)   The PI,Gs would be maintained with terms of reference, composition and
resources acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 4.2);



- 56 -
(h)   It would maintain and support the CPMO and the PPMOs with terms of
reference, composition and resources acceptable to the Bank Group (para.
4.4);
(i)    Each project province would introduce, no later than December 31, 1996, a
program of random field crop inspection and testing of packed seed (para.
4.9);
(j)    Annual oveiseas training and study tour plans would be submitted to the
I-P,-k Group foi prior approval and all consultants would be hired in
accordance with IBRD's guidelines on the selection and use of consultants
(para. 4.12);
(k)   Progress reports would be produced by all PPMOs, summarized by the
CPMO and forwarded to the Bank Group every six months. A mid-term
review of the project would be undertaken by the CPMO by June 30, 1998
to assess progress and chart implementation of the project for the remaining
period (para. 4.13); and
(1)    The Borrower would establish, no later than December 31, 1997, a fee
system for variety testing and registration, field inspection and seed testing
to cover the cost of these services. Such system would be introduced no
later than June 30, 1998 in at least six Project Provinces, with a view to
introducing such system nationwide no later than June 30, 2000 (para. 6.9).
7.2   Condition  of Effectiveness.   The  Borrower would enter into  Project
Implementation Arrangements (PIAs) with at least nine project provinces satisfactory to the
Bank Group as a condition of Loan/Credit effectiveness (para. 4.5).
7.3   Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would constitute a suitable
basis for an IBRD loan of $80 million with 20 years' maturing including 5 years of grace
at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans, and
an IDA credit of SDR 13.8 million, equivalent to $20 million, at IDA's standard terms
with a 35-year maturity, to the People's Republic of China.



- 57 -                             Annex 1
Page 1 of 17
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Description of Seed Enterprises.
1.        The project would support the participation of 31 seed enterprises
(SEs) under the project, in thirteen provinces, and would support proposals for
upgradir,g production facilities at Shanghai Seed Machinery Company, a seed
processing equipment manufacturer in Shanghai. Also the proposed joint venture
or license agreement between Shanghai Seed Machinery Company and a well
established Danish seed machinery manufacturer.
2.        The  project  would  provide  financial  and  technical  assistance,
including training to the seed enterprises, and the Shanghai Xiangmin Seed
Machinery  Company.    Financial  assistance would  cover  the  procurement  of
materials, equipment and technical services required to upgrade and expand the
existing seed processing and storage facilities, or to build new facilities. Also
the construction of administrative and marketing infrastructure required to
manage the incremental quantities of seed produced under the project. Technical
assistance and training would focus on improved management of the enterprises,
financial, control, seed handling technology, plant operation and maintenance, and
on marketing and sales.
Selected Pro_ect Participants.
3.        The seed production volumes in the following text are the gross
production of seeds before storage and processing. The financial analysis tables
take into account storage and processing losses, and segregate the seeds into
Grade-1 and Grade-2 and trash, where relevant. See the individual company tables
in Annex-4 (Table-4) for planned sales volumes in each grade.
Gansu Huanqxua State Farm.
4.        This company would produce and market 12,250 tons/year of seeds of
which 7,000 t/y would be barley seeds, 2,040 t/y wheat, 1,400 t/y Hybrid Maize,
1,660 t/y watermelon, and 150 t/y hybrid rape seeds. The company would provide
employment for 96 permanent staff at their offices, laboratories and processing
facilities, in addition to seasonal labor at the processing plant and farmers at
the production base.
5.        The  investment  planned  by  the  enterprise  would  include  land
preparation, development of 4,000 m2 of seed drying floor, 4,000 e2 of seed
stores,  1,550  M2 processing  room,  enterprise  center  and  utilities  room.
Processing equipment would include two 3t/h seed processing lines and a lt/h
processing line with three packing lines for jute sacks and polypacks. Offices
would be provided with office equipment, computers, training equipment and
internal quality control facilities. The project would also provide 3 vehicles,
1,000 tons of fertilizer and 38 tons of farm chemicals. License agreements would
be bid internationally for improved seed varieties. Training would include 40 mm
local training and 1.3mm foreign training.
6.        The project would invest Y41.7 million in capital investment excluding
contingencies, and YO.9 million in working capital. The investment would produce
a turnover of Y50.4 million and 22.6% FIRR at full rated capacity, and 17% FIRR
at 80% of rated capacity. The component would maintain a stable FIRR with normal
variations in market conditions, but a 10% reduction in sales margins would
reduce the FIRR to 11.3%. Capital growth would be good from project year 5,
resulting in cumulative net income of Y50 million in 20 years, after tax, debt
servicing and dividend payments.



Annex 1
- 58 -                                Page 2 of 17
Guanoxi Provincial Seed Companv.
7.        This company has an equity stake in a provincial seed farm and five
County seed companies, and currently produces commercial seeds for hybrid rice,
hybrid maize, groundnut and Dogbane. The company has existing seed stores of
2,000 m7i An additional six counties will act as sales agents for the enterprise.
S.        The production of these seeds are to be increased under the project
by 23,430 tons per year of which 13,960 t/y would be hybrid rice, 4,220 t/y
hybrid maize, 4,320 t/y peanuts, and 930 t/y Dogbane (Hibiscus Canabinus). This
company would be dependent on significant quantities of maize and rice being
marketed on the inter-provincial market, and during meetings the appraisal team
noted that technical assistance will be needed for equipment selection and to
strengthen marketing skills. The company would provide employment for 68
permanent staff in addition to seasonal labor and farmers at the production base.
9.        The seed company would acquire 2 ha of land that is currently a
f)res*ry area, invest in development of 20 ha of seed production land including
a nom.nal amount of irrigaticn and rural roads. They will construct 2750 r2 of
processJng rooms, 12,000 m2 of seed drying floors and 10,600 m2 of seed stores at
12 locations. They would also construct 1200 m2 of air conditioned storage, two
enterprise (administrative) centers, 400 m2 of greenhouses and a sales room on
the Vietnam border.
10.       The project would provide one 3t/h processing line for maize, one 3t/h
line for Dogbane and peanuts, eight 2t/h lines for rice (40 kg bags), and one
2t/h line for rice in 5kg bags. Also office equipment, computers, training
equipment, services equipment, and 49 vehicles. Technical assistance and training
will include 80 mm of local training, 4 mm of foreign training, 4.8 mm of local
consultants and 0.4 mm of foreign study tours. The project would also provide
10,000 tons of fertilizer, 1,730 jute bags, and funds for seed license agreements
to be bid internationally for improved varieties.
11.       The   capital   investment   would   be  Y192.3   million   excluding
contingencies, and investment in working capital YO.S million. This component is
the largest single investment under the project. The company would generate a
gross revenue of Y261.5 million by project year six, and a gross operating income
of Y49.133 million. The FIRR at full capacity would be 21.2%, and sensitivity
analysis indicates that the FIRR would be sensitive to increased buying prices
and decreased sales prices, but otherwise reasonably stable. Tax revenue would
be Y28.8 million at full operation.
Guizhou Provincial Seed Company.
12.       Guizhou Provincial Seed Company operates in a mountainous region and
combines the operations of 10 Prefecture and County seed companies, and currently
produces 108 t/y parent lines for hybrid maize, and 90 t/y of hybrid rice.
13.       The company would expand its production under the project of the same
products by a total of 17,277 t/y, of which 8,000 t/y would be hybrid rice, 9,000
t/y hybrid maize, 277 t/y hybrid rape in addition to growing 514 t/y of parent
seeds and 48,000 fruit tree seedlings.
14.       The company plans to acquire 1.5 ha of wasteland to develop for
commercial activities, and to invest in production bases and facilities in the
provincial capital and 3 prefectures, including the development of 3,000 ha of
seed production land, 38 km of irrigation, 40 km power lines and 32 km of rural
roads in scattered locations in difficult and mountainous terrain. Also retail
outlets at 7 locations, 1,728 m2 of offices and cold stores of 1,350 m' in the 4
prefectures.
15.       Simple processing lines of 1 t/h capacity would be installed at 4



Annex 1
59 -                               Page 3 of 17
locations, and the prefecture offices would be provided with office equipment,
computers, training equipment and internal quality control facilities. The
project would also provide 4,000 tons of fertilizer and 100 tons of farm
chemicals, and the investment would include license agreements for new varieties.
16.       The   capital   investment   would   be  Y131.4   million  excluding
contingencies, and YO.4 million working capital. The company would generate
annual gross revenue of Y170.9 million by project year six, and a gross operating
income of Y27.7 million.
17.       The FIRR at full capacity would be 26.1%, would be sensitive to
increased buying prices and decreased sales prices, but otherwise reasonably
stable. Tax revenues would be Y16.7 million at full operation.
Hunan: Jan Shan State Farm.
18.       Jan Shan Farm proposes to produce 1,596 t/y of seeds of which; 1,596
t/y would be hybrid rice, and 4,000 t/y acid delinted cotton seeds for sale in
the local market. A proportion of the ADS cottonseed will be planted out in
plastic greenhouses for sale as 12 million seedlings per year, to enable farmers
to gain growing time in the Spring. The hybrid rice parent line will be procured
through ICB or ILB procurement, and would be available from CAAS institutes
within China.
19.       The company would not acquire land but proposes to develop 1,000 ha
of production base including irrigation, drainage and 10 km of internal roads.
They will also construct a seed drying floors 3,000 ml, seed store 2200 m2,
process  and  packing  rooms  896  m2,  an  air-conditioned  store  200  m2,  an
administrative office and utilities room for the enterprise, and also erect
40,000 m2 of plastic tunnels. They will procure office equipment, quality control
equipment, and 5 vehicles. Technical assistance and training will include 50 mm
local, 1 mm foreign training and 4.5 mm foreign study tours. The project would
also provide 2,000 tone of fertilizer and 30 tons of farm chemicals, and provide
Yl.5 million for genetic materials.  The large area of plastic tunnels is
supported by the planting requirements of 12 million seedlings in pots at 2.8
million per ha.
20.       The capital investment would be Y38.9 million excluding contingencies,
and working capital YO.2 million. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y42.1 millicn by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y13.9 million.
The FIRR at full capacity would be 24%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates
the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in operating and marketing
conditions with the exception of decreases in sales prices. Reduced margins of
10% reduces the FIRR to 16.4%. Tax revenues would be Y7.9 million at full
operation.
Hunan Provincial Seed ComDany.
21.       This provincial seed company is located in 5 prefectures and 10
counties, and plans to produce and market 7,000 t/y of hybrid rice seed, 4,095
t/y of hybrid maize, 504 t/y of hybrid rapeseed, and 2,500 t/y of acid delinted
cotton seeds.
22.       The company would not acquire land but proposes to develop existing
lard including water supply, 76 km of on farm irrigation, drainage and 10 km of
power lines and 25 km of internal roads. They will also construct a seed drying
floors 9,000 m2, seed store 4,770 m2, process and packing rooms 1,644 m2, an air-
conditioned store 200 m2, an 15 administrative offices and utilities room for the
enterprise, and also erect 1,000 m2 of plastic tunnels. They will procure office
equipment, quality control equipment, and 18 vehicles. The processing facilities
will be at 5 locations, with four 1.5 t/h seed processing lines and one acid
delinting plant of 1 t/h. All products except rapeseed would be packed in 5 kg



- 60 -                                Annex 1
Page 4 of 17
bags, requiring two packing machines per process line.
23.       Technical assistance and training will include 200 mm local training,
6 mm foreign training and 20 mm local consultants and 6 mm foreign study tours.
The project would also provide 3,500 tons of fertilizer,  34 tons of farm
chemicals and 790 kg of hormones, and provide Y3.4 million for genetic materials.
24.       The   capital   investment   would   be  Y131.4   million   excluding
contingencies, and working capital YO.4 million. The company would generate a
gross revenue of Y148.7 million by project year six, and a gross operating income
of Y45.8 million. The FIRR at full capacity would be 26%, and the sensitivity
analysis indicates the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in operating
and marketing conditions. Reduced margins of 10% reduces the FIRR to 17%. Tax
revenues would be Y25.7 million at full operation. Company growth would be strong
from project year 5, achieving Y180 million cumulative net revenue by project
year 20.
Hubei: Ren Min Da Yuan State Farm.
25.       This Farm currently produces wheat, hybrid rice, cotton and rape seed
for its own use, and supplements shortages in cotton seeds from outside
suppliers. The new company will be jointly owned by Ren Min Da Yuan Agro-
Technical Services Company by the provision of Y5.5 million in cash, and by the
Ren Min Da Yuan Grain, Oil and Food Company by the provision of Y5.6 million
cash.
26.       The company proposes  to expand production by  3,920  t/y of ADS
cottonseed, 1,100 t/y hybrid maize, 2,500 t/y conventional rice and 210 t/y of
rapeseed. Construction would comprise of 2,000 m2 of drying floor, 2,250 m2 of
seed stores, 1,000 m2 of processing and packing rooms,  two steel seed storage
silos and an office block.
27.       One  3t/h  acid  delinting  plant  would  process  all  of  the  seed
requirements for the farm and leave 1,000 t/y for sale on the local market. With
the addition of an air screen separator the system could also handle the maize,
rice and rapeseed. Training would be provided for 15 mm of local training, 4 mm
foreign training and 2 mm local study tours. The project would support the supply
of 500 tons of fertilizer and 2 tons of farm chemicals. The Farm would also
invest Y100,000 in improved genetic materials.
28.       Ren Min Da Yuan Farm is part of a State Farm unit that has massive
debts, although Ren Min Da Yuan Farm is said to be operating in profit. The Farm
has extricated itself as an autonomous company (see ownership above), completely
severing management and financial control from the debt laden parent unit, and
has provided it's own annual accounts statement and balance sheet showing a
profitable operation. The parent State Farm has no call on the cash flow of this
project component.
29.       The capital investment would be Y39.6 million excluding contingencies,
and working capital YO.2 million. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y33.2 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y12.6 million.
The FIRR at full capacity would be 22.6%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates
the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in operating and marketing
conditions, but at 80% operating capacity the FIRR falls to 16.7%. Tax revenues
would be Y7.0 million at full operation. Net revenues would be negative in
project year 4 requiring a short term loan of Y4.9 million to support company
running costs. Cumulative net revenue builds satisfactorily over the 20 year
project life to Y38 million.
Hubei: Dona Xi Hu State Farm.
30.       This State Farm proposal is virtually identical to the Ren Min Da Yuan



Annex 1
- 61 -                                Page 5 of 17
State Farm proposal. Dong Xi Hu belongs to the same debt laden Provincial State
Farm unit, and this company has also severed itself from the provincial unit in
order to be accepted into the project.
31.       Planned production would be 4,460 t/y of ADS cotton, 165 t/y of hybrid
rice, 2,120 t/y of conventional rice and 1,106 t/y of barley. The company
proposes to construct 2,000 m2 of drying floor, 2000 m2 of seed stores, 1,000 m2
of processing and packing rooms, an office block and utilities room. One 3t/h
acid delinting plant would be constructed, and with the addition of an air screen
separator the system could also handle the rice and barley. Training would be
provided for 17 mm of local training and 4 mm of foreign training. The project
would support the supply of 500 tons of fertilizer and 2 tons of farm chemicals.
The Farm would also invest Y100,000 in improved genetic materials.
32.       The   capital   investment   would   be  Y41.3   million,   excluding
contingencies, and working capital YO.2 million. The company would generate a
gross revenue of Y33.2 million by project year six, and a gross operating income
of Y12.9 million. The FIRR at full capacity would be 22%, and the sensitivity
analysis indicates the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in operating
ard marketing conditions, but would reduce to 16% with 10% reduction in sales
margins. Tax revenues would be Y7.3 million at full operation.
Hubei: State Farm Traditig Company.
33.       The State Farm rrading company would procure seeds from growers, under
contract, and would process, store and trade the seeds. The company plans to sell
5,250 t/y of hybrid rice, 6,300 t/y of wheat, 7,840 t/y of acid delinted cotton
seed, 105C t/y of rape, and 210 t/y of vegetable seeds.
3A.       The project would support investment in 2,300 m2 of drying floors,
2,000 m2 of seed stores, 1,200 m2 of processing plant, one enterprise center and
utilities room of 532 m2, eleven retail outlets of 550 M2. The project would also
provide two 3 t/h seed processing lines, one acid delinting plant of 1.5 t/h,
testing equipment, computers, office equipment, utilities, and 8 vehicles.
Training would comprise 7 mm local training, 4 mm foreign training and 1 mm local
consultant. The company would also invest Y100,000 in new genetic materials.
35.       Capital investment would be Y33.3 million excluding contingencies, and
YO.7 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y153.0 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y10.5
million. The FIRR at full capacity would be 21%, and the sensitivity analysis
indicates the FIRR would be very sensitive to increased buying prices or
decreased selling prices, with 10% reduced margins producing negative FIRR. Tax
revenues would be Y8.1 million at full operation.
Jiangsu: Apri-BUBinesB Corporation.
36.       This enterprise proposed a significant investment in the development
of five State Farms and the agri-business company. The proposal would have
invested heavily in land development, a fertilizer mix plant and a trucking
company. The farms currently produce 5,200 tons of wheat seed, 980 tons of rice,
3,900 tons of cotton seed, and 1,700 tons of barley seed. The proposal would
produce an incremental 28,522 tons per year of seeds, predominantly wheat, rice,
barley and cotton. In discussions with the Corporation revisions were made to
the investment to include only the proposals that were directly related to
incremental seed production.
37.       The fertilizer mix plant was therefore deleted, and the trucking fleet
and land development investments reduced to the actual requirements for
incremental production. The acid delinting plant was decreased from 3 t/h to 1.5
t/h as the volume of seed to be processed would be achievable with the smaller
equipment. In its revised form the corporation would produce and market 9,000 t/y



Annex 1
- 62 -                                Page 6 of 17
of rice, 2,160 t/y of hybrid rice, 17,700 t/y of wheat, 4,200 t/y of barley,
2,200 t/y soybeans, 200 t/y hybrid rape, and 2,100 t/y of sugarbeet.
38.       The project would acquire 8 ha of land that is currently a derelict
building site, for commercial operations, and would invest in 6,860 ha of land
development, irrigation, drainage, power supply and internal roads, 5,000 mZ of
drying floors, 7,750 m2 of seed stores, 1,630 m2 of processing plant and packing
rooms, six enterprise centers and utilities rooms of 3192 M2.
39.       The investment would also provide four 3 t/h seed processing and
packing lines, and four sets of testing equipment, computers, office equipment
and utilities. Also 15 vehicles, 15 tractors and 14 items of agricultural
equipment. Training would comprise 40 mm local training, 6 mm foreign training
and 6 mm local and 6mm foreign study tours, and 6 mm local consultants. The
company would also invest in 7,000 tons of fertilizers, 63 tons of farm
chemicals, and Y3 million in local licenses for new genetic materials.
40.       Capital investment would be Y93.9 million excluding contingencies, and
Y0.8 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y120.4 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y30.3
million. The FIRR at full capacity would be 22%, and the sensitivity analysis
indicates the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in operating and
marketing conditions, falling to 17% FIRR at 80% operating capacity. Tax revenues
would be Y17.5 million at full operation.
41.       The Jiangsu Agribusiness Corporation is part of a State Farm unit that
has substantial debts, and has confirmed that the company has been severed from
the parent company as an autonomous company.
Jiangxi: State Farm (Provincial) Seed Trading Company.
42.       This company would be a new Provincial Trading Company in which the
General Bureau of State Farms would take 25% share, but the Bureau currently has
debts of Y226 million. The inclusion of this company in the project would,
therefore, be dependent on finding a shareholder that has funds to finance the
20% equity required by the Bank. At the time of appraisal the trading company had
not yet provided details of this shareholder (See State of Preparation - Follow-
Up).
43.       The investment in this proposal would be for 200 M2 seed stores, an
office and utility block of 632 m2, testing equipment, office equipment, training
equipment and eight vehicles. Training would include 8.3 mm local training, 0.5
mm foreign training, and two weeks of study tours. The company would also procure
270 tons of fertilizer.
44.       Capital investment would be Y9.9 million excluding contingencies, and
YO.1 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y14.6 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y2.8 million.
The FIRR at full capacity would be 19.5%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates
the FIRR would be sensitive to increased buying prices, decreased sales prices,
and to product throughput capacity. The FIRR decreases to 13 % at 80% sales
capacity.
45.       The investment requires an additional short term loan of Y1.6 million
in project years 3 and 4 to support operational costs and debt servicing, and
produces a small incremental net revenue after tax and debt servicing, of YS
million by prcject year 20. i.e. a marginally profitable operation.
Jiangxi: TaJ He State Farm.
46.       Tai He State Farm will produce 364 t/y plantago and 1,830 t/y of
peanut seed, of which plantago is a very fine seed with 1,000 seed weight 1.19



Annex 1
- 63 -                                Page 7 of 17
grams. The company will, therefore, require two separate processing and packaging
lines in order to avoid excessive losses of the plantago seeds in the aspiration
systems.
47.       The investment planned by the enterprise would not require any land
acquisition, but would include development of production bases and facilities
including 67 ha of land, 6 km power lines and 4 km of rural roads. Also 4,250 m2
of seed drying floor and 1,280 M2 of seed stores, offices and utility rooms.
Processing equipment would include one complete plantago seed processing line of
0.7 t/h, and one peanut seed processing line of 1 t/h. Offices would be provided
with office equipment, computers, training equipment and internal quality control
facilities. The project would also provide two vehicles. Training would include
37 mm local training, 1mm foreign study tour, and 3 mm local study tours. The
project would also provide 500 tons of fertilizer.
48.       Capital investment would be Y13.9 million excluding contingencies, and
YO.9 million working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of Y19.9
million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y4.1 million. The
FIRR at full capacity would be 19.7%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates the
FIRR would be sensitive to decreased selling prices by 10% producing 8.2% FIRR.
Also at 80% operating capacity the investment would reduce to 14.2% FIRR. Tax
revenues would be Y2.5 million at full operation.
Jianaxi: Rao Fena State Farm.
49.       Rao Feng State Farm is a single product company concentrating on
conventional and hybrid rice. The company will produce, process and market 700
t/y hybrid rice and 6,640 t/y of conventional rice seed.
50.       The investment planned by the enterprise would not require any land
acquisition, but include development of 500 ha of land, irrigation and drainage
systems, 6 km power lines and 3 km of rural roads. Also 10,000 m2 of seed drying
floor and 1,800 m2 of seed stores, 400 m2 processing roomn, offices and utility
rooms.
51.       Processing equipment would include one seed processing and packing
line of 3 t/h, and eight seed elevators. Offices would be provided with office
equipment, computers, training equipment and internal quality control facilities.
The project would also provide 11 vehicles, two tractors and agricultural
machinery. Training would include 20 mm local training, 2mm foreign training and
8 mm study tours. The company would also invest Y200,000 in new genetic
materials, and procure 2,000 tons of fertilizer.
52.       Capital investment would be Y36.7 million excluding contingencies, and
YO.2 million working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of Y41.4
million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y10.5 million. The
FIRR at full capacity would be 21%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates the
FIRR would be sensitive to decreased selling prices by 10% producing 11% FIRR.
The FIRR at 20% reduced operating capacity would be 15%. Tax revenues would be
Y6.1 million at full operation.
Jianaxi: Hena Fena State Farm.
53.       Heng Feng State Farm currently produces 371 t/y hybrid rice, and 929
t/y of conventional rice, some of which is sold on the local market. Cotton seed
is currently sourced from outside the State Farm. Incremental production under
the project would be 423 t/y of hybrid rice, 6,045 t/y of conventional rice and
3,940 t/y of acid delinted cotton seed.
54.       The investment planned by the enterprise would include acquisition of
3 ha of dry waste land that has no farming and no residents, and development of
300 ha of existing production bases and facilities including 12.5 km of



- 64 -                                Annex 1
Page 8 of 17
irrigation and drainage, 3.6 km power lines and 20 km of rural roads. Also 10,000
m2 of seed drying floor, 4,000 m of seed stores, 400 m2 glass houses, and 12,000
m2 plastic tunnels, office and utilities rooms.
55.       Processing equipment would include a 3t/h seed processing line and
3t/h cotton seed acid delinting plant, and two packing lines. Offices would be
provided with office equipment, computers, training equipment and internal
quality control facilities. The project would also provide 3 vehicles and 2,000
tons of fectilizer, and the investment would include Y174,000 for license
agreements for new varieties. Training would include 20 mm local training, 3mm
foreign training and 27 mm local study tours.
56.       Capital investment would be Y58.9 million excluding contingencies, and
YO.3 million working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of Y52.2
million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y20.8 million. The
FiRR at full capacity would be 25%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates the
FIPR would be stable under normal variations in operating and marketing
conditions. Tax revenues would be Y11.5 million at full operation.
Shandong: Zhancpiu State Farm.
57.        Zhangqiu State Farm currently produces 28 t/y of leek seeds to meet
the local market of 8.5 t/y with the remainder being sold in the inter-regional
market. The company proposes to increase production by 700 t/y of leek seeds, in
addition to 200 t/y of radish, 100 t/y of celery and 15 t/y of leek foundation
seed.
58.       The project would not acquire any land but would invest in 40 ha of
land development, irrigation, drainage, power supply and internal roads, 4,800
n2 of drying floors, 450 m2 of seed stores, 500 m2 of processing plant and packing
room, aai enterprise center and utilities room. The investment would also provide
one 1 t/h seed processing and packing line, testing equipment, computers, office
equipment, utilities, 2 vehicles, and 2 tractors. Training would comprise 36 mm
local training, 4 mm foreign training, 1 mm local consultants, 3 mm local study
tours and two weeks foreign study tours. The company would also invest in 1,040
'one of fertilizers.
59.       Capital investment would be Y17.3 million excluding contingencies, and
YO.2 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y31.2 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y7.7 million.
The FIRR at full capacity would be 31%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates
the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in operating and marketing
conditions. Tax revenues would be Y4.3 million at full operation.
Shandong: Provincial Seed Company.
60.       The Provincial Seed Company currently produces 2,000 t/y of hybrid
maize seed, 600 t/y of wheat seed, and 115 t/y of vegetable seeds, and has an
existing process line and buildings supplied (1994) under the MoA 'Wheat 125
Project'. The company proposes to expand production by 1,902 t/y of wheat, 4,275
t/y of hybrid maize, 350 t/y of vegetable seeds, and 130 t/y of foundation seeds.
61.       The  development  would  include  acquisition  of  1 ha of  land  for
commercial purposes, and development of 80 ha of existing seed production base,
2,000 m2 of drying floors, 2,000 M2 of seed stores, an enterprise center and
utilities room of 1,064 i2, and plastic greenhouses and greenhouses of 800 m2, and
seven retail shops. No additional processing hall is required as this has been
constructed under the 'Wheat 125 Project'.
62.        Investment in equipment would be limited to a pelletizing line fQc the
vegetable seeds, and a coating dryer. The project would also provide testing
equipment, computers, office equipment, utilities, and 10 vehicles. Training



- 65 -                                Annex 1
Page 9 of 17
would comprise 100 mm local training, 3 mm foreign training and 3 mm foreign
study tours. The company would also invest in 1,500 tons of fertilizers and 12
tons of farm chemicals.
63.       Capital investment would be Y 41.4 million excluding contingencies,
and YO.3 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue
of Y48.7 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Yl1.7
million.  The FIRR at full capacity would be 21.3%, and the sensitivity analysis
indicates the FIRR would be sensitive to decreased selling prices by 10%
producing 11.1% FIRR. Tax revenues would be Y4.68 million at full operation.
Shandong: Lin Yi Prefecture Seed Company.
64.       Lin Yi Seed Company currently produces 5,000 t/y of peanuts, hybrid
maize, conventional rice and wheat. The company proposed substantial increases
in production that were significantly greater than their processing and storage
capacity. In discussion with the company the throughput has been rationalized,
and the investment would be viable by producing, processing and marketing 3,560
t/y peanuts, 3,000 t/y hybrid maize, and 1,000 t/y of wheat.
65.       The project would acquire 1 ha of land for commercial purposes, and
invest in 50 ha of land development, irrigation, drainage, power supply and
internal roads, 4,100 m2 of drying floors, 1,600 m2 of seed stores, 700 m of air
conditioned stores, 600 m2 of processing plant and packing room, an enterprise
center and utilities room, and nine retail shops. The investment would also
provide one 3 t/h seed processing and packing line, testing equipment, computers,
office equipment, utilities, and 4 vehicles. Training would comprise 100 mm local
training, 4 mm foreign training, 8 mm local study tours and 2 mm foreign study
tours. The company would also invest in 2,000 tons of fertilizers, 10 tons of
farm chemicals and Y300,000 in new genetic materials.
66.       Capital investment would be Y42.4 million excluding contingencies, and
YO.2 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y39.9 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y12.5 million.
The FIRR at full capacity would be 22.8%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates
the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in operating and marketing
conditions. Tax revenues would be Y7.03 million at full operation.
Sh&ndona: Liao Chena Prefecture Seed Company.
67.       Liao Cheng Prefecture Seed Company currently produces 3,165 t/y of
hybrid maize seed, 3,360 t/y of wheat seed, and 4,550 t/y of cotton seed. About
27% of the seed is surplus to requirements and sold outside of the prefecture.
A shortage of funds at pre-appraisal has been augmented by Y3.8 million from
Chiping County Seed Company, that is now a partner in the project.
68.       The company proposed to increase production by 4,811 t/y of acid
delinted cotton seed, 3,000 t/y of hybrid maize seed, and 800 t/y of wheat seed.
The investment would be at three locations and include acquisition of 2 ha of
land on which the existing farmers will produce seeds for the company. The
project would also inveet in 100 ha of land development, irrigation, drainage,
power supply and internal roads, 6,300 m2 of drying floors, 3,000 m2 of seed
stores, 300 e2 of air conditioned stores, 550 m2 of processing plant and packing
room, an enterprise center and utilities room, and 17 retail shops.
69.       The investment would also provide two 3 t/h seed processing, drying
and packing lines, computers, office equipment, utilities, and 4 vehicles.
Training would comprise 110 mm local training, 2 mm foreign training, 10 mm local
study tours and 3 mm foreign study tours. The company would also invest in 1,000
tons of fertilizers and Y73,000 in new genetic materials. The company has an
existing new acid delinting plant provided from their own funds.



- 66 -                               Annex 1
Page 10 of 17
70.       Capital investment would be Y35.6 million excluding contingencies, and
YO.2 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y41.0 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Yll.3 million.
The FIRR at full capacity would be 22.4%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates
the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in operating and marketing
conditions. Tax revenues would be Y6.5 million at full operation.
Shandong: Jinin Prefecture Seed Company.
71.       Jinin Seed Company currently produces 2,300 t/y of hybrid maize seed,
wheat seed, conventional rice, tomatoes and peppers. The company proposed to
increase production substantially, but limitations on the equipment capacity and
available processing time required this to be trimmed back. The incremental
production has been adjusted in discussion with the company, and would be 940 t/y
of hybrid rice, 2,550 t/y of wheat, 2,650 t/y of hybrid maize, and 118 t/y of
vegetable seeds.
72.       The investment would not require any land acquisition,  and would
include 3,000 m2 of drying floors, 1,500 m2 of seed stores, 850 m2 of processing
plant and packing room, an enterprise center and utilities room, and 6 retail
shops.
73.       The investment would also provide one 3 t/h seed processing line,
testing equipment, computers, office equipment, utilities, 7 vehicles, two
tractors and three items of agricultural machinery. Training would comprise 160
mm local training, 2 mm foreign training and 2 mm foreign study tours. The
company would also invest in 500 tons of fertilizers and 10 tons of farm
chemicals, and Y1 million in new genetic materials.
74.       Capital investment would be Y24.9 million excluding contingencies, and
YO.2 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y35.7 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y8.1 million.
The FIRR at full capacity would be 24.1%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates
the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in operating and marketing
conditions. Tax revenues would be Y4.8 million at full operation.
Shandong: Bin Zhou Prefecture Seed Comoany.
75.       Bin Zhou Seed Company currently produces 1,575 t/y of hybrid maize
seed, 8,062 t/y of soybean seed and 1,200 t/y of cotton seed. The company would
expand production by an additional 3,360 t/y of hybrid maize, 6,190 t/y of
soybean seeds and 1,720 t/y of acid delinted cotton seed. The company has an
existing cottonseed acid delinting plant that has been in operation for three
years and has some spare capacity available, and has 1,300 m2 existing seed
stores, and existing transformers with sufficient capacity for the expansion
project.
76.       Bin Zhou Seed Company propose to invest at two locations and to
acquire 1.7 ha of land at a derelict chicken production unit. The investment
would cover land development of 7,140 ha including irrigation, drainage, power
supply and internal roads, 1,700 M2 of drying floors, 1,300 m2 of seed stores, 300
M2 of processing plant and packing room, an enterprise center and utilities room,
600 mi of plastic greenhouses and 9 retail shops. The investment would also
provide one 3 t/h seed processing line, testing equipment, computers, office
equipment, utilities, and 4 vehicles. Training would comprise 45 mm local
training and 1.3 mm foreign training. The company would also invest in 1,040 tons
of fertilizers and 14 tons of farm chemicals.
77.       Capital investment would be Y28.8 million excluding contingencies, and
Y0.2 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y49.8 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y9.6 million.
The FIRR at full capacity would be 23.7%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates



- 67 -                                Annex 1
Page 11 of 17
the FIRR would be sensitive to decreased selling prices by 10% producing 10.4%
FIRR, and increasing buying prices by 10% would produce an FIRR of 14.4%. Tax
revenues would be Y5.7 million at full operation.
Shandong: Taian Prefecture Seed Company.
78.       Taian Seed Company comprises of two county seed companies merged with
Taian Prefecture seed company, and currently produces 4,650 t/y of hybrid maize
seed and 2,950 t/y of wheat seed. The company proposes to produce an incremental
5,000 t/y of hybrid maize and 9,975 t/y of wheat seed.
79.       The  company  proposes  to  acquire  1  ha  of  land  for  commercial
development. Investment would be at three locations and would include development
of 2,000 ha of land, irrigation, drainage, power supply and internal roads, 2,000
m2 of drying floors, 1,030 rm2 of seed stores, 600 m' of processing plant and
packing room, an enterprise center and utilities room and 10 retail shops.
80.       The investment would also provide one 3 t/h seed processing and
packing line, testing equipment, computers, office equipment, utilities, and 4
vehicles. Training and TA would comprise 208 mm local training and 1 mm of
foreign consultants visit. The company would also invest in 650 tons of
fertilizers and 10 tons of farm chemicals, and Y315,000 in new genetic materials.
81.       Capital investment would be Y 35.0 million excluding contingencies,
and YO.3 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue
of YbO 4 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y12.4
million. The FIRR at full capacity would be 24.3%, and the sensitivity analysis
indicates the FIRR would be sensitive to decreased selling prices by 10%
producing 11.7% FIRR. Tax revenues would be Y7.3 million at full operation.
Shandong: Zi Bo Seed Company.
92.       Zi Bo Seed Company currently produces 150 t/y of hybrid maize seed and
150 t/y of Chinese cabbage seed, and has some existing seed processing lines. The
company propobes to increase production by 4,500 t/y of hybrid maize and 495 t/y
of cabbage. The company was short of equity at pre-appraisal, but has since
received a guarantee from Huantai County Seed Co. to invest as a partner in the
project, with an additiDnal Y1.44 million.
83.       Zi Bo Soed Company propose to acquire 0.9 ha of land that is currently
forestry land, and tc invest in land development of 1,000 ha including
irrigation, drain-age, power supply and internal roads, 3,000 m2 of drying floors,
1,000 m2 cf seed stores, 200 M2 of air-conditioned and 100 m2 of cold stores, 496
m2 of ,rocessing yl_nt and packing room, an enterprise center and utilities room,
200 mn of plastic greenhouses and 10 retail shops.
S4.       The investment would also provide one 3 t/h seed processing and
packing line, testing equipment, computers, office equipment, utilities, and 5
vehicles. Training would comprise 100 mm local training, 5 mm foreign training,
5 mm local consultants and 5 mm foreign study tours. The company would also
invest in 600 tons of fertilizers.
85.       Capital investment would be Y29.0 million excluding contingencies, and
YO.5 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y43.7 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y14.2 million.
The FIRR at full capacity would be 34.8%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates
the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in market and operating
parameters. Tax revenues would be Y7.9 million at full operation.
Shandong: Wei Fenq Prefecture Seed Company.
86.       Wei Feng Seed Company currently produces 4,275 t/y of hybrid maize



Annex 1
- 68 -                               Page 12 of 17
seed and 2,875 t/y of wheat seed. The company proposes to expand production to
produce an additional 6,000 t/y of hybrid maize and 4,350 t/y of wheat at 3
locations, one at prefecture level and two at county level.
87.       The company would acquire 0.93 ha of land that is already designated
commercial land, and would invest in 280 ha of land development, irrigation,
drainage, power supply and internal roads, 2,000 m2 of drying floors, 1,000 m of
seed stores, 450 m2 of air conditioned and 100 m2 of coldstores, 496 m2 of
processing plant and packing room, three enterprise centers and utilities rooms,
1 retail shop and 950 m2 of plastic greenhouses. The investment would also
provide one 3 t/h seed processing line, testing equipment, computers, office
equipment, utilities, 3 vehicles and six tractors. Training would comprise 75 mm
local training, 7 mm local study tours, and 1.6 mm foreign study tours. The
company would also invest in 430 tons of fertilizers, 25 tons of farm chemicals
and Y450,000 in new genetic materials.
88.       Capital investment would be Y32.2 million excluding contingencies, and
Y0.2 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y52.6 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y9.3 million.
The FIRR at full capacity would be 21.1%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates
the FIRR would be sensitive to decreased selling prices by 10% producing 6.8%
FIRR, and increases of 10% in buying prices 11% FIRR. Tax revenues would be Y5.6
million at full operation.
Shanghai: Xianamin Machinery Companv.
89.       This enterprise is a State Farm company that manufactures a wide range
of agricultural machinery and seed processing equipment. The company has provided
seed processing lines to 20 county seed companies under the World Bank financed
Henan ADP. Their existing equipment range is well constructed, and the company
offers an excellent service to their clients including installation, training,
and servicing contracts.
90.       Their equipment designs and manufacturing procedures lack some of the
technical advantages of top class imported equipment. In particular the company
lacks good designs for key equipment such as air screen separators and gravity
tables that form the basis of good seed separating systems. They also do not have
the required high quality machine tools, screen presses and perforators to
produce accurate drum separators and screens.  The mechanical "doffers" that
clean the air screens during operation in their present range of seed separators
are far less efficient than the latest rubber ball cleaners now used in imported
equipment.
91.       Gravity  separator tables produced by this company also need an
improved control system to gain the accuracy and reliability of foreign machines.
The company does not have computer aided design (CAD) facilities that are now
used by most suppliers to produce plant layout drawings to each clients
requirements, or the computer aided manufacturing (CAM) equipment that translates
the CAD designs into shop floor manufacturing instructions.
92.       The company has approached several major European seed equipment
manufacturers for either a joint venture agreement or a license agreement that
would enable the company to upgrade its seed processing machinery to the latest
technology. They have received a interest from a number of companies that might
license equipment manufacture to the Shanghai Company, or would use the company
as sales and service agents.
93.       The Shanghai company would therefore invest under the project in
construction of a new workshop, the necessary machine tools, CAD/CAM design and
manufacturing equipment and in one or more technical collaboration agreements to
upgrade their seed processing equipment technology and production facilities.
This component of the project is an important step in assisting the China seeds



Annex 1
- 69 -                               Page 13 of 17
sector to progress in terms of processing system technology, and would have a
significant long term effect on the seeds sector.
94.       The capital investment would be Y44.9 million excluding contingencies,
plus YO.3 million working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y22.5 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y14.1 million.
The FIRR at full capacity would be 23.4%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates
the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in operating and marketing
conditions. Tax revenues would be Y8.1 million at full operation.
Shanxi: Vegetable Seed Company.
95.       Shanxi  Province  earlier  proposed  separate  investments  in  an
Experimental Seed Station, and the Provincial Vegetable Seed Company. During
appraisal it was decided to combine these units under one company.
96.       The  Provincial  Vegetable  Seed  Company  and  Experimental  Station
currently produce, process and market 283 t/y of assorted vegetable seeds. The
company proposes to increase production by 554 t/y of 11 varieties of vegetable
seed at the Vegetable Seed Company and 43.9 t/y of 9 varieties of foundation seed
at the Experimental Station.
97.       The company would acquire 10.67 ha of land for commercial development,
and propose to invest in 975 ha of land development including water supply,
irrigation and power lines. Also in 5C0 M2 of drying floors, 1,350 m 2 of seed
stores, 250 m2 of air-conditioned and 50 m2 of cold stores, 733 m2 of processing
plant  and  packing  room,  an  enterprise  center  and  utilities  room.    The
Experimental Station would also construct   300 m2 of specialized rooms for
breeding and seed development activities. The company would also conBtruct 14,670
m2 of plastic greenhouses, and 2,664 m2 of greenhouses, and 20 retail shops.
98.       The investment would also provide one 1 t/h seed processing line and
three packing lines, testing equipment, computers, office equipment, utilities,
one seed elevator and 8 vehicles, 2 tractors, and a sludge tanker. Training would
comprise 18 mm local training and 9 mm foreign study tours.
99.       Capital investment would be Y58.6 million excluding contingencies, and
YO.3 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y74.6 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y17.3 million.
The FIRR at full capacity would be 21.7%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates
the FIRR would be sensitive to decreasing selling prices by 10%, producing 11.2%
FIRR. Tax revenues would be Y10.0 million at full operation.
Shanxi Provincial Maize Seed Company.
100.      The company plans to produce and market 8,000 t/y of hybrid maize
seed, and 248 t/y of hybrid maize foundation seed, 4,000 t/y of sorghum, and
1,536 t/y of red bean.
101.      The company would acquire 4 ha of land in an industrial development
area for commercial development,  and propose to invest in 100 ha of land
development including water supply, irrigation and power lines. Also in 6000 m2
of drying floors, 6,000 m2 of seed stores, 150 M2 of cold stores, 1,000 m2 of
processing plant and packing room, an enterprise center and utilities room, and
three retail shops. The investment would also provide two 5 t/h seed processing
lines including seed dryers, testing equipment, three computers, office equipment
and utilities. Also 12 vehicles, 2 fork lift trucks. Training would comprise 38
mm local training, 2 mm foreign training, and 1.33 mm foreign study tours.
102.      Capital investment would be Y107.9 million excluding contingencies,
and YO.3 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue
of Y93.6 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y32.1



Annex 1
- 70 -                               Page 14 of 17
million. The FIRR at full capacity would be 22.7%, and the sensitivity analysis
indicates the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in market conditions.
Tax revenues would be Y17.7 million at full operation.
Sichuan Provincial Seed Company.
103.      This company plans to produce and market 6,800 t/y of hybrid rice
seed, 4,000 t/y of hybrid Maize seed, and 240 t/y of hybrid rape seed. No
detailed data was available from this company on site and building layouts, land
acquisition, equipment lists etc., as approval for Bank guarantees were received
after departure of the appraisal mission from China, but the CPMO have been
requested to provide this data.
104.      The company would acquire 1.5 ha of land for commercial development,
and propose to invest in 15 ha of land development including water supply,
irrigation and power lines. Also in 7000 m2 of seed drying floors, 5,000 m of
seed stores, 1,800 m2 of processing plant and packing room, three enterprise
centers and utilities rooms, three retail shops and 250 m2 of plastic
greenhouses.
105.      The investment would also provide one 2 t/h maize processing line and
two 2 t/h rice processing lines, 3 sets of testing equipment, computers, office
equipment and utilities, and 13 vehicles. Training would comprise 100 mm local
training, 14 mm foreign training, and 7 mm foreign study tours. The project would
also invest in 4,000 tons of fertilizer, 50 tons of farm chemicals, and 1 ton of
packing materials.
106.      Capital investment would be Y71.4 million excluding contingencies, and
YO.4 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y129.0 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y22.9
million. The FIRR at full capacity would be 22.7%, and the sensitivity analysis
indicates the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in market conditions,
but decreasing sales prices by 10% would reduce the FIRR to 7.7%. Tax revenues
would be Y13.8 million at full operation.
Zheiiana Provincial Seed Tradina Company and Experimental Research Station.
107.      This Seed Trading Company plans to produce and market 2,275 t/y of
hybrid rice seeds, 4,225 t/y of conventional rice, 2,275 t/y of barley, 111 t/y
of hybrid rape, 1,495 t/y of cotton (fuzzy) seeds, 975 t/y of fodder crop seeds,
and 585 t/y of vegetable seed. All would be produced by contract farmers and
processed by the company.
108.      The company would acquire 1 ha of land for commercial development, and
propose to invest in 100 ha of land development including water supply,
irrir4ation and drainage, internal roads and power lines. Also in 3000 m2 of seed
drying floors, 3,000 m2 of seed stores, 1,600 m2 of processing plant and packing
room, a 500 m2 cold store, an enterprise center and utilities room.
109.      The investment would a'3so provide three 1.5 t/h rice processing lines
and one 1.5 t/h vegetable seed processing line, testing equipment, three
computers, office equipment and utilities; 8 vehicles. Training would comprise
27 tm local training, 2 mm foreign training, 13 mm local study tours, and 4 mm
foreign study tours. The project would also invest in 2,600 tons of fertilizer,
230 toni of farm chemicals.
110.      Capital investment would be Y78.3 million excluding contingencies, and
YO.3 million for working capital. The company would generate a gross revenue of
Y97.8 million by project year six, and a gross operating income of Y25.9 million.
The FIRR at full capacity would be 26.8%, and the sensitivity analysis indicates
the FIRR would be stable under normal variations in market conditions. Tax
revenues would be Y14.8 million at full operation.



Annex 1
- 71 -                                Page 15 of 17
Fuiian Zhao An Gold Star State Farm.
111.      This company would produce and market 880,000 Lychee seedlings and
880,000 Lychee cuttings per year. The company would provide employment for 110
permanent staff at their offices, laboratories and processing facilities, in
addition to seasonal labor at the packing sheds and farmers at the production
base.
112.      The  investment  planned  by  the  enterprise  would  include  land
preparation, development of 66 m2 of seed and seedling stores, 70 m2 packing room,
an enterprise center and utilities room. No processing equipment is envisaged
under this  component.   Offices would be provided with office  equipment,
computers, and internal quality control facilities.   The project would also
provide 3 vehicles, 700 tons of fertilizer and 6 tons of farm chemicals. Training
would include 20 mm local training, 2.33 mm foreign training and 2.4 months of
foreign study tours.
113.      The project would invest Y10.4 million in capital investment excluding
contingencies and Y164,000 for working capital. The investment would produce a
turnover of Y9.8 million and 22.4% FIRR at full rated capacity, and 16.5% FIRR
at 80% of rated capacity. The component would maintain a stable FIRR with normal
variations in market conditions. Capital growth would be good from project year
5, resulting in cumulative net income of Y15 million in 20 years, after tax, debt
servicing and dividend payments.
Follow-Up : This component has been well prepared, but the dormitory that has
been proposed for the top floor of the enterprise center should be converted to
office space.
Fuiian Zhanc Zhou Zhao An State Farm.
114.      This  company  would  produce  and market  1.35 million  Kuding  tea
seedlings and 0.9 million Baxian tea seedlings per year. The second tea variety
was added to their production schedule after consultation with the pre-appraisal
mission. The company would provide employment for 35 permanent staff at their
offices, laboratories and sales point, in addition to seasonal labor at the
packing station and farmers at the production base.
115.      The investment planned by the enterprise would include the acquisition
of 1 ha of land for which the present farmers have been found new land, and will
be paid crop and soil fertility compensation. The investment would also include
land preparation of 33 ha of seedling production base including irrigation, power
supply lines and internal roads. Also construction of an enterprise center and
utilities room. No processing equipment would be required for this component.
Offices would be provided with office equipment and internal quality control
facilities. Training would include 8mm of local training, 1.33 mm of foreign
training, 8 mm local study tour and 1.33 mm of foreign study tour. The project
would also provide 6 vehicles, agricultural machineL-y, 700 tons of fertilizer and
5 tons of farm chemicals.
116.      The project would invest Y12.4 million in capital investment excluding
contingencies, and Y180,000 in working capital. The investment would produce a
turnover of Y14.2 million and 25.9% FIRR at full rated capacity, and 20.7% FIRR
at 80% of rated capacity. The component would maintain a stable FIRR with normal
variations in market conditions. Capital growth would be good from project year
4, resulting in cumuiative net income of Y24 million in 20 years, after tax, debt
servicing and dividend payments.
Follow-Up : This component has been well prepared, but the dormitory that has
been proposed for the top floor of the enterprise center should be converted to
office space.



- 72 -                                Annex 1
Page 16 of 17
Fuiian Zhana Zhao Danan Ban State Farm.
117.      ThLs company would produce and market 1.7 million Longan seedlings and
1.2 million Loquat seedlings per year. The company would provide employment for
65 perminent staff at their offices, laboratories and packing facilities, in
addition to seasonal labor at the packing plant and farmers at the production
base.
118.      The investment planned by the enterprise would include acquisition of
1.5 ha of land that is already owned by the State Farms, and on which there are
no current occupants or farming activities. The investment would include land
preparation of 80 ha of land including borewells, irrigation and drainage, and
internal roads. Also construction of an enterprise center and utilities room.
Processing equipment would no be required for this component. Offices would be
provided with office equipment and internal quality control facilities. The
project would also provide 3 vehicles and 3 items of agricultural machinery, 350
tons of fertilizer and 3 tons of farm chemicals. Training would include 20 mm
local training and 4 mm foreign training, and 0.5 mm foreign study tour.
119.      The project would invest Y14.7 million in capital investment excluding
contingencies, and Y356,000 in working capital. The investment would produce a
turnover of Y14.4 million and 21.1% FIRR at full rated capacity, and 16.2% FIRR
at 80% of rated capacity. The component would maintain a stable FIRR with normal
variations in market conditions. Capital growth would be good from project year
4, resulting in cumulative net income of Y13.5 million in 20 years, after tax,
debt servicing and dividend payments.
Follow-Up : This component has been well prepared, and there are no specific
follow-up actions before the Project Launch Workshop.
Henan Xu Chang State Farm.
120.      This company would produce and market 4,362 tons/year of seeds of
which 3,164 t/y would be wheat, and 1,198 t/y of Hlybrid Maize. The company would
provide employment for 25 permanent staff at their offices, laboratories and
processing facilities, in addition to seasonal labor at the processing plant and
farmers at the production base.
121.      The investment planned by the enterprise would include the provision
of borewells and power lines, development of 3,000 m2 of seed drying floor, 900
m2 of seed stores, and an enterprise center. Processing equipment would include
one 3t/h seed processing line with one double head packing line for 25kg and 50kg
sacks. Offices would be provided with office equipment, computers, training
equipment and internal quality control facilities. The project would also provide
3 vehicles, 3 tractore, 9 items of agricultural equipment, 300 tons of fertilizer
and 10 tons of farmr chemicals. Training would include 10 mm local training and
lmm foreign training.
122.      The project would invest Y9.7 million in capital investment excluding
contingencies, and Y 73,000 in working capital. The investment would produce a
turnover of Yl6.4 million and 21.1% FIRR at full rated capacity, and 14.9% FIRR
at 80% of rated capacity. The component would maintain a stable FIRR with normal
variations in market conditions, but a 10% reduction in sales margins would
reduce the FIRR to 7.7%. Capital growth would be good from project year 5,
resulting in cumulative net income of Y8.5 million in 20 years, after tax, debt
servicing and dividend payments.
Follow-Up : The building designs and site layout drawings prepared by the company
needed improvement and suggestions for a practical layout were agreed with all
storage, processing and utilities in one building. New drawings are to be
prepared by the State Farm and presented at the Project Launch Workshop. The
component has otherwise been well prepared.



- 73 -                               Annex 1
Page 17 of 17
Henan Huana Fan Ou State Farm.
123.      This company would produce and market 6,555 t/y of seeds of which
3,341 t/y would be wheat seeds and 3,214 t/y of peanut seeds. These two products
would be harvested at different seasons and would allow a longer than average
processing period at the plant. The company would provide employment for 40
permanent staff at their offices, laboratories and processing facilities, in
addition to seasonal labor at the processing plant and farmers at the production
base.
124.      The  investment  planned  by  the  enterprise  would  include  land
preparation, development of 6,000 m2 of seed drying floor, 1600 m2 of seed stores,
560 m2 processing and packing rooms, an enterprise center, utilities room, and
4 retail shops. Processing equipment would include one 3t/h seed processing and
packing line for jute sacks. Offices would be provided with office equipment,
computers, training equip.nent and internal quality control facilities. The retail
shops would be fitted out with a standard set of retailing equipment and
materials. The project would also provide 3 vehicles, 8 tractors, 1,000 tons of
fertilizer and 20 tons of farm chemicals. License agreements would be made with
local institutes for improved seed varieties, and this would be funded from
Counterpart Funds. Training would include 13 mm local training and 2mm foreign
study tours.
125.      The project would invest YI8.4 million in capital investment excluding
contingencies, and Y302,000 in working capital. The investment would produce a
turnover of Y23.6 million and 22.4% FIRR at full rated capacity, and 17.1% FIRR
at 80% of rated capacity. The component would maintain a stable FIRR with normal
variations in market conditions, but a 10% reduction in sales margins would
reduce the FIRR to 12%. Capital growth would be good from project year 4,
resulting in cumulative net income of Y22 million in 20 years, after tax, debt
servicing and dividend payments.
Follow-Up : The building designs and site layout drawings prepared by the company
needed considerable improvement and suggestions for a practical layout were
agreed with all storage, processing and utilities in one building. New drawings
are to be prepared by the State Farm and presented at the Project Launch
Workshop.



CHINA
Seed Sector Comrrmercialization Pro,ect
Basic Protect Prorwncial Statisics
Item              Unt       Fujian    Gansu   Guangxa  Guiuti   Henan   Hunan    Hutei   Jrangsu   iaragxi Shandong  Shanxi  Sichuan  Zhejiang
A Tital Are               h000            12,0D0   39,000   23.000   17,0D0   16,700   21,000   18,000   10,260   16,0D0   15,000   15,000   56,760   10.0DO
B. cimate
1. Annual Ave Temprture   degre C          22     106      21.9     152       16.6    17.3      17.3     16.7    18.2     15.7     10.5      17.7    17.6
2. Anual Ave Pmpiatwon   mm             1,800      318    1,739    1,093     80     1,858    1,046      648    1,755      872      430      946    1,399
3. Frost Free Period    days          300-330      193  300-330      300  180-230  262-275      250      250      275      230      200  280-350      275
C Ad_mnoitrubin System
1. No. dPrdhctiN        No.                 9       14       14        9       17       14       12       11       11       17       11       23       11
2. No. oCoub            No.                63       75       81       80      116       92       69       64       64       95      100      174       64
3. No. oT UwnstIps      No.               970    1,530    1,364    1,463    2,143    3,417    1,913    2,005    1,833    2,402    1,933    6,110    1,838
4. No. dViIge           No.            14,950   17,720   74,929   25,865   48,187   47.704   32,804   36,107   20,960   88,996   32,427   76,081   43.418
5.No.ofFormHumtxho      1)00            5,907    4,143    8,166    6,714   18,599   14,298   10,047   15,146    6,999   19,694    5,990   26,212   10,662
D. Pcptstmn
1. TdalFPuion           'IDO           31830   23,780   44,930   34,580   90,270   63,550   57,190   70,210   40,150   86,710   30,450  112,140   42,940
2. Urban                 m00           5,829    4,481    6,345    5,314   13,365   10,473   16,587   16,770    8,377   15,113    7,856   18,311    7,098
3. Rura                 '000           26,001   19,299   38,585   29,266   76,905   53,077   40,603   53,440   31.773   71,597   22,594   93,829   35,842
4. Aqwe Mearbufterme    No.               4.4      4.7      4.7      4.4      4.1      37       4.0      3.5      4.5      3.6      3.8       3.6     3.4
E LabI
1. Td Labor For e        00            11,342    8,680   19,352   15,548   37,173   27,242   18,262   27,828   15,231   35,617    9,381   51,592   21,013
2. AMINTLtabrForefwaii1y  No.             1.9      2.1      2.4      23       2.0      1.9       1.8      1.8     2.2      1.8       1.6      2.0     2.0
F. Cultrated Land
1. Ti AIEn              'MOha           1,210    3.482    2,602    1.841    6,830    3,258    3,376    4,464    2,315    6,718    3,857    6,214    1,635
2 Paddy                  000 h          1,845       10    1,555      770      444    2,570    1,805    2,658    1,949      143        9    3,175    1,363
3. Dry Land             000 ta          2,458    3,471    1,047    1,071    6,386      688    1,570    1,806      366    6,575    3,648    3.040      272
4. Irrigated Area       VW ha             938      914    1,489      607    3,931    2,679    2,239    3,799    1,817    4,642    1,188    2,874    1,428
5.AreaA4ouaeho          ha               0.20     0.84     0.32     027      0.37     0.23     0.34      0.29    0.33     0.34     0.61      0.24    0.15
G. MubiheCropIndex                          230      107      212      220      177      237      213      176      248      162      110      203      233
M. Annual Crop Pnxluction
1. ToaI Grin Production    'O l ha      2,002    2.883    3,634    2,824    8,811    5,077    4,797    5,743    3,431    8,014    3,235    9,869    2,741
2. Rire-Am              I=0kha          1,403        6    2,417      735      447    4,041    2,372    2,163    2.939      114        7    2,961    2,076
- Yield            Ift            4,984    8,167    4,373    5,767    6,013    5,976    7,126    7,400    5,083    7,158    5,571    6,480    5,835                    4
- Inputam          Yuan           2,400    2,756    2,078    1,178    1,800    2,187    2,345    2,422    2,106    2,776    2,300    2,149    2,467
3 Wheat-AArea            M hea             76    1,360       13      564    4,818      178    1,226    2,114       73    4,049    1,001    2,310      216
*Yied           kiha            2,605    2,320    1,154    1,706    3,733    1,607    3,126    4,150    1,247    4,783    2,951    3,049    2,519
- Inpuis         Yuan            1,740    1,994    1,270    1,870    1,910    1,697    1,728    1,870    1,500    1,929    1.560    1,762    1,540
4 Matze- Amu            mmOa               28      314      553      644    1,872      132      374      459       14    2,455      664    1,711       36
- Yeld           kg/ha           2,179    3,908    2,365    3,953    4,029    2,818    3,575    4,732    3,071    5,480    4,551    3,347    3,500
- InpAia         Yuan            1,450    1,785    2,463    1,105    1,800   2,246    1,547    1,680    1,600    1,971    1,896    1,681    1,680
5.Soybean-Ama           'DOWhe            124      360      311      273      8D0      282      348      418      238      6D0      529      576      142
- Yield       IgRfs            1,589     811      952    1,121    1,510    1,624    1,986    2,256    1,437    2,353    2,231    2,134    2,063
- Inpubda      Yuan            1,005    1,201    1,209    1,409    1,900    1,556     9C0      950      850    1,062    1,005    1,417    1,105
6. Ctton -Area          '  ha                       15        2        2      967      209      498      535      163      793      129      131       62
-Yiekl          kIqs                     1,200      500      500      649    1,139      904      854    1,074      705      659      511      887
- Ilnpusfta     Yuan                     3,870    2,000    2,0W0    2,0W0    2,503    1,343    2,300    2.503    2,763    2,563    3,198    2,224
7. Raseed - Amet         'C ha             16      100       32      356      236      639      616      517      654       21       23      732      222
- Yid         kgftIa           875    1,540       719    1,174    1,216    1,216    1,593    1,698      740    1,905    1,000    1,553    1,437
- I rnpuis    Yuan            1,300    1,459    1,350    1,389    1,386    1,727    1,370    1,135    80      1,465      960    1,282    1,565
N. Annual LStoc Prduirtcn
1. CaMe - Number        i0              1,302    3,574    7,727    6,302   11,503    4,205    3,809      856    3,735   11,589    2,093   10,688      507
-FPrducion       'C01ton            15       89       71       53      440       39       59       38       34       62       57      149       10
2. Pip - Nunbe           0M            10,624    6,725   22,445   14,799   23,252   31,718   23,391   19,803   18.671   23,500    4,822   68,814   12,797
-Prducio           M00 ton          903      405    1,566      836    1,658    2,671    2,059    1,821    1,737    2,239      356    4,810      957
3. Shep - Nbar          DM                614   10,772    1,093    1,900   17,014    1,400    1,851   10,755      338   35,563    8,045   10,711    2,060
- Producion     tXOn                9       52        6        14      126      12       21       131       4      315       47        63      15
4. PouF y - Nunr        tCOO          134,167   25,833  295,000   35,000  214,167  190,000  177,500  543,846  186,867 1,197,500   24,167  520,833  136,667                H3
- Prodcion      too ton           161       31      354       42      257      228      213      707      200    1,437       29      625      164                 Dp
1. Outp  VSm                                                                                                                                                               H  P
1. Agl *wi OuASVue   Mil. Yur          59,135   22,541  115,138   27,713   88.332   83,816   78,664  133,523   52,786  138,703   21,902  122,893   70,721                  CD X
2. Pem   dGofGrain Pduon %                 15       38       22        34       12      32        30       29      27       29        46       37       24
J. Fw s I nome
1.Aanamnmln wtCqpi   Yuen                1,578     724     1107      787       910    1155      1173     1832    1218    1320       884       946    2225                  0
USS              188       86      132       94      108      138      140      218      145      157      105      113      265
2. ProtdG CnProdunion %                    35       45       54        55      80       57        38       39      32       35        40       38       38 
Soume: Prheta Stisca Btu, 1995



CHINA
Seed Sector Cotnmidzelon Project
Sun.mmy of Inveet:wee  Sed Conrmiem, Ptowinclel, Pfetum m*nd Coa".
IY.000,
V4 mnd                         Totml Seed
Ldo    Ch4                                         Sew             Cu tonw    Capkal    Woeing    Conip-
ESTNT SCHEDULE                                          Coe     Works    Idge    Eqp'   Vehcle  Trrlning   Stock   Othei    Duty   hlnent   CPItl    Investment
P,o4     - Seed Cemypay                  1,200     240   13,644   13.111    4,411    S48  107,704   32,477   18,932    192.273       460      192,723
Pmo      Seed Conpany                    1,500    3,222    9,430    4,607    2,680   663   11,016   18,136   12,828    68,373        270      69,243
- Hunen 
P,ovIwcd Seed Coympny                       0    s,658   16,327   17,772     690    1,320   38,628   32,731   16.326   :31,3S2       420      131,772
- Shandong
Prov.Sed Co                              1,400    2,827    3.461    3,120    1,630   630   15.312    8,001   4,926     41,376        280      41,666
Lihn VIPmectu  SC                        1,400    1.112    4,107    3,621    700     664   17,490    8,743    4,693    42 429        19O      42,609
Limo Cheng SC                            2,100     900   4,811    6,001      690     630    7,560    9,002    5.063    3b.648        160      36,809
JlnIng SC                                   0      448    2,811    1,646    1,174     700   9S,S0    4.921    3,679    24,66         190     26,046
Bin Zhou SC                              1,176    4,478    2,125    1.66     670     214    3,440    6,712    3,422    28,803        220      29,023
Ta'mn SC                                 2.250    6.730    2.230    2,021    680     714    9,972    6,840    3,678    36,016        260      36,275
Zl so SC                                 1,360    1.866    2.848    3,488    890     900    8.000    6,331    4,436    29,096        480      23,576
W  Fen SC                                1,395    1.472    3,736    3,266    790     326   11,010    6,116    4,064    32,164        240      32,404
- Shend
Shhnjd Peen  Ve. Seed Co.                6,400    2,302    5,626    5,026    1,770   504   20.336   12,079    5.536    58,637        290      58.327
Shenid PM    Mabe Co.                    6,000    3,376    6,633    3,845    2,080   301   40,s04   2S,716   13,048    107,907       297      109.104
sicamen PewhSeed Ce.                     1,126     866    9,060    6,373    1,390    1,490   22,276   10,906    0,204  71,347        406      71,763
- ZheJmg
Zhem  Pov    Termng Co.                  6,000     50o    6,712    7,013    1,260    440   26,700   23,016    8,696    78,316        309      7S,624
TolSd Seed Coinpedme Sese Co't          31.296   44,991   32,448   87,487   21,896    3,934  364,027  217,812  117,400    078,106   4.442    392.637
OTAL SEED COMPANY BASE INVESTMENIT COST ussOcOO                                                                                      116.452        623     116,061
Exchange WUSe YABO                    8.4                                                                                           0              A
1>
PX 0
t D
m X
0 -
0



CHW4A
SaWd iat i Comobsnlgtden Pcs
Sauw.ay of __         : Sau m ,mp. Stag. Fme.
_            _               VAT a_                             Total
MEYT  SCHEDULE :-                              roe"    W          smg      Eqp,    Vo.  Tj              S      Odm       Duty     1     _     Capita    S F
0u_ _
Prow. lBathy Stata F.m             0      b16    4,714    4,0S       360      200   19.266    8,071    3,779       41,712       906       42.617
Hubei
Ran Oh De Yum, Stag. Fma           0    2,036    2,6t I   ttM6          0      291    6.96     S,983    6.867       39,622       170       39.792
Dong Xi Hu Sta Fame                0    2L9  2,648  t2,336            260      291    6,243    9.978    7,46e       41,298       200       41,486
Huba Stab Far. Tr_dnu Co.       1.100    2.020    3.343    2,858    1,110      271   14,961    4,123    3,50       33,273       670       33,943
Ju SI a_m    (mn.                  0    2.373    5,263    6.540       640      435    4.410   13,136    6,166       39,960       200       39,S10
JIand Stst Fm., Tag Co.          315        0      666       600    1.100       s0    3,200    1.593    2.306        9,871        50        9,921
Tel He StaGs Fm                    0    1.403    2,326    2.246       146      160    2.340    3.460    1,799       13.944        so       14.034
RF* Fag Stg Fm,.                   0    1,615    3,262    3,360   2020        60   12,716    7.724    6,377        36,661       16O       36.811
Hung Fan Stoa Fm,.              1,500    1,408    5.276   15.640      660      321    8.172   15.164   10.928       68,656       260       59,108
0'
Au&s.bmsu _u,pmaglma            1,104    6,063    9,476    7.568    4,916      S8   19.864   31,670   13,6e4        93,891       771       94,62
Ximw.in Sua Mud*uy Co.             0        0    3,949   13.100       900    1,237    6,672   10,8865    9,249      44,992       258       46,150
8U-4
Zhanqba Look aaad S.F.             0    1.209  2,029    1.796         400      394    4,733    4.271    2,441       17,322       190       17,612
Xuchmag St_t Fmn.                  0      750      798    1,60       707       60    1,387    2,440    2.017        9.746        73        9,916
Hua__fmaqu Stags Fm                0    1.481    1,740    1,770       590      139    6,761    4,693    2,269       18,423       302       18,726
Zho'an Oed St. Stat Fm             0      503     899        350      400      320    3.10S    2.947    1,807       10,368       164       10,622
Zhawngzhu  Das'm S. Fma          400      727      739       311    1.274      191    3,420    3,060    2,313       12,441      10        12.621
Danarbn Sta Farm                 602      732    1,091       311    1.079      325    6,754    2.676    1,159       14.721       366       16,066
Totl Stags Fmr.. Ba Costs Y'   4,019   22.063   48,310   65,936   13,637    6,317  114.481  127,090   77,686       486.440      4,289     602.729
IOTAL. STATE FARM WEVESTMBi COT  S   0                                                                                              69.339        511 1     59.8418 MwF
0
Exobmngs Roes YAJS$                    9.40                                                                             3G.Jman-W   11:12 AM
I-.
F3 >o



- 77 -
Annex 1
3, ,,, I   1f , . *, *  ,  *  , ,      Table 4 of 12
l; ...    ..    ....    .  .. .. . .. .  . . ..    . .
I          . . .   .    .  .  ..  .   .  I   ..   .    .  ..
. . . i  ..   .     . .   .   . .
Is II.N N .......~.......
. 1 .   .   .   .   .   .   .        
. . ..     . .    . . ..     .    ..   . . . .. .  . . .. .. . . 
1z ...   ..    ....    .   .  . .  . .  .    .  . . . 
I -  I   .N ....        ! I   IIMN
_  .V
iJJ...Y  ...M  .. .i  .   . ... 
_ IIR|  
IS.'.N.: 
i1;. N "'I-* -' v t -  
.I      Ez!fiR0      
LAI! i  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.I  10   { ]0



CHINA
Sgods Sector ConneWrclaation Pmj.ct.
Eqipmnrt List and  uIdirng Ars
S.'d Pvoo..mg Un.                  _                  _~                    |                                  Pk-P L--    Un i
_wwb.   F.-w_ t_.-                                   Con.pl.t. _ith   4 e                                 Ic.o.V           t . -_ fIso-
I mny a I                      u-1 1X c.I   I4 j  I_`I *I 1 "'    I_ I                                                                                                                 "- _
I ~ ~~~~ ~ z1 _ e__ |ni  I  .X-  I |                                                                               - |    S.          I                              1~    1            1        |.-ui.              4 C.  |
U,...d...e        k L.-k S.  S.F.         6.62          I s   .0                        .        . o                                                   K                 -                                          0.-1 1 :kg
P,.UC.                   6.500    (M         2.0     -                 K                                                                                                                                       E.
Li VI P s,Gca, SC            7.7_    2 so         3.0              X X                                                                                                                                            40kg
-U   Chn  T nC              11,02       1 a        .0     . b               K X      X        _        X                                   X                                             _                        40he
<2>         .a                                                                                                                                   <3>       -        -       <3>
ika. SC               63.244    ii.        3.0    K         K                                                                                                                                              40 he
<4>        1.0     .-<4> K                                                                                                                                                  <4>
S., Di.. *C                  4,164     1 ame      3.0     -                                                                                                                                                       40 kg
T.1, SC                      4,642      1 ~ ~   3.0       -                 K                                                                                                                                     40 kg
ZI " SC                      6.00       I G"      3.0     -                                                                                                                                                       40 kg
<4>        1.0     -         .                                                                     <4> _                                                           <4>
wd Fwv  C                     .6462     1S   2~ .0        -                 K                                                                                                                                     40 kg
IDI
h.    Pi.ui.d  V.3. O-  C..       23.001      1 G~      1.0              -                                                                                                                                     145kg                -
<6>        1.0                                                                                     <6>                                                             <5>                 0
< >        10-<5>                                                                                                                                                  < >
Fl.w.a  E.l4  Co.           14.100      ISO       1.0              .                                                     K                                                                                        40 kg
II. mm     .0              .                                                                                                                                     146kg
ebkw,    ft.         goo. d C..P.ny      15.736    2 3.b      2.0     K                                                                                                                                                        so0kg
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lk  Ol oh
Dw0,em    U.d C.. T.*oC.e.                3,632    3 S.",     1.5     K         .                                   K                                                                                                          40khe
<EA.>  Th.- 5...   h..* W."  -  .p.put ..pi6.d.
<Il>    U.     ft         6.. C. ...d p.IW   5..W.o              1.g
<c2>   W~ II-   I. .6p.... p.1.46.. p-.  B. .. .         .. ...i. .ddldis .quomem e5 bw P-A  P....B
<3>   LB..a-  .6 ..-.Ml d6.&  -AV          . -.d...d
<4>   J.&SC _d 38.-d  Ah 3P--   d*b. -W. t0p. B. lb. -.W .d  -. P.O6dft -...  W. h. .h.d .46 . l            . pp..
<6>   MWV.3 U.dC       .d  E..-   . B..  .l*  -..  -... md  dm.d.. Al .Asses
0X
U'1



CHINA
Seed Setor Conwerclizat,on Project.
Seeds Storage Fecilitie
h,efnia,       Exting Seed            New Sed
Sled           StoSo
Province      Company                             Nain Seeds Produced                       Podadn   Covered    Cooled    Covered 
tl_       Tons       Ton        Tone       Tone
.Q_,                                             ____0
P-.wll go laP St_b Fan              -.pAndo                                      12,250       6,610         0      4.000          0
Pon-de Sed CoQma                   NkmaiPeenhAtJnff                              23.434        nis        ni.     10.200      1
-Qu4ilne
P reviP l Sed CwoWney              mdzejp-qeiSeediqe                             17,277        nih         nh.     3.400      1,20
Ja SlS lain                         EoejCotin                                     5,596          0          0      2.200        200
P    nowb   See Conyan             NoeiC OttnldaMGPe                             14.099         nhv       nis      4,770        200
Hr. Mn De Ya Stow Fwm              nI/CottonjMdzt.jRe                             7,730        720          0      2,210          0
Dons X Hu Sta_ Fm                 oie/Baley/Cotton                                7,856        S00          0      2.000          0
Huib Soan Farm Trenu Co.            _- beiWh.atilep/Cenetmi"cotbon               20,650       1.250         0      2.000          0
A*erde oporaeon                      IohetiAlrey          l                      37,560       8.4s2         0      7.750          0
_Jal *1s  Fan Treing Co.              Re      / V      _ _                        2,06e          0          0        200          0
To[ He St_b Fa                      PewtiPlentego                                 2,194       1.000         0      1.0            0
Pe. Femn Stab Fam                   1e                                            7,339        480          0      1*00           0
Hen1  Faq Stab Fai                  fcW/Coton                                    10,409        e40          0      4.000          0
-aXi__ndn See Meonea  Co.           Meh inwy                                          0         nih       iv           0          0
Zbneu L_sk Sed *.F.                Vegetlee                                       1,015        100          0        4W0        o0
PreuSed Co                         W       F_VmdhNege                             6,529          0          0      2.000       400
Lin 'i Preeowe SC                  WhetfMllemenu                                  7,560         nA         nia     1 .eoo       700
uLi CIaw  *c                               _ o                                     S.612       i.         nh.    2*0          20oo
Aiin SC                     ,egemi.                                              6.251         n          riv     1.J00          0
_E Za,o. SO            *ICottn                                                    5.006        nis        iwv      1.300         0
Tai'n SC                            WhbeetAo                                     14.875        hiv        rim      1.020          0
a So SC                            MmizeNegeWtae                                  4,f91         nis        v       1.000       300
Wel Fq SC                           W       _                                    10,352         nis        nb      1.000        5
SEmud Preil  V.3. Seed Co.          V        _    _l_.oob                           554        dv.        riv      1.350       200
Sla_nl hodni .Ed      Co.             /V_E          rh                           13,536         nos       nis      6.000       1S
. _ _1 See Ceny             :        oed-diiHe                                   11,040         n.         niv     5.000          0
X-F_nq S_t_a1 Fain                  Md.eiWhee                                         0          0          0          0          0
Hkainglenq Sta  Farm                Whte.tmd.doy                                      0          0          0          0         0
Zlwo'm God Stw Sta  Fai
Zhlnptou Zho'm SF
D-nmmrD"    Stab Fan                                                                                                                              0  >
Seed Conyen Tradng C_re             M_o.atyiR        .e       of                 11,941         We         nh      2.000        50 SA                X
T.To    -nora    pnr_.on   270,913                                                             O1
Totmi 8fltogeCq.dty   100,422   19,732             0   74.480       6.210 O
30-Jan-96



CHINA
Sed Sector Conmmrolzation Prota.
Eq_*un Lkt
EquipnueIt for Entsrprbo Centres                                    Fwti. sod Fsm Ch.mosI
Prowkwe       Conyan                                 T-dg               T.b.   I O.                 l..                              Od_          P...s   O               Ois Fmu 0-_
Ew-_  C_ s        Ew_b mT_ E_ 1..eP                              Eq*.M       s        -O..y    T-       T_        ll_        y t v0
esa      sets     Set       Se t"                       COs       MY          _ _            Ton      Ton
-Fw..         Zhag ZhA   Mad Stl Famnn                    1         1        a         1        1        1         1       0                  a      700        *                  a        0
Zhba Zheu State Fsn                         1       0         0        1         1        1        1         a                 0       700        5                 0         0
Zhae Zhu D.na.bm St.t Famm                  1        e0                 I         1        1         1       0                  0       SW         3                 0         0
Gene.        Pm Id  IsOuyl S. Fsnn                      I        1         1         1        3        3        3         0                 0    1.000       3U                   a    1.540
C-utelgA      Prowinold Seed Cempeny                      1        7         1         2       11       11         0        0                 0   10.000            <1>         1.730      370
-Oezhou       Pueei godS    Comp.ny                       3         4        4         4        4        4         0        7                  0    4.000      100                  0       00
Henon        Xu Che   Stdt Fonr                          1        1         1        1        0         0        0         0                 0       300       10                  0        0
Huaa  Fun Qu Stdt Famn                      1        1         I        I         I        1        0         4                 0    1,000        20                  0      233
- Hunan       Jen Shen Sto     n                          1         1        1         1        1        1         0        0                 0    2000          0                  0    1.S00
Peudgncld Seed ConWany                      S       15        26        4        2         3        1        0                  0    3.300        34   <2>        3.400    3.400
-Hubel        R     n D   Yun S. Fan                      1        0         0        0         1        1         0        0   <3>            2   600           2                  0      100
Dong )a Hu Ste Faan                         1        0         0        0         1        1        0        0   <3>            2      3o0         2                 0       100
Stow Fonn T _A  Co.                         1        1         1        1         1        I         1       0                  0        0         0                  0      100
- Jngou       Agribuain.ss  pc I_                         4         4        1         4        4        4         0        0                  0    7,000       43                  0    2,000       O
-Jengod       State Fmn T       Co.                       1         1        1         1        0        0         0        0                  0      270        0                  0        0
Tal H  Sta  F                               1        1         1        1         1        I        0        0                         300         0                  0        0
Rma Fsng Stt  Fam                          1        1         1        1         1        I        0        0   <4>            2    2.000         0                 0       200
Hong Feg Stst Fann                          1        1         1        1        2         1        0        0                  0    2,000         0                  0      174
-Shendong    Zhengqkg Look e ed S.F.                      1         1        1         1        1        I         1        6                  0    1.040        0                  0        0
Pev.Seed Co                                 1        1         1        1         1        1        0        4                  0    1,600        12                 0       300
Ul YI Pefectw   C                           1        1         1        1        2         1         1       0                  0    2.000        10                  0      300
Li" Chun SC                                 I        I         1        1         I        I         1       17                 0    1.000         0                 0        73
Jinn  SC                                    1        I         I         1        2        1         0        0                 0       500       10                  0    1.000
In ZnhotuC                                  1        I         I        1        0         1         1        2                 0    1'040        14                  a        0
Tds'n SC                                    1        0         1        1        0         1         1       10                 0       550       10                  0      315
Zi so SC                                    1        1         1        1        0         2        0        10                 0       000        0                  0        0
W l Fg SC                                   I        1         1        1         1        1        0         1                 0       430       26                  0        0
-shaewg        S-d Nia-MmCety.uSy                         4         1        1         1        1        1         0        0   <3>    Y1O aio          0        0                  0        0
- Shaa,i      Pro  ad le. see Ce.                         I         3        1         2        3        2         2       20   <e>            1    1.200       20                  0    1,000
p,o   dvldMI Co.                            1        3         1        1         1        1         1        3   <6>           1    7.300        0o                  a        0
-Slcb_m       PM      t SOW Co_pY I                                 0        3         3        3        3         3        3                  0    4,000        M0     <1>   1'30    1.30e
-Zs.          SeedCo.Trod" Ceetr                          1         3        1         2        4        4         1        1                  0  t.000         20                  0    2.000
TOTALS         40       57        M        45        M        37       20       57                  3   6o0.         B4             7,030    13,231        M
30_Jun-00                        <1>  Prakh.e m,nt                              <4> SeW Coa yaso _
<2>  Hoenone nvs. Y.4mUsl,                     <6> Madha boeb ubs at V_ I mY0_
<3>  Two saedsis                               <0> Wdeng                                                                          I



CHINA
Seed Secor Commriazation Project
Procurem 3nt of Transport
Tnrck.    PIckup    12 Seat   Psanq-r  Trctom   Horwnts    Motor              Fm         Fe&       Task.
St - lot    Tnacks    n1Lw Mu  I   C ws             C__     _           h |m t            Lit         J.  p
Prowemcid  daty) Stnta Fam                 0          3          0          0          0           n0                    0          0          0
p       SOWl.  ceodCmpny 11                         11          4           1        11           0         0          11          0          0
P- Hnd  SoW rdComwny                       0          8          4          4          0           0          0          0          0          0
-Hm
J n Shn Stat fm                            4          1          0          0          0           0          a          0          0          0
Pvhwe Sod Compans                          0          4          0          0          0           0         14          0          0          0
- Hub-l
Rn  n D Yuan Stat  Fam                     0          0          0          0          0           0         0           0          0          0
Dong Xl Hu St. Fm                          1          1          0          0          0           0         0           0          0          0
Hubd tate Fan Trng Co.                     6          1          1          0          0           0         0           0          0          0
Aulhl Nr cepmw-ton                        10          4          1          0         16           4          0         10          0          0
Jmgd _ta Fm T I            Co.             C          2          1          0          0           0          0          0          0          0
Tal Ho St  Frm                                        0          0          0          0           0          1          0          0          0
Ro Fe  Std  Frm                            8          1          1           1         2           0          0          0          0         0
HNo  F     ta Frnn                         0          1          1           1         0           0          0          0          0          O
Sb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
sguXl_hen ed M.cnmyCo.                     2          0          2           1         0           0         0           0          0          0
Zbmq Look god SF                           0          1          0           1         2           0          0          0          0          0
Prew.Sed Co                                S          1          2          2          0           0         0           0          0          0
L kuVIPft ure SC                           1          1          1           1         0           0         0           0          0          0
U_e Cheu  SC                               1          2          0           1         0           0         0           0          0          0
JskmSC                                     1          1          2           1         2           0          2          0          0          1
n ZIIW SC                                  0          3          1          0          0           0         0           0          0          0
Tl'a SC                                     1         1          1           1         0           0         0           0          0          0
aeSC                                        1         1          2           1         0           0          0          0          0          0
Wel Fe   C                                 0          1          1           1         a           0         0           0          a          0
-Sho
SUUWa P en  Vd g. good Co.                 3          2          0          3          2           0          0          1          0          1
3kmi_PWrAdMaCo.                            a          2          2          2          0           0         0           0          2          0
Prsb1dd Sed Commpr                         S          3          3           1         0           0         0           0          0          0
Xudma State Fu,                            2                     1                     3           0         0           S          0          0
H.. _mqu _ta  Fuun                         2          1                                6           0          0          0          0          0
Zhmr  Odd Star StIX  Fm                     1         1          1                     0
Zh..egrna ZIh-e'aw Sta  t Fn               3          2          1                                                       2
Daha. Stlo  Fm                             2          1                                                                  3
Pie .dTraigC _mp.                          0          6          1          2          0           0         0           0          0          0      D X
TOTALS                                    83         Of         34         2S         48           4         17         36          2          2      
02:15 P"A               30-Jan6



CHINA
Seed Sector Coimercimkzofio Pioject.
Loand Acqu.iWtion
tend Acqiered foo Pr.oct                                     F-t.. involved di                                                   Coinposocicow
H.e                                                tend .cqiAeltlo                           ___                  A-lengmenls Y OO
lt.-o   Imaleipt Seot F-..                0.00--                                                 0        -                    .-                                                                        0                      hd  kqto  cee ii ooe
Ive-mol toed Calyasy                      2 00       2.00                             -          0        -                                                            1.200                                                C-6,oe  D.A liloly laid
ploedl Seed Caqosy1 0                                                     1.00        -          0                                                                     I5000                                                C.--llysoldo  .00-  oeo
.00 shn. Sma tn                           00 co                                       -          0                   -         ..*.                                                              .-00te ciSwde  suoo
toelmi.  See  Coeqiaw f                   0.00                                         -         0          .-                                       ..          .                                            .0todoqdLidOipie
t2au  XaH. Sees bas                       0.00                                                   a                                                                                                                           ftM laid.00   god.     -up.id
HAb. Suoe. Feo  TeiolsC.                  2.20       0.20                 2.00         -         0                            -         .1.100                                                               -c.-as,..ohoa dln
AWb.ainee osponesee            013~a le               0063       -         -                              -21                                                                                                     C--."i   oO. ode  O
b.Wsg  S1.0. F.e  ITed    Co.             0.21        .-0.21                          .-         0                                                                       3    15                                            C.ir.o.o  kldi 50.
Tai Ho aTe. lai                           0.00                                                   0                                                                                                                             eee ladoiAd iieei  pi
Roe Fen  Ses. loin                        0 00                                         -         0                                                                                                                           Wtiieoq.  eo  i. pojc
H"t long Sue lo,ne                        3 00                            300         ..         0                            -                    -                   I000                                                  Ole   slte   iiodo
Xloeget S."edMdoo sy C..                  0 00         -                                         0        -                                                                                                                  ola-d ocqeeod iiedo 100  Od
Z'   - .g   L..eAOod S.F                  0.00                              ..         -         0        -                   .. .-..                           ....                             ...        ...          ...     li so,,els  ioda lie p0040
l.on.SodOCo                               1.00                              -       1.00         0         0         -.       -                     .          40-0    1.000                      ..'nudolee,,,
to. Vi meeteSC                            1 00 00                                                         ...0...o.1 ...o......O...k.g fle-A Moi  TodOdi bo
tUe Ches  SC                              2 00         *.          -2.00                         0        .         -.-2 IOElao   aio-otoo  .d
.J,hdeSC                                  a000                    *-                                                                                                                                                         W I"oddsoe   es  Mi p-ojt                   rI)
en floe SC                                I 70       I.70"         .        ..        .          0                            ...       ...         ......               705         411                                 ..Cloto  n,h dbi-       ds  d-od
Teas- SC                                  1 00        ..         1.00       ..         .         0        -          .         .         ..         ..200                                                                     on  eetoleLi. oinio
ZIo"SC                                    0390       0090                                        0         .                             -1.3&0                                                                              Cu-oetlyfO.Asoiiuloi
Sa     Wi F.VgSC                                 0 93       0.93                                         0        -          .        -                                       12390                                                 C-.o .oovoisee-,ei
Shopsi Rio-inl tV. Seed Co.              10067       0067         .      10.00        -.         0         0         -                                                 hAD  oo                                           .     --W.u  in       noised MM lie
old sO1 ai eeilo*i sidw
Sh.sd 14-ewland g. 50C..                  40 4u .00                                   .          0                   -4 0000                                                                                                  dse   odp..  n
Pit-*di Seed Coos,psi                    1I 1so                                                                                                                        1.125
Xeedhaft Slo. F-n                         0.00          -.                            -           0       .          .                                                                                                        nli  oiidad   i  i
H.ssngeeqon,  Sut. loin,                  000
Zboe. Geld SW  Sense lan                  00                      ..        -          .         .         -     00                                                                                                             WM ledoqie  ced   -s ined
Olseeghe Zhiooe  31                       2050                             2.50        -          0       .                                                      .      100-, OiOi
DoioMho  Sue. lF-                         1 00                                       1 00         0         0        -                                                     20                                                        ft..liilOsdlo. 01S... loin
Seed CoeqMp  Ti-de  Coell                 I 00                                       I 00)        3        1s                3.00      3 00         Ye.        100     3.900          I.                     00       1.00-D0,les,. Coirerollt Is .oo.-
10*.    3910                               II 0  01  0                    S         0                                                33.907         41           0        10         10
IolaioeOIo'vcoltaid aM14 let YY
M x
0
IN.



T.     s. d T..h.Id Ambus. S.h."
F--   T-d           F, lo  dWi To..                          Ls. T,kh                                     Lood sb*4 Y                   F.f        L-I... C.s.d,..      T..d
V00.00aI-             VsaAaoI..s                             V3.oODWWm                                      Y3.0OOho-&                Cem=   i   YOlc.O00J               co"
*.togbOo  ~     hom                       a    m    0m    u    a U                                    U    0                           u  I  P   I  v   I  a   I o   I 0    I  u  ly.00o4W      DI0      I   V      YTa00
Zbw  MW    GMglwFwm           2    0    0    0    0    2    0    0           6     4      2      4     4      0     0      0      0      a     0      0     0      0          a     0      0      0      220
~~~o2bmom3o.bFuog          1    0    I    0    0    I    0    S          0      a     0      a      a     0      0      0     a      0      a     0      0      a         0      a      0     a       107
~Zhmo ub    oideFam,                4    0    0    0    0            00.4   0     0    lo      0      5k    a      a      0      0     0      0      0     0      0     0          0      a      0     a       320
am-mod            3s.umI    I    0    0    0    0    0    0                             0      2     2      2      I    22      0     0      0      0      a     0      0     a          0      0     0      0      200
P-AWW8-d C",ow2                                  a       0    0    0    20    10    10       4    10             0      0     0a                  0      a     a          a      2      I     2       046
P,wA0.Owd Coipowy                   I    I     1     0    0    0    0    0        0      2      0     3      2      3     0      0     0      a      0      a     0    10          0      1      I     1       503
X. Cwi   %%Fao                      0                0    0    a    0    0        3      I      1     1      2      2     0      0     a      a      0      0     a      0         a      a      0     0        so
IFg osoCh.. SfwiF                   0    *    0    a    0    2    a    a           i     1      2     2      1      2     a      a     4      a      a       0                                 0               130
Mm M  02Vow  200Fo-        2    1    I    0    0    0    0    a          2      I      2     2      2     0      0      a     a      0      a     a      a      2         0      a      a     a       201
De" X NoSao F -2    1    1    0    0    a    a    a                               2      I      2     2      2      a     0      a     a      a      a     a      a      a         o      0      a     a        0
63Si.Fm   Tuo*u4lCo.                      2    I    I    0      a     a     a 0  0   0     0a  a     a      2      2     3      a      a     0      a      a     a      a     a          a      a      1     a      271
J- sbm 9t" iwo,0    a    I    0    2    2                          1     7      2      4     2    I 1    14      a    ia      a      a      a     a      a      a         a      a      a     a       4ao
rm-    -dCw                         2    2    2    0    0    a    0    3    30    1a  0    20         0    30    so    20    z0                  0  a            a      o         a      a      a     0      1320
Sbo.FT.~~~~C.. ~I    a    *    *    *    1    a    a                     2      I      1     1      2      2     0      a     a      a      a     a      a      a         a      a      a     a        so               )
Tel hSSu Pwa                        a    a    0    0    0    1    a    a    ic           5    12      3      3      2     0      a     a      a      a     a      a     a          a      a      a     a       1S0
bw Faw $ww   am                                  a    I    a    0        o      a      a     a      5      7     0      3     a      a      a     a      a    so          a    ia       a     a       104
Hm Fog  ao Fo1t0    0    a    a    o                                     o      0     1      0      0    Ia      1      0     0      a      a     a      a      2         a      a     a      a      321
Afb-MAW Opm.o4s                     2    2    I    0    2    2    I    0    10    10            0     0      a    19      1      0      0     0      0      a     0      0         a      2      1     0       GUS
xkpm8d  m-    .                     3    a    3         a       S     0    0    10    10    la        0    s0    30       a      a     a      0      0      0     0      0         4      0      0     0     1237
Zbo.qm Lo.& -.o $.                  2    I    1    0    0    1    0    0          0      a      2    10      a      4     a      a     a      a      a      0     0      3         0      0      0     1       334
P-So..od C.                         1    I    I    a    a    2    0    0    1s    12    1s    24    21              0     0      0     0      0      a      a     a    12          0      a      0     0      630
U~.VI  S4omoC                       1    1    0    0    0    3    0    0    10    10    10            a    10    60    10        0      7     0      0     0      a      a         a      0      0     0      064
Lh-Css.,SC                          1    1    0    a    a    1    0    0    10    10    10            S    l0    21       a      0     a      a      0     0      0    1 7         a      5      6     0       no0
jm.6SC                              2    2    1    0    a    2    0    a          3    10    la        I    10    27      a      a      a     0      2      I     2    Is          0            0      1      700
soUlm SC                            1    0    I    0    0    0    0    0          3      2    10      0      I      a     a      4     0      0      0     0      a      0         0      0      0     0       215
IdO" C                              2    1    2    0    0    2    0    0    21    1o    14            0      a    10      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0         0      2      2     2       714
a 2. C                              2    1    2    0    0    1    0    0    30    30    40    10    30    30              0      0     a      0      0     0      0      2         0      1      1     0      000
Wd F.0 SC                           0    0    0    0    0    2    0    0          0    24    10    I I    10    14        0      0     0      0      0     0      0      7         0      0      0     0      220
P,.v.Vog.3..iC..     1    0    1    0   ~~~2    1    2    0         U     3      5      5     a      5     0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0         0      0      0     0       504
lmh-  p _2   M.&. C..0    0    2    0    0    0    0    1    10                          a     4      I    t0      2      0    1 1     0      0      0     a      0     0          0      0     0      0      300
No..4f..W0.d co.                    7    0    7    a    a    4    3    0    20    10    25    10    20    10              0      5     0      a      0     0      0     0          0      0      0     0     1480>
Pm.T.odr.oCo.  ______  I    1    0    0    0    2    0    2  0  2  I  0  2  S      0    13      5      3      5     0      0      0         0      0      0     0      440a  0  0  0 
OAL 40 21   31       1    0 472      6    7   267   22      I6.    20,     0    401    704   79       0      8                        120         4       204 1112    18    16097
KEY a-                 3.04    Mo.wgo01CBE ..  LC0 bkg6 p.o.d.v                                                                                           Vh04o oqp.o .t4 ...db -' Is o                              F-H
D0        W *  04 N 6    lm^                                   M          U.MS*.g                                                 a         God  Cooed   O.Whody Am...
I   EmoI o~wo"o  *A                                       P          F %N Uo ..                                              U          IkqoId   &b A-hd h6.1                                 0
F       Phoc soA Acooo"o
02:21 PM       30-Jo...O                                                                                                                                                                                             H-



CHINA
Seed Sector Commercialization Project
Seed Production Systems - Seed Companies: Provincial, Prefecture and County
Total Production Company Owned Contractual Non-Contract Institutional
Province      Seed Company           Area          Farms        Farms      Farms   Production1/
(Ha)           X            %          %           %
Guangxd
Provincial Seed Company        2,500            30         70
Guizhou
Provincial Seed Company        1.500                      100
Hunan
Provincial Seed Company        5,600              5        95
Shandong
Provincil Seed Company         1,000             10        80          10
Binzhou Prefecture SC           300              10        90                                                       00
JiningPrefectureSC              400              10        90
Uaocheng Prefecture SC          540              10        90
Unyi Prefecture SC             1,600              5        95
Taran Prefedure SC             1,200            100
Weifang Prefecture SC          2,000             65         35
ZiboPrefectureSC                250              10        90
Sharnd 31
Provincial Vegetable SC        1,400             47        45                       8
Provincial Maize SC            2,000             58        35                       7
Sichuan
Provincial Seed Company        3,000             10        90
Zhejiang 41
Provincial Seed Company        2,500             24        61          10           5
Notes:
/1. Instibttional seed production at non-commercial agricultural insites and seed experimental instittes.
Q. Shanxd provincial vegetable seed company and provincial maize seed company have an experimentW station respectively.        H m
13. Zhejiang has merged seed expenmental station into provindal seed company.
0
1h



CHINA
Seed Sector Commercialization Project
Seed Production Systems - State Farm Seed Enterprises
Total Production Company Owned Contractual Non-Contract Institutional
Province       Seed Company            Area           Farms         Farms       Farms    Productionl/
(Ha)            %            %            %           %
Gansu
Provi. (Batepy) State Farm       2,996            100
Hubei
State Farm Trading Co.           1,700            100
Dongxihu State Farm              2,860            100
Renmindayuan State Farm          2,642            100
Hunan
Junshan State Fafn               3,370              8          91                                        X
Jiangsu
Agribusiness Corporation         7,780            100
Jiangxi
State Farm Trading Co.
Hengfeng State Famn              3,220            100
Raofeng State Farn               1,092            100
Taihe State Fann                   650            100
Shandong
Zhangqlu Leek Seed SF            1,164           22.3          90          7.7
Notes:
/1. Insttutional seed production at non-commercial agricultural institutes and seed experimental instHutes.
0



Annex 2
- 86 -                                   Page 1 of 3
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
PLANTER BOX SEED SURVEYS
PURPOSE
The purpose of the "Planter Box Seed Surveys" is to survey the quality of seeds of selected
crops saved by farmers for planting (the so-called informal seed sector) and to compare the
quality of the farmer-saved seeds with that of seeds of the same kind and variety available
in the market.
GENERAL PROCEDURE
The surveys will be made at planting time for the selected crops so that information on seeds
actually being planted can be obtained along with a small sample for analysis and testing.
CROP SEED KINDS SURVEYED
Wheat, soybean and/or conventional rice, i.e., non-hybrid. These are important crops of the
self-pollinated type for which seed saving by farmers is a common practice worldwide. It
might be difficult to find a suitable area for surveying where conventional rice is planted by
a sufficient portion of farmers for convenient survey. If this turns out to be the case, the
focus should be on wheat and soybean. Soybean is included because the seeds are more
difficult for farmers to save with good maintenance of quality than most other seed kinds.
On the other hand, seeds of rice are perhaps the easiest seeds to save with good maintenance
of quality. Shandong province is recommended for soybean; Henan for wheat.
SURVEY AREAS
Representative counties in Shandong (soybean) and Henan (wheat) provinces for each of the
two seed kinds to be surveyed should be selected and within each county, one or more
villages with a population of several hundred farmers to provide for a good sample of 100
farmers in the field planting during the planting season. The survey would be repeated in
the same or an adjacent county the following season in the same manner to provide two 100
farmer samples for each seed kind for total of 200 farmers.
SURVEY PERIOD AND NUMBERS
- 2 seed kinds (wheat and soybean or conventional rice)
- 2 years
- 100 farmers per kind per year
- 2 seed kinds (areas) x 2 years x 100 farmers/survey = 400 farmers.
400 farmers = 400 samples



- 87 -                                 Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
ORGANIZATION, COLLABORATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The surveys should be under the general sponsorship of the Project Management Office in
association with the Provincial PMO of the Province or Provinces selected for the surveys.
The Provincial Seed Administration(s) or Seed Administrations of the Prefecturate(s) in which
the counties to be surveyed are located should be responsible for the surveys with a qualified
person assigned as Survey Leader. Collaboration should be established with the major seed
company in the area and with the Agrotechnical Extension Centers to assist with selection
of the survey areas, accompany and assist the surveyors, provide transportation and be
helpful in other ways..
- Personnel of the Provincial or Prefectural Seed Stations would   &x'J te
farmers, obtain the desired information and collect samples. Transportation
would be provided by the pertinent Administration.
- The Provincial or Prefectural Seed Testing Laboratory would make the
purity and germination analyses of the samples collected. To the extent
possible, the purity analyses would include an assessment of varietal purity
as well as physical purity, and observations on seed health would be made
during the purity analysis and germination test.
- The Agrotechnical Extension Center would be responsible for planting out
the samples in the field for additional observations on varietal purity.
SURVEY PROCEDURES AND EVALUATIONS
- Two to four person team would move through survey area during planting
season for the crop, identify farmers actually planting the crop or making
preparations to plant in the next several days, obtain specified information
from the farmer and a sample of the seeds that are or will be planted. The
size of seed sample will be 1 kg and the seeds will be replaced with clean.
good quality seeds of the same variety. The farmer will be asked to plant the
replacment seeds in one location and mark the location with bamboo poles
with cloth "flags" at the beginning and end of the replacement seeds.
- The information collected from each farmer surveyed would be relatively
brief and simple: name and location of field (for followup visit); number of
mu to be planted; seeding rate per mu; the variety and source of seed (where
did he get the seeds he is planting?, saved himself, from neighbor, from seed
company, from extenstion center, other); why did he choose the
source of seed that he chose?; why did he choose the variety that is being planted?
- The 1 kg samples would be taken at to the seed testing laboratory that will
do the work and divided into two 500 g samples. One sample would be used



- 88 -                                  Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
for purity, germination and other laboratory tests; the other sample would be
used for the field planting. The laboratory tests would be made using
standard procedures with the additional assessments and observations on
varietal purity and seed health as mentioned above. The field tests would be
only for obervations on varietal purity and consist of duplicate rows of each
sample, 125 -150 seeds per row thinned in seedling stage to approximately
100 plants. Row and plant spacing would be closer than for VCU testing.
Varietally pure seeds of each variety represented in the survey (obtained from
foundation seed stocks) would be planted in the row before and after the
survey rows. The field plantings would be evaluated several times to
determine variety purity and make observations on specific diseases.
- Followup visits would be made to 25 of the farmers surveyed to observe the
performance of the varietally pure, processed and good quality seeds that
replaced the seeds taken in the sample.
- The survey leader would assemble the results of the laboratory analyses and
field evaluations, categorize the samples according to source of seeds (i.e.,
home-saved, neighbor, seed company, seed station, other) and make
appropriate comparisions of quality among the sources of seeds surveyed.
Additional data for analysis and comparison could be obtained from
laboratory test results of samples of seeds of the same variety for seeds
marketed in the county or prefecturate by seed companies and seed stations.
REQUIREMENTS
The requirements for the surveys would not be great. For an extension effort of these sorts,
personnel time ought to be assigned. The remaining requirements would be: transportation
costs for the survey; seeds from seed companies operating in the area of the different
varieties encountered to replace the 1 kg sample taken from farmer; laboratory supplies and
materials for testing; use of equipment, materials and field plots for field tests. An adequate
and reasonable budget for essential requirements would be about Y160 per sample. For the
two years of the survey, 2 crops, and 100 samples/crop/year, the budget would be:
100 samples x 2 crops x 2 years x 160 = Y64.000 (maximum, it could  be nuch
less depending on cooperators & cooperation.



AnngX 3
Page 1 of 7
- 89 -
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
PILOT COMPANIES FOR COMMERCIALIZATION
1.        In order tc establish company structures which could serve as models
for the commercialization of the Chinese seed sector, 3 pilot companies were
identified which will be monitored closely throughout the implementation phase
of the Project. The 3 pilot companies are based on current operations of (i) a
state farm, (ii) a prefecture seed company, and (iii) a provincial seed company.
These companies will be formed as limited liability companies or limited
liability stock companies under Chinese Company laws as adopted in December 29,
1993. Operationally, these companies will be structured quite differently and
are intended to serve as examples for other entities pursuing the objective of
commercialization. Under the Project it is proposed that these pilot companies
be provided with additional training and technical assistance to ensure
successful conversion to commercialized operations. Monitoring procedures have
been identified to ensure that these companies will accomplish their objectives.
Zhangqiu State Farm
2.        Zhangqiu State Farm (ZSF) is located in the Zhangqiu Prefecture in
Shandong Province: ZSF operates on about 8,000 mu (530 ha), half of which is used
for the production of grain. The state farm recently concluded an exclusive
agreement with the Zhangqiu Municipal Leek Research Institute (ZMLRI) for the
representation of new varieties. ZMLRI is the only institute in China involved
in the development of new varieties of leek. All leek seed grown commercially in
China today is hybrid seed.
3.        ZSF originally proposed to operate the seed business as a separate
division of the state farm; subsequent to several reviews, however, it was
decided that the seed business be spun off the state farm operations and
established as a limited liability company, Zhangqiu Leek Seed Company (ZLSC).
This company will assume the licensing agreement with ZMLRI and will be
responsible for the production and marketing of foundation and commercial seed.
ZLSC will contract for all of its seed production requirements; while ZSF will
be a preferred seed producer due to its longstanding experience with the
production of high quality leek seed, production will also be contracted with
other seed producers to ensure a competitive environment. Foundation seed will
be marketed under licensing arrangements and commercial seed will be marketed
either direct or through representatives in other provinces.
4.        Annually China produces leek on about 267,000 ha; at planting rates
of 7.5 kg/ha this requires about 2,000 t of commercial seed. This commercial seed
can be produced on about 2,600 ha (seed yields of 750 kg/ha) which requires about
20 t of foundation seed (7.5 kg/ha). At foundation seed yields of about 380
k-/ha, 20 t can be produced on about 50 ha. Under the Project, ZLSC plans to
market about 20 t of foundation seed annually and to increase sales of commercial
seed to about 700 t over 5 years.
5.        Leek seed will be the primary product of ZLSC; however, in order to
have a minimum of diversification, the company will also market celery seed
(about 100 t/year) and radish seeds (about 200 t/year) under agreements with the
Institute for Vegetable Seeds in Shandong.
6.        As ZLSC will be created as a limited liability company with a minimum
of two initial shareholders. Chinese law required limited liability companies
and limited liability stock companies to be supervised by a Board of Directors.
This board will be composed of one representative each of ZLSC, ZSF, ZMLRI,
Zhangqiu City Seed Cc-.pany, and a contract seed producer. Management will report



An3
- 90 -                            Page 2 of 7
to this board as management in a shareholding company would report to the board
of directors.
7.        The general manager of the company will be assisted by two deputies;
one being responsible for finance and sales/marketing, the other responsible for
seed production and conditioning. The quality assurance function as well as
support services will report directly to the general manager. Total company staff
will be approximately 50.
8.        Of critical importance for the company will be the supply of new,
improved germplasm on a regular basis. In the past, release of new varieties in
China was rather slow; research institutes constantly made improvements to once
released varieties, but they did not change the designation of the product. This
policy resulted in the fact that varieties marketed today do no longer truly
resemble the characteristics of the original product but they are still marketed
under the designation of that original product. This situation will change with
the introduction of plant breeders' rights (PBR). - In its negotiations with
ZMLRI, ZLSC will ensure that new varieties will be available on a regular basis.
ZMLRI will have the responsibility to describe these varieties and to obtain
protection under PBR; ZLSC will have the responsibility to ensure varietal purity
so that the product which is marketed truly reflects the characteristics as
described by ZMLRI. ZLSC will pay a license fee (royalty) to ZMLRI for the right
to produce and market the products developed by the institute, and this license
will be established as a percentage of the price for which ZLSC sells its seed.
This arrangement will significantly change the marketing of seeds; ZLSC will
regularly launch new products into the market, they will have to manage "product
cycles" including the phasing out of products on the decline.
9.        In its seed production operations,  ZLSC will  have to negotiate
contracts which take into account the actual cost of production incurred by the
producers plus a small premium for their efforts to produce seed as compared to
a commercial crop. Superior quality should demand a higher premium. However, as
sales prices for seed will remain rather low in comparison with world market
prices for a number of years, it is of utmost importance for all seed companies
that they control their seed production cost and attempt to keep them as low as
possible. Only this policy will allow them to make a reasonable profit from their
operations which can then be reinvested into the business (including research).
10.       ZLSC intends to market its seed through 4 sales points within the
prefecture as well as through representatives/agents in other regions. One major
customer will be Zhangqiu City Seed Company which already today sells several
hundred tons of leek seed to provinces such as Liaoning, Anhui, Henan, Shanxi,
and others. A brand image and identity for Zhangqiu leek seed has been
established. ZLSC must ensure that it uses this brand identity to its advantage
while creating its own identity for seed of superior quality. ZLSC will have to
segment its markets, particularly in regards to the sale of foundation vs.
commercial seed; and ZLSC must very carefully select the customers to whom they
sell foundation seed to ensure that the high quality of its foundation seed is
maintained in the commercial seed produced by these customers.
11.       ZLSC will eutablish its own company internal quality assurance program
to ensure that these quality issues are being observed. Thus the quality
assurance department has a responsibility not only for the seed produced by the
company but also must, from time to time, check the seed produced by the
company's licensees. The quality standards established by this quality assurance
program will be superior to those established in the official government
regulations.
12.       Significant training and technical assistance will be provided for
ZLSC to ensure that management is equipped with the knowledge and understanding
for the company to accomplish its objectives. Also, monitoring procedures and
performance indicator- have been identified to measure the companies progress.



- 91 -                            PageT-of 7
These will be explained in the summary section.
ZiBo Prefecture Seed Company
13.       ZiBo Prefecture Seed Company (ZPSC) is located in the city of ZiBo in
Shandong province. The company operates with a staff of 50 people, it maintains
a central office and seed cleaning facility, a research farm, and 6 retail stores
in the municipality of ZiBo. All management staff of ZPSC are agronomists,
holding the responsibilities of (i) general manager, also responsible for
finance, (ii) vegetable seed sales manager, (iii) wheat and corn sales manager,
(iv) manager for buildings/services/engineering, (v) research and production
manager.
14.       ZPSC developed its proposal for participation in the Project based on
an in-house research program for chinese cabbage and the recent acquisition of
the production and marketing rights to a corn hybrid. The company suggests that
the functions and responsibilities of the seed station have already been
separated from its operations; this is yet to be verified. The company intends
to continue operating as a stand-alone operation but to increase its market share
in hybrid corn and to expand interregional marketing of vegetable seeds.
15.        ZPSC will be established as a limited liability company, as with
Zhangqiu, the company will have at least two shareholders; and it was suggested
to offer a minority interest also to the managers. Management will report to a
Board of Directors whose members will represent the shareholders as well as
successful local businesses.   The land and buildings which the company will
operate will be transferred to the company by transfer of a "right to use".
These rights will be valued as equity contributions by the shareholders to the
capital stock of the company; and the transfer of these rights will be signed off
on by local government to ensure that management is autonomous in deciding on the
use of these land and buildings.
16.       The general manager will report directly to the Board of Directors;
he will be assisted by three deputies responsible for (i) seed production and
conditioning, (ii) research, foundation seed production, and variety testing,
(iii) marketing and sales of seed of Chinese cabbage and hybrid corn. The finance
department, the quality assurance department, and the support services will
report directly to the general manager. Total company staff will be about 50.
17.       In vegetable seeds, ZPSC has about 1,400 accessions of Chinese cabbage
as its proprietary germplasm pool; the research effort is directed towards the
development of hybrids. Total cost of the research program is about 300,000 Yuan
per year. While the company considers its genetic basis as sufficient and its
hybrids superior as regards quality and earliness, ZPSC will change its products
release policy as described above for Zhangqiu, including protection of new
varieties under PBR. ZPSC will also begin significant efforts to identify other
sources for improved germplasm nationally and internationally. These products
would be secured for the company either through licensing operations or
otherwise.
18.       In corn  seeds  ZPSC  will  also  actively  pursue  new  sources  for
germplasm. Presently the company has a production and marketing right to one corn
hybrid developed by Shandong Agricultural Research Institute; under the project
the company will explore both national and international breeders for improved
products.
19.       Concerning seed production, ZPSC will produce all foundation seed of
Chinese cabbage and hybrid corn on its own research farm; the technical and
management expertise to carry out this production has already been established.
Production of commercial seed will be contracted out. The seed production system
in the ZiBo prefecture is such that adequate isolation for the production of high



- 92 -                             Annex 3
Page 4 of 7
quality seed of different varieties can be guaranteed through contracts with
farm-households.
20.        ZPSC presently sells about 150 t of cabbage seeds annually, 15 t in
the regional market and 135 t in the interregional market; at this level the
company is not able to meet market demand. ZPSC projects to increase sales to
about 500 t/year. This increase will be accomplished through an expansion of the
existing network of representatives/agents throughout China (this network
currently extends over 25 provinces throughout the country). ZPSC has already
established a proprietary package for "ZiBo Cabbage Seed" which clearly
distinguishes it from any other source; this package also has created a brand
image for the company in the interregional market. The company will accomplish
its sales objectives by building on and expanding this brand identity. - ZPSC
presently sells its corn seeds within the prefecture; the company recently
concluded contractual arrangements with 6 county seed companies to sell ZPSC corn
seeds exclusively under the Project. ZPSC will also pursue sales opportunities
outside the prefecture, most likely through some of its vegetable seed dealers.
Following this strategy the company should accomplish its projected sales
increase of corn seeds from 500 t to 5,000 t annually.
21.       ZPSC will establish and strengthen its own company internal quality
assurance program to ensure that the highest possible seed quality is produced
and sold. As the acreage to carry out the projected production will be rather
large, the company will work with local staff in the various seed production
communities which are not permanent employees but supervise production on account
of and according to the standards of the company.   The quality standards
implemented by the company will be superior to the standards established for the
external governmental quality control inspections.
22.       Significant training and technical assistance will be provided for
ZLSC to ensure that management is equipped with the knowledge and understanding
for the company to accomplish its objectives. Also, monitoring procedures and
performance indicators have been identified to measure the companies progress.
These will be explained in the summary section.
Guangxi Provincial Seed Company
23.       Guangxi Provincial Seed Company  (GSC) is located in Nanning,  the
capital of Guangxi Province; with 83 million people this province is the third
most populated province of China. Until 1995 GPSC still operated much according
to the old hierarchical system; it was the supplier of breeder seed to most
prefecture seed companies in the province and the official quality control
laboratory was still managed by GSC.  However, as a participant in the ASSP
project the provincial government plans to accomplish the establishment of an
official laboratory outside GSC by late 1995 or early 1996; buildings have been
constructed and they are awaiting delivery of the laboratory equipment.
24.       There are 97 seed companies in the province; the provincial seed
company, 13 prefecture seed companies, and 83 county seed companies. A number of
the prefecture and county companies have already moved to a more commercialized
system and are marketing seed in the interregional trade. GSC originally intended
to form a group company with 3 prefecture seed companies and 11 county seed
companies to participate in the Project. This, however, would not have
accomplished the desired consolidation and efficiencies as every participant
would have desired to continue and expand its seed production activity. It was
therefore decided and agreed to form a limited liability stock company on the
basis of GSC with participation of 5 county seed companies.
25.        The newly formed company (GPSC) will have a group of shareholders,
electing a Board of Directors, appointing a chairman of the Board, and through
this structure superv Lse the management of the company.  The company will be



- 93 -                            Page 5 of 7
managed by a general manager who would not be a member of the board; this general
manager would be assisted by 3 deputies. One deputy general manager will be
responsible for seed production and conditioning, one for sales and marketing,
and one for finance/administration.  Service functions, the quality assurance
department and evaluation of new products will report directly to the general
manager.
26.       The company will operate from its central location in Nanning where
it also maintains its foundation seed farm; away from this center there will be
5 seed production locations and one sales office at the border with Vietnam. The
production locations will be at PingGuo (Corn), HePu (peanuts and kenaf
[dogbane]), and BeiLiu, HeXian, and TianYong (hybrid rice).
27.       The shareholders will contribute to the company the right to use
certain facilities for the production of seeds; the 5 seed conditioning lines
will be installed at these facilities. The shareholders will also make available
to GPSC certain personnel during the harvest and conditioning season to allow the
company to manage its seed crop and to keep its permanent staff at a minimum.
GPSC, however, will have, through its own staff, supervisory responsibility of
all seed production operations and will also have the responsibility to service
and maintain the seed processing lines.   The number of shares held by each
shareholder will be determined after the value of the facilities to be
contributed has been established.
28.       Great responsibility will lie with the department for the evaluation
of new varieties as none of the companies joining into GPSC has any proprietary
products or research programs or holds any licenses to such products.   GPSC
therefore must urgently obtain new varieties for testing from both national and
international sources and evaluate them at multiple locations throughout the
province as well as in the interregional markets. GPSC has been put in contact
with potential international sources for new varieties and the implementation of
an accelerated testing program for such new products will be one of the benchmark
by which this company will be evaluated.
29.       In structuring GPSC it was ensured that the strongest of the initial
14 candidates for participation in the group company were selected for the new
shareholding company; the intent being that some of the seed production
operations of the other companies will become superfluous. These companies would
then become agents and/or representatives of the company for marketing its seed
products. Initial discussions on this concept have been held with a number of
these companies; this, however, can be accomplished successfully only if GPSC
proves that it is in a position to supply superior products from a standpoint of
genetics and mechanical quality at competitive prices.
30.       GPSC will establish its own internal quality assurance department and
laboratory; GPSC also will establish a seed quality assurance program and
standards to be met. These standards will be above those issued by the official
government control offices.   A significant task will be to ensure uniform
implementation of these standards at all five production/processing locations.
This too will be a benchmark by which GPSC will be evaluated throughout the
implementation of the project.   In order to assist this effort, GPSC will
establish small laboratories for quick analyses directly at the processing sites;
all seed prepared for sale, however, will have to be checked by the central
laboratory in Nanning before that seed can be sold.
31.       In rice, Guangxi province produces about 2.5 million ha per year
annually in two crops; first crop is planted in January and harvested in June,
second crop is planted in July and harvested in December.  Thus the time for
harvesting/processing a seed crop is extremely short if companies have to operate
without carryover seed. Today about 70% of all rice is hybrid; it is projected
that by the year 2000 this will have increased to about 85%. At planting rates
of 22.5 kg/ha this wiil require about 47,000 t of seed annually. GPSC projects



- 94 -                            Annex 3
Page 6 of 7
to supply about 16,000 t of hybrid rice seed by the year 2000, representing a
market share of about 21%; however, a significant quantity will also be sold into
the interregional market and to Vietnam. This can be accomplished with hybrids
of superior performance and seed of superior quality.
32.       In corn, Guangxi province produces about 530,000 ha annually, 45% of
which is hybrid; it is projected that the use of hybrid seed will increase to
about 80% by the year 2000. Planting rates, however, should decrease from the
current 45 kg/ha to about 35 kg/ha, resulting in annual seed needs of about
13,000 t. GPSC plans to accomplish sales of about 6,200 t by the year 2000,
representing a market share of about 48%. The company plans to accomplish this
objective primarily through the improvement of seed quality, thus allowing the
farmer to reduce his planting rates; longterm, however, the company also must
distinguish itself by offering improved varieties.
33.       Guangxi province produces about 190,000 ha of peanuts annually; at
planting rates of 225 kg and a four year seed replacement rate, this results in
annual seed needs of about 10,700 t. It is projected that the seed replacement
rate will change to three years as GPSC will provide a superior product to the
farmers; this scenario makes the sales projection of 4,000 t for the year 2000
attainable.
34.       In kenaf, the province produces about 4,000 t of seed annually which
is mostly sold into the interregional markets. GPSC targets a sales volume of
about 3,000 t for the year 2000, primarily by being able to replace other
producers which cannot compete with GPSC's seed quality.
35.       The buildup of a strong, customer oriented marketing and distribution
network will be a prerequisite for GPSC to accomplish its sales objectives. The
company will  build  on the  contacts  which  its  shareholders  have  already
established in the interregional markets and consolidate these, it will introduce
its own brand, and it will use it close relations with county seed companies to
supply its superior products in their markets.  Significant market research
however will have to be done to identify competitor's strengths and weaknesses
and to identify market niches.
36.       Significant training and technical assistance will be provided for
GPSC to ensure that management is equipped with the knowledge and understanding
for the company to accomplish its objectives. Also, monitoring procedures and
performance indicators have been identified to measure the companies progress.
These will be explained in the summary section.
Summary
37.       Training and technical assistance for the three pilot companies will
be coordinated to meet their needs. Foreign training will be provided for general
business management, marketing, and seed quality; local training will also be
provided for the afore mentioned as well as for finance, production, and seed
plant operations. The accomplishment of these training schedules throughout the
implementation phase of the project will be one of the performance indicators by
which these companies will be measured during supervision. Technical assistance
in the above indicated fields will be provided throughout the first two years of
operation.
38.       All companies were provided with guidelines for statutes and charters
for the establishment of these companies as legal, autonomous entities; draft
documents are to be submitted to the Bank prior to negotiation of the Loan. While
the company structures as described above appear to be satisfactory, it must yet
be ensured that these autonomous structures can actually operate autonomously
following implementation of the Project and this will be monitored closely during
supervision.



Annex 3
Page 7 of 7
39.       All companies also must supply documentation that certain property on
which the seed processing facilities are to be constructed have been transferred
to these companies for their exclusive use and that no authority can dictate to
these enterprises to alter the intended use or to infringe on it.
40.       In  order  to  prepare  the  pilot  companies  for  a  competitive,
commercialized environment, they were directed to minimize their spending on
social services and to substitute this with higher salaries/wages. The practice
of job guarantee is to be discontinued, housing should not be provided by the
companies, and the companies are to implement the practice of hiring temporary
workers during the peak seasons so that permanent employment and the related
expenses can be minimized.
41.       Management auconomy will be measured by the ability of company
management to establish prices, production targets, purchasing and selling
policies, engage in *he import and export of seeds, decide on investments,
acquire and transfer assets, establish joint ventures, hire and dismiss
employees, manage personnel and set wages and bonuses, and decide on the use of
retained earnings.
42.       In addition to the above outlined, certain performance indicators were
developed by which the companies will be evaluated during the implementation
phase of the project. These are:
- Obtaining certificates concerning the legal status of the companies
and documentation for transfer of assets;
- Adhering to the project implementation schedules;
- Establishing a system of monitoring expenditures and commitments
during project implementation by the time of the project launch workshop;
- Achieving training objectives according to schedules;
- Establishing company internal quality standards prior to the first
seed production season;
- Realizing production and sales volumes according to the 5 year
schedules; and
- Accomplishing the per unit profit margins which were established in
the financial calculations by setting prices according to market conditions and
controlling production costs accordingly.



China
Seed Sector Commercialization Project
Components Project Cost Summary
(Yuan '000)                                          (USS 000)
%     % Total                                       %      % Total
Foreign   Base                                      Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange  Costs      Local      Foreign     Total    Exchange  Costs
A. Policy and Regulatory
TA for Policy                                  73.4      1,395.6     1,469.0      95        -         8.7       166.1       174.9      95        -
Extemal Quality Control                     34,541.1    18,913.6    53,454.7      35        4      4,112.0    2,251.6     6,363.7      35        4
Subi tal Policy and Regulatory                34,614.5    20,309.1    54,923.7      37        4      4,120.8    2,417.8     6,538.5      37        4
B. .nstitutional Strengthening
Seed Quality Control & Certification         1,722.9     1,681.3     3,404.1      49        -       205.1      200.2        405.3      49        -
ProjectManagementOOffice                       69.5       939.6      1,009.0      93        -         8.3       111.9       120.1      93
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening           1,792.3     2,620.8     4,413.1      59        -       213.4       312.0       525.4      59        -
C. Comfnrercialization
Seed Companies                             645,713.6   255,104.2   900,817.9      28       62     76,870.7   30,369.6    107,240.2     28       62
SF Seed Companies                          305,697.1    183,540.3    489,237.5    38       34     36,392.5   21,850.0    58,242.6      38       34
Subtotal Conrnercialization                  951,410.7    438,644.6  1,390,055.3    32       96    113,263.2   52,219.6   165,482.8      32       96
TotalBASELINECOSTS                           987,817.6   461,574.5  1,449,392.1      32     100    117,597.3   54,949.3   172,546.7       32     100
Physical Contingencies                      23,700.1    53,292.4    76,992.5      69        5      2,821.4    6,344.3     9,165.8      69        5     1
Price Contingencies                        228,821.7    68,972.7   297,794.4      23       21      1,309.3    2,519.5     3,828.8      66        2     I
Total PROJECT COSTS                         1,240,339.4   583,839.6  1,824,179.0     32     126    121,728.1    63,813.2    185,541.2     34     108
InterestDuringConstruction                          -    173,811.5   173,811.5      100      12           -   17,354.2    17,354.2      100       10
Total FINANCING REQUIRED                   1,240,339.4   757,651.1  1,997,991.0    38.0   138.0   121,728.1    81,167.4   202,895.5     40.0   118.0
FA



chk.
Sed Sector Cm     miat  Projed
Con _onet Project Cost Summary
(Yuan 00W)                                             (US$ 000)
%     % Total                                         %      % Ttal
For Snam                                              Forign   Base
Local      F~            Total    Exch e  Cos          Local      Foreign      TotA    Exchae  Costs
A. Pokly and RegulI
TA for PoIy                                       73.4      1,395.6      1,469.0      95       _           8.7      166.1        174.9       95
Subtotal Policy and Rgulstory                       73.4      1,395.6      1,469.0      95        -          8.7      166.1        174.9      96         -
B   h    _ttutol SbIten ning
SeedaualllyCorol&Celdion                        1,722.9     1,661.3     3,404.1       49                205.1       200.2        405.3      49
ProjcMhosgemnenOR                                 69.5        939.6      1,009.0      93                   8.3      111.9        120.1      93
SubtotallnstkttlnaStrengthenlng                   1,792.3     2,620.8     4,413.1       59                213.4       312.0        525.4      59         -
C. Guangxl ProviWnc  Seed Sector
Seed CompsnyCommercali_zation                143.691.4     38,499.0   182,190.4       21       13     17,106.1    4,583.2     21689.3       21       13
Subtotal Guangxil Provincial Seed Sector       143,691.4     38,499.0    182,190.4      21       13     17,106.1    4,583.2     21689.3       21       13
D. Guizhou Provincial Seed sector
GuizhouSeedStation                             2,041.5      1,366.3     3,407.9       40                243.0       162.7        405.7      40
Seed CompanyCommercialization                 39,282.3     22,485.0    61,767.3       36        4      4,676.5    2,676.8      7,353.3      36        4
Subtotal Gulzhou ProvinCial Seed sector         41,323.8     23,851.4    65,175.2       37        4      4,919.5    2,839.4      7,759.0      37        4
E. Shandong Provincial Seed Sector
Shandong Seed Station                         12,273.1      7,924.8    20,197.8       39        1      1,461.1      943.4      2,404.5      39        1
Seed CompanyCommercialization                178,348.7     69,029.9   247,378.5       28       17     21,232.0    8,217.8    29,449.8       28       17
SF Seed Company Commercialization             10,422.5      5,357.0    15,779.5       34        1      1,240.8      637.7      1,878.5      34        1
Subtotal Shandong Provincial Seed Sector       201,044.2     82,311.7    283,355.9      29       20     23,933.8    9,799.0     33,732.8      29       20                1
F. Shanxl Provincial Seed sector
Shanxi Seed Station                            8,986.9      3,416.3     12,403.2      28        1      1,069.9      406.7      1,476.6      28        1
Seed CompanyCommercialization                111,345.5     41,420.9    152,766.3      27       11     13,255.4    4,931.1     18,186.5      27       11
Subtotal Shanxl Provincial Seed sector         120,332.4     44,837.2    165,169.5      27       11     14,325.3    5,337.8     19663.0       27       11
G. Sichuan Provincial Seed sector
Sichuan Seed Station                           3,067.1      1,646.3     4,713.4       35        -       365.1       196.0       561.1       35
Seed CompanyCommercializalion                 44,139.2     21,137.2    65,276.4       32        5      5,254.7    2,516.3      7,771.0      32        5
Subtotal Sichuan Provincial Seed sector         47,206.3     22.783.5    69,989.8       33        5      5,619.8    2,712.3      8,332.1      33        5
H. Hunan Provincial Seed Sector
Hunan Seed Station                             4,209.9      2,583.4     6,793.3       38        -       501.2       307.5       806.7       38
Seed Company Commercialization                76,470.6     42,805.1    119,275.6      36        8      9,103.6    5,095.8     14,199.5      36        8
SFSeedCompanyCommenialization                  18,163.2    16,408.3    34,571.5       47        2      2,162.3     1,953.4     4,115.7      47        2
Subtotal Hunan Provincial Seed Sector           98,843.7     61,796.8    160,640.4      38       11     11,767.1    7,356.8     19,123.9      38       11
I. Zhejiang Provincial Seed sector
Zhejiang Seed Station                          3,962.6      1,976.5      5,939.1      33        -       471.7       235.3        707.0      33         -
Seed Company Commercialization                52,436.0     19.727.2     72,163.2      27        5      6,242.4    2,348.5      8,590.9      27        5
Subtotal Zhejiang Provincial Seed sector        56,398.6     21,703.7    78,102.3       28        5      6,714.1    2,583.8      9,297.9      28        5
J. Gansu State Farm Seed Company                29,274.2     10,396.9    39,671.0       26        3      3,485.0     1,237.7     4,722.7      26        3
K. Hubei State Farm Seed Company                65,232.5     39,033.9    104,266.4      37        7      7,765.8    4,646.9     12,412.7      37        7
L. Jiangsu State Farm Seed Company              49,412.5     35,256.7    84,669.3       42       6       5,882.4    4,197.2     10,079.7      42        6
M. Jiangxi State Farm Seed Company              68,307.9     40,114.2    108,422.1      37        7      8,131.9    4,775.5     12,907.4      37        7
N. Shanghai State Farm Seed Company             23,035.6     17,521.6    40,557.2       43       3       2,742.3    2,085.9      4,828.2      43        3
0. Henan State Farm Seed Company                16,586.3      9,217.5    25,803.8       36        2      1,974.6     1,097.3     3,071.9      36        2               p 
P. Fujian State Farm Seed Company               25,262.9     10,234.1    35,497.0       29       2       3,007.5    1,218.3      4,225.8      29        2               u 
Total BASELINE COSTS                            987,818.0    461,574.5  1,449,392.5     32      100    117,597.4    54,949.3    172,546.7      32      100              (D 
Physical Contingencies                        23,700.1     53,292.4    76,992.5       69        5      2,821.4    6,344.3      9,165.8      69        5
Priee Cortingeneies                          228,821.8     68,972.7   297,794.5       23       21      1,309.3    2,519.5      3,828.8      66        2
Total PROJECT COSTS                           1,240,339.9    583,839.6  1.824,179.5     32      126    121,728.1    63,813.2    185,541.3      34      108



6__mm m O I Am6bn NW -  Om                              g          NA
3616        6766                                Osqi l t t_             j        WN             7      073         mmmu                              T h _
L b16aow CoG.
K, I.mWA                                                           37,416.4                                               -    37.41t4         -           -    4.4547                      -                      -     4,464.7       -
L CkOd Wib.
1. W                                                               27.1             -                       -           -       ,7.1    46.0    31,142  De2s -                               *823                                4sn      3,707VS
l  e_                                                            13,521,0    I475W.7                        -           *         SI.07    d.O    n4eee       t1os0    175"67             --                          11794    4sn    6634
Od  ka_                                                            627231    147403               -           - -,2                         46. 1     MO3.  *,46.6   17366.                            -          -   - 27,413    460    12,36
C.      _ 
1A. 6E m6                                                              -      5,20n.0                       -           -      6s2ns      66s      26               -      en.1           -                     -       e.1    ssn          341.1
2. P   *q EAp4                                                         - d146m2n,               -                       -   146,2773       sn    128.0353           -   17.62.0          -          -          -    17,62.    8*n    16,0042
OU      b Eq m)                                                       -    1U390.3             -     -                 -    16,20 e3 90.0    16.51,3               -    219-3                                         2.1a663    so0n    1,0.4
4. OU nBm q          (O   )                                            -          o15,0         -           -           -    15,3400      46.0     ,975.                 1548-.5                                -      1.e46      46.0     8s.5
5.          -                                                          -    1747-                                             17.470n0   46.0    rI6                -    2,07e.6                     -                 27         46s      036
. Ft5,M91.                                                                                     -                       -    5,761.      90on    14,2m.7                1v7                   -           -           167.       so0    IA0.o
7. Bps  pw                                                             -      4,7               -           -           -      4,36.7    66*       3,711.7                 519e                      -          - e1to            Ka       441.e
6. CO       d -O 1,080                                                        -73                           -           -      6.732.3    46n      4,3766       119      1039.6                      -                 t1t56.     4sn       521.4
S    w                                                                 - ,,Awj                  -           -           -,4 O  4,n ,. s,20.0                       -       s47.6                     -       _           s47.     MA)       100.
&mdI9*m6                                                            1,000     2J6C2               .           -           -   zM,232        76.7   uxss4n         1109    25.576            --    -                     28461*    7M7    21,M.7
1~~~~~~~~~~~~680                                                             -                             5,500  -6.    -~                            66.        e               oo0n  onD                             621.-eet4
2 7u.    1-                                                                        0                                          la -    1t922on0    In  17.2          -    2,3.                                   -      2,61       sn0    2,013.3
31     CC_IaNdW                                                   6,J30.0     7,140.            -           -                 13,30. So.u    12150              757.1      860.0          -          *          -      1,507.1    0o0     1446.4
4.    _                                                                *       25n              .           -*                  255.0   60           D.5                   30.4          -          *                    30.4    90s        27.3
bWddm                                                               6onA    32,415.0                          -           -    3t4 T        0n       347,07       757.1    3                -                     *      4,616.1    o00     4,154.5
1. faU..                                                         54,7820         12.0           *           -           .04,70.0          6*      60,541.0    1,461.4        1.4          -          *-                  o,      9S"      038.2
. C k                                                            1602              -                        -                 16. 3 0A2    6n0    1567        xooA e           *          -                            2A.6A    05.0      1r.4
3 a    a Um                                                      10,26             -            -           -           *    136,    9S"          17,311,3    2,9              *          -*-                          22A    9o0    2XOD
4. S _ shod                                                                 117,8223    121.74&4    10,36.4    12,M6.    482,46u8                                       14*- 6.4   14,403.3   14,221.7   4.666I    674A6.4         - 
L. ODOU1,2                                                                         -                        -------Z             06A.2    40.0      410,3      12,2..                                                   132.     40,0       48.
121,6664    117,43    121.743A    1204    125,356.0    042n73    1ts    114,251.7    14,07t.1   143A3  14.403.3   14,23.7   14,566.1                  7t7         1*    13,1.4
n.Td*h        a TA
1.  T        _    f                                                 66          ao         2te.0  6-. 216*0                     3460    9660         .7          7.7         7.7       25.7          -                   41.2   0S"          t.1o
Z Tedw4asDs forPo"                                                 5000c4.o     409.0                                           NSA 960    6.0      046.1        59.5       59.4                                         11.      66.0 t11.0
3. To4.t.DA6dfar Pi            i                                   212.5        216.5           *           -           -       4230    95.0         407.9       25.3       258                                           51.1 -6.0          48.5
4. ~  Tr  S6 b, TOW                                               6,XL2      6e3.0          220.0           -           -    1222    96sn         11.6,3        717.9      720.6       262                             1 1,464.7    560   1,31.4
S. DO _f T           _e a Loom Cam3.9                                                       4x2.6 -       -      -             7133       30.0     2t40.1       400.6      400.                         2s.1 *09                    1       254.S
SuTr46T*mu        A                                                1o,12.6e    10.19.4        69.2                              21,21o0     7.1    15,51S.4    1,211 ,3        4.i      1CO-                              2=-i       M      i'afts
K Ww86                                                                   .      2,266*       ,415.8     2,415.9      X5642       ,711*        *           *                 2723,      270        37.6        207       1.156D2
1.DoorCof                                                       20,717.0      7,617.6           *           -                 22,34.*    30n       CO004      2.466        906                                         3,3732    20.0    1.012.0
2.    a#_ bb w1,11.0                                                               -            -                              I,118      20.0       223.6      133..1         *          -          -                   133.1    20n       23.9
3.10                                                              8,42.9 _     Am7.1            -           -                 10,S4o0    IMon       1,D24.0   1.2 9                                  -                 1254.    10n         125.5
subiod odwm                                                       30,477.9      9,514.7                                         3 -  -    20,AW  24.4  9.776.0    3,a6,3    1,132.7         .        -                   4,761     24.4    1.164.0
J.TM a DO"                                                           SGA5     12D979.1      -,35DS      7.      350.9 730      22tne2       .-            -    9.5*    144.3           675.1       675.1      675.1     2es67.5        a          -
__ b 4PddlWAVd CO"                                                370066.2   676227.2   132,A50,    130153.2    132,201  1,444,36.7    32,3   4611,74A    44,056.7    91.A    15,756.0   15,404.4   15,748J    171,5153    32.0   54,546,3
A, 0- U M18u                                                                       25,3        64             *           -        1109                               -        3*n       102                                13.2
S.osm*v                                                                 6- 4.1              2,215.1                              3 -  3,5W2   -           *           -       826       275*                      -       362
C. 06 a                                                                  .        14,.0       4672            .           -       6462                                -       17.7       5962                               76*J
0. ___                     ss5                                                    180        290.0               *       - S77.5                    - *           114        27    J    34S3               * -     
f-  _dhs                                                             3200        32D0         320.0           *           -         6D                             36.1       36.1       311           *                   1143        *
e_w       _e_ modw     comb41&5  1,,J7                                                       3.5.7            .            .       3           -                              164.4      417*                      .       031.4
OgmAe_M_c.ei                                                      370,48.      mjo*    13667.7   130,13.2    132           1  1.4496,32,     31A    461,374*    44,1062    61,324.7   16.173A    1464.4   15.746        172,4.7    31A    S54643
32,7826     54*                -           *           -    76 .         662     52 4        2,710A     6,4652                                        O,* 0*2            6,5441
d                                                              s10,344.7   7xz,A       37.473A      46.312      Km70.7   236,21            -           -     ,23 l *   6,          4,461.1    5.721*     7m2e*      27407
F_                                                                3.e772   17.43n0         43,3                       a    21AMAt  taon         2t,1e3-s      437JI    2on.e          S        ------- :             ISI    10o.o       2s5s.5
1421*       66137       37,516      46A12       60,707    346,0.4        6       21.163,3    1.,3   10,676s        4,466,3    6,721.6    7,2205      29,7602     65      2,5103         H3
D__*AMM                                                          ?76         36.31,3        1049            -                 47- 6.1  1tD        47,0.1      Iw9.I    -7? *        -4,424.4   -6721.84 -7,256       -29,8P1.4 
sim        F_icineUp _s                                           21tJ4J    129,514A       7.26 A74nn12            e7.64*                  7t,,,,,1 2    666127  e40,, ,Ue.7            41S         og          Os       UJ        GsJ          2.soso
8dPmWEaC?@T1                                                       416,1472      4,48      17n47       176,214,3   1023,6.8  124.*           t20s     3 S,e6    4,46*    O &7    16,2104    16,464.4   15.746* J          641,3    34.4   03,5132
Faip_                       _                           ~,20.7   35,5n4                         .s          X                  3329*                      -    2,67      4WJ            mu            -S2 



- 99 -                                                    Annex 4
Table   3.1
c~n
Seed Se Cr Commcladen p*s-t
Expedt- Accownt  y Coopenen - Totob hinuding Coninge
Institu onal                      Ou12hou Provincial Sed
Policy and        Stengthening      Ouangxi Provincial         r
Regulst   Sad Quality    Project      Sad Sector      Oulzhou
TA for     Control &   Management  Soed Company        Seed      Seed Company
Policy    Certifcation   Office    Comeurclallzston   Stoton   Comnercllalzslon
L hIveeient Costa
A. Lan Acquleition                                                   *             -           -            1200.0      210.0           1,500.0
D. CMI Woras
1. Wors                                                            -             -           -              280.2      17.5          10,705.5
2. Buiding                                                         -                                     18,409.8     509.1          11,390 5
gubtotal CMI Works                                                   -             -           .           18,8900      810.7          22,158.1
C. Equipmnt
1. Ag. Equipment                                                   -             -                          818.1
2 PFoke  Equipment                                                 -             -           -           14583.4                      4,295.9
3. OlIa&ab Eq. (Foe)                                               -          620.7      108 2              425 9     864.1             243.4
4. OfficedElectic Equipment (Dam)                                  *          446.2          -            Z728.7      202.8           1,217.0
S. Eq. I_aison                                                     -              -          -            1,774.1         -             623.4
8. Frelghtfnsumnae                                                             90.7          -            1,507.7      90.8             530.1
7. Spars Fets                                                      -             -           -              443.5         -             155.5
S. Commleaoning                                                    -              -          -              57.0                        311.0
9. Oatl Equipment                                                  -              *                                                     473.3
Subtol Equipment                                                     -        1.1576       1062            23,1585    1,157.5           7,49.5
0. VehIcle
1. Cer                                                                           -       386.0              25 5          -           1,138.2
2 Trucks                                                            -                        -            3,58.9          -           1,241.7
3. Quelly Control Vehicle                                           -         245.1          -            1065        245.1            1,066.5
4. morcyco
Subtotal Vehil                                                                 245.1       3880             4.927.9     2451            3,4a63
1. Felezrs n                                                                      -          -           16,343.3         -           6.537.3
2. Chemicals                                                        -             *          -                                        1,400.9
3. Sds  Lknse                                                       -             -          -            1,797.8                       5 5S3.7
4. Seed Sluck                                                      -              -          -          142,1790          .          14,541.1
5. Oers                                                             -             .          -                7.3
Subtl Mabrlals                                                       -             .           .          160,327.2         -          23,02.9
3. Tralning * TA
1.TechniqueAswaitant frlnsttutAonslSrengthening                 78.3         212.7           -                  -      15.3
2. Technique Asstnt for Policy                                1,117.4             -
3. Technique Assistant for Project Implementation                   -             -      480.1
4. kie Train. 8 Study Tour                                      447.4         773 0      223 7              290.8     246.1             481.0
S. Domesc Training &  Local Consul.                                -         325.7          -               322.1      70.0             137.6
Subtotal Training & TA                                          1,643.        1,311.4      7038               6130      331.4             618.5
MI. Woating Capital                                                  .                                        594.0         -             356 4
L Oter
1. Deslgn Cosd                                                     *             *           -            2,400.9      16.3           1,801.3
2. Markt Survey
S. oe                                                                            -          .               301.8                       202.8
Subtota Oer. .                                                                                 .           . 2,7027      16.3           2,004.0
J.Tax& DuAie                                                                  1 t,o4                       22,039.4   1,120.9          14,705.5
TotalInveenent Cost                                               1,643.1       3,770.8    1,200.0          234,262.5   3,891.6          75,719.3
II. Recurrent Cost
& 0  M Buildings                                                    -             .          -                  -       12.4
8.   M a M Vehicles                                                            120.3           -                 -      12.
C. a a M Equlpment                                                   .          57.3           -                 .       58.2
D. In brntel Staff                                                   .             -                                     98.1
E Coaurnables                                                                  175.7          ,                  -       87.8
Total Recurrent Cof                                                               M 3502        -                        360 8
Totl PROJECT COSTS                                                1,843.1       4,1208      1,2000          234,2e2.5   4,072.6           75,710.3
Tax"
Forein Exchange                                                 1,560.9       2,005.8    1,115.2           48,504.4   1,720.1          27,757.9



Annex 4
- 100 -                                                 Table 3.2
China
Sed Secor Cornmmerllzation Projec
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Toahl including Confingance
(Yuan W0
Sichuan Provincial Seed
iMandofh Provincial Seed Sector                                             sctor
hendong                                    Shanxi Provincial Seed aector   Sichuan                         Hunan Proindal Sed S
see       Seed Company   SF Sed Company Shanxn Seod   Sed Company         Seed     Seed Company  Hunan Seed   Seed Company
Sion   Commerlalllxaon  Commerciallzation    Stston    Commercialization   Sutton   Commercialization   Sutton   Commercializaton
472.5          11,071.4               -       1050           11,400.0    105.0           1.125.0         -
140.1         23,158.2           1,411.4       175            8,627.8     17.5             998.1      52.5          10,107.1
3,052.4,        38,731.5          2,894.5       785.9         le,ll.2     8850           12,518.8    1,0J3.7         22,703.0
3,1925          59,889.7          4,305.9       7834           23,239.0    902.5          13.518.9    1,118.2         32,810.1
*            343.5                -           -             743.7
-          27,888.7          1,730.8          -          18,003.2        -           4,550.1         -           18,871.1
8,250.9           425.9              80.8       911.4            818.1    8681             1,920.1    1,824.0          5,359.1
1,149.4          2,081.0            285.3      202.8           1,595.8    338 0             592.3      338.0
-           3,344.0           242.0                       2.012.1        -             728.1         -           2,4028
827.3           2,841.0           205.5        94.2           1,709.2    1025              818.0      188.8          2,043.2
-            836.2              80.8          -             503.0        -             181.2         -             i00.4
*1,70.0           120.3           -           1,004.7        -             383.7         -           1,202.1
-           3,042.4            338.0                      1 ,890 2       -             202.8
8,007.5         42,451.8          3,043.8     1,208 5          28,079.7   1.308.7          9,154.3    2,128.8         30,278.7
-           2,276.4            284.5          -           1,422.7                      284.5
*           3,725.0           310.4           -           2,302.3        -           1,474.5                      820.8
1,9#1.2          2,718.1               -      2,838.7            5432      490.3            814.8      770.5
*             38.8                -           -                -         -                *          -             271.8
1,981.2          8.758.3            505.0     2,838. 7         4,288.2    490.3           2,573.9      770.5            892.4
12,817.0          1,745.6          -          14,218 8        -           6,537.3         -           5,720.1
-           1891.1                -           -           2,241.4        -           1.050.8         -           3,286.2
2,320.7               -           -           1,187.4        -           1,751.1         -           3,9W.1
*         118,702.8          8,248.0          -          80,921.5        -          29,4074                    o50.880.4
133,531.7          7,993.8                     98,548.9                   38,748.4                    83.835.8
-8.9                                 -           -                -      23 0                -        7.7                -
134.2          2,190.1            298.4       179.0            711.9    134.2            1.331.1     248.1            738.2
313.8           3,150.9           144.3       134.2            187.9    103.8             335.8      154.3             738.2
510.5           5,349.9           440.7       313.2            889.8    281.0            t,888.8     408.0           1,478.5
*           2,853.4           250.8           *            781.7         -             5360          -             5S4.4
_i.0           5,818.3           401.5        22.8           3,028.0     27.4           1.3983       28.5           3.322.5
2788                 *          -             987.2 
* _21,171.8                       *           *            392.8         -           2,354.0         .             354.3
88.0           7,268.e           401.5        22.8           4,388.0     27.4           3.752.3      28.5           3,878.9
8,40.7          39,042.2          2,827.8     7,282.7         21,358.8   1,814.4         10,745.1    2,88.7           17,823.8
22,818.9        310.014.8         19,858.9    12,552.3         190,942.2   4.90 3         81,818.5    7,340.8         151,348.8
48.5                *                *        17.8                       21.2                -       20.9
1,010.8               -                       1,408.5               -      252.5                -      398.8
401.8                *                -        80.4                -      85.1                       107.0
98.f                *                *        98.1                -     192.2                -      120.2
383.8                                 -        87.8                -     175.7                -      175.7
I 89__I                                       1 870 5                     708.8                        820.8
24S079          310,014.31        19,88.9      4222.8         190,942.2   5,818.1         81,818.5    8,181.4         151.348.8
10198.1          88,978.0          8,898.4     4,119.1         51.987.8   2,081.8         20,307.0    3.256.4         54.315.9



- 101 -                                                Annex 4
Table 3.3
Cht
S_d Sen Cwnwc ww* mood
Expanditura mounts by Comipe-t - Totm  ncludla Condngwoola
(Yuan 00
3t4lng Provincialed
secor                                                               Sanghaib                Fujian
ctor             Zhejiang                   Gansu Stat  HubeW Sats    Jiangsu     JlangJ    Sat Farm  Hanon Stab  S1tat Fatus
SF See Company   Seed       Sad Company   Farm Soad   Farm Sad   Sbtt Fan.   Stabt Farm      Seed    Fans Seed    Seed
Commerbcalltion   Station   Conmemialzoan   Comprnr    Compan   Seed Comrn  Sd Cornn  Comrany   Comrn    Corpan                Total
-    2100            5.000o0         1*t1000             1104.0      1.8150                           1,0015    37,419.4
2,T70.2     175             5837       8o28      71864        5,934.0     5,237.4               2,574.5    2,2907     80,790.8
7,122.8    7974           9,1580      8,WS2    12s842        12s58e      1s".s    s,s3.a        3,22.1    4,294.7   200,M.2
9,893.0    814.9          9,741.7     7,2380    20,0508.     18,520.8    21,237.4    5.8388     8,296.6    8,585.4   287,429.8
-        -                -           *          -       2,433.9      581 4                 590.9    1,532.0     7,043.8
8,397.1       -           825.9       5.834 7    35,573.5    10,364.5    25,023.7   14,603.7    3.779.4     953.3   200.496.9
8o.8    911.4            770.7       808        175.8        243.4       358.3   1,228        121.7       6.8    24,867.2
365 4    202.8            378.6        01.7      838.4        997.9      3,860.8    1,487.4     3s53       653.1    20,91.7
884.3        -            947.9       650.4     3,a66.4     1,022.3      2,941.0    1,771.4     453.0      167.7    23,8228
751 8     947             805.9       551.7     3,110.0       8e61       2,4969    1,506.3      384.0      142.0    21,340.1
221.8        *            236.8       162.3      914.1        2556        735.8      443.5      113.6       41.9     5,904.6
442.2        -           1,95.1       324.9     1,829.5       511.1      1,469.8     885.7      227.2       u3.8    13.028.2
-   -         67.6          -           -           -        135.2         *       270 4         -       220.1
11,1434   1.208.9         13,168.4     8,188.6    48,101.6    16696.9     37,624.7   22.320.6    6,29865    3.34.7   323,467.1
-        *             589 1          -          -            *       569.1      284.5                     -     7,501.7
827.8                     7760        465       1,487.4     2,302.3      2,974.8     338 3      827.8    1829.7    24.65.2
875 5            2718           -       2716        271.6        814 8     543 2       271.6     543.2    16,e50.4
-                -          .           .           -         194                     . --               329.8
8278     8755            1,8188       485.8     1,759.0     2.573.9      4,378.2    1,18.1     1,099.4    2,172.9    49,350.1
3,268.7       -           4,249.2     16e34.3    1,634.3     11,440 3     7,795 7         -     2,124.6   3,105.2    96,971.6
1365.8        -             443.6      461.3       140.1      5,259.0          -          -       560.3    1,54e.8    19,847.2
1,751.1       -           3.502.1     1o,05.8      360.2      3,502.1       436.6         -       307.0         -    2Z454.5
5,821.6       -          33,926.3    25,432.9    35,748.0    28,209.1    34,887.3    7,200.7    9,418.6   17,885.4   637.390.0
-   -            -          *          -            .           -      >1,19d7         *                1,196.0
12,207.1       -          42,121.3    28,544.1    37,872.7    48.410.5    43,119.7    8,391.4    12,410.6   22,537.4   779.6612
15.3               .           .                             -           .               *          -       421.2
*         * .  -  .  .  -  -    -  480.1
318.8    246.1            357.9        39.5      805.3        736.2       872.5    1,048.6      145.4      7521     13.7W7.7
167.8    054             1342        134.2      148.8       221.5        4038       335.6       77.2      187.0     804.1
488.8    3688             4922        223.7      954.1        959.7      1,278.2    1,384.1     222.6      940.1    23,8e.4
264.0        -            407.9     1,194.7     1,372.9     1,017.8       726.0      333.8      495.8    1,341.5    12,861.2
1,1505      241           1,331 1      7934      3,180.0      2,072.5     3.0283     1,3296       65.3      603.3    32,400.0
-        -                .           . -  -                        -                . -                         1,245.8
1296         -           5,740t1      8s.6       321 1        271.6       336.8      143.0       749        65.9    11,97S1
1.2801      24.1          7,077.2      o6.0      3,481.1      2,344.1     3,365.1    1,472.6      740.2     669.3    45,706.8
7,157 9   2,740 e         9,919.4     4.a33.2    20,e4.8     15,578.2    2s,s2s.4   1099i8 e    4,se 1    e,171   257,ess.e
43,2599    6,2408         89.5448    51165.9   133,5406      105,205.9    137.488.7   51.904.1    32,528.9   45,089.7  1.817636.7
-      18.4               -           -          .            .                .          .          *             139.0
451.0               .           .          .            .                                                  3 * ,772.0
80.5               -                                                                                -       810.0
-     9e.1                                                                                                         697.4
_    87.8                                                                                                       1244
-  713 9                                                                                                      0-52-
43,259.9   6,954.7        89,544.8    51,1e59    133,540.6    105,205.9    137,465.7   51,904.1    32,528.9   45,089.7  1,824,179.5
20,714.8   2,4386         24,822.8    13,311.4    51,216.0    43,5890     51,733.1   23,132.5    11,6289    12,5771    563,830.6



- 102 - 
Table 4.1
CNm
Seed Sector Commrsibon_  P.
Expetdhur Accownb by Corpo_I-ta - Tota  Ih dwng Confingencs
(Uns mm
lnsotttloa                         Ou ioe Povincil Seed
Poliey and         Stnngthening        Ouiuxi Prvicl            sctor
Regulatory  Sead Quality    Proled        Seed Sector      OulSou
TA for      Control S   Management  Seed Compiwy          sed       Seed Compay
Policy    Certinfcaton     Offlice   Commercallzatilon  Saom   Comm enallzxtlon
1. Investment Cost
A LandAcquisiton                                                           -              -           -                1429      25.0              178.6
B. Clvll Work
1. Workes                                                                                                            32.0      2.0             1,231.2
2. Bulldings                                                                            -           -              1,9889     671              1,217.9
Subtoh*  Clvil Works                                                       -              -           -              2000.9    69.1              2,449.1
C. Equipmet
1. A. Equipment                                                          -              -           -                87.3
2. Proceeeing Equipmont                                                  -              -           -              1,555.6                       458.2
3. OicelLab Eq. (Fore)                                                   -           66.2        11.5                45.4    92.2                 26.0
4. OfficeEbctric Equipment (Dome)                                        -           47.6           -               291.1    21.6                129.8
5. Eq. inhson                                                            -                          -                189.2       -                8B.5
6. Frightlnsurance                                                       -            9.7           -                10.8      9.7                56.5
7. SprePart                                                              -              -           -                47.3        -                166
8 Commhisoning                                                           -              -           -                946         -                332
9. Oter Equipment                                                                                                                                 50.5
SubtoW  Equipment                                                          -          1235         11.5              2,471.3   123.5               837.3
D. VehIles
1C  r                                                                   -              -        41.4                30.4        -              121.4
2. Trucan                                                                -              -           -               379.4        -               132.4
3. Quality Control Vehicle                                                           280            -               1159      28.0               115.9
4. Motorbcle                                                                                                            -
Subtil Vehicles                                                            -           28.0        41.4               525 6     28.0               369.7
Mabtrials
1. Fertlizes                                                             -                          -              1,869.1       -              747.6
2 Chemicls                                                                      -                   -                   -        -               10.2
3. Seede & License                                                              -             -                     205.         -                6.8
4. Sed tock                                                              -              -                           821.9        -             1311.3
5. Oe                                                                    -              -           -                 0.8
Subtoal Metrils                                                            -              -                         14,897.4       -             2,285.9
0. Training  TA
1. Technique Assistnt for InstItonal Strng.ning                        6.6           22.1           -                   -      1.5
2 Technique Assistant for Policy                                     123 3
3. Terhnique Assistant for Projct Implmenwttion                          -              -        52.9
4. iI Train. & Study Tour                                             49.4           82 6        24.7                32.1    27.1                531
5. Domeetlc Training & Local ConsuL.                                     -           33 2           -                35.5      7.5               15.2
Subto,Il TraIning & TA                                                 181.3          1379         77.6                67.6    38.2                68.2
H Working Cepral                                                           -              -           -                536         -               321
I. Others
1. Design Costs                                                          -              -           -               28.4       19               202.9
2. Market Survy
3. Om                                                                                   -           -                32.9        -               224
SubtWn  Othes                                                                     -                   -               301.3      1.9              225.3
J Tex & Dutle                                                              -          112.8           -              2,253.8   118.9             1527.4
1 ah1Inve shent Costa                                                    181.3          402.2       1306              22,714.5   402.5             7,973.7
M. Recurrent Costs
k OS t   Buildings                                                                                                               13
B. O S M Vehicles                                                          -           129            -                   -     129
C. 0   M Equipment                                                                      5.8           -                   -      59
D. Incrementl Staff                                                                                                             10.1
E. Consumables                                                             -           18.8           -                   -      94
Tol Recurrent Coss                                                                       37.5                               -    39.5
Tob POJECT COSTS                                                          181.3          439.8       130.6            22,714.5   442.1             7,973.7
Tane
Fomnlgn Exch nge                                                       172.2          224 4       121 4              5,314.2   187.8             3o006.7



- 103 -                                                   Anne.
Table 4.2
China
Seed Sedor Commeicaaliaon Proet
Exp.ndfture Accounts by Componentb - Totls Ineluding CotUingencies
(USS '000)
Shanxi Provincial Seed    Sichuan Provincial Seed                                                 Z
Shandong Provincial Seed Sector                  sector                     sector                    Hun. Provincdl Seed Sctor
sbudong                                          hunxi                     Jlchuan                     Hunan
Seed      Seed Company   BP Seed Compny    Seed         Sed Company    Seed    Soed Company    Seed    Sed Corpe_y    SF Seed Compny
Otle.  Commorciailzaton  Commnerclalltwlon   Stndon   Commefialntlon  S1taon  Commercializaon  Stido.  Commnencalhzila  Commerdaflidon
56.3           t.318.0                 -       12.5           1,357.1    12.5              133.        -
16.0           2,648.5             181.4        20              7580      2.0              114.1     6.0            1,155.9             31&8
343.1           3,934.7             310.1       86.8            1,7762    1005            1,341.9   120.2            2,428.7             761.6
350.1           6,583.2             471.5       88.8           2,534.1   102.5            1.456.0   126.2            3,584.6           1,078.4
-              36.8                 -          -              79 3       -                  -       -                 -                  -
-            2,972.7            1184.6         -            1,707.0      -              485.4       -            1,991.6             895.7
f64.6              45.4               6.5       97.2              87.3    92 6              204 8    173.2            571.6                8.5
122.6             222 0              30.4       21.6             170.2    361               63 2     36.1                 -              41.1
-             356 7               25.8         -             214.6       -               77.5       -             250.3               94.3
86.9             303.0              21.9       10.1             182.3    10.9              65.9    17.8              217.9               80.2
-              89.1               6.5                         53 7       -               19.3                      64.0               23.7
*             178.1               12.8         -             107.2       -               38.8       -              126.2              47.2
-             324.5              36.1          -             1803                        21.                          -                  -
8u4.1           4.5282              3247       1289            2,781.9   1396               9765    227.1            3,229.8           1,188.6
-             242 8              30.4          -             1518        -               30 4       -
*             397.3              33.1          -             2458        -              157.3       -              8.2                86.3
224.3             289.7                 -      324.4              57.9    56 1               86 9    8811
4 1                 -         -                 -        -                 -       -               29.0
224.3             934.0              63 5      324 4             455 3    56.1              274.5    88.1              95.2               88.3
-            1,442.9            199.5          -            1,626.1      -              747.6       -             664.2              373.6
216 3                           -             256 3        -             120.2       -              375.6              1W6.2
-              525 4                -          -             1335        -              200 3       -             453.9              200.3
=           10524.4            563.5          -            7,297B       -            2,852.0       -            4,566.7             525.0
12,449.1            763.0         *            9,313.6                    3.720 0       -            6070.6            1,256.3
6.9                 -                           -                  -     2.3                 -      0.6
14.8             241.6              32.7      19.7               78.5    14.8             148.8    27.1               61.4               35.2
33.7             348.6              15.9       14.8              207      11.2              370     16.5              61.4               18.5
55.5             590 2              48.6       34.6              99.3    28 3              183 9    444              182.9               53.7
-             239.3               226          -              68.7                       48.3       -              50.0               23.6
7.5             653.3              45.4        2 6             339 8     3 1              156 6     3.3             372.9              129.0
319                  -         -              1106
-             1131.0                -                         43 3       -              268.4       -              38.7               14.2
7.5             816.1              45.4        2.6             493.7     3.1              425.0     3.3             411.6              143.2
883.3           4,0190              290.0      794.1           2,2125    193.3            1,1064    306.6            1,824.4             733.8
2,440.2          31,477.2           2029.9    1,385.9           19,316 2   535.4            8.324 6    794.7         15,429.0            4,585.1
4.9                 -                 -        1.8                 -     2 2                 -      Z1                 -
103.1                 -                 *      143.8                 -     258                 -    40.5
41.0                 -                          6.2                 -     6.6                 -    10.9
10.1                 -                 -       101                  -    20.1                 *    12.6
35.7                 -                 -        9.4                 -    18.8                 -    16.6-
194.8                -                  -      171.2                -    73.5                  -      4.9
2,635.0          31,477.2           2,029.9    1,557.1          19.316 2   608 8            6,324e6   679.6          15,429.0            4,565.1
1,110.1           9,509.5             734.6     462.2            5,708.1   226.6           2,889.1   356.7            5,934.3           2,269.2



- 104 -                                               Annex 4
Table 4.3
Chin
S"d SocDr Common P
ExpendKure Accounts by Compone6ts - Tobk lmduding ConUageawAss
(USS Wm)
titang PvolnbcW Sd
mactar                  Gansu                  Jlngau    Jiangxi   Shanghai   Hone.          Fuji.
ZbmjIang                    Stt Frnm Hubel St, State            F    ar m  StatF.m St" Fa  rm  S    bm Fa rmn
Sed      Seed Company        geed     Farm Seed     Sed         Se         Sed        Seod        Seod
Staton  Commerelailzatlon  Company   Company   Company   Company  Company   CompanY   CO.PuY                  Totd
25.0             595 2          -        131 0      131.4       216.1          -                  119.2     4,454.7
2.0              66 8       689         8219       6786        5990                  2944.       2820      9,239.6
90.5             9798       710.9       1,381.4    1,3444     1,7 19       625.9      398.9      462.1      22,1e33
92.5            1,046 5      779 8     2,203 2     2,023 0    2,310.8      625.9      693.4       724.1    31,402.8
-   -      -           -       259.6       620                     830      183.4        751.3
-             881.7       622.4      3,794.5    1,105.6    2.669.2     1.557 7     403.1       101.7    21,388.8
97.2              82.2        6.5         18.8       26.0        382       173.1       13.0         6.5     2,852.5
21.6              40.4       64.2         89.4      106.4       4140       1587        38.2        69.7     2235.9
-             1011         89.4       390.4      109.0       313.7      188.9       48.3        17.9      2,519.8
10.1              860        58.8        331.7       92.6      266.5       160.7       41.0       15.1      2276.3
-              25.2        17.3        97.5       27 3        78.5       47.3       12.1         4.5       629.8
'190.2      34.7       195.2        54.5      156.8       94.5        24 2        8.9      1 399.1
7.2          -           -           -       14.4          -        28 8          -         3.
129.0            1,414.0     873.2      4.917.6    1,781.0     4,0134     2,380.9      671.8      387.7    34.515.1
-              60.7          -                       -        60 7       30.4          -          -        800.2
82 8       49.7       158.7       2456       317.3       35.9        88.3      173.8      2,651.7
100A1              29.0          -         29 0       29.0       86 9        57.9       29.0       57.9      1,834.2
.   -      -           -           -        2 1                      -          -        35.2
100.1             172.5       49.7        1876       2745       4670        1242       1173       231.8      5,321.2
486.0      186.9       186.9     1,308.4      891 6          -       243.0      355.1     11,318.7
50.7       528         16.0       601.4          -                   64.1      176.9      2,246.9
400.5      116.2        40.1       400.5       49.9          -        35.1          -      2,568.0
-            3,059.5    2,293.6     3.223.8     2,3638     3,1462       663.3      849.4     1,547.6    57,429.4
-  -    -       -             136.2          -                   137.0
-            3,996.7    2.649.4     3.466.8     4.673.9    4,087.7      799.5    1.191 6     2,079.7    73,700.0
1.5                 -                                             -          *           *          -        43.8
. -  -     -          .          -           *       123.3
-           -          -           -          -          -                    529
27.1              39.5        9.9         88.e       81.4       962        115.6       16.0       82.9      1,519.4
11.3              148        14.8         16.4       24.4       445         37.0        8.5       20.7       882.4
40.0              543        24.7        1053       1059       1408        152.7       24.6      103.6      2,621.8
-              368        107.7       1238        91 8        655        30.8       447        116.7     1.156.2
2.8             1495        88.7        3539       2326       3385        148.1       74.6       67.9      3,643.3
-          -           -           -                -          -                -       '142-5
656.5        9.4        34.9        30.0       366        15.4        8.2         9.6      1,351.3
2.6             806.0       98.1        381.8      262.6      375.1       163.4       62.8       77.5      5,137.0
294.5            1,033.7      s9.9      2'107A      1`14s      2,429 0    i1012        509.1      642.0    2O,557.5
683.8            9,155.8    5,0328     13831.2    10958.9   14.1053       5,378.5    3,335.2    4.482.3   184,6.3
1.9                 ,          ,            ,                                                       -         '14.2
46.0                                                                                                 -        385.0
6.2                                                                                      - 
10.1                                        -          -                                  -                   73.0
9.4                                                                                                          ' 120.2
73.5                 -          -                                                         -675.0
757.3           9,1558      5,032 8    13.631.2    10,958.9    14,1053    5,378.5    3,335.2    4.4823    185,541.3
269.5            2,721 9    1,447.5     5.5156      4,823.8    5,6069     2,478.4     1,273.7    1,389.2    63,813.2



-  105  -                                        Annex  4
CHINA                                                          Table  5
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Procurement Profile
(USS '000)
Procurement Method
Project Element                  --------------------   Total
ICB      NCB      Other     LIB       NIF
Land
Land Acquisition                         0        0         0         0    4,090       4,090
Crop Compensation                        0        0         0         0      365         365
0        0         0         0    4,455       4,455
Civil Works
-Works                                  0    3,240    6,000           0        0       9,240
-Buildings                               0   22,163         0         0        0      22,163
0   25,403    6,000          0        0      31,403
Machinery & Equipment
-Agricultural Equipment                         751                                      751
-Processing Equipment              26,210               2,000                         28,210
-Office & Electrical Equipment                2,235                           48       2,283
-Laboratory Equipment                                            2,518        87       2,605
-Other                                          664                                      664
26,210    3,650    2,000    2,518         135     34,513
Vehicles
-Cars & Motorcycles                     0         0         0         0      835         835
-Trucks & Utility Vehicles          4,458         0         0         0       28       4,486
4,458         0        0         0      863       5,321
Materials
-Fertilizer and Chemical           11,000                        2,566                13,566
-Genetic Materials & License                              568    2,000                 2,568
-Design & Market Survey                       3,642    1,495                           5,137
-Other Materials                                          138                            138
Subtotal Materials               11,000    3,642    2,201    4,566           0      21,409
-Seed Stocks                                          57,430                          57,430
TA & Training
-Technical Assistance                   0         0        15                205         220
-International Training                 0         0    1,362                 157       1,519
-Domestic Training                       0        0       857                 25         882
Subtotal TA & Training                0         0    2,234         0       387       2,621
-Working Capital                        0         0         0         0    1,156       1,156
-Taxes and Duties                       0         0         0        0   26,558       26,558
-Recurrent Costs                        0         0         0        0       675         675
Subtotal Others                       0         0         0        0   28,389       28,389
GRAND TOTAL                        41,668   32,695   69,865    7,084   34,229    185,541
UZZ---SS - SUUUUS SZZS2flflflZUZUUUUUUUUUUUU



- 106 -                                             Annex 4
Table 6.1
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schduzle and Profit.
IDA              Disbursement (SAR)                        Disbursement Profile */
FiscaL Year            Semestral   Cumulative CumuLative             ---------------------------
Semester          -----USS MiLlion------    X                 Year/Semester       Cumulative
(X)
1997                                                                 Year 1
1st (JuL-Dec 1996)b/          8.5          8.5          9           First                         0
2nd (Jan-Jun 1997)            5.0         13.5         14           Second                       30
1998                                                                 Year 2
1st (Jul-Dec 1997)            8.0         21.5         22           First                        38
2nd (Jan-Jun 1998)           10.0         31.5         32           Second                       46
1999                                                                 Year 3
1st (JuL-Dec 1998)           10.0         41.5         42           First                        54
2nd (Jan-Jun 1999)           10.0         51.5         52           Second                       66
2000                                                                 Year 4
1st (JuL-Dec 1999)           10.0         61.5         62           First                        74
2nd (Jan-Jun 2000)           10.0         71.5         72           Second                       82
2001                                                                 Year 5
1st (JuL-Dec 2000)           10.0         81.5        82            First                        90
2nd (Jan-Jun 2001)            8.0         89.5         90           Second                       94
2002                                                                 Year 6
1st (JuL-Dec 2001)            5.5         95.0        95            First                        98
2nd (Jan-Jun 2002)            5.0        100.0        100           Second                      100
Board Approval Date: Expected May 1996
Completion Date:      June 30, 2001
Closing Date:         June 30, 2002
a/  Disbursement profile for agricultural sector In China compiled by OPRPG, June 30, 1995.
b/ Including retroactive financing of USS 8.4 million, to cover expenditures incurred between
October 15, 1995 and not more than one year before signing of the Loan/Credit agreements.



CHINA
Seed Sector Commerciaization Project
Summary of Relro-active Financing Requirement.  Seed Companies, Provincial, Prefecturo and County.
(Y 0005
Total Seed
Cvil                                 Company
SEED COMPANIES                   Works    Eqp't   Training    Others   Retro-ectie
Financing
Provincial Seed Company                  260       183       45     3,115        3,603
- Guizhou
Provincial S"d Company                 4,136        98       24       500        4.757
Hunan
Provincal Soed Company                  2,196      172      960     2,877        6,204
Shndong
Prov.Seed Co                            1,870      34        87       110        2,101
Lin Yi Prefectur SC                      892        90       12       136        1,130
Uao Cheng SC                            1,200      100       48       200        1648
Jhiing SC                                366       106       24       410         896
Bin Zhou SC                             2.316       33       16        15        2,379                   O
Tl'an SC                               1,368       44       39       200        1,641
Zi So SC                                 806       196      120        70        1,190
Wel Fong SC                             1,472      SO       174       489        2,18S
- Shwudl
Shnid Provincial Veg. Seed Co.          1,032      174      120     1,439        2,766
Shanid Provincial Mea& Co.              3,376       SO      147       999        4,572
- Sichuan
Sichuan Provinca Seed Co.                8S6       174      180       120        1,329
- Zhe#an
Zhejiang ProvinciW Trading Co.           5OO      260        12     2,600        3,362
Total Finncing                        22.620    1.753    2.008    13,280        39,660
Exchange Y/US*   8.40 Total Retro-active Financing for Seed Companies                                 $4,721
03:10 PM    30-Jan-96
Civil worIk           Equipment                  Training            Miacellneous
Land preparation      Office furniture           Financial management Design work
Borewells             Fax machine                Project management  Power cepacity expansion
Boundary wails        Telephone system           Procurement training  Market survey
Irrigation/druinage   Office materials                               Foreign seed licences
Power lires                                                          Preparation/translation of bid documents
Internal roads



CHINA
Seed Sector Commwrcmlzation Proje
Summnry of Retro-active Fhiancing Requbwmsnts State Farm Seed Enterprlse.
(V*000l
Total State
Cwlv                                  Farm
STATE FARM SEED ENTERPRISES        Works    Eqpt   Trahihig   Other   Retrotactive
- Fujian
Zhang Zhao'an Gold Star Farm     503        57       24        0         584
Zhng Zhou Zhao'n State Farm     90O       143       50        0         883
Zhang Zhou Danaban Farm         5s3          0       30       38         631
- Genu
Prov. (Barley) State Farm       S0         50       40    1,497        2,087
Xu Chang State Farm              240        10       12        3          265
Huang Fan Ou State Farm          948         9        0        0         957
Jan Shan State farm             2,373       29       15      255        2,672
-Hubei
Ron Mhi De Yuan State Farm      1e661       22        6      352        2,041
Dang Xi Hu State Farm           2,363       64      290    1,439        4.154                    1
Hub W State Fwm Trading Co.     2,211      265        0      500        2,976
Aguibushies corpontIon          2,331      110       39      980        3,480                    o
- Jhngxi
JIngxl State Fam Tnding Co.         6       57        0        20          83
Hang Feng State Farm            1,408       35       12    1,202        2,657
Tel He State Farm                562         0        0        0          562
Roo Fng State Frm               1,435        0        0        0        1,435
- Shanghai
Xlagngn Seed MachIny Co.            0       37      219      850        l.o0
Zhingqiu Leek seeds S.F.        1,204       65       90      310        1.669
Total Fh ncing                 18,998      953       27    7,4462      28,224
Ex  n     uYS$       8.40   Tota Retro-ctive Fhncing for State Farms US$=000                       3,380
CMi works:                 Equkment:          Tr aing            Mboebneous
Land prpration             Office furniture   Financial management Design work
Borewetl                   Fax machine        Project management  Power capacity expansion
Boundary wal               Telephone system    Procurement training   Market survey                                      m X
lrrigation/cdrinage        Office materials                      Foreign seed icences a.                                    -
Power line                                                       Preparation/translation of bid documents
Internal roads



CHINA
SEED SECTOR COINEECIALIZATION PROJECT
Incremental Benefits from the Project
Hybrid  Convent.            Hybrid           Subtotal                                                 Subtotal
Unit     Rice     Rice     Wheat    Maize   Barley   Grairns  Rapeseed  Peanuts  Soybean  Cotton VegetabLesCash Crops  Total
Incr_mentaL Seed Production       ton     48,551   32,756   46,677   64,432   18,581  210,997    2,742    9,710    9,926   35,003        4,221    61,602  272,599
rirrent Sowing Rate              Kg/ha         30      150      150       45       300                 8       200       75       50          3
INN-oved Sowing rate             Kg/ha        25       120      120       40       200                 6       150       60       40         3
Seed Saved                                      5       30       30         5      100                 2        50       15       10         0
Sown Area                       '000 ha    1,618       218      311    1,432        62    3,642      343        49      132      7W      1,407      2,631    6,272
Incremntal Yieltdha               Kg         900       600      700    1,00        700               600      900       500      400     5,000
Total Incremental Production   ,OOOton    1,457        131      218    1,432        43    3,281      206        44       66      280     7,035      7,631   10,911
TotaL Seed Saved                'OWOton        8         7        9        7         6       37        1         2        2        7         0         12       49
Financale  Price                YuarVt     1,100    1,100    1,100       900    1,400              1,200    2 000    2,000   10,740        500
Economic Price                  Yuan/t     3,035    1,432    1,697    1,245    1,554               1,292    1,713    1,804   12,874        500
Incremental Benefit-Protiction  Nit Y      1,602       14       240    1,289       61    3,335       247       87       132    3,007     3,518      6,991   10,327
Incri_entat Benefit-Saved seed  MIt Y          9         7       10        6         9       41        1        5         4       75         0         85      126
Total Financial Benefits       Nil Yuan    1,611       151      250    1,295        69    3,377      248        92      136    3,083     3,518      7,076   10,453         I.
0
Total Ffiancfal Benefits        NtH USS       192       18       30       154        8      402       29        11       16      367       419        842    1,2U4
Incra_ntal Benefit-Productfon  NiL Y       4,421       188      370    1,783        67    6,8        266        75      119    3,605     3,518      7,582   14,410
Incremental Benefit-Saved  Hd        l Y      25         9       16        9        10       68        1         4        4       90         0         99      167
Total Econamic Benefits        Nil Yuan    4, 45       197      385    1,792        77    6,896      267        79      123    3,695     3,518      7,681   14,577
Total Ecoomic Benefits          Nil LstS   529          23       46       213        9      821       32         9       15      40        419        914    1,735
Fb  m
(cx
(D Xj
t-n



CHINA
SEED SECTOR CCSERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Incr amntal Yield per Nectare, Future without the Project *nd with the Project
(ton)
Hybrid Rice     Hybrid Corn    Canvent.Rice         Wheat           Barley       Pewutr         Ralmeded      Cotton         Soybean
Project Provinces ----------------------------------------------------------------------_
A     I   C   A   S    C   A    I    C   A    *    C   A    *    C   A  S    C   A  S                  C   A    B   C   A  S        C
-Guw*xf Province  4.5  5.5  1.0  2.3 3.5  1.2                                                    1.6 2.5 0.9
Guizhou Province   5.2 6.0 0.8  3.0 3.8 0.8                                                                    1.4 2.0 0.6
-Nurn Provinrce    6.0  7.0  1.0  2.3 3.0 0.7                                                                   1.0  1.6 0.6  1.1  1.5 0.4
-ShandnM  Province                 4.9 5.8  0.9  6.2  7.0  0.8  4.4  5.1  0.7                    2.4 3.4  1.0                 0.8  1.2 0.4  1.8  2.4  0.6
-Shwnxi Province                   4.7 6.0  1.3
-Sichuan Province  6.7 7.7  1.0  3.7 5.0  1.3                                                                   1.5 2.2 0.7
-Zhejiung Provinc  5.7 6.6  0.9                    5.4 6.2  0.8                   4.0  5.0  1.0                 1.6  2.2 0.6 0.9  1.4 0.5
-Gunsu Province                    4.5  5.4 0.9                    2.5 3.0 0.5 4.2  5.0 0.8                     1.4  2.2 0.8
-Nubel  Province   6.2  7.0  0.8  3.4 4.0 0.6  5.4  5.9  0.5                      4.3 5.0  0.7                  1.3 2.0 0.7  1.0  1.4 0.4
-Jiwrnsu Province   7.0  7.7 0.7                   4.9  5.2 0.3  3.4 4.3  0.9                                                                2.0  2.5  0.5
-Jiarixi Province   5.0 6.0  1.0                   5.2 6.0  0.8                                  1.8 2.7 0.9                   1.0  1.4 0.4
-Nenn Province                     4.1  5.0 0.9                    3.5 4.5  1.0                  2.0 2.9 0.9
Average           5.8  6.7 0.9  3.7 4.1  0.9  5.4 6.1  0.6  3.5 4.2 0.8 4.2  5.0  0.8 2.0 2.9 0.9  1.4 2.0 0.7  1.0  1.4  0.4  1.9  2.5  0.5
Note: Details can be found In the Project files.
A u Future without the ProJect
D u Future with the Project
C * Incr_emntal Yield
m X
t'3f



CHINA
Seed Sector Commercblization Proecd
Summary of Incremental Seed Production
(ton)
Total  Of which:                                 Total Of which
Grain   H. Rice  C. Rice  Wheat  H.Maize  Barley  Others Rapeseed Cotton  Peanuts  Soybean  Others Vegetables Seedling
Guangxi Provincial Seed Company                13,960                    4,220                                     4,320           930/1
Guizhou Provincial Seed Company                 8,000                    9.514                     277                                               480,000
Hunan Provincial Seed Company                   7,000                    4,095                     504   2,500
- Shandona Provincial Seed Companies
Shandong Provincial Seed Company                                 1,962   4,345                                                                 355
SD Binzhou Prefecture Seed Company                                       3,360                            1,732             6,190
SD Jining Prefecture Seed Company                         940    2.550   2,650                                                                 118
SD Liaocheng Prefecture Seed Company                              800   3.000                            4,811
SD Linyi Prefecture Seed Company                                 1,000   3,000                                     3,560
SD Tai'an Prefecture Seed Company                                9.975   5,000
SD Weifang Prefecture Seed Company                               4,350   6,000
SD Zibo Prefecture Seed Company                                          4,500                                                                 495
- Shanxd Provincial Seed Company
SX Vegetable Seed Company                                                                                                                      598
SX Maize Seed Comy/2                                                     8,248   4,000                                      1,536
Sichuan Provincial Sed Company                  6,800                    4.000                     240
Zhejang ProvincalSeedComparny                   2,275   4.225                    2,275              111   1,495                    975/6       585
State Farn
Gansu State Farm Seed Company                                    2.040   1,400   7,000             150                                       1,660
- Hubei Stab Farm Corp
HUB Stte Farm Trading Cere                      5,250            6,300                            1.050   7,840                                210
HUB Dongxihu Seed Company                        165   2,120                     1,106                   4,464
HUB Renmin Dyuan Seed Company                           2,500            1,100                     210   3,920
Hunan Junshan State Farm                        1.596                                                    4,000
- Jiang)d Stabt Farm
JX State Frm Sales Certre                        222    1,286                                              300                      60/3       200
JX Hengfeng Seed Company                         423   6,045                                             3.941
JX Radeng Seed Company                           700   6,640
JX Taihe Seed Company                                                                                              1,830           364t3
Jiangsu Agribusians Corporation                 2,160   9,000   17,700           4,200             200                      2,200 2,100/4
Shandong Zharigqiu SF Seed Company
Total Incremental Seed Production    210,997   48,551   32.756   46,677  64,432  18,581  61,602    2,742  35,003    9,710    9,926           4,221   480,000
Nos:
/1. In Guangxi. It is dogber (lx).
n2. In Shanm, under Barley is Sorghum, and under soybean is red beans.
/3. In Jingxi Stat Farm Sals Centre, under other is plantago (herb).
/4, In Jiangsu Sta Farm under other is sugar beek  s.
/5. In Gansu and Xinjiang Stat Farm, under vegables is melon seeds
/6. In Zhejiang, under other seed is fodder crop sd (grass seed). 
/7 In Xinjimng, under oter seed is forage seed.                                                                                                                         u



- 112 -
Annex 5
COst.
CHM[                                                    Table4
Seed Ser Co_wrRsdWzdt tP .
Co  of S        NWdm      <rgs  >
Hybil   Con.    -      I      O      l      Ve.     e    P_n            ADS              say   SLOW           .Mw
oe  .M    WhA    Nee    .     Sed   Seed   See    See    Kneff  Ctt               S     ei   S       p_ea  J 
________r_______ VOtY'        Y'0ooon YIOoht Y'OOOII YOOO11 Y'OOO/t Y'OOO/t Y'OOOIt Y'OOOI YrOOOt Y'0001  Yl '000 Y'000/o YIOO/t Y00011  YOOO  Y'OOOI
-L"...vt"... geldWvrerm        0      0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0    0.0      0      0      0      1.3      0      0        0        0      0
1 *    - nr *Ur...g..2h.ju3 ... O0   0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0    0.0       0      0      0      2.6      0      0        0        0      0
i.t.. .n D-   n- n.           0      0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0    0.0       0      0      0      2.4      0      0        0        0      0
o...~
*-.      B00.1.   a"" 4 t Pe.  0       0    1.1    3.4    1.3    2.5       0    5.0      0      0      0        0      0      0        0        0      0
r-.o4. o sd C.Mpenv        10.0      0       0      a      0      0      0       0      6    6.0      0        0      0      0        0        0      0
.*WOFnoS.15d Cempeny          3.3      0      0    4.3      0   10.0       0      0      0      0      0        2      0      0        0        0      0
.C og 5it.Peam              0.0      0    1.7    3.4       0      0      0      0       0      0      0        0      0      0        0       0      0
-.9 n 0u *ItAt ft-W          0.0     0    1.4       0      0      0      0       0      2      0      0        0      0      0        0        0      0
J.n Sh  Gist. fem            3.0     0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      2        0      0      0        0        0      0
P .ond..l." C..Pn            3.4      0      0      3      0    7.0      0       0      0      0      2        0      0      0        0        0      0
P-n OM t Y-en 4. Pam          0      2       0      4      0      2      0       0      0      0      1        0      0      0        0       0       0
Oong )a M. stt. ft-        12.0      2       0      0      2      0      0       0      0      0      1        0      0      0        0       0       0
81- 0.- Tntolng Co.        10.6      0    1.3       0      0   10.0   20.0       0      0      0      a        0      0      0        0       0      0
j..nG-
. A9n-sn- COrwmtrWrn        3.0    1.5    1.1       0    1.1   10.0      0       0      a      0      0        0    2.3    2.0        0       0      0
JI..ngd
1- F-rn Trr dbq C..        14.0    3.0       0      0      0      0    5.0       0      0      0      4        0      0      0      3.0       0       0
Tel H. -. rP.-0                      0       0      0      0      0      0       0    4.3      0      0        0      0      0      3.0       0       0
P- F-9 nghrA P.-            O.      2.4      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0        0      0      0        0       0       0
H.n"F. isgt.te eF.           3.6    1.6      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      2        0      0      0        0       0       0
Shrgh91
- Xbng nWGd Mehey Co.          0       0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0        0      a      0        0       0       0
shendene
Zh..~5 U     Sk               0      0       0      0      0      0   13.0       0      0      0      0        0      0      0        a               0
P...Sed Co                    0      0    2.0    3.3       0      0   22.0       0      0      0      0        0      0      0        0       0       0
LUn YV Pntlaw.S  C            0      0    1.3    3.5       0      0      0       0      3      0      0        0      0      0        0       0       0
U- oh." ce                    0      0    2.0    3.3       0      0      0       0      0      0      2        0      0      0        0       0       0
JW.In DC                      0    2.4    2.0    4.0       0      0   40.0       0      0      0      0        0      0      0        0       0       0
5sn ZhD. SC                   0      0    0.0    3.0       0      0      0       0      0      0      2        0      0      0        0       0       0
Telrn SC                      0      0    2.1    3.3       0      0      0       0      0      0      0        0      0      0        0       0       0
Z. 8. C                       0      0    0.0    3.7       0      0   12.0       0      0      0      0        0      0      0        0       0       0
W.WIF-SC                      0      0    2.1    4.5       0      0      0       0      0      0      0        0      0      0        0       0       0
P..k_*w vag, saw.Co.          0      0       0      0      0      0  110.3   ".7        0      0      0        0    5.0      a        0       0       0
P,swndels lMel Co.            0      0       0    3.3      0      0    3.7       0      0      0      0        0      0      0        0      3.4      0
.Pm3    -mpnOy               10.3     0       0    3.5      0   16.0      0       0      0      0      0        0      0      0        0       0      0
ZheUens
- * Cet. T.edk Cont.        11.0    2.1      0       0    1.4    5.4   24.0      0       0      0    1.7        0      0      0        0       0    4.4
10.2    2.1    1.3    3.3    1.7    7.3   28.4   36.3    3.3    6.0    2.3       2.1    3.7    2.0      3.0      3.4    5.4
30.Jen-sS
<1>   "      at erebdon polospld torveed  tfmom ae d                          d1_



OOL   o         O        O       o SO t                  O1 63  Lo       OI  S   oISL r  eL   a Z    oI        We    Ct       L'S                       _
o'O   o     o         o          a    o       o    l   O      O                 O'     O'O   z  '     a    r      o          O'S  L ___
@0     0        0        0       0       0        aE     0       0       0      OUt 00           C     09    0        SE      VOL
a      a        a         a      a       a        0      0       0       0      0'      I      0   o    o    0        0   o                      -o P_-A_" -
P---
o      0        0        0       0       0        0       0      0       0 o            0      0 o5 o  r r      0        0    0                        * P
o      a   o         o           ao   a    r          O       o       o    O   oitt   a         a      a       oO    a        0
O      a        a        0       0       0        0       0      0       0      0       0       0       L9    t         0     0                     OIa_M
0      0        0        0       0       0        0       0      0       0      0       0       0      95      it    a't    a
a      a        a        O       a       a        O      O       O       a      9       aE O   O       |O                 a as  aa    a-
0      0        0        0       0       0        0'      0      0       0      IC      0       0      559    LC    St    0
0      0        0        0       0       0        01     0       0       0      0       0       0      33L    CC      0       0               o     SOa -n
P%-W
a      a        a        o       a       a         om    a       a       a      o       a       a      a       a      rr      ooz              , _         |
a      a        a        a       a       a        a'     a       a       a      0       a       a      a       a      am'     ami                     -d0- 
o      0    o     5       o      a       a    o          0   o s         a   o       o          a      a       a      a       a                           FIE
a      a        OLL      a       a       a        S      a               O a    &       a      a       a       a      S'    Z:L                     --  -
a      a        a        Os, O           0        a      a       a  O   O           E      L   Oa        0     a:    S        VOL
a      a        a        O       a       a        ZS     O a  O                 SC O     C L   a       a      Oa:    a        Gsna
o      a        a        o       a       a        Lo     0       a       a      a       a      c       a       a      t o        L ao
o      a                         a       a        a'      a      a       a      a          L   a       9       a o            a L ro                   pp
a      a        a        oa          o   a               Oa    a  a      a      a       au      a     s        a      a       ai           A     _
a      a        a        a       a       a        S't    0       0       a      a       a      a       a      a       a       OaSL
a      a        a        a       a       a        a      a       a't    a       a       a      a       a      .:t    a        a             -
a      a        a        a       a       a        a      a       a       a      a       a      a       I"s    a:t    a        a                   - 94
a      a        a        a       a       c        a      0       a       a      a       ttu    a       Osm     a      a       Lugi         A**p- q..
a      a        a        a       0       a        a      a       a       a      a       a      a       L5     a      a       ii                   - pA  
a      O        a         a      O       O        O a            0       Oa  a          Oas    Oc       'S    O:    a                      A
a      o        a        a       0       S's      a      o       a       a      a       a      a       a       a      a       a       -nd        a_-
o      o        a        a       0   o S          a      a       a       a      a       o      a       a       a      a       o        -_w_E-.-ab-a
UOOO.A UOlOOA   UOOO.A UOOOA U.OO.A A    pi A   OOO.A  OOO.A YOOO            .A U    OOO.A WOO           O.A O   UOOO. VOOO. A AOOO.A lOOO.A
D~~ p.    B_                                U             iw pa"  a'                    ~p~m 
_ _ ^ _ _~~~~~~~~~d                                   U O 3  W -     _ U   p ou
L >  d t P  vP-q  "
S TqLl
SxauuV                                                          I



CHINA
Seed Secbor Commc rtion Projet
Grain Pries (Procunreent Nego9ation, and Maret) hi Seected Povince
(Yuantkg)
Rioe                                                    Wheat
Provne              A                    B                 C                  A                   B                C
1993  1994  Incr. %   1993  1994 Incr. %  1993  1994 Incr. %  1993  1994  Incr. %  1993  1994 Incr. %  1993  1994 Incr. %
FujWn         0.68  1.00     47   0.75  1.28    71  0.83  1.40    69                                         1.00  1.70    70
Gumangd       0.62  1.08     74   0.70  1.35    93  0.79  1.63   106
GuCzhou       0.52  0.86     65   0.90  1.80   100  0.85  1.84   116  0.61   1.01    66  0.85  1.10   29  0.81  1.15    42
Henw          0.52                0.52               0.52               0.64               0.66              0.67
Huron         0.55  0.93     69   0.58   1.10    90  0.65  1.28    97  0.65  1.15    77  0.70  1.30   86  0.79  1.30    65
Jiangsu       0.50                0.56               0.63               0.65                0.65             0.71
JWndpd        0.50                0.54               0.58               0.61                                 0.72
Shandbng                                             1.27  2.49    96  0.66  1.08    64  0.72  1.08   50  0.72  1.05    46
Shamd                             0.80  2.60   225  1.30  3.00   131  0.70  1.06    51  0.84  1.27   51  0.84  1.30    55
Sktcuan       0.52  1.07    106   0.76  1.35    78  0.94  1.43    52  0.65  1.03    58  0.81  1.16   43  0.91  1.30    43
ZhejWan       0.53  0.95     79   0.67  1.0B    61  0.69  1.28    86  0.66  1.02    55  0.78  1.20   54  0.81  1.40    73
Maize                                                  Soybean
A                   B                  C                  A                  B                 C
1993  1994  Incr. %   1993  1994 Incr. %  1993  1994 Incr. %  1993  1994 Incr. %  1993  1994 Incr. % 1993  1994 Incr. %
Fujin                                                0.98  1.40    43  1.30                 1.80             2.57  3.10    21
Guanpd        0.75  1.16     55   0.80  0.80     0  0.93  1.27    37          2.90                           2.55  2.78     9
Guizhou       0.49  0.91     8S   1.00  1.00     0  0.93  1.08    16  0.90   1.80   100                      2.77  2.46   -11
Henan
Hunon         0.75  1.16     55   0.82  1.08    32  0.78  1.18    51          1.72          2.16  226     5  2.38  2.67    12
JWngsu        0.43                0.82               0.75                                   2.42              1.88
JWng)d        0.42                                                      1.44                1.80             2.27
ShMadon9      0.44  0.82     86   0.63  0.87    38  0.67  0.93    39  0.79  1.80   128  1.88  2.11   12  2.13  2.19         3
Shwnd         0.41   0.82    100   0.56  0.90    61  0.64  0.99    55  0.86                 1.45  240    66  1.93  2.50    30
Sichumn       0.80  0.94     57   0.91   1.11    22  1.00  1.30    30                       2.15  2.35    9  2.37  2.72    15
Zheji"g       0.52  0.92     77   0.70   1.00    43  0.81  1.09    35  1.20                 1.90              2.39  3.04    27
Notes:                                                                                                                                I
A = Procurwnwit Prime
B = NePgoidea Priee
C = Mkt Prio                                                                                                                          mX
Q\U



- 115 -                             Annex 5
Table 7
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Vegetable Seeds a/
Growing    Total Seed Price of Total Value
Vegetables           Area      Requirement   Seed b/   of Seed
(1,000 ha)   (Ton)    Yuan/kg    (Y'000)
Cabbage                    242          236    148.3       34,989
Carrot                     110          247     49.4       12,200
Cauliflower                 95          170    197.7       33,615
Celery                     125          225     79.0       17,785
Chili Pepper               239          430    395.3      169,981
Chinese Cabbage            606        2,357     39.6       93,252
Chinese Chive              105          395     59.3       23,425
Cowpea                     111        8,650      9.9       85,739
Cucumber                   194          524    197.7      103,570
Eggplant                   174          157     98.8       15,509
Garlic                     295      212,688      7.9   1,679,384
Green Onion                158          614     49.4       30,327
Lettuce                    111          217    197.7       42,890
Mustard                     96          282     49.4       13,929
Onion                       61          180     49.4        8,891
Pakchoi                    250        2,099     19.7       41,434
Potato                     544      979,920      1.0      987,759
Radish                     326        1,370     19.7       27,044
Snap Bean                  122       14,305      9.9      141,791
Spinach                    130          700      9.9        6,938
Squash                      54          316     39.6       12,502
Sweet Pepper                87          118    395.3       46,646
Tomato                     217          195    395.3       77,084
Total                    4,452   1,226,395              3,706,685
Source: Asian Seed, Volume 2 No. 1 February 1995.
a/ Institute of Vegetables and Flowers, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing.
b/ Retail prices.



CISNA
beod Senm CwmwdWeda.  O
Sunme  af Revee, Taxes ed  Fh1mAI Rats af Retun
C.p,y-                                   m.Siano 6t smuts dwodu Copled Reqid  Mue nm
Turnow      VAT    Cky T       T       et Mi00%   at S0%       rIl   I  Yr2       '1r3       7,4a                           Y        VIM pm
______________________oOO__ _ __ _ _ _TWO Y'000                  7000       000     FO O                          Y'000      Y'000     YOOO       Y*000     Y000      roco       S RdV
Z1_ 20in 6d SW  n                       3.761     1.076       47    1.176      22A4%      1 6.%        0        262       5n         654       817         0        110           a6
Thumg Thee _.ee 3   be                 14.1W      1.no    00        1.754      21.%      20.7%         0          0       3m         300   * 00          000    0 n             40
ahmunm    ONOF                         14*.72     1.137       6     1.202      21.1%      162%         0          0      2*45      1t422     IA22       1.422         0
ft~Wnd    _ Pnfm             W          0.4      2.7n1       242    2*10       22.       17.09         0      GA"       6*42   O 4           5,4           0         SO6        521
Pmed" amw 3       w                   "211W00   11.121     1.266   16.214      212%      113%          0    27*29    27*2         27*2S    2703            0         a         364
Paedm d   dCp                         170306    6.7W6        320    SA1        20.1%     20.4%         0      2J221      2J21      2J21      2J21          0         02        Is"
xllC__      P                          1627        O6         79    160        21.1%     14.3%         0        26        a          -         a           0         21         064
s"FOR am sofM                          27.6       1.402      112    1J14       22.4%      17.1%        0      1,512     1J12       1*J12     1J12          0         40         530
im ohm __ft f_                         42*61      SA61       202    4.567      24A0%      18.2%        0      1.163      1.151     1.16U      1,161         0        72         54
G 6          o_C Yw                   14546    3*11          714   15.113      200%      200%          0      3O727   o.727  o.727           3.727          0
Mm LIP On       Son* D h F  ~          z22.15     2.712     1I6    4.1N0       22.6%      10.7%        0      1,.25      1.616      1        1.6           2         20        la"
De" X gIhmsF                           22.174    2J17        153    4.277      22.1%     162%          a      1.611      1.611     1*11      1.J11         0         46           1
_Hd 6~ 0_ T_rq C.                     152*n7     2 *A02      724    2.6        20J%       14.1%        0      2A3        2*JOS     2*AS      2A5            0       2300        401
Ad..d                '                120270    SAM           73   10,010      21%       16S.%         0      6,1S6     5.156      5.15      5.14          0        152         732
-oqpd 0S_ or T..       Co.             14A06       761        70      3        13.6%      12.7%        0         1        312        312       312          0        20         407
TI He 6   PM                           1_6  10 0 1044  04           1.4S       10.7%     14.2%         0        60        o06        3         O6          0         47         422  H
1PAe"66m,m.                            41.260    2.40       16    2.4X        20J%       15t3%        0      2,213      2.219     2.219     2.213          0        20        2065      -.
NNW PM"  akbF.                         52.216    4.290       211    6*70       21.1%     19.0%         0      2,105      2.106     210       2.106         0         23        136       O
_bwmd. See M'diu.y Co.                 22,W0    2.273        106    4.67       22.4%      1S%          0      1,748      1.740     1.740       36           0       200          75
D_ autb 0_ OF                          21.201     1.D7       10    2SAN        20.8%     22.4%    O    0      1.2        1.221     1.221     1.221          a        76         416
PJ_medCo                               44.722      340       220    2$.10      21 2%     1.6%          0      2O*16     2*16       2*1       2*J16         0         SO          we
i.n VI IP b   C                        2n*44     2.724       132    4.113      22.8%     17.2%         0      4,413     4,410      4413      4.410          a        24        1175
ULi Cm" SC                             41,014    2.6         137    2,722      22A4%      16.7%        0      1J26       1J21      1*2J      1J26          0         *0        1267
1" SC                                  356.16     1*26       171    2*6        24.1S      17.9%        0      242        2S41      2.2       2.41          0         4a         726
No MSC                                4"A         2.206      2      2.178      22.7%      10.1%        0      2,415      2A15      2A15      2,415          0        26        164
TlMu 8C                                300401    2*67        260    4.074      242%     1t.7%          a      2.5S       2.551     2J56     2SAN           0         s0        2012
lto.C                                  42.66      2*62       210    4*66       24J%      27.0%         0      2,120      2.120     2.120     2.120          0        70         624
w 1PM  SC                              52 541    2.234       212    2.077      21.1%      16.6%        0      2.J12      212A      2J1A      2J12           0         o0       1752
Mand
_hmPd c.uvd   Vag .e    Co.            74A670    2*0         263    6.700      21.7%      16.4%        0      5,171      5.171     5.171     5.171          0        17        4186
SIcm Premud Me_    CeL                 3.A3       0.701      440   10*o7       22.7%      17.5%        0    1O,206    10.200    10.6    10.296              0        2         2220
Pm       Usd Cpaup                    1230A2    S*24         616    7.341      22.7%     17.0%         0      5,671     5.671     5*71        * 071        0        13n         637
_M, Tmd Tmq C__Y                       07J11     6.726       46     0*74       20.J%     20.7%         0      6,502      *.002     6.302     4J602          0        04        1151
TOTD                                 2040,100  110.421    9.M   160.226 t      26.7%     20.0%1         0   12012221 124.121 12201 121*02               2.J76     2.101         3o3
02:204 P    20.Ju,6  -
I-) C
Cou :



CHINA
Seed Sector Ccnvnerciaation Project
Sichian Province - Sichn Provici Seed Company /1
Ple Opafng Codst
(000\
Unit       Year          Yr.1        Yr.2         Yr.3         YrA4        Yr.5      Yr.B-2
Cost      Volume         0%          25%          50%         75%         100%         100%
CHEDULE B - Varlable orating costs:-
aw Materials Buying Prices:
H. Rice              cost/ion         10850         6800            0       18445        36890       55335        73780        73780
H. Maize             costAion          3540         3600            0        3186         6372        9558        12744        12744
Coated Maize         cost/ion          3540          400            0         354          708         1062        1416         1416
H. Rape              costiton         16000          240            0         960         1920        2880         3840         3840
Others               cost/ton           300         3600            0         270          540          810        1080         1080
acking costs:
H. Rice              cost/Aon            126        6460            0         203          407         610          814          814
H. Maize             cost/on             126        3420            0         108          215          323         431          431
Coated Maize         cost/ton            126         380            0          12           24           36          48           48
H. Raps              cost/on             126         228            0           7           14           22          29           29
Others               cost/on               0           0            0           0            0           0            0            0
ilities Costs
Water                m3                 0.30       19980            0           1            3            4           6            6
Power                kWh                0.40      713080            0          71          143         214          285          285
Coal                 Ton              220.00        4985            0         274          548         823         1097         1097
LP. Gas              m3                 0.00           0            0           0            0           0            0            0
Ptrol                Ton             2500.00           2            0           1            2           3            4            4
Diesel               Ton             1700.00          48            0          20           41          61           82           82
or varbble operaing costs
Labour               YAlon               20        14840            0          73          146         220          293          293
Other Varlablecosts    -              500.00           1            0           0            0           0            1            1
Total variable operaUng costs p.a.                                   0       23987        47974       71961        95948        95948
CHEDULE C - Fixed operating costs :-
Workers and staff     Man month         600         2220            0         444         1332         1332        1332         1332
Welfare and bonuses    Per m.m.          66         2220            0        146.5        146.5       146.5        146.5       146.5
Overhoads            %Tumover          2.5%       129032            0        1075         3226        3226         3226         3226
Insurances           %invested         1.5%        39777            0         199          597         597          597          597
Building maintenance    %Invested      2.0%         9805            0          67          200         200          200         200
Vehices maintenance   %Invested       10.0%         1990            0          67          200         200          200         200
Equipment maintenance %Invested        3.0%         5373            0          53          160         160          160          160
Marketing            %Turnover         3.0%       129032            0        1290         3871        3871         3871         3871       > >
Otherfixed costs     -                  500            1            0         167          500         500          500         500So
total fixed operatina costs p.a.                                     0        3508        10232       10232        10232       10232      m x
II. Exinnpls d a sed conapoiy bwidd  amn. S r .iysi ford spojec comps  i
con beur in th   pojct fb.



CHINA
Seed Sector Commercialization Project
Sichuan Province - Sichuan Provincial Seed Company
Cash Flow Statement and FIRR
(YOOO)
Grade-i      Grade-2       Gr-ii-T         Salii         Yr 1          Yr 2         Yr 3          Yr 4         Yr 5       Yr.6-X
____  Price  Price       Percent        Tons           0%          25%           50%    _    75%           100%   _     100%
CASH INFLOW
PFodudc sales:-
H. Rica                     15533         13950         90%           6460            0         24835        49670         74505        99340        99340
H. Maize                     6370         5733          80%           3420            0          5337        10675         16012        21350        21350
CoaedMaize                   6370          5733         80%            380            0           593         1186          1779         2372         2372
H. Rape                     24500        22050          70%            228            0          1355         2709          4064         5418         5418
Trashaas                         -         1000             -          552            0           138          276           414          552          552
GROSS REVENUE (1)                                                                       0        32258        64516         96774       129032        129032
CASH OUTFLOW
khestame  costs                   See Schedule A                                  23057         31509         2258          2258         2258             0
Varkie opera"i costs              See Schedule 8                                      0         23987        47974         71961        95948        95948
Fbmdoperwticosd                   Se Schsdule C                                       0          3508        10232         10232        10232         10232
nemwnwalworkngcapita              SeeScheduleD                                        0          5671         5671          5671         5671             0
GROSS COSTS (2)                                                                    23057         64675        66135         90122       114109        106180
GROSS OPERATING INCOME (3) = (2)(2)                                                -23057       -32417         -1619         6652        14923         22852
FIANCIAL IRR (3) OVER 20 YEARS OPERATION                              22.7%]
AXES (based on gross operaing ncome)
Vakie added tax                   ((I1 yV qmru epCosp TaxrIe       17.00%             0          1406         2812          4218         5624         5624
Cltyconln biana                   (1)xlTaeale                       0.48%             0           155          310           465          619           619
Corporon tax                      (3)xT&"e                            33%             0             0            0          2195         4925         7541
ET INCOME AFTER TAXES (4)         Exclart VAT                                    .23060        -32570        -1930         3990          9380        14690
NCREMENTAL REVENUE (5)             Excbng VAT                                     -23060        -55630       -57560       -53570        -44190       .29500
FINANCING                                                     Fkancmg
Equity from Company                                                  12268         4611          6302          452           452          452             0
Shol term bank loa                                                   18402         6917          9453          877           677          677             0
Wold Bank1 kmd Long Tm Loans                                         30670        11528         15754         1129          1129         1129             0
Workde Capltl oan                                                    22683            0          5671         5671          5671         5671             0
TOTAL FINANCING (6)                                                   84022        23057         37180         7929          7929         7929             0
Additional Short Tefn Loan Required                                   6361         1248             0         4448           666            0             0
DEBT SERVICWNG
Repayne d of loa                                                                      0             0         6917          9453          677         3744
Repaymnt of wori  capital                                                             0             0            0             0            0             0
-terest on loans                                                                   1245          2947         3068          2443         1544         3458
I-derel on workig capital                                                             0           230          459           689          919          919
TOTALDEBT SERVICING COSTS (7)                                                      1245          3176        10445        12585          3140         8121 1             X
ET REVENUE AFTER DEBT SERVICING (4)*(6)-(7)                                       -1248          1433        -4446          -86         14168         6689           '.o r-
UMULATIVE NET REVENUE                                                             -1248           185        -4261         -4927         9241        15810



CHINA
Seed Sedor Commmcdabzatlon Proed
Sidwan Province - Slchuan Provincdal Seed Cornpany
Seed Stock and Wodtng Capkal Requirement
O0O)
Poi A4*md umh              0 43
Of         4       c0p    Ha1-W
P iN STOtE               Voua    To nod Yt   Jmi           Feb-"        MNh          Apid         Ma          .w          Jul k      Augud      S8p "         OCk        Naw^nbw    Dwui*u
RI                       6.600         0%          429          214          43           0            0           0           0        1.071        1.286       1.714       1,2"          657
H mm                     3,600         0%          414           43          21           0            0           0            0         6857       1.266       1,000         600         629
Coa.d Ma                   400         0%             0           0           0           0            0           0           0            0           0           0            0           0
1p Rs"                     240         0%                         0           0           0           34          66           73          51          26           9            0           0
I _m wand M                  43         257           64           0           34          66          73        1,960       2.697       2,723        2,06 8      1.46
V AOF                      X
I *TOtUt            V.                  .Jmft       FebR"        Mich d        Ap     t    Ma    J      unw         Juhi       AUaUd      S pginiba    Oddb       Nowafar   Decaralr
K Rio                   10.650                    4.650       2,325         465           0            a           0            0      11.626       13.950      16.600      13,950       9.300
K Has                    3X540                    1,466         152          76           0            0           0           0        3,034        4,551       3.640       2.832       2.227
Co md1a                  3540                         0           0           0           0            0           0           0                  0                 0            0           0
0M, s16.000                                           0           0           0           0          649        1.371       1.166         623         411         137            0           0
lde ,k       d           6,116      ;2477          541            0         649        1,371       1,166      15,462       16.913      22,277      165752      11,527
aw    chqial (a b.-                 406         406         406         406          406         406         406          406         406         406          406         40B
mm" WC* 019"m.                             6521         26U3         947         406         954         1777        1572       1586         19319       22683       171d6        11933
WhotdnWC    10.60%                           69           20           9           4           9           16          14          143         174         204         155          107
MakWC WCqP  22.6U3
Tgi hltmd a m_ds         919
Rlquiad         Coam                    Todl                         MOTES
Unh              Units     pal UtcodC OW- C                                                           W CapW   b app6dtot d r a.
Cumlad              1,N&                 1         0.04                    004                                       W W  mgc"ama las 1u ta by vIy m  by nmi
Pmd9qklg             Mmii                1        110.1                     110
Wia                  Mmih                1          0.6                       0
Pi h1                         23.6                      24
Co al                                    1         91.4                      91
LP. Gas              Moii                1          0.0                       0
Meiih               1          0.3                       0
Di_d                 Mmii                1          6.6                       7
O0m Yuma  cab         mri                1          0.0                       0
Sa_d.                lbArh               1        123 2                     123
huWmno  mi..         Mmdh                1         49 7                      so
Rounded         406
041
H Ds
w X4
1:o U'



- 120 -
Annex 5
CHINA                                      .   Table 9.4
Seed Sector Commercialization Project
Sichuan Province - Sichuan Provincial Seed Company
Sensitivity Analysis of FIRR
P roadu ct i on        hting       5a   Invsra
S>SENsTIV ANALYSS                 Vdiurr    pcost           Pn           rice      Code       FIRS
OPMAtTV AT FULL CAPAC       EAY.    100X        R00%       100%        100%       100% A2M%
- IncniWas oponacons.                                                                        21-t.5'~2%
0 <^---^tOQs     t20%   ----1         yjl_ =  1               20.3%
1bwrcromm heriv pne_- NET rL                  .1CUNLAE                                      17EV%
D osa      somea                  n p. G- rs  1h.icE     2_t7%
- Inciomm vrPr_oela   raLdI                         2t%0%
OPERATION Ar 90% cArAcrT.            90%        100%       101%        100%       100%       19.9%
P noun^" Opwa&                         7-                  '     '     3               18.StA
- l_nol   buyhgprk            .  - -9          *1          0t5-<-|                          14.8%
sw4wN pneT                                                       9                    13.4%
OPRAIO AT9%CPATY                    0%        tOO%       100%        100        100%       17.0%
- Wareem  opng&  codL                                                                       } ;". 15|.9%
1- -t', - q 120%t- t1IIQSC 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~14.8%
rMes lrn9t*ngptk                 =.8   ; . tr               15  cx>:#g _                     12.2%
RNUE AFT-ER TAX. DEST SERVICtt AND ODtVNDED
CtRon GucronstsoeD1
Porc nt  Repr1             83%



CHINA
Seed Sector Cowmeronaiai    Propet
Incremerntal Net Retum per Hectare of ifproved Seeds In the Project Area
(Yuan)
H. Rbce        C. Rice        Wheat          H.Maize        Barley       Rapeseeds        Peanuts         Cotton        Soybean
Project Provinces   Net Retum      Net Retum      Net Retum       Net Retum     Net Retum      Net Retum      Net Retum      Net Retum      Net Retum
Per Ha Per Day  Per Ha  Per Day Per Ha Per Day Per Ha Per Day Per Ha Per Day Per Ha Per Day Per Ha  Per Day  Per Ha Per Day Per Ha Per Day
Gansu SF                                         1,342.0    6.6  698.0    2.6 1,462.0    6.5 2,034.0    7.4
Guant,)d           922.0    3.0                                 1,203.0    5.2                             3,509.0     12.1
Guizhou            692.0    2.3                                  818.0    3.3                1,437.0    5.1
Hernan SF                                         915.0    4.0  588.0    2.2                               3,357.0     11.2
Hunan SC & SF      972.0    3.2                                  714.0    3.0                1,473.0    5.3                4,098.0    9.6
Hubei SF           767.0    2.5   428.0    1.5                   589.0    2.0 1,332.0    6.0 1,731.0    6.3                4,098.0    9.6
Jiangsu SF         557.0    1.9   401.0    1.4  944.0    4.2                  1,022.0    4.6 1,442.0    5.0                               1,192.0    7.2
Jiangxi SF         951.0    3.2   856.0    2.8                                                             3,510.0     12.0 4,108.0    9.7
Shandong SC & SF                   749.0    2.5  588.0    2.0  587.0    2.0                                3,724.0     12.3 3,960.0    9.4 1,067.0    7.4
Sharod                                                           877.0    3.4
Sichuan            820.0    2.8                                  949.0    3.8                1,719.0    6.1
Zheiang            787.0    2.6   777.0    2.6                                1,287.0    5.7 1,431.0    4.9                5,088.0   12.2
I-
Notes:
DetaN can be found from the Crop Budget for individual province in the project files.
cr D



- 122 -                                      Annex 6
Table 2
CHINA
S"d Commeralulzaon Project
Crop Budget at FuN Devebpment - Guwad Pronce
(Yumrvba)
Unit        H. Rice           H. Mae             Peanut
Hems                   Unit  Price   Amount   Value   Amount   Valu    Amount   Valu
A. Without Project - Averg for the Province
Yield                  ton               4.5                2.3                1.6
Prim I/                YR              1,221              1,280              3,667
Product Valu            Y                       5,495              2,944              5,s67
Byproduct Valu          Y                         198                 30                72
Totl Vlue               Y                        5s,6e             2,974              5,939
Lund Prepeon           Ha Y/ha             1      171        1        e5        1        e5
Sds - Non Hybrud 2i    Kg                                                     200      1520
- Hybrid 3J       K                  1 5     225       50       335
OrpnkManur             Ton Y20ft         6.6      132       6.6      132       6.6      132
Trae Elmnt             Kg Y3/ha                                                          39
Fertilizer
Ammonlum - blwborate   Kg Y.46/k         400      185      400       185      180        83
Ure                    Kg Y1.1/kg        180      196      180       IN        70       76
Potash                 Kgi Y1/kg
Phosphat               K4  Y.34Vkg       200       68      250       8s       140       48
Petckdk               Spray                1       36        1        30        1       141
Fungcldee             Spray                1       36
IrrigatonWater         La                          77                 27                29
Othr                                               52                 46                 48
Subtobtl                                         1,178             1,103              2,180
Not Rturn                                       4,515              1,870              3,759
Labor                                    300      900      200       60o      270      810
Return per manday                                 15.1               9.4               13.9
B. WIth Projec - Seed Qualty Improvemnt
Ybid                   ton               5.5                3.5                2.5
PrIe I/                Ylt             1,221              1,280              3,667
Product Vakl            Y                       6,716              4,479              9,168
Byproduct Valo          Y                         242                 46                46
Tdal Valu               Y                        6,958             4,525              9,214
Inputb                 Ha
Land Prepartion        Kg YAu              1      171         1       e5        1       65
Seeds-NonHybrld2/      Kg                                                     180      1368
. Hybrid 31       Kg                 15      230       50       335
Orpnko Manu            Ton Y20/i         6.6      132       6.6      132       6.6      132
Trae Eewnmt            Kg Y3/ha                                                          21
Fwrb
Ammnum  - babonate   Kg Y.46/1           500      231      550       254
Urea                   Kg Y1.1Ag         250      272      180       196        0       87
Potah                  Kg Y1/kg           90       92       90        92       75       76
Phosphate              Kg Y.34/kg        500      170      400       136      180       61
Petldes               Spray                1       36        1        30        1       40
Fu rgkde              Spray                1       38                           1       40
IrrigaonWatr           Le                          77                152                 15
Otler                                              73                 80                40
Subttl                                           1,521             1,452              1,945
Nd Rdtu                                         5,437              3,073              7,268
Labor                                    300      900      210       630      280      840
Rturnpr may                                       18.1              14.6               26.0
1/ PrNo  based on weIhtd avea  of quota. nea   and market pric prd hi Gurod hi 1994.
2/ Price per kg of rohr' seeds are Y7.6 for penut.
3/Prie per kg ol hybrid s    n YI5.2 for rkie and Y.7 fr maiz.



CHINA
Seed Sector Commercialization Project
Farm Model Analysis Summary
Incremental Incorne Wrth The Project
(Yuan)
Present                         Future Incremental Income
Wthout Project            Without Project          With Improved Seed
Prvinces
NV      R/D      PC       NV       R/D      PC       NV       R/D      PC
Fujian       2,326.0    15.9   664.6   450.4        1.6    128.7   887.0       4.3   253.4
Gansu        2,473.9    12.6   526.4   571.0        2.0    121.5   937.5       3.1    199.4
Guangxi      1,945.3    10.2   413.9   524.4        1.6    111.6  1,062.3      4.2   226.0
Guizhou      2,092.6    12.1    475.6   293.8       0.6    66.8   902.3        2.9   205.1
Henan        2,277.2     9.5    555.4   375.7       1.2    91.6  1,808.4       3.3   441.1
Hubei        2,134.1     10.6   533.5   730.0       2.7    182.5  1,220.5      4.1    305.2
Hunan        1,814.2    11.8   490.3   603.7        2.1    163.7  1,184.6      4.3   320.2
Jiangsu      2,596.1     12.6   741.7  1,281.9      2.1    366.3  2,042.0      4.3   583.5
Jiangxi      2,281.1     13.1    495.1    782.8     2.1    109.8  1,201.3      4.4   278.8
Shandong     2,508.9    12.1    696.9   506.3       0.8    140.7  1,262.5      2.7   350.7
Shanxi       2,436.5    12.5   676.8   622.5        1.2    172.9  1,529.6      4.4   424.9
Sichuan      2,138.1     12.8   577.9   843.4       1.1    227.9  1,381.4      2.8   373.3
Zhejiang     2,396.9     15.3   684.8   545.5       1.0    155.9   922.1       2.8   263.5
Average      2,263.1     12.4   579.5   625.5       1.5    156.9  1,257.0      3.7   325.0
Sources: Farm Model for each province can be found in project files.
Notes: NV = Net Value of Production
R/D = Retum Per Person Day
PC = Per Capita Income
H (D
X x
w ON



CHINA
Seed S5cw Cmrcion Project
Faorm Mod - Guag2pd Prmvncs 1/
Prn  t-Wthou Prqjec       FuUro-Wthu Project 5/      Fure-W,th Inmpved Seed
Othwe    Tob               Other    Tobw              Othe     TobW
Grins 3/ Crops 4/          Grains 3  Crops 4/         Grkns 31 Crops 41
Are (Mu) 2/                     8.0       1.6      9.6      8.4      2.5    10.9       8.4      2.5     10.9
Crop Vi. (Yuan)              2,041.9    415.6  2,457.5  2,413.4    541.4  2,954.9  2,680.6    691.2  3,371.8
ByproductViekf(Yuan)           81.3       3.0    84.2      93.7      9.0    102.7    104.7     10.9    115.6
Anvim Riaing 61                                  319.2                      638.4                      798.0
Grose Viik. (Yuen)           2,123.2    418.6  2,861.0  2,507.2    550.4  3,696.0  2,785.2    702.1  4,285.3
Operating Codst (Yuan)
L  ndPp.wation                 66.6       1.0    67.6      69.9      1.9    71.8      66.6      1.9     68.5
Seeds 71                      203.8      52.9    256.7    203.8     55.4   259.2    155.5      40.5    196.0
Organic Marnra                 52.8      14.1     66.9     70.4     27.9     98.3     70.4     27.9     98.3
Ferdzes                       232.2      26.1    258.3    323.5     72.1    395.6    369.0    82.1    451.1
Pestcides                      29.6       4.5    34.1      29.6      8.9    38.5      29.6      8.9     38.5
Irrigaon Water                 29.7       8.6    38.3      28.3      2.7    31.0      28.3      2.7     31.0                     1
Taxes a                        29.6       2.0    31.6      34.8      8.7    43.5      40.9     11.7     52.6
Arni   Prod. Codst 9/                            132.6                      246.5                      298.0
Ohe Comb                       26.3       3.2     29.5     34.4      7.4    41.9      35.2      8.5     43.7
Tow Costs                      670.6    112.4   915.7    794.8    185.0  1,226.3    795.5    184.2  1,277.7
Net Vi  of Production        1,452.6    306.2  1,945.3  1,712.4    365.4  2,469.7  1,989.7    517.9  3,007.6
Faniwy bbor
- Crp (Permon day)          117.0      50.0    167.0    121.0     58.0   179.0    121.0      58.0    179.0
- Livstock (Perwon d.y) 10W                     23.0                       30.0                       30.0
Relum per Peron day                               10.2                       11.8                       14.4
Per Capita Income 11/                            413.9                      525.5                      639.9
1/ A typical household has 4.7 farrily size, 2.4 active labor force and 559 workdays available.
21 TobW allocated area i 5.1 mu for which 4 mu for rice, 1 mu for wheat, 3 mu for nmize, 1 mu for rapeed
0.6 mu for oybean, 0.5 mu for cotton and 0.5 mu for pentfS. Cropping intensity index is 208.
31 Grain we rice, wheat, mize, and soybean.
4/ Oter crops ae catbn, rapeeed and peants.
51 Are producin repesd and soyben ae icreased tb 1.5 mu and I mu respectively.
6/ Aseum 2 shep without the proect, 4 deep wihout   project and 5 shep wit poject nsetvely.
7/ Seed dIed cation in the project file.                                                                                     D X
8/ Farm tx 2% of net income.
9/ Indudes fed and other costs.
1 (Y Labor fo pigs: 0.5 hr/pi/day.
11/ Based on 4.7 persons per fwamy.



-  125  --                                             Annex  6
Table 5
CHINA
S"d Secor CommlikaStIon Projed
Border Pe for Prcipel Producs and hIpUts (1966 Conadt Pre) M
Cdotn    Rke/
WhenI    Con        lint    Paddy   Peenut. bI Soybean Rapeseed   Ur         TSP      CAP  Potassum
Ne Trade Status                 M         M        X        M         X          X        X        M         U       U         M
1995 Prki.
World Markt Prices: (US$11)       176       122    2,160      320        322      257       230      207       147     211       118
Ocen Frghl: (US$IA)                4S        22       44       44         25       25        44       34        34      34        34
CIF/FOB Shanghal (US$A)           221       144    2,110      364        297      232       186      241       181     246       152
CIF/FOB Shanghai (YuanA)c/       iBIm     1,210   17,774    3,058      2,495    1,949    1,562    2,024    1.520   2,066        1,277
Pora Charge and
OlsribuloesMarglngd/            192       134    1,625      300        250      200       166      207       162     210       140
Transport-Portfc Whole_ala/e       10        10       10       10         10        10       10        9         9       9         9
UIlto Wholneelrf            13        13       13       13         13       13        13       13        13      13        13
ExFacdoryPrke                    2,071    1,366   16,127    3,381       2.222    1,725    1,374    2,26      1,704   2,290      1.439
Proessing Adjustwnt
Processing Costs                                     6o
By-Product value                   70        30      460       44
MIII gate value                  2,141    1,396   16,564    3,425       2,222    1.725    1.374    2,254    1,704   2.290       1.439
Tranrport-Farm to mll /g            5         5        5        5          5         5        5        5         6       6         5
Economic Farmeabe Price          2,136    1.391   16,559    3,420       2,217    1,720    1,369    2,249    16111    2,28K      1,434
2000 Price
World Market Prkcs: (USIA)        128       106    1,678      278        256       268      220      153       134     112       112
Ocean Freight: (US$A)              45        22       44       44         25       25        44       34        34      34        34
CIFIFOB Shanghai (USIA)           173       128    1,634      322        231       243      176      187       163     146       146
CIF/FOB Shanghal (Yuanl)c/       1,453    1,075   13,726    2,705       1,940    2,041    1.478    1,571    1,411   1,226       1,226
Pod Charges and
Dlstributo's Marging d/         166       122    1,260      268        200      200       158      1U        152     136       135
Transport-PorttoWhoblema ru/       10        10       10       10         10        10       10        9         9       9         9
-Mll to Who dls   Mff       13       13        13       13         13       13        13       13       13       13        13
Ex Fectr,y Pric                  1,632    1,220   12,442    2,909       1,718    1,800    1,297    1,759    1,51    1,384       1.364
Procesing Adlusment
P-ing Cost                                            6o
By-Product values                  70        30      460       44
kilI gatevalue                   1,702    1,250   12,879    3,040       1,718    1,809    1,297    1,759    1,56    1,3J4       1,384
Transport-Farm to mi/g              6         6 5      5        6          5         6        5        6         5       5         5
Economic Farmgate Pri            1,697    1,245   12,874    3,035       1,713    1,804    1,292    1,764     1,580   1,379     1,379
t Based on the World Bank Commodity Markets and the Developing Countrie, October 1996, adjuded to 1995 prIes.
b/ Baed on projected price of peanul oil nd meel, assuming that a ton of unsheled peanut
yield 0.25 ton of ol and 0.45 ton of meal.
c/ Exchange rate d Y8.4 m US$1.
dV Pod charge of Y258 plu 9% dibirs mwgin.
e/ Dtance from vAoleaer lo por i epproximately 300 km from Shanghai to Hunen (on aerage wih projt sies) .
by rail at Y0.02WNm for gris, Y0.02Nkm for flizr and Y0.03/Mxn for chenmo, edjuded bv CF at 1.2
V Distance from MI to Wholesalers I approximaely 50km by road at Y02'Dkm, e4uted by CF of 1.2.
e Didtanco from farm to mU Is 20krr on ae    by moed at Y0.2Nkm, adjused by CF d 1.2.



- 126 -                               Annex 6
TabIle 6
CHINA
Seed Sector Commercialization Project
Main Conversion Factors
Standard Conversion Factors a/                              0.96
Machinery/Equipment b/                                      1.20
Electricity                                                 1.30
Transport - Rail                                            1.20
Transport - Road                                            1.20
Rural labor - Unskilled                                     0.80
-Skilled/ technician                                     1.30
Earthwork                                                   0.85
Materials                                                   0.90
Fuel                                                        1.30
a/ SCF = (Official exchange rate)/ (Shadow exchange rate) = 8.4/8.7
b/ For locally made machinery and equipment procured locally.
cl The other conversion factors are calculated based on the estimated
economic prices and the prices used in the cost budget.



CHINA
SEED SECTOR COUMERCIALIZATION PFOJECT
Ino.ontn Y.d. Inp,A .d Owpp. , H*    - Eoo.ot  P.
Hvnd R                                   Hold Com                              Conw    Mow R                                .
Fsj.t pm,                                    WW_ VAIN  h           VoAtoa           WIWh    Ine._        W.*u               WWd      Ino         WhOA             WMd     Ir-
Ptt"          PIDo          rn0 Aoiot                  P            ontft                      6*o        rnnt         PFo PtO*                  u
Y)solW  oi.                      4.5            5.5            1          2.3          3.6         1.2
o~  Voh m                     156.6          14s3          1.347        3a2,         4,404       1,175
bip cot WI                     2.330          1_            1522)       2,JO         1.22         (S6l1
Not Eoofim  (I                13.11          15.057        I.M           34          2.2         1,730
view ll1.%Q                      6.2            3.0          0.          3.0         23           0.3
OuWA V.kW                     17M3I 2        3.4i2          470        4.203       4,777          674
hpa Coo m                      2,#0            1 1.37         0)        2,36         1.37         (am
fot b m                       1,92 o6olho  I                            l,Sl 3.6  03 1,213  3,030  1.232
_W *WAW                      6.0           7.0           1.0         2.3          3.0         0.7
0o_  V.. m                    20.784         21.,3           743        3.232        3,776         542
hW_A COo M                     2.34           17'           (736        1'M          1,420        (571
No bw        Wm               13.220         13,736        1,m          1,236        2,166       1,120
Yhm (b%.                                                                  4.3     S     .J         0.6           6.2           7.0         0.8          4A          G.A          0.7
. . v   m                                                               *.34         7,296         412        21.43        21,500           32        .6S         km            (7311
lpComt                                                                  2A31         I3m          (So"         2,343        2,027         m30m        2,436       1.6           n77)
Not  _m    WI m                                                         40_         S.433        1.03n        13,595       16.432           _         7,103       7,144          a
4Wand PM,bm
thm (M...                                                                 4.7          6.0         1.3
o0m  V_ m                                                               k3           7,640         542
h_u c m                                                                2.313        1.72         (Sol
NM _fMo W m                                                         4.20         5,.14        1,631
VI.idmn*W                        6.7            7.7            1          2.7           6          1.3 
0.3. V_ m                     22.974         23,440          46 t        .1l         6,230      1,035
k& com (                       2.610          1,39          (6771       2.3          1.'M3        (61171
m  _embW m                    2D.4           21,.01        1.143        2.32        4.234        1.32
Tbha (boA.                       6.7            3.0          0.3                                                 6.6           6.2         0.6
O_         m                  13.311         2033l           640                                              19,433       13.107         P2I
b.. coo m                      2,            1,13         (3221                                              2,231         1,4M         (732
No  1o717 .05                 17.173         1331          132                                                17,1U         17.018         430
Tha (m...                                                                 4.5          5.4         0.9                                                  2.5           3          0.6
OU%" V"n. . m                                                           6.210       6,73J          472                                               3,430        ,333        (157)
_oA Coot m                                                              2.123        1,416        (712)                                              2,66        1.636         372)
UK UmfiOs WI                                                            4,132        637         1.136                                               2,.62        3,743         310
YVsItloA.)                       3.2              7          0.3          3.4           4          0.3           5.4           5.3         0.5
o03  v_i. m                   21,43          21,632           36        6020         6.304         S34        16,702       10,12         (140)
hw4 Coot m                     2.,W           172           foo01)      1'$"         1.420        (5731        2,2387        1,750        (337)
%t looim                      les13          1.731           *w6        3,022       4,134        1,162        16.216       16,412           97
Tha tow"                         7.0            7.7          0.7                                                 4.3           5.2         0.3          3A          4.3          0.3
o. V_o (mI                    24,257         23,706         (146                                              16,374       16,011         (3mm1      7,452        7.56           36
hips Cot W                     2.366          1,322       11.373)                                              2,33          1,12       11.2001     2,434        1.102       (1,332)
gm owfib W                    21,502         2237            32                                               14,.36       14.379          243       5,016        8,436        1,416               , 
..3m.pd Pwlowcr s
ThidluM,.)                       6.0      *      .0          1.0                                                 5.2            6          0.O                                                        (D
o     V_m W                   17.233         13.432        1,164                                              17,94       18.452          4"                                                      (DX
coA oot M                      2.420          1,1M         (5521                                              2.432        1.942          340)
Not boofb W                   (4.7           13,3"4        1.706                                              16.602       16,510        1.006                                                        
Nb.f Ddt_   -  o .d hI in  Pvot 111.



CHNA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIAUZATION POJECT
I met,ts Yred, Input end Output pr Hectume - EoGn.c PA"
9eieor6 Pe.                                                      Rape_-do                      Cottn                           GoYen
rP.oc Pt,e        Wte.a        W(dt   Ie.         WIdhOut        W.hd   Ine-        wdt          W,d  In-"   W,denA              W,d    I-        Without      W4.  Incre-
P rP       Prtt         rental   Prujet    Pret    n,"W    P t i           Proect      -mtl    P.ot    Pr"t   nwtal
d wr4 P-
Yied ( 1                                               1.6           2.5      0.9
Output Vye IV)                                       3,627        4.329       702
Input Cet m                                          2,781         1.949     16321
"Amewfim                                              s4e         2,3SO     1.534
vrum (s,nA,eI                                                                            1.4      2.0       0.0
Output V.k  m                                                                         1,954     2,.32       679
Inpt Cot m                                                                            1.484      1,023     14311
Not EeSfi, (rY)                                                                         490     1.599     1,109
4&Hnen P. olnu
viedw loAe                                                                               1.0      1.6       0.6        1.1         1.5      0.4
Output Veki m                                                                         1.389     2,105       716     18.325      19.401     1,076
Input C" t m                                                                          1          ,374  1063  2911    2,073       1.963     (11o0
Net le-fit m                                                                             1s     1.022     1,007     16.252      17,438    1.196
-Shandong Plro_e
ried InLA)                                             2.4          3.4       1.0                                      0.9         1.2      0.4       1.8       2.4       0.6
Ouut Veke m                                          5,401        5,924       523                                   13.299      15,021    2,232     3,159     4,426     1.259
Inpu Coet m                                          2.223        1.090      1639)                                   2,169       1.9S4     1215)      9S5       731      12541
Net enerwte (VI                                      3.179        4.339     1,161                                   11.120      13.567    2,447     2.193     3695      1,512
4hIed  rinA
Output Veku m
Inlput Cet m
Nt  entI  m
4~mn  Prente
Yield )9nft)                                                                            1.5       2.2       0.7                                                                                 1r)
Output Va M                                                                           2,091     2.996       795                                                                                  co
In,utCe  M                                                                            1.30      1.024      12911
Net Neneit1e m                                                                          796     1,.92     1,076
Yie  IWO   1            4         5           1                                         1.6       2.2       0.6        0.9         I.4      0.5
Ou~uVeh.m            9.4e      3.OS0      1.592                                       2,220     2,e2       662     14,957      18.114    3.157
hInu Cet m           3.074     2.264       9s1ol                                      1,432     1,013      14191     2,271       1.910     13611
Net Ser.m            3394      5.796      2,392                                         798     1309      1.091     12,696      16.204    3,519
4Gerou P -me
Yiold (innhrl          4.2        5         0.9                                         I.4       2.2       0.9
Output Vek. m        6,776     9.050      1.274                                       1,949     2.992       933
rpua cet m            .2s9    2.64       (1.266)                                      1,053       742      (3111
Ne keelib I          3.147     S.66W      2,9                                           9       2.140     1,244
-Hb4   Pov
view It.lAr            4.3        9        0.7                                           1.3        2       0.7          1         1.4       0.4
Oupt Vek, M          9.991     6.0        1.119                                       1,90      2,719 11      9      s1666      17,911    1,323
krpuacet m           $A"       2*..4     (11.279                                      1,374     1.093      12611     2,073       1.99      (1101
MN kellm             3.272     $.66      2.14                                           426     1,665     1,219     14.962      19,029    1,435
nIl hinAte             4.3       9.0        0.7                                         1.7       2J       o0.                                        2.0       2.5        0.5
0otV_k.em            6,W1      3.0O       1.119                                       2.361     3,014       GU                                      3.512     4,910     1.066
A Ceetm        *      .o o               (1.3101                                      1.007       an       .799                                     1.08        on       a6
MN mnrmstus M        2.922     6a.36     2.2                                            D4      2,316      1422                                     2446      3s.44      1.479                  H
"-%Nw Pre,*m
nlboRel                                                1.9          2.7       0.o                                        1         IA       O.4
owuu av_ r                                           4.e9         4.71       on                                    f9.3        13.114    1.46                                                  lOX
kwu" 2e,t IV)                                        2,791        1.4          32)                                   2.063       1.96'      120W
MN   efar  IV                                     1'2          2.722     l.440                                   14.942     16.151     1.906



Annex 6
- 129  -                                           Table  8.1
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
IncrementaL Benefits by Province - Economic Prices
Improved                Inc.     Sub-Total                              Total        25X of
Seed Prod S. Rate Sow Area    Benefit       BenefLt    Seed Saved   Value  Inc. Benenfits Incremental
(ton)  (Ks/ha)       (Sa)    (Y'0001Ba)  (Y'000)       (ton)                  (YO000)    Benefits
Guangxi
-Hybrid RLce           13,960       25      558.400      1.60      893,440       2,792    8,474          901,914
-Hybrid Maize           4,220        40     105,500      1.74      183,570          528      657         184,227
-Peanut2                4,320      150       28.500      1.54       44,352       1,440    2,467           46,819
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__--------------------
Total GuangxL        22,500               692.700              1,121,362       4,760   11,597       1,132,959    283,240
GuLzhou
-Hybrid Rice            8,000        25     320,000      0.97      310,400       1,600    4,856          315,256
-Hybrid Kaize           9,514        40     237.850       1.26     299,691        1,189    1,481         301,172
-Rapeseed                 277         6      46.167        1.1      50,783           92      119          50,903
Total Guishou          17,791               604.017                660,874        2.882    6,456         667,330    166,833
Hunan
-Bybrid RLce            8,596       25      343,840       1.55     532,952       1,719    5,218          538,170
-Hybrid Maize           4,095       40      102,375      1.12      114,660         512    1,554          116,214
-Rapeseed                 504         6      84,000       1.1       92,400         168       217          92,617
-Cotton                 6,500       50      130.000      1.19      154,700       3.250   41,841          196,541
Total Bunan            19,695               660.215                894,712        5,649   48,829         943,541    235,885
Shandong
-ConventionaX Rice        940      120        7,833      0.87        6,815          235      713           7,528
-Wheat                 20,637      120      171,975      0.04        6,879       5,159    8,755           15,634
-Hybrid Maize          31,855       40      796,375      1.39   1,106,961        3,982    4,957       1,111,919
-Cotton                 6,543       50      130.860      2.45      320,607       1,963   25,270          345,877
-Peanuts                3,560      150       23.733      1.16       27,531       1,187    2,029           29,560
-Soybean                6,190       60      103.167      1.51      155,988          516      931         156,919
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__--------------------
Total Shandong         69,725             1,233,943              1,624,781       13.042   42,656       1,667,437    416,859
Shanxi
-Hybrid Maize           8,248        40     206,200      1.53      315,486       1,031    1,284          316,770
-Barley                 4,000      200       20.000      1.90       38,000       2,000    2,490           40,490
-Soybean                1,536       60       25,600      1.51       38,656         384       693          39,349
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__--------------------
Total ShanxL           13,784               251,800                392,142        3,415    4,466         396,608     99,152
SLehuan
-Hybrid Rice            6,800       25      272.000      1.14      310,080       1.360    4,128          314,208
-Hybrid Maize           4,000       40      100,000      1.63      163,000         500       623         163,623
-Rapeseed                 240         6      40,000      1.08       43,200           s0      103          43,303
-------------------------_----------------------------------------__---------__--------------------
Total Sic)wuan         11,040               412,000                516,280       1,940    4,853          521,133    130,283
GaC.u
-Wheat                  2,040      120       17.000      0.82       13,872         510       865         14,737
-Hybrld Maize           1,400       '0       35,000      1.19       41,650         175       218         41,868
-Rapeseed                 150        6       25,000      1.20       30,000          50        65         30,065
-Barley                 7,000      200       35000      2.54       88,900       3,500    5,397          94,297
Total Cansu            10,590               112.000                174,422        4,235    6,545         180,967     45,242
Zhejians
-Hybrid Rice            2,275       25       91,000      1.36      123,760         455    1,381         125,141
-CaventLonal RLce       4,225      120       35.208      1.10       38,729       1.056    3,206          41,935
-Rapeseed                 111        6       18,500      0.93       17,261          37        48         17,308
-Cotton                 1,495       50       29,900      3.52      105,188         449    5,774         110,962
-Barley                 2,275      200       11,375      2.05      23,319        1.138    1,754          25,073
Total------------------10,381-----1--5,983----308,257-----3,134-__--12,162---_320,419-----80,105---
Total Zhoji-ng         10,381               155,983                308,257       3,134   12,162         320,419      80,105



Annex 6
- 130 -                                          Table  8.2
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Incremental Benefits by Province - Economic Price.
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__----------------------------------------
Improved               Inc.     Sub-Total                             Total       251 of
Seed Prod S. Rate Sow Area    Ben fit    Benefit    Seed Saved   Value  Inc. Benenfite Incremental
(ton)  (K7/ha)      (Ha)    (Y'000/H)  (Y000)       (ton)                 (Y'000)    Benefits
Hubet
-Hybrid Rice           5,415        25     216,600      0.89     191,908       1,083    3.287         195,195
-Coventional Rice      4,620       120      38,500      0.97      37,345       1,135    3,505          40.350
-Hybrid Maize          1,100        40      27,500      0.34      22,963         133      171          23,134
-Wheat                 6,300       120      52,500      0.81      42,525       1,575    2,673          45.198
-Rapeseed              1,260         6     210,000      1.11     232,050         420      543        232,593
-Barley                1,106       200       5,530      2.39      13,239         553      853          14.092
-Cotton               16,224        50     324,480      1.61     523,386       4,867   62,660        586,047
Total Bubet           36,025               875,110             1,063,415       9,791   73,692      1,137.107    284,277
Jiangxt
-Hybrid Rice           1,345       25       53,800      1.71      91,998         269      316         92.814
-Coventional Rice     13,971      120      116,425      1.01     117,589       3,493   10,600        128,190
-Cotton                4,241       50       84,820      1.61     136,560       1,272   16,380        152.940
-Peanuts               1,830      150       12,200      1.44      17,568         610    1,043         13,611
Total Jianguxt        21,387               267,245               363,715       5,644   28,840        392,555      98,139
Jiangeu
-HybrLd Rice           2,160       25       86,400      0.83      71,280         432    1,311         72,591
-Coventional Rice      9,000      120       75,000      0.24      18,225       2,250    6,829         25,054
-Wheat                17,700      120      147,500      1.34     197,650       4,425    7,509        205,159
-Barley                4,200      200       21,000      2.43      51,030       2,100    3,233         54,268
Rapeseed                 200        6       33,333      1.42      47,400          67       86         47,486
-Soybean               2,200       60       36,667      1.48      54,193         550      992         55,186
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__--------------------
Total Jiangsu         35,460               399,900               439,778       9,824   19,966        459,744    114,936
Total                268,378             5,694,913             7,359,739      64,314  260,062      7,819,801  1,954,950



- 131 -                            Annex 6
Table 9
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Summary of Economic Analysis
Annual Net      NPV        Economic
Provinces              Return        @12%    Rate of Return
(Y'000)
Guangxi                   67,514     296,705           70.2
Guizhou                   16,472      43,465           25.6
Hunan                     96,534     424,311           64.3
Shandong                 102,315     402,540           46.4
Shanxi                    30,406     109,430           37.8
Sichuan                   20,266      68,239           34.6
Gansu                      4,737       7,156           18.3
Zhojiang                  21,656      71,272           32.8
Hubei                     85,647     375,830           77.1
Jiangxi                   25,233      46,260           20.6
Jiangsu                   19,501      48,888           24.5
Total Project         474,868   1,726,312            42.0



-132 -                               Annex 6
Table 10
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
Switching Value   Reduce   Price   Investment  Input
Provinces         Base          @12%          Benefits   Falls    Costs        Costs
Case   -------------------&Increase   by    Increase  Increase
ERR    Benefits   Costs  Costs by    10%        by 10%   by 10%
Guangxi             70.2       19.2      23.7      10.6     41.7       60.9      51.8
Guizhou             25.6        4.8       4.8       2.5      0.0       24.2       9.2
Hunan               64.3       32.9      49.1      19.7     49.8       60.5      58.5
Shandong            46.4       17.7      21.5       9.7     28.3       44.7      36.1
Shanxi              37.8       20.2      25.3      11.2     26.1       36.9      33.8
Sichuan             34.6        9.6      10.6       5.0     10.8       33.1      16.8
Gansu               18.3        2.9       3.0       1.4    -18.9       15.3      -7.5
Zhejiang            32.8       13.8      16.0       7.4     18.4       31.5      24.1
Hubei               77.1       24.2      31.9     13.8      12.1       50.4      70.3
Jiangxi             20.6        8.5       9.5       4.5     10.5       18.6      13.1
Jiangsu             24.5        7.8       8.4       4.1      7.6       22.0      11.2
Total Project    42.0        16.2      19.3      8.8      24.3       39.2     30.1



CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Econtomic Rate of Return - Total Project
PY1        PY2        PY3       PY4        PY5       PY6       PY7       PY8-9      PY1O       PYll    PY12-17   PY18-19      PY20
Inmvestment Costs - Seed Companies
-Land                             29,915          0         0          0         0
-Civil Works                      61,292          0
-Building                              0   126,631          0          0         0
-Equipment                             0   180,173          0          0         0                                    90,087
-Vehicles                              0    37.525          0          0         0               18,763                                    18,763    18,763
-Training                          6,462      6,462         0          0         0
-Initial Seed Stocks                   0   107,891   107,891   107,891   107,891
-Niscelenous                    144,587    49,579          0          0         0
S^IAtotal                     242,256   508,261   107,891   107,891   107,891            0    18,763          0    90,087          0    18,763    18,763          0
Phyrlkal Con (1.05)              254,369   533,674   113,286   113,286   113,286            0    19,701          0    94,591          0    19,701    19,701          0
Investment Costs - Seed Stations
-Land                              1,148
-Civilt Works                        m
-BuIlding                          1,720      2,196
-Equipment                                   11,216                                                                    5,608
-Vehicles                          3,888      2,772                                               1.944      1,386
-Training                            709        709       275
-Nlscallenous                      1,218      1,920
Subtotal                        9,458    18,815        275          0         0          0     1,944      1,386     5,608          0         0          0         0
Physical Con (1.05)                9,931    19,756        289          0          0         0     2,041      1,455     5,888          0         0          0         0    1
Plant Operating Costs                                                                                                                                                      w
-Variable Operating Costs              0   214,060   620,707   931,060 1,241,413 1,241.413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413    Li
-Fixed Operating Costs                 0    37,296    74,591   111,887   149,182   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950 f
Subtotal Op. cost                    0   251,356   695,298 1,042,946 1,390,595 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363
Farm Operating Costs
-Labor Costs 1/                              21,344    42,687    64,031    85,374    85,374    85,374    85,374    85,374    85,374    85,374    85,374    85,374
-Seed Station Rec Costs 2/           365      1,248     3,345      3,345     3,345      3,345     3,345      3,345     3,345     3,345      3,345     3,345      3,345
-Total operating costs               365   273,947   741,329 1,110,322 1,479,314 1,480,082 1,480,082 1,480,082 1,480,082 1,480,082 1,480,082 1,480,082 1,476,737
Totat Costs                      264,665   827,377   854,904 1,223,607 1,592,599 1,480,082 1,501,824 1,481,537 1,580,561 1,480,082 1,499,782 1,499,782 1,476,737
Net Inc Benefits (25X)3/                    488,738   977,475 1,466,213 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950
net Benefits                    (264,665) (338,640)  122,571   242,605   362,351   474,868   453,126   473,413   374,389   474,868   455,168   455,168   478,213
Met Present Value              1,726,312
ERR                                 42.0X
1/ Incremental Labor requirement.
2/ Incremental recurrent costs for the seed stations estbilfhed under the project.
3/ Se Crop Budket for detalts.
H '
O X



CHINA
SEED SECTOR CONIERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return - Total Project
PY1        PY2      PY3        PY4       PY5       PY6       PY7      PY8       PY1O      PYll      PY12      PY18      PY20
Semnitivity AnsIysis
Switching Values
R Ae,e benefits by                 16.2X
net adjusted benefits         (264.65) (417,571)  (35,291)    5,812    46,626   159,144   137,402   157,688    58,665   159,144  139,443   139,443   162,489
ERR a 12X                                   12.0X
Il rease total costs by            19.3X
hbt adjusted benefits         (315,745) (498,323)  (42,425)    6,449    54,979   189,212   163,274   187,476    69,341   189,212   165,710   165,710   193,203
ERR a 12X                                   12.0X
Reduce benefits by                  8.8J
1 Increase costs by                 8.8o
Net adjusted benefits         (287,955) (454,458)  (38,678)    5,901    50,166   172,585   1U,930   171,002    63,264   172,585   151,151   151,151   176,225
ERR O 12X                                   12.01
Reduce benefits/increase costs
Reduce benefits by                 10.01
Net adjusted benefits         (264,665) (387,513)   24,824    95,984   166,856   279,373   257,631   277,918   178,894   279,373   259,673   259,673   282,718
ERR                                         24.31
Increase inmvestment costs by      10.01
Net adjusted benefits         (280,171) (372,251)  111,532   231,277   351,022   474,868   453,198   474,868   370,818   474,868  453,198   453,198   478,213
ERR                                         39.21
Increase operating costs by        10.01
Net adjusted benefits         (254,771) (346 278)   48,727   131,573   214,419   326,860   307,159   326,860   232,269   326,860   307,159   307,159   330,539
ERR                                         i
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



CHINA
SEED SECTOR CWIERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return - 20X of Net Incr. Benefits
PY1        PY2        PY3       PY4        PY5       PY6       PY7       PY8-9      PY10       PYIl    PY12-17   PY18-19      PY20
Inwestment Costs - Seed Coqpanies
-Lawd                             29,915          0         0          0         0
-Civil Works                      61,292          0
-Building                              0   126,631          0          0         0
-Equipment                             0   180,173          0          0         0                                    90,087
-Vehicles                              0    37,525          0          0         0               18,763                                    18,763    18,763
-Training                          6,462      6,462         0          0         0
-Initial Seed Stocks                   0   107,891   107,891   107,891   107,891
-Niscellenous                    144,587    49,579          0          0         0
SubtotaL                      242,256   508,261   107,891   107,891   107,891           0    18,763           0    90,087         0    18,763    18,763           0
,hysical Con (1.05)             254,369   533,674   113,286   113,286   113,286            0    19,701          0    94,591          0    19,701    19,701          0
Investment Costs - Seed Stations
-Land                              1,148
-Civil Works                         775
-Building                          1,720      2,198
-Equipment                                   11,216                                                                    5,608
-Vehicles                          3,888      2,772                                               1,944     1,386
-Training                            709        709       275
-Nlscellenous                      1,218      1,920
Subtotal                        9,458    18,815        275          0         0          0     1,944      1,386     5,608         0          0         0          0
Physical Con (1.05)                9,931    19,756        289          0         0          0     2,041      1,455     5,888          0         0         0          0
Plait Operating Costs                                                                                                                                                      L
-Variable Operating Costs              0   214,060   620,707   931,060 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413           Ln
-Fixed Operating Costs                 0    37,296    74,591   111,887   149,182   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950
Settotal Op. cost                    0   251,356   695,298 1,042,946 1,390,595 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363
Fare Operating Costs
-Labor Costs 1/                             32,400    32,400    48,599    64,799    64,799    64,799    64,799    64,799    64,799    64,799    64,799    64,799
-Seed Station Rec Costs 2/           365      1,248     3,345     3,345      3,345     3,345      3,345     3,345     3 345      3,345     3,345      3,345     3,345
-Total operating costs               365   285,003   731,042 1,094,890 1,458,739 1,459,507 1,459,507 1,459,507 1,459,507 1,459,507 1,459,507 1,459,507 1,456,162
Total Costs                      264,665   838,433   844,616 1,208,176 1,572,024 1,459,507 1,481,249 1,460,962 1,559,986 1,459,507 1,479,207 1,479,207 1,456,162
Net Inc Benefits (201)3/                    781,980   781,980 1,172,970 1,563,960 1,563,960 1,563,960 1,563,960 1,563,960 1,563,960 1,563,960 1,563,960 1,563,960
Net Benefits                    (264,665)  (56,453)  (62,636)  (35,206)   (8,064)  104,453    82,711   102,998         3,974   104,453    84,753    84,753   107,798
Net Presnt Value                   1,174
ERR                                 12.0X
1/ Incremental Labor requirement.
Z/ Incremental recurrent costs for the seed stations estblished under the project.
3/ See Crop Budget for detaiLs.
I- 0
D O



CHINA
SEED SECTOR COIUERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Ecornmic Rate of Return - 30X of Met Ircr. Benefits
PY1        PY2       PY3        PY4       PY5       PY6        PY7      PY8-9      PYIO      PYII    PY12-17   PY18-19      PY20
-----------
Investeent Costs - Seed CWenies
-Land                             29,915         0          0         0         0
-Civil Works                      61,292         0
-Building                              0   126,631          0         0         0
-Equipment                             0   180,173          0         0         0                                   90,087
-Vehicles                              0    37,525          0         0         0               18,763                                   18,763    18,763
-Training                          6,462     6,462          0         0         0
-Initial Seed Stocks                   0   107,891   107,891   107,891   107,891
-NiscellenosE                    144,587    49,579          0         0         0
Subtotal                      242,256   508,261   107,891   107,891   107,891           0    18,763         0    90,087          0    18,763    18,763          0
hysical Can (1.05)              254,369   533.674   113,286   113,286   113,286           0    19,701         0    94,591          0    19,701    19,701          0
Investm_nt Costs - Seed Stations
-Land                              1,148
-Civil Works                         775
-Building                          1,720     2,196
-Equip ent                                  11,216                                                                   5,608
-Vehicles                          3,888     2, M                                                1,944     1,386
-Training                            709       709       275
-Niscetlenous                      1,218     1,920
Subtotal                        9,458    18,815       275          0         0          0     1,944     1,386     5,608          0         0         0          0
Physical Con (1.05)                9,931    19,756       289          0         0          0     2,041     1,455     5,888          0         0          0         0
Plant Operating Costs
-Variable Operating Costs              0   214,060   620,707   931,060 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413          0'
-Fixed Operating Costs                 0    37,296    74,591   111,887   149,182   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950
Subtotal Op. cost                    0   251,356   695,298 1,042,946 1,390,595 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363
Far Operating Costs
-Labor Costs 1/                             25,612    51,225    76,837   102, 49   102,449   102,449   102,449   102,449   102, U9   102,449   102,449   102,449
-Seed Station Rec Costs 2/           365     1,248     3,345      3,345     3,345     3,345      3,345     3,345     3,345     3,345      3,345     3,345      3,345
-Total operating costs               365   278,216   749,867 1,123,128 1,496,389 1,497,157 1,497,157 1,497,157 1,497,157 1,497,157 1,497,157 1,497,157 1,493,812
Total Costs                      264,665   831,646   863,441 1,236,413 1.609.674 1.497,157 1,518,899 1,498,612 1,597,636 1,497,157 1,516,857 1,516,857 1,493,812
Net Inc Benefits (30X)3/                   586,485 1,172,970 1,759,455 2,345,940 2,345,940 2,345,940 2,345,940 2,345,940 2,345,940 2,345,940 2,345,940 2,345,940
Net Benefits                    (264,665) (245,161)  309,529   523,042   736,266   848,783   827,041   847,328   748,304   848,783   829,083   829,083   852,128
Net Present Value              3,769,354
ERR                                 74.0X
1/ Incremental Labor requirement.
2/ Incremental recurrent costs for the seed stations estblished under the project.
3/ See Crop Budget for details.
41-
I-dX



CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return - Labor Cost Increased by 10X
P11       Prz        PY3       PY4       PY5       PY6        PY7      P18-9      PY1O      PY11    PY12-17   PY18-19     PY20
Investment Costs - Seed C.Wnies
-Land                            29,915          0         0         0         0
-Civil Works                     61,292          0
-Building                             0   126,631          0         0         0
-Equipent                              0   180,173         0         0         0                                  90,087
-Vehicles                             0   37,525           0         0         0              18,763                                   18,763    18,763
-Training                         6,462     6,462          0         0         0
-InitiaL Seed Stocks                  0   107,891   107,891   107,891   107,891
-Misceltenous                   144,587    49,579          0         0         0
Subtotal                     242,256   508,261   107,891   107,891   107,891          0    18,763         0    90,087          0    18,763    18,763         0
I ysical Con (1.05)             254,369   533,674   113,286   113,286   113,286          0    19,701         0    94,591          0    19,701    19,701         0
Investment Costs - Seed Stations
-Land                             1,148
-CiviL Works                        775
Building                          1,720     2,196
-Equipment                                  11,216                                                                  5,608
-Vehicles                         3,888      2,772                                             1,944     1,386
-Training                           709        709       275
-MiscelLenous                      1,218     1,920
Subtotal                       9,458    18,815        275         0         0         0     1,944     1,386      5,608         0         0         0         0
Physical Con (1.05)               9,931    19,756        289         0         0         0     2,041      1,455     5,888         0         0         0         0
Plant Operating Costs                                                                                                                                                  L
-Variable Operating Costs              0   214,060   620,707   931,060 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413
-Fixed Operating Costs                 0   37,296    74,591   111,887   149,182   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950
Subtotal Op. cost                    0   251,356   695,298 1,042,946 1,390,595 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363
Farm Operating Costs
-Labor Costs 1/                            23,478    46,956    70,433    93,911    93,911    93,911    93,911    93,911    93,911    93,911    93,911    93,911
-Seed Station Rec Costs 2/          365      1,248     3,345     3,345     3,345     3,345     3,345     3,345     3,345      3,345     3,345     3,345     3,345
-Total operating costs              365   276,081   745,598 1,116,724 1,487,851 1,488,619 1,488,619 1,488,619 1,488,619 1,488,619 1,488,619 1,488,619 1,485,274
Total Costs                     264,665   829,511   859,172 1,230,010 1,601,137 1,488,619 1,510,361 1,490,075 1,589,098 1,488,619 1,508,320 1,508,320 1,485,274
Net Inc Benefits (25X)3/                   488,738   977,475 1,466,213 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950
Net Benefits                    (264,665) (340,774)  118,303   236,203   353,813   466,331   444,589   464,876   365,852   466,331   446,630   446,630   469,676
Net Present Value             1,679,665
ERR                                41.3X
1/ Labor cost increased by 101
2/ Incremental recurrent costs for the seed stations estblished wider the project.
3/ See Crop Budiget for details.
m '



CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return - Labor Cost Increased by 20X
PY1        PY2        PY3       PY4        PY5       PY6        PY7      PY8-9       PYlO      PYll    PY12-17   PY18-19       PY20
Investment Costs - Seed Companies
-Land                             29,915          0          0         0          0
-Civil Works                      61,292          0
-Building                              0   126,631           0         0          0
-Equlpment                             0   180,173           0         0          0                                   90,087
-VehicLes                              0    37.525           0         0          0               18,763                                   18,763    18,763
-Training                          6,462      6,462          0         0          0
-Initial Seed Stocks                   0   107,891   107,891   107,891   107,891
-Niscellenous                    144,587    49,579           0         0          0
Subtotal                      242,256   508,261   107,891   107,891   107.891            0    18,763          0    90,087          0    18,763    18,763          0
Physical Con (1.05)              254,369   533,674   113,286   113,286   113,286            0    19,701          0    94.591          0    19,701    19,701           0
Investment Costs - Seed Stations
-Land                              1,148
-Civil Works                         775
-Building                          1.720      2,198
-Equipment                                   11,216                                                                    5,608
-Vehicles                          3,888      2,772                                                1,944     1,386
-Training                            709        709        275
-Niscellenous                       1,218     1,920
Subtotal                        9,458    18,815         275         0          0         0      1,944     1,386     5,608          0          0         0          0
Physical Con (1.05)                9,931    19,756         289         0          0         0      2,041     1,455      5,888         0          0         0          0
Plant Operating Costs
-Variable Operating Costs               0   214,060   620,707   931,060 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413 1,241,413
-Fixed Operating Costs                 0    37,296    74,591   111,887   149,182   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950   149,950
Subtotal Op. cost                    0   251,356   695,298 1,042,946 1,390,595 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363 1,391,363
Farm Operating Costs
-Labor Costs 1/                              25,848    51,695    77,543   103,390   103,390   103,390   103,390   103,390   103,390   103,390   103,390   103,390
-Seed Station Rec Costs 2/           365      1,248     3,345      3,345     3,345      3,345      3,345     3,345     3,345      3,345      3,345     3,345      3,345
-Total operating costs               365   278,452   750,337 1,123,834 1,497,330 1,498,098 1,498,098 1,498,098 1,498,098 1,498,098 1,498,098 1,498,098 1,494,753
Total Costs                      264,665   831,882   863,912 1,237,120 1,610,615 1,498,098 1,519,840 1,499,553 1,598,577 1,498,098 1,517,798 1,517,798 1,494,753
Net Inc Benefits (25X)3/                    488,738   977,475 1,466,213 1,954,950 1,954.950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950 1,954,950
Net Benefits                    (264,665) (343,144)  113,563   229,093   344,335   456,852   435,110   455,397   356,373   456,852   437,152   437,152   460,197
Net Present Value              1,627,873
ERR                                 40.5X
1/ Labor cost increased by 202
2/ Incremental recurrent costs for the seed stations estblished under the project.
3/ See Crop Budget for details.



Annex 7
- 139 -                           Table 1 of 5
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Performance Indicators
1.        The major objective of this project is to assist the government in
developing a viable commercial seed sector, which can not only produce high
quality seeds in sufficient quantity and variety to satisfy farmers, needs but
also operates through efficient, self-sustained commercial enterprises.   The
project would assist in the commercialization of the seed sector (a) by helping
the government establish a seed policy and a regulatory framework that would
provide a conducive environment to enhance the competitiveness of the seed sector
and to encourage international cooperation, (b) by assisting in strengthening
institutions so that they can provide effective service and technical support to
the seed sector and (c) by supporting the modernization and rationalization of
selected seed companies.
2.        To measure progress made in implementation of the project, important
performance indicators were developed for the policy and regulatory,
institutional strengthening and commercialization components during  project
preparation (Annex 7 Table 1). These indicators, would be used to evaluate the
progress of the project and, if necessary, to redesign the project during the
mid-term review.
Policy and Reaulatorv Component:
3.        Seed Sector Policy.  The MOA is drafting a seed sector policy as part
of the National Seed Sector Industrialization Program. The policy aim to (a)
establish a modernized seed sector; (b) separate seed administration from seed
commercialization; (c) establish an integrated system of production and
marketing; (d) change in seed company structure to independent units; (e) open
up markets for interprovincial and international trade; and (f) relax price
control. The final draft of this seed sector policy would be submitted to the
State Council by the end of 1996.
4.        Seed Law.  The draft seed law is being revised and the seed law
drafting group estimates that the new seed law will be ready for submitting to
the State Council by the end of 1996.
5.        Reform and revision will be made to the following areas:
. the varietal registration and release procedure
. provisions for labelling seed for sale with seed
quality parameters
. inspection procedures for labelling for provincial external
quality control agencies
. provisions for voluntary seed certification schemes
. provisions affecting seed marketing, including the licensing of
seed marketers.
6.        Membership in International Organizations.  To commercialize the seed
sector, to improve the quality of seed stock and to encourage international
cooperation and trade, China needs to be a member of international seed
organizations. The two major organizations are the International Union for the
Protection of the New Varieties (UPOV) and International Seed Testing Association
(ISTA). It is required that a country must have acceptable plant breeder rights



Annex 7
- 140 -                           Table 2 of 5
(PBR) legal framework before joining UPOV. It is also required that ISTA testing
and laboratory utandards have to be adopted. Substantial work has already been
carried out to satisfy these requirements; the initial draft of PBR legislation
has been completed and reviewed with experts from UPOV and ISTA. In general,
this draft contains the regulations required for conformity with the requirements
of UPOV. The next steps for further action are as follows:
7.        UPOV. The drafting group for the PBR legal framework will revise the
current draft of the regulations, after unofficial advice from UPOV, to ensure
that it conforms with the provisions of the 1978 Act of the Convention. A draft
apparently conforming to the 1978 Act will then be submitted to the Council of
UPOV for advice on conformity. Following informal advice of conformity by the
Council, the responsible agency of the Government will seek formal advice from
the Council on conformity.
8.        The organizations represented on the drafting group will agree on the
location, staffing and financing of the PBR office; draft and pass into law
implementing regulations for the operation of the office; and draw up and
officially publish a list of species to be initially included under the PBR
legislation.   Then the responsible agency of Government will forward the
instrument of accession to the UPOV Council for approval.
9.        ISTA  The Seed Testing Division (STD) will continue to negotiate with
ISTA to resolve the issues that are preventing the Division from forwarding the
application for membership and authorization to issue ISTA international
certificates. STD will work on these issues and forward the application to ISTA
by the end of 1996, if the issues are resolved.
Institutional Strenathenina Component.
10.       Seed Oualitv Laboratories.   Site selection, design of facilities,
commencement of construction, and procurement of the equipment for the seed
quality testing laboratories in the official quality control agencies and seed
companies, will be initiated in the first year of the project. Prior to use of
the laboratory facilities, all laboratories will obtain copies of the official
rules for seed testing and adequately train staff in their use.
11.       External and Internal Oualitv Control Separation.  Prior to the start
of the project all provinces participating in the project will ensure the
separation, in both resources and finances, of their agencies for official
external seed quality control from the internal quality control programs of the
seed companies.
12.       Training.  Training of staff for both external and internal quality
control will take place equally in Years 1 and 2 of the project.
13.       Variety Evaluation Office Facilities.  The computers and accessories
for the National Variety Evaluation and Registration office. and the small cold
seed store specified will be procured in the first year of the project.
14.       Ouality Manaaement Workshoios. Workshops to evaluate the impact of the
operation of PBR and the seed quality management systems initiated in the project
will be organized in the Year 3 and undertaken in Years 4 and 5 of the project.
15.       Informal Sector.  Two planter box surveys of the quality of seed in
the informal seed sector, i.e., seeds saved by farmers or obtained from close
neighbors for planting, will be initiated in the first year of the project. The
results would be used by the seed companies and the agro-extension stations in
improving the quality of conventional seeds. It is expected that by the year
2005, the yield of conventional seeds would be increased by at least 10%.



Annex 7
- 141 -                            page 3 of 5
Commercialization Comoonent:
16.       Each seed enterprise would develop a Project Key Activities Schedule,
which in a bar chart schedule showing key indicators for monitoring project
progress (Figure 2). The first year of the project would include establishment
of facilities, training of enterprise and project managers and preparation of
bidding documents. Some seed production could begin during the first project
year, particularly the procurement and propagation of new genetic materials. The
majority of civil construction works and equipment procurement would be completed
during the second project year, with processing facilities being commissioned
before the end of the year.  Some project seeds could therefore be processed
late in the second year, but most processing and storage systems would not be
available for use until the third project year.
17.       Production, processing and marketing of seeds has been planned to
begin in project year two with 25% production, increasing to 50% in project year
three and 75% and 100% in years four and five respectively.  The production
schedules of some individual enterprises vary slightly from this average
schedule, particularly those of enterprises producing seedlings, which wouldhave
no sales until project year three.
18.       The progress of each enterprise would be evaluated according to the
Implementation plan set out in its Key Activities Schedule (Figure 2).
19.       In addition, enterprise performance would be evaluated according to
the following points:
(a)  Management.  Have the certificates of legal status of companies and
documentation for transfer of assets been obtained? Does the manager
have autonomy over in management of the business?         -
(b)  Production Targets.   Production and sales will be evaluated  in
comparison to annual targets over a 5-year period.  It is expected
that by the year 2005, there will be 15% increase in improved seeds
available to farmers.
(c) InterDrovincial and International Trade. Number of transactions and
quantity of sales to other provinces and other countries. By the year
2005, 30% of seed produced would be traded interprovincially.
(d)  Profits   Per-unit profit margins will be evaluated for adequacy.
Have prices been set according to market conditions, and have
production costs been controlled?
(o)  Cash Manaaement.   Has a system  for monitoring expenditures and
commitments been established during project implementation prior to
the time of the project launch workshop?
(f)  Trainin.   Have training objectives  been achieved  according to
schedules?
(g)  Oualitv Assurance.   Have company internal quality standards been
established prior to the first seed production season?
Additional Indicators.
20.       Additional indicators were developed to monitor the impact of the
project in the commercial seed sector and the farm sector as follows:
(a) Commercial Sectc: How many seed companies have achieved the objective of
becoming efficient, *E.f-uustained and profitable commercial enterprises?  How



Annex 7
- 142 -                           Page 4 of 5
many new companies outside th- project have adopted the style of development
initiated under the project? How active is domestic and international trade in
seed? It in expected that in the Year 2005, at least 50 seed companies would
achieve  full commercialization.   At  least 20 international  joint v-nture
companies would have business in China.
(b) Farm sector: What percentage of hybrid and improved conventional *sede are
used in crop production?   What does the comparison of incremental yield,
production and income of farmers in the project areas compared to the situation
before the project *how? How much have grain production and farmers' incom
increased?



CHINA
Seed Sector Commercialization Projed
Key Pedorrnance Indicators
Projed O0 4bve              Key Peqformwnce              Baseline                 Mid-Term                  ICR                            Full Impact
ndIlcators                 Year                     Year                    Year                              Year
1996                    1998                    2002                              2005
a) Prfvide oonducive  a) Seed Policy            Submit draft to State     Declare National Seed   Policy in effed.        Clear policy for business development.
environment for dhe                           Council                   Policy.
deveopment of the
seed sercor         b) Revied Seed Law        Complete draft seed law.    Pass the revised seed  New seed law in        Simplify procedures, liberate trade, establish
law                     effect                 seed labeling and etc.
c) Membership in UPOV    Compete draft PBR.        Membership in UPOV       PBR regulations in     New varieties protected.
effect
d) Membership in ISTA    Solve internal problems   Membership in ISTA       International seed     Availability of reliable inlemational standards to
and apply to be a member                          esting standards       facilitate exporMmpoul.
used.
b) Strengthen         a) Seed Quality Lab.      Design and procure lab.   Establish rules and     ISTA accredited        Improved quality of seed.
seed institutions.                            facilities.               train staff.            laboratory.
b) Eudeml Quality Contrdol   Separation from       Independent inspector    Truthin-abeling        Improved marketing of seed.
Provinria seed company.    program established.   enforced.
c) Variety Evaluation    Procure facilities and    Offce in operation.      Reduce lime taken      Increase the number of new varieties regisered          I
train staff.                                     for evaluation.         and released by at least 100.
d) uality of Conventional   Complete the planter box    Results are used for  Increase yield of convent- Increase yield of conventional seeds by 10%.      . 
seeds,                 surveys.                  improve seeds of oon-    ional seeds.
ventional varieties.
c) Commercialize      a) Key ctivites schedule    Design, construct and   Complete modemization   Achieve full           Increase quantity of improved seeds available
selected seed erter-    (as in figure2).      procure production and    facilities and          production of seeds.   to farmers by at leastl15%.
prises.                                       prooessing facilties.    training of management.
b) Enterprise perforance   a) Obtain legal status and   Price setting and   Seed vice set by       Interprovincial and intemational seed trade, 30%
management autonomy.     Trade.                   market situation.      would be traded interprovincially.
b) Establish internal    Establish brand name.    Market seeds under     Availability of prepacked seed with ensured
quality control system.                           brand names.           quality, about 30% of seed produced would be
sold in labeled package.
c) Esadbish business     Expenditures are         Enterpises             Growth of enterprses under the project, about 50
managfment system.       monitored.               prdiable level         seed companies would achieve conmercialization.
d) Creae viable       a) Seed enterprise        Collect information of    Number o SEs that       Number o non-projed     Adequacy of seed busine environment, at lea
seed sector.          development.            present situation of      accomplished c.(b)      SEs adopt the projd    20 international joint venture companies would
seed enterprises.                                 model.                 have business in China                                 x I>
e) Improve Farm       a) Yield                  Collect information       Baseline data is        ColkKA infomiation      Increased grain production and farmers income.        9
Income.             b) Production             on yield, production      analyzed.               on the situaton of                                                                x
c) Farm hicome           and farm income.                                  farmers benefiting                                                                
frorn the proje- .                                                            O
-                                                                             tn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
tH,



Annex 8
- 144 -                           Page 1 of 10
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
International Seed Industry Lead Consultant
Location.       Beijing with some field travel.
Duration.       Two months, one month during each visit.
One month for the workshop.
oualifications: The consultant should have formal qualification in agriculture
or plant sciences and should have extensive working experience
in several countries in seed industry including seed
technology, variety testing and release, field inspection and
certification and seed testing. The consultant should have
working experience in an International Seed Testing
Association (ISTA) accredited seed testing station. Working
experience in Chinese seed regulations is essential.
Duties:         Working in cooperation with the Director of the Central PMO,
and Seed Division and the Director of the National
Agricultural Extension and Services Center for Seed, the
consultant shall:
- act as the International Lead Consultant for the preparation
and implementation of the Seed Sector Commercialization
Project including identification of international consultants
for the seed regulation and seed enterprise management
component.
- assist DOA in the preparation of the seed quality assurance
implementation system which covers both variety release and
official and internal control that is in accordance with the
recent institutional restructuring in China, recommendations
and supports under the project.
- supervise the implementation of the project seed quality
assurance component including development of official seed
stations and seed company internal quality control
laboratories.
- design courses to be implemented both by the international
and Chinese consultants according to Chinese requirement on
variety release, field inspection, seed testing and seed
certification and have them endorsed by the Ministry of
Agriculture.
- coordinate with the International Variety Testing and Seed
Testing consultants and local consultants to carry out two 10-
day courses, one on seed testing and its management, and
another on field inspection, seed sampling and certification.
- assist in the organization of the a national workshop on
plant variety testing and protection in phase III.



Annex 8
-145 -                          Page 2 of 10
CEIINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
International Seed Law and PVP Specialist
Location.        Beijing with some field travel
Duration.        Two months, one month during each visit.
Oualifications: The consultant should have a law degree and formal graduate
qualification in agriculture or plant sciences, and have more
than 10 year working in the industry in several countries and
have experience in seed and plant breeder right legislation,
UPOV convention, plant breeding and ISTA accredited seed
testing station. Previous developing country and Chinese
experience are preferred.
Duties:         Working in cooperation with the seed law drafting committee
and the Plant Variety Protection Drafting Committee, the
consultant shall:
- review and discuss the draft seed law and plant variety
protection regulation taking the Chinese situation into
consideration.
- provide insight in areas that need improvement in order to
facilitate completion of the drafts.
- assist in designing a plant variety protection (PVP)
implementation system that is appropriate for China.
- assist in preparing an initial list of protected species.
- assist China in its attempt to join the International Seed
Testing Associations (ISTA).
- carry out a follow-up visit in the second year to assist in
implementation.



Annex 8
- 146 -                           Page 3 of 10
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
International Seed Testing SDecialist
Location.       Beijing with some field travel
Duration.       Two-person weeks.
Oualifications: The consultant should have nationally recognized
qualifications for seed testing proficiency and should have
more than 8 years of seed analysis experience in a wide range
of crops and its staff training and management in an ISTA
accredited seed testing laboratory.
Duties:         Working in cooperation with the National Agricultural
Technical Extension and Services Center for seed and the
International Lead Consultant, the consultant shall:
- develop a training course in seed testing methods.
- work with the local consultants to carry out a 10-day
training course on seed testing and management.



Annex 8
-147 -                            Page 4 of 10
CHINA
SEZD SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Termm of Reforence
International Field Inspection and Seed Certification Soecialist
Location.       Beijing with some field travel
Dura-tion.      Two-person weeks.
oualificationst The consultant should have formal qualification in agriculture
or plant sciences and should have 10 years of working
experience in field inspe ction and certification of a wide
range of crops. The consultant should have experience in
staff management and training.
DutiA:          Working in cooperation with the Seed Administration of the
National Agricultural Extension and Services Center and the
International Lead Consultant, the consultant shall:
- develop a training course for field inspection and seed
cortification.
- work with the local consultants to carry out a 10-day
training course each on field inspection, seed sampling and
certification.



Annex 8
- 148 -                            Page 5 of 10
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
International Variety Testing and Protection Specialist
Location.       Beijing with some field travel
Duration.       Two-person months, one person month each visit.
Oualifications: The consultant should have formal qualification in agriculture
or plant sciences and should have more than 10-years of
working experience in variety testing, release and protection
in a wide range of crops. He/she should have experience in
staff management and training. Knowdlege in plant breeder
right legislation and UPOV Convention is essential. Previous
developing country and Chinese experience are preferred.
Duties:         Working in cooperation with the Director of Central PMO, the
Seed Division for variety testing and protection, the
International Lead Consultant and Seed Law and PVP consultant,
the consultant shall:
- assist in the planning and preparation of a variety release
and protection implementation system which covers both
responsibilities of official seed administration stations and
seed companies.
- assess and supervise the implementation of the project
variety testing and protection component including the
development of official seed administration station and
information management system.
- design and implement training and study tour program
according to the Chinese requirements on variety release and
protection.
- work with the local consultants to carry out a 10-days
training course each on variety release and protection.
- in cooperation with the lead consultant, prepare programs
for the national workshop on plant variety testing and
protection in phase III.
- carry out a follow-up visit in the second year to assist in
the implementation.



- 149 -                         Annex 8
Page 6 of 10
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
International Plantina Material Testina Consultant
Location.       Beijing with some field travel
Duration.       One-person month, two weeks each time.
Oualifications: The consultant should have formal qualification in agriculture
or plant sciences and should have more than 10 years of
working experience in the testing of true-to-type and health
in vegetatively propagated planting materials in a wide range
of crops. The consultant should have experience in staff
training and management. Previous developing country and
Chinese experience are preferred.
Duties:         Working in cooperation with the Director of Central PMO and
the Director of the National Agricultural Technical Extension
and Services Center for Seed and Planting Material Testing and
the International Lead Consultant, the consultant shall:
- assist in the planning and preparation of a vegetatively
propagated planting material testing implementation system at
the National Seed Testing Laboratory.
- assess the progress in implementation of the project
activities including the equipping of the laboratory at the
station and information management system.
- design and implement training and study tour program
according to the Chinese requirements on this component.
- carry out a follow up visit in the second year to assist in
the implementation.



- 150 -                           Annex 8
Page 7 of 10
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
TermB of Reference
International Seed Business Management Consultant
Location.       Beijing with some field travel
Duration.       One-person month
Oualifications: The consultant should have formal qualification in
agricultural economic or business management discipline, and
should have 10 years of seed business management experience at
managerial level including marketing, accounting and finance.
He/she should also be experience in staff training and
management. Previous developing country and Chinese
experience are preferred.
Duties:         In cooperation with the Director of Central PMO and the
International Lead Consultant, the consultant shall:
- plan, prepare and teach in a two-week seed business
management training and workshop.
- prepare a course proposal with detailed program for the
local training program on seed business management, seed
marketing, accounting and finance.
- The course should include organization and management of a
share-holding company; responsibilities of the management,
Board of Directors and shareholders; business planning,
organization and financing of a seed production operation;
forecasting; personnel management; licensing of proprietary
products and product evaluation; pricing and marketing, and
rules and regulations in international seed trade, invoicing,
record keeping and filling system; and etc.
- lecture notes should be provided to the PMO at least a month
for translation into Chinese. Documents of all related
example should also be provided for translation.



Annex 8
Page 8 of 10
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
International Seed Production and Conditioning Manacement Consultant
Location.       Beijing with some field travel
DRuation.       One-person month
Oualifications: The consultant should have formal qualification in seed
technology or a related discipline and should have at least 10
years of ueed production, conditioning and store management
experience at technical and managerial level. He/she should
also be experience in staff management and training. Previous
developing country and Chinese experience are preferred.
P.M&IMc         In cooperation with the Director of Central PMO and the
International Lead Consultant, the consultant shall:
- plan, prepare and teach in a two-week seed production,
conditioning and store management training and workshop.
- prepare a course proposal with detailed program for the
local training program on seed production, conditioning and
store management.
- The course should include organization and management of
seed production and contracting production, drying, processing
and store; personnel management and responsibilities of staff
in the different sections, computerized information and
records in seed production, conditioning and store and etc.
Lecture notes should be provided to the PMO at least a month
in advance for translation.



- 152 -                           Annex 8
Page 9 of 10
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
International Seed Assurance Consultant
Location.       Beijing with some field travel
Duration.       One-person month
Oualifications: The consultant should have formal qualification in seed
technology or a related discipline, and should have more than
10 years of seed quality control management experience
including variety evaluation, field inspection, seed testing
and certification at technical and managerial level. He/she
should have experience in international rules and regulations
in relation to seed quality standards and assurance (ISTA and
OECD), and should have some experience in staff training.
Previous developing country and Chinese experience are
preferred.
Duties:         In cooperation with the Director of Central PMO and the
International Lead Consultant, the consultant shall:
- plan, prepare and teach in a two-week seed quality assurance
management training and workshop.
- prepare a course proposal with detailed program for the
local training program on seed quality assurance management.
- the course should include organization and management of
*eed quality assurance from production to harvesting, drying,
processing, storage and marketing; personnel management and
responsibilities of staff; computerized information and record
keeping in seed quality assurance management; and etc.
Lecture notes should be provides to the PMO at least a month
in advance for translation into Chinese.



- 153 -                           Annex 8
Page 10 of 10
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Seed Processing Facility Design Engineer
Location.       Beijing with some field travel
Duration.       One-person month
Oualifications: The consultant should be a professional engineer with
specialized in agribusiness or a professional seed
technologist with specilaization in seed processing and
conditioning. He/she should have extensive experience in seed
industry operations with specific demonstrable experience in
the layout design and specification of facilities and
equipment for processing/conditioning of grain, grain legume,
oil seed, fiber crop and vegeatable seeds. Previous
developing country and Chinese experience are preferred.
Duties:         Under the direction of the director of the Central Project
Management Office, the consultant will be working with the
CPMO procurement unit, and with engineers and specialists from
the participating seed companies. He/she would provide
- expert advice on the facilities, equipment, accessories and
supplies needed for processing/conditioning,
- estimated specific quantities and mixes of seeds for each
participating seed company,
- assist with development of layout design of the facilities,
and assist with preparation of the tender documents for
procurement, and
- expert advice on technical issues during the bidding and
selection process, if needed.



CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Overseas Training Plan
Position of    Number of
Title                Participants  Participants  Duration          Tim        Country              Scope
Overseas Training
I. Seed Enterprise Management                                                                         The first three seeks Mill be in training institutes and
- Group I                     General Managers 14 persons        1 Month    Oct 96   Dermrk,    should cover the following topics: (a) general management
- Group 11                    or Deputy          15 persons      1 Month    Mar 96   Germany,    principles, (b) business management strategies, (c) structure
- Group III                   Managers           15 persons      1 Month    Oct 97   USA or         of seed industry world-wide. In the last week, the group
Australia.  will visit some seed conipanies to have the chance to learn
11. Seed Marketing Management                                                                         how woderned seed companies operate at the comercial system.
- Group I                    Deputy Managers  11 persons        1 Month    Nov 96   USA, or        The first three seeks will be at training institues, the
- Group If                   for Marketing    10 persons        1 Month    Aug 97   Australia   topics should include the concept of market and marketing
strategy, market let business plan, cost and benefit
analysis, etc. The last week will be spent to visit
commercial seed company marketing or sales department
to urderstand how they manage their markets.
111.  Seed Quality Control
- Group I                    Managers of Seed 15 persons        1 Month    Oct 96   USA,           International seed physicaL and purity analysis procedures;
- Group If                   Quality Control  16 persons        1 Month   June 97   Australia,  Introductory to seed conditioning, principles of separation
System.                                                 or Dermark  Overview of laws and regulations and how each effect the
seed industry. Field trip to view working private and public
seed testing facility to Let the participants to see the
first hand the seed sector in a national setting and re-
inforce many of topics covered in the training.
IV.  Seed Production and Processing                                                                                                                                              F
- Group I                    Managers of Seed 15 persons        1 Month    Oct 96   USA,           The first two weeks witl be at training institutes to Learn                In
- Group II                   Production and   16 persons        1 month   June 97   Australia,  more about new varieties, research and development, linkages
Processing                                              or Denmark  of production to plaming and marketing. Consumer confidence
and its ralationships to quality standards. The last two seeks
will be spent with some seed companies to learn the practices
of truthful labelting.
V. Seed Machinery Company
- Seed Processing CAD system Manager, head of  3 persons          1 Month    Apr 96   Denmark        Learn about computer aided design system.
design section,
comwputer spec.
- Equipment operation and    Head of oC Sect.  3 persons          1 Month    Jan 97         USA      Machinery operation and maintenance
Maintenance                  Machinery Tech.
VII. Variety Registation         staff              2 persons       1 Month    Oct 96   USA or        The candidates will spend two weeks taking courses in a
Australia   university or training centers.  The main course will be in
new plant varieties and computer software of cataloguing and
record keeping.
Vil. National Seed Testing   Staff                 2 persons       1 Month    Oct 96   USA or        The candidates will learn the organization, management and
Australia   implementation of true-to-type and health testing in vegetatively
propagated planting materials in a wide range of crops; practical
testing protocols of different species; laboratory techniques
and chemical preparation and computerized testing information.           H  >
XI. Seed Acknin. Station                                                                                                                                                        C D
- Variety Release and Prot. Staff                 2 persons      1 Month    Oct 96   USA or         The candidates will learn organization, management and                    H  M
- Seed Inspection and Cert.                       2 persons      1 Month    Oct 96   Australia   implementation of variety testing, release and protection of                 f 
different crops; field plot techniques, crop descriptions,                - '
computerized data bases in variety testing, release and protection.  C
_-- - - - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -   - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  



SEED SECTOR COKMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Overseas Training Plan
Position of    Number of
Title                Participants   Participants  Duration          Time      Country               Scope
Overseas Study Tours
1. Seed Company Management    General Managers   6 persons   2-3 weeks            Mar 96 Japan &      Visit several seed companies in the two countries to overview
Korea       the commerciaL seed company structure and their experiences
in the operation; to see the modern facility in those
countries.
II. Seed Market Survey          Managers of
Marketing section
- Cotton seed market                                8 persons   2-3 weeks    Jun 97    USA&Mexico Visit several seed companies and looking for the cooperation
- Vegetable seed market                             9 persons   2-3 weeks    Oct 97   Ger. & Denm opportunities and extent production markets.  To learn
- Rice seed market                                  9 persons   2-3 weeks    Jan 98   Thai & Phil production and marketing strategies, and experiences of those
- Corn seed market                                  8 persons   2-3 weeks    May 98       Hot L GB  visited companies.
- Corn seed market                                 8 persons   2-3 weeks    Oct 98   USA & Canada
III. Seed Quality Controt
Managers of Seed   6 persons   2-3 weeks    Oct 97   Austratia,  Visit private and pubtlic seed testing laboratories, and
Quality Control                                          or NZ        overview the taw and regulation related to seed industry.
System.
IV. Seed Processing
Managers of Seed   7 persons   2-3 weeks    Oct 96   USA,             Visit seed machinery companies, observe machinery in                      F_
Processing plant                                         Australia,  in operation and get information for technical                             un
or chief engineer                                        or Denmark  specification.                                                            tun
V. Seed Machinery Coapany
- Marketing study tour         Manager and          3 persons   2-3 weeks    Apr 97   Denmark        Visit coapanies who develop coffputer aided design system.
Chief Engineer
- Equipment study tour         Head of Equip.       3 persons   2-3 weeks    Apr 97   USA            Visit companies and Learn new techologies of machinery
sectionbEngineer                                                      maintenance.
VI. Variety Registration Office
Manager and staff  2 persons   2-3 weeks    Oct 96   USA or           Visit variety registration offices
Australia
VIl. National Seed Testing Laboratory                                                    USA or       Discuss and compare the testing practices
Manager and staff  2 persons   2-3 weeks    Oct 96   Australia   and standards adopted in China.
VIII. Office of Seed Administration Station
-Variety Retease/Protect.Manager and staff  2 persons   2-3 weeks    Oct 96   USA or             Observe and work with the variety release and inspection
-Seed Inspection/certi.                        2 persons   2-3 weeks    Oct 96   Australia   offices in the hosted country.
H3 >
H X
X X0
0
(-Io



CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Domestic Training and Study Tours
Position of       Number of
Title                   Participants    Participants  Duration         Tim         Country              Scope
Domestic Training
1. Business Management          Management Staff    267 persons        1 month       1996-97 Provincial   General principal of business management
University
11. Project Management          PMO Staff             226 persons      1 month       1996    University   Project preparation, appraisal and evaluation; procurement
financial management, monitoring and evaluation.
Provincial
111. Marketing Training         Staff in marketing  265 persons        I month       1997    University   Marketing concepts, marketing strategies, market intelligenc
and sale sections                                                         market survey and production and marketing linkages.
Provincial
IV. Financial and Accounting  Staff in Finance&   220 persons          1 month       1997    University   Financial management principles, international standard
Accounting sections                                                       accounting methords.
V.  Seed Quality Control         Staff of testing    300 persons        1 month      1997    Nat'l & prov.Laboratory training, standards and procedures.
laboratories                                                seed labs.
VI. Equipment Operation and   Staff of Processing
Maintenance                 Plants                401 persons      1 month      1998    Equipment    Equipment Operation and maintenance.
Manufacturers
Domestic Study Tours
.     -     -     -     -     -     -     -   -     -     -   -     -   -     -     -     -     -     -     -
1.  Equipment Study Tour        Plant managers        40 persons                1997-98      Other seed   Visit equipment manufacturers and seed companies.                   cn'
Companies
11. Variety Improvement and   Plant Breeding Staff  8 persons                   1997-98      Seed          Visit research stations and plant breeder fields.
Breeding                                                                                 Companies
111. Business Management Tours Management Staff         7 persons               1997-98      Seed          Visit other seed companies who have improved their business.
conpanies
IV. Marketing Study Tours       Sales staff             2 persons               1997-98      Organized by Go to other provinces looking for new markets.
seed companies.
Workshops
1.  Two Workshops               Staff of Seed         120 persons       1 week 1998, 2000  Organized by To share experience of seed companies & assess progress
companies & Project                       each              CPHO          of the reforms.
H ;.
a} D
mx 



- 157 -
Annex 10
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Proposed                                  Expected Skill                  Staff
Dates           Activities                Requirements                    input
(mo/yr)                                                                   (SWs)
04/96     Prolect Launch Worshoo          Procurement, Financial
review procurement,            Management, Disbursement,             10
financial management,          Auditing and Monitoring
auditing and reporting.         Specialists.
10/96     SuDervision Mission             Economist and Seed Industrial
Supervision team will          Development, Seed Regulation          10
review design, technical        and Seed Processing
spec. and construction          Specialists.
plan.
04/97     Suvervision Mission             Financial Analyst, Economist,
Supervision team will           Seed Industrial Specialist,          10
review proposed reforms         Seed Law Specialist and Quality
at the national and             Control Specialists.
provincial levels.
10/97     Suoervision Mission             Economist, Financial analyst,
Supervision team will           Seed Industrial Specialist,          10
review progress of the          Seed Law Specialist and Quality
proposed reforms at the         Control and Assurance Specialists.
national and provicial
levels.
04/98     Supervision Mission             Seed Industrial Specialist,           10
will review progress            Economist, Seed Processing
and discuss mid-term            Engineer and Seed Marketing
review.                         Specialists.
10/98     Supervision Mission             Seed Management specialist,           10
will review progress            Economist, Seed Processing
and carry out Mid-             Engineer and Seed Marketing
terms review.                   specialists.
04/99     Supervision Mission             Seed Management specialist,           10
will review progress            Economist, Seed Processing
and visit project              Engineer and Seed Marketing
sites.                          specialists.
1999-     Supervision Mission             To be determined according
2001      Based on needs of project       to the needs of the project.
but at least one supervision
a year, last mission to
discuss ICR with borrower.



- 158 -                  ~~~~Annex 11
- 158 -                     Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SEED SECTOR COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Prolect File
A.   Reports and Studies related to the Prolect
A.1       Enterprise Legal Entity Business Licenses, CPMO (including 32
subprojects), MOA April, 1996.
A.2       List of Approved Agrochemicals, Institute for Control of
Agrochemicals (ICAMA), Ministry of Agriculture, 1994.
A.3       Guidance of Safe use of Agrochemicals, Institute for Control
of Agrochemicals, Ministry of Agriculture, 1993.
A.4       List of Procurement of Fertilizer and Agrochemicals, CPMO,
MOA, April, 1996.
A.5       Three Pilot Seed Companies' Charter. Guangxi Provincial Seed
Company, Shandong Zibo Prefecture Seed Company, and Shandong
Zhangqiu State Farm Seed Company, April, 1996.
A.6       Rules for Agricultural Seed Testing, National Technical
Monitoring Bureau, August, 1995.
A.7       Land Purchase Certificate, CPMO, MOA, April, 1996.
A.8       People's Republic of China Land Administration Law, Passed by
the National People's Congress in 1986 and Revised in 1988.
A.9       Repayment and Counterpart Funding Guarantee Document, CPMO,
MOA, with Providing by subprojects, April, 1996.
A.10      Seed Institution Separation Between External and Internal
Quality Control Document, CPMO, MOA.
A.11      National Crop Variety Examination and Approval Committee
Charter, Ministry of Agriculture, December, 1989.
A.12      Testing Fee Charge Standard Permit and Document, PPMOB of
Shanxi, Shandong, Guangxi, Zhejiang, Hunan and Sichuan, April,
1996.
A.13      Seed Industry Commercialization Project, Preparation Report
(Main Report and Seven Annexes), FAO/CP, February, 1994.



- 159 -                           Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
B.   Workina Papers
B.1       Evaluation of Seed Enterprise Proposals.
B.2       Investment in Facilities and Equipment.
B.3       Detailed Project Costs.
B.4       Environmental AsseBsment Summary.
B.5       Project Financial And Economic Analysis.
B.6       Model Bidding Documents for ICB Procurement of Goods Under the
Seed Sector Commercialization Project.



CHINA
Seed Sector Commercialization Project
Figure 1. Present Seed Sector Organizational Structure in China
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
(MOA)
epartment of State Farm                                                               Department of Agriculture
(DSF)                                                                                  (DOA)
Seed Dision                    Natioral Agri.                 China Natkonl                     ata    ety
(Policy)                   Tech. Extension                Se  Cororation                Examination & Approval
Service Center                 (Commercial)ittee Office
Provincial Bureau of                                                    Provincial Seed  <    >   Provincial                       National Crop Specific Exam
State Farm Seed Station                                                     Admin Station       Seed Company                           and Approval Commiees
Prefecture State Farm                                                    Prefecture Seed   <--->   Prefecture                       Provincial Crop Specifc Ex
Seed Station                                                          Admin. Sbtion        Seed Company                           and Approval CommittePs   !
State Farm Seed Station                                                    County Seed    <-->        County                        Prefectural Crop Specific Exam. |   m
Admin. Station       Seed Company                           and Approval Committees         Gc
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 161 -                                                           Figure 2
CHINA
Seed Sector Commercialization Project
CHINA - SEEDS COMMERCIALISATION PROJECT KEY ACTIVITIES SCHEDULE
I                                                    I                     PY  l                      PY  2
[D   | Name                                                 Duruaon QDrO    Qtr  r 2  Qtr 3 | Qtr 4 |_Qtr I I QtrZ | Qtr 3 | QtrU4
I    PRE-CONSTRUCTION ACGVTE/MS                               i   39.'w
2 '   ]    DawL pro'cc edecLuve                                0 'w
3   !    Land Acquisiron                                        23w
4              Site selecoon                             r       6w      0
1   5   i      Soil lod tesUlag and wuier s mpic                 4w
6              Nurcbase iod Lcgai release o Land lawn
7         Civil design                                        33.2w 'w
8i             Ofioce buildings                                 12w1
9   T          Seed Scorea                                      12w
10             ?rooess bulidiag                                  12w
11    PROCUREM%ENT ACITIV=S                                   51.2 Iw
12        CivU Tender NCB                                    41.2w
13   j         NCB Bid preparanion and apprval                   10w
14             NCB bidding and bid evluaiona                    18w
| i            WB approval and Award Civil oonnacm                2w
!  16         E,uupmen: ICB E47 'w
17   |         [CB Bid preparuoao and approval                    8W
ICB Bidding Prooodura and evauntoo               15w
19 |           WB approval and Award eqiupmenl ronrs              Zw
20             Equwpmeni deliveries                              20w
21  SITE ACTIVITIES                                       L34w                                     i-                -
2-         Civil oritatruCtoDon work |I
23             Site layout and boundarv wails              F      w
24             Site Ieveiing and bor,eis                          4_
25              Power lrnes                                       Sw                                    m
26             Offioe bu:ldinp                            |      15w
27             Plant buildiap                                    12w
28             Effluean plano coasuroo                          1UP w
29         Equipment nsmLuanon Work:                             16w
30             Equipment laltlkaona piperL nd cob2_ i w
31             Product onaLs                                     12w
32             Effluer plant Esong                               Zw
33    SEED PRODUCTION. AND MARKETING                      |   45.4w
34         Seed producuon                                       30w
35         Seed proremag                                         16w
3.6        Seed rrkenag                                          16w
Critical                             Milestone -
Noncntical    x .           \\'+'\:#  Summary 
Progres                               Rolled Up  <2>



CHINA
Seed Sector Commercialization Project
Procurement Schedule For Equipment and Materials
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p _                            P1                                                      PY 2                                         PY 3
Describtion of 'tem  Method of    Estimated
and Quality     Procurement  Cost $ Mill  _
Package1                                11.30 Appraisal =_    =        .12i3   4 .*      ,  t 6:   :   e   11  12
Fertilizer               ICB                  Revised
rActualII
Package 2                               27.30 Appraisal  =    I   1   t 213   4        _  567T        _        _ 131                         14 .     =3   =    = =   =
Sued Processir,g         ICB                  Revised   __        _
Machinery                                     Actual
Package 3                                2 70 A~ppraisal  I_ I__                                                        iQ           1    tW       8111
Vehicles                 ICB                  Revised_
Package 4                                3 70 Appraisal  =        _=   _    12      '4 .        5  _617     a  11  =     12
Small equipmaent &       NCB                  Revised
Farm Machinery                                Actual  _    __         ___
Pac-kage 5                               2.20 Appraisal          _ __       I-      4         5     6?      811          12 
Fertilizer & Pesticide   LIB                  Revised
Package 6                                2.00 Appraisal  _   _   _      1         -      s .       :7   a            12           __
Technology Transfer      DC                   Revised    =======
Package 7                                 1.50 Appraisal          -      213   4                W_67  1    1:1       1
Quality Control          LIB                  Revised                                                         I _ 
Equipment                                     Actual         I
Package 8                                 2.00 Appraisal          I_      21`3   4          -   1          1   _     12
Genetic materials         PS                  Revised
LicensesAtua
Packages9                                25.40 Appraisal          _ __           1       4         5   6   7 
Civil Works and          NCB                  Revised
Buildings               _                     Actual  _      __
Total 5              78.1 _______
ICB - Intemational Competitive Bidding                                1 Indial preparation of specifications and bid docs        7 IDA dearance of recommendations       13 Equipment installation
LIB  - Limited Intemational Bidding                                   2 Transmit them to IDA                                     8 Award contract                        14 Process plant Trials
NCB - National Competitive Bidding                                    3 IDA Clearance of Bid documents                           9 Start site work
PS  - Prudent Shopping                                                4 Issue Invitation to Bid                                   10 Complete site work
DC  - Direct Contract                                                 5 Open Bid                                                  11 Shipping
6 Transmit evaluation report to IDA                        12 Received at site
m \chinasdtanalsisNprocure.xts
1ti
Ft
(D
U.)



MAP SECTION






IJ/                       I~~           ~~                      ~~~~~~                                         ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lit  I.'n  ,I
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
CHINA                              _ _. '
SEED SECTOR                                                      i /
COMMERCIALIZATION PROJECT                                                               -
PARTICIPAIING PROVINCES                                  /                                 .
I i    PROVINCE CAPITALS
*'    NATIONAL CAPITAL                     -. .            ,                           -                        (       .        ,i
--r  _    --  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                       .                                 I                             _
-     _ - INTERNAATIONAL BOUNIDARIES                   !                               ,-
,  ~ - 1        r -               tiinll-,i          ,j
MONGOLIA                           V                                  *I N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IL   
M O N G O L I A                                                                                         r         
J       0
* _ . _--*--u~~ .' I. _,                  o  _, _ . _' /      Tt                                           LIAONING            7   DEM.               Seo
/ PEOPLE'S    Jo
S       HaRLhots          ", 'bElilN<.K.            >                            REP.ROF           Japo }
H.hhof_  BEIANG*                                                          KOREA   3
N                                                                       T\~r F IA'NrAN} (3inchusn/  T  Tionir  Bo HaiK R
~~    S.,  '  ~~~~  , M(nchuon  /            ..   HEBEI~~~-,                                               I  RER. OF
Toiuan*  SiiOiUtY           .-R&e               *~KOREA
4 . \   t  _   X    ?   SHANXI                  J Jinan W{ Zgi:;e ,d,5
/'  Maize ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~ v Maz
'CNGHal Xnin9           i \aniLhou h 2 <  s   wsVeeltable Seeds   PegetableSeedsanuts
X,niny'> C'  Lont).u                              m.Sce/eds 5                         Cnotton   t         Yellow
W   GANSUL .                 t          G  -cGram Seecds f  t         j v#       JAN(
Wheat                                                                        A  M \Rc
I  Barleay  /}   SHAANXI                    H 1-IENAN          i \            ttawey
R-!M ea See                   Xi'anwha
Soybean                                                  SHAGHA
.Mepe                                          5     ed B.  Whe'at                   EAN  R5 oe%eeds
-           VegtbaliMde  d   N       ' -/eud Processing Machnery
Z                       > MaRicze                                      HUBEI                   A N       I     t4:        h                    E a   s t
'C  SICHUAN                             ~~~~~~~~~~~Rice  ~'jcc~      ?a
Mapee ed,sfR                                                                                   e       .
*                                                                   V \   \   <  .    * GUIZHOUpeeed  HUN vegetable S  Rice
zChengdu Iiaso                                C r           n                 I ZHEJJANGJ'                    C  h    n a
'CO  Sorltr-~~~~~.&.t%s:,                9 ~~~ Barley Rased.-.
"'                                  s-.( ->,    NaGulya  Tnchong  Vegetabl Se
v  EL'                                   ..        @~~~~~~~~~~~. ~Can ..j
*K*   u          , -~    n                 i          Changsha          JIANGXI               \ d_,_T
. _. -- YUNNAN   GUIZHOU '             HUN-JAN                                          . Veeal Seed
-'    )      -~~~~~~5    R~Mice                  Rice         k      enf         ?
A  -,   Maize4nuts                                 Peanuts Mz'      JIAN
V -               ~~~~~         ~~Jr  .  Rapeses*oMiseeds          ed         *j    Cotton        Lo'S
-b                          -\  Dagbonentoaa IHerbY                                      Lon    sJ'uhan o
i~~~~  *                 Fr~~~~~~uit Seedlings   -.nCottonH'rbo                       Lkce
~~ ,^                    'q,, ~~~~~Giy nan        rTroo'I
E  ' }   t   .                _.                  .            Ir  ; htAC*.ezPORTC2
r-                   .             -     Pineapple
U      A'                                   Rice 't                                                       ,  ' 0200 300     400     500AMILESTAIWAN
Dagbone (Flax) GRan'h.uau
.t   Nctn'tso 
~~ S  ~ ~   N/'-2   ''~~~~~                   A             4  rA*~~HONG KONG, U.K.
:                            VIETNAM i                      - _N
-.-.rN               4                -MACAO,PORT   ~~          ~~~0 190  200      300      400      500 MILES
-    ";   LAO  PEOPLE'S               eHn4au             South                     ~~~~~~200    460        6010       80 KILOMETERS
DEM. REP   rY.China
HlAINAN?
THAILAND  >                      .'Seao
C-.-,     .5.-.                                                                                     120- PHILIPPINES
iru  j    r.                                             ti c \  llo                                                  120









IMAGING
Report No:      15171 CHA
Type: SAR



