Page  1
May 9, 2000
Mr. Wu Gang 
Deputy Director-General  
International Department 
Ministry of Finance 
San Li He St., Xichengqu 
Beijing 100820 
People's Republic of China
Dear Mr. Wu:
Re: 
Loan No. 4044-CHA and Credit No. 2886-CHA
(Seed Sector Commercialization Project)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
I refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association), 
dated August 1, 1996 (the Development Credit Agreement).  We have received your letter 
dated April 29, 2000 requesting that Anhui and Hainan Provinces be added to the 
Development Credit Agreement as designated provinces.  We are pleased to concur with 
your request.  Therefore, the Association hereby amends Section 1.02 (b) of Article I 
of the Development Credit Agreement to read as follows:
"(b)
"Designated Province" means any of the following provinces, 
autonomous region 
and directly administered municipality of the Borrower: Anhui, 
Fujian, Gansu, Guangxi, 
Guizhou, Hainan, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, 
Shandong, Shanghai, Shanxi, Sichuan, and 
Zhejiang."
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the amendment set forth in the 
paragraph above by countersigning and dating the corresponding form of confirmation 
set forth below, and returning one fully signed original of this amendment letter to 
us.  One fully signed original should be retained by the Borrower.  
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement remain in full force and effect.  Upon receipt by the Association of 
the copy of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the authorized 
representative of the Borrower, the above amendment shall become effective as of the 
date of countersignature of this letter of amendment. 
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Country Director 
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
BY /s/ Wu Gang
Authorized Representative
DATE:
May 17, 2000
