Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2886 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Seed Sector Commercialization Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 1, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2886 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 1, 1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equal to eighty-million dollars ($80,000,000) (the Loan); 
and
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"CPMO" means the central Project management office referred to in Part 
A.2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
"Designated Province" means any of the following provinces, autonomous 
region and directly administered municipality of the Borrower: Fujian, Gansu, Guangxi, 
Guizhou, Henan, Hunan, Hubei, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Shandong, Shanghai, Shanxi, Sichuan 
and Zhejiang.
(c)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as applied to 
such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(d)
"MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, and any successor 
thereto.
(e)
"NATESC" means the Borrower's National Agricultural Technical Extension 
Service Center, an agency of the Borrower operating under the supervisory authority of 
MOA.
(f)
"NCVEACO" means the National Crop Variety Examination and Approval 
Committee Office, an agency of the Borrower operating under the supervisory authority 
of MOA.
(g)
"Project Implementation Agreement" means, in respect of each Project 
Province, the agreement between the Borrower and said Project Province referred to in 
Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and in Annex 3 to said Schedule.
(h)
"Project Province" means any Designated Province with which the Borrower 
has entered into a Project Implementation Agreement. 
(i)
"Respective Part of the Project" means, in respect of each Project 
Province, the Subprojects for which it has made Sub-loans under Part B of the Project 
and the activities under Part C of the Project to be implemented by it.
(j)
"Seed Enterprise" means any enterprise operating in the seed-sector to 
which a Project Province proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
Page  3
(l)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Project Province 
out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan to a Seed Enterprise for a 
Subproject.
(m)
"Subproject" means a specific investment project under Part B of the 
Project to be carried out by a Seed Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a financial institution acceptable to the 
Association and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.  
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15, commencing November 15, 2006 and ending May 15, 2031. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2016 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Page  4
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of  each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A and C (other than Parts C (1)(b), C(2)(b) and C(4)) of the Project and 
shall cause the Project Provinces to carry out Parts B, C(1)(b), C(2)(b) and C(4) 
thereof, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical and agricultural practices and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the purpose.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
Section 9.08 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.02(c) of this 
Agreement, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
Page  5
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
and those for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Implementation Agreement to which it is a party.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any Project Province will be able to perform its obligations 
under the Project Implementation Agreement to which it is a party.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
Project Implementation Agreements have been entered into between the 
Borrower and at least nine Project Provinces in accordance with the provisions of Part 
B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and the Annex to said Schedule 3; and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have 
Page  6
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that each of the Project 
Implementation Agreements referred to in Section 6.01(a) of this Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project Province which is a party 
thereto and is legally binding upon said parties in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Russell Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                  Amount of the      Amount of the
                Credit Allocated    Loan Allocated         % of
                  (Expressed in      (Expressed in     Expenditures
Category         SDR Equivalent         Dollars       to be Financed
(1) Goods (other    9,130,000        40,000,000       100% of foreign
    than seeds) and                                   expenditures,
    technical licenses                                100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost) and
                                                      75% of local
                                                      expenditures for
                                                      other items pro-
                                                      cured locally
(2) Seeds                            28,700,000       50%
(3) Works            3,910,000       10,000,000       50%
(4) Consultants'       760,000        1,300,000       100%
    services, study
    tours and training
                    __________       __________
      TOTAL         13,800,000       80,000,000
                    ==========       ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 5,800,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after October 15, 1995; or
(b)
in respect of expenditures under Category (2) required for a Subproject 
until the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its acceptance of evidence 
that the seed processing facilities included in said Subproject are operational and a 
suitable operational plan for said Subproject has been developed. 
Page  8
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods or works under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each, (b) training and study tours, 
(c) consultants' services under contracts awarded to firms and costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each, and (d) consultants' services under contracts awarded to 
individuals and costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower and the Project Provinces 
in the development of a viable commercial seed sector in which high quality seeds are 
produced by efficient, commercially viable enterprises in sufficient quantity and 
variety to satisfy agricultural production needs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Seed Sector Framework
 
Strengthening the legal framework for the development of the Borrower's seed 
sector through the preparation of national legislation to facilitate the 
commercialization of said sector while ensuring quality control of seeds, including 
laws and regulations in the areas of evaluation and registration of crop varieties, 
licensing of seed production and commercialization activities, standards for labeling 
and packaging of seeds, quality control of seeds and intellectual property protection 
in respect of cultivars; and provision of study tours required therefor.
Part B:
Commercialization of Seed Sector Enterprises
 
Financing, through the provision of  Sub-loans by Project Provinces, of specific 
investment projects to strengthen the organization, management of enterprises involved 
in seed production and manufacture of seed processing equipment, including upgrading 
of their production bases, seed stock, storage and processing facilities and internal 
quality control facilities, expansion of their product mix, implementation of 
technical assistance programs to strengthen their management, financial operations, 
seed handling technology, plant operation and management, and marketing and sales 
strategies, refurbishing of office facilities, and provision of vehicles, tools, 
equipment, machinery, production inputs and initial seed stocks required therefor.
Part C:
Institutional Development
 
(1)
Implementation of a program to strengthen the crop examination and protection 
capabilities of the following entities, through the restructuring of their 
organization, and the provision of computer hardware and software, cold store 
facilities, training and study tours to their staff: (a) NCVEACO and (b) seed 
administration stations of selected Project Provinces.
(2)
Implementation of a program to strengthen the seed quality control and 
certification capabilities of the following entities, through the construction of 
laboratories, office facilities, green-houses, and provision of equipment, vehicles, 
computer software and hardware, and training to their staff: 
(a)
NATESC and 
(b)
seed administration stations of selected Project Provinces.
 
(3)
Provision of training to staff of the CPMO in project supervision, monitoring 
and evaluation and provision of equipment required for project management.
(4)
Undertaking by selected Project Provinces of surveys and studies to evaluate the 
relative productivity of self-pollinating seeds saved by farmers for planting and 
those supplied by seed production enterprises in order to develop suitable strategies 
for the production and marketing of self-pollinating seeds.
Page  9
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement.
A.
Project Management
 
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, with terms of reference, 
composition, and resources acceptable to the Association:
1.
a central Project leading group, chaired by a Vice Minister of MOA, to be 
responsible for  overall coordination of Project implementation and for resolving at 
the national level policy issues that may arise under the Project; and
2.
a central Project management office within MOA to be responsible for (a) 
providing assistance to the Project Provinces in developing implementation schedules, 
(b) coordinating Project activities with line agencies at national and provincial 
levels, (c) coordinating procurement of goods, and implementation of training and 
technical assistance under the Project and (d) monitoring and evaluating the Project, 
and coordinating the preparation of consolidated progress reports and audit reports 
required to be furnished pursuant to this Agreement. 
B.
Project Implementation Agreements
 
1.
For the purpose of carrying out Parts B, C(1)(b), C(2)(b) and C(4) of the 
Project, the Borrower shall allocate an amount of the Credit to the Project Provinces 
under agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each Project Province in 
accordance with the provisions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.
2.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
(i)  cause each Project Province to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Agreement to which it is a party, all of its 
obligations therein set forth; (ii) take or cause to be taken all action necessary or 
appropriate to enable said Project Province to perform such obligations; and (iii) not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance; and
(b)
exercise its rights under each of the Project Implementation Agreements 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Project Implementation 
Agreements or any provision thereof.
C.
Institutional Development (Parts A and C of the Project)
 
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than October 31 in each calendar year a proposed 
program for the carrying out of (i) study tours included in Part A of the Project, 
(ii) the training program included in Part C(3) of the Project and (ii) the studies 
included in Part C(4) thereof, during the following calendar year; and
(b)
thereafter carry out such activities, or cause such activities to be 
carried out, in accordance with such program as shall have been approved by the 
Association.
D.
Monitoring and Reporting
Page  10
1.
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, (a) semiannual reports, not later than 
March 1 and September 1 in each calendar year, consolidating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed by it pursuant to Part D.1 above and by 
the Project Provinces pursuant to Part C.5 of Section I of the Annex to this Schedule, 
during the preceding calendar semester in respect of the Project, and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the then current calendar semester and 
(b) a mid-term report, not later than June 30, 1998, consolidating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed by it pursuant to Part D.1 above and by 
the Project Provinces pursuant to Part C.5 of Section I of the Annex to this Schedule, 
during the period preceding the date thereof and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date.
3.
After furnishing each report referred to in Part D.2 above, the Borrower shall 
review the same with the Association, and promptly take all measures required on its 
part to ensure the continued efficient implementation of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said report and the Association's views on the matter.
E.
Seed Services Cost Recovery
 
In order to ensure the full recovery of the recurrent costs of providing seed 
testing and certification services, crop variety evaluation and registration services 
and field inspection services,
the Borrower shall:
1.
develop, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, a proposed 
system of fees for such services and furnish to the Association such proposed system 
not later than December 31, 1997: and
2.
introduce such system not later than June 30, 1998 in at least six Project 
Provinces, taking into account the comments of the Association thereon, with a view to 
introducing such system nationwide not later than June 30, 2000.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 3
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENTS
For the purposes of Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Project 
Implementation Agreements shall be entered into in accordance with the following 
provisions.
I.
Project Implementation Agreements
 
A.
Eligibility
 
A Project Implementation Agreement may be entered into with any Designated 
Province which shall have established, to the satisfaction of the Association that:
1.
it has eliminated the regulatory functions of seed producing entities operating 
within its jurisdiction in respect of quality control of seeds, and has established an 
appropriate, financially sustainable regulatory system for quality control of seeds by 
agencies from which said seed producing entities are legally, financially and 
managerially independent; and
2.
it proposes to make at least one Sub-loan which shall have satisfied the 
eligibility requirements set forth below in Part A of Section II of this Annex.
B.
Terms
 
Page  11
1.
The principal amount of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan to be made 
available to a Project Province under the Project Implementation Agreement to which it 
is a party shall be the sum of:
(a)
the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined on the date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of goods and services to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for said Project Province's Respective 
Part of the Project;  and
(b)
the equivalent in terms of Dollars (determined on the date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the 
cost of goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for said 
Project Province's Respective Part of the Project.
2.
The principal amount referred to in paragraph 1 above shall be recovered by the 
Borrower in Dollars, with the amount referred to in paragraph 1(a) above being valued 
in Dollars as of the date or respective dates of recovery by the Borrower.
3.
The principal amount referred to in paragraph 1 above shall be recovered by the 
Borrower over a period of twenty years, inclusive of a grace period of five years.
4.
Interest shall be charged on the principal amount referred to in paragraph 1 
above withdrawn and remaining unrecovered from time to time at a rate equal to five 
and one half percent (5.5%) per annum.
5.
A commitment fee shall be charged on the principal amount referred to in 
paragraph 1 above not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of 
one percent (0.75%) per annum.
C.
Conditions
 
The Project Implementation Agreements shall contain provisions pursuant to which 
each Project Province shall provide the following undertakings.
1.
Management of Each Project Provinces Respective Part of the Project 
 
In order to facilitate the implementation of its Respective Part of the Project, 
the Project Province shall maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, 
with terms of reference, composition, and resources acceptable to the Association:
(a)
a Project leading group, chaired by the Vice Governor of the Project 
Province responsible for agriculture, to be responsible for coordination of Project 
implementation within its jurisdiction and for resolving at the provincial level 
policy issues that may arise under the Project; and
(b)
a provincial Project management office to be responsible for (i) 
providing assistance to the Seed Enterprises operating within its jurisdiction in 
implementing their Subprojects and (ii) liaising with the CPMO and line agencies at 
the provincial level.
2.
General Implementation of the Project Province's Respective Part of the Project
 
(a)
The Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate economic, 
financial, administrative, technical and agricultural practices, and provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required therefor.
(b)
The Project Province shall ensure that (i) the goods, works and services 
required for its Respective Part of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, (ii) said goods shall be insured against hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, 
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the 
purchaser thereof to replace or repair such goods and (iii) said goods, works and 
Page  12
services shall be utilized exclusively for the purposes of carrying out its Respective 
Part of the Project.
(c)
The Project Province shall enable the Borrower and the Association to 
examine all goods, facilities, sites and works included in its Respective Part of the 
Project, the operation thereof and any relevant records and documents.
(d)
The Project Province shall at all times operate and maintain any 
facilities, equipment and other property relevant to its Respective Part of the 
Project, and promptly, as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound engineering, financial, administrative and agricultural 
practices.
3.
Part B of the Project (Commercialization of Seed Sector Enterprises)
 
(a)
The Project Province shall:
 
(i)
make Sub-loans to Seed Enterprises on the terms and conditions set 
forth in 
Section II of this Annex;
 
(ii)
exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-loan in such manner as 
to protect 
its interests and the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association, comply 
with its obligations under the Project 
Implementation Agreement to which it is 
a pary and achieve the 
purposes of the Project; and
(iii)
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements 
providing for 
Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without 
the prior approval of the 
Association.
 
(b)
If any Subproject to which the Project Province proposes to make a 
Sub-loan would involve the involuntary resettlement of persons, the Project Province 
shall:
(i)
ensure that all such persons shall be resettled in accordance with 
a 
resettlement plan which shall have been designed on the 
basis of policies, 
planning principles, institutional 
arrangements and design criteria acceptable 
to the Association, so as 
to improve the living standards of said persons; and
(ii)
furnish each resettlement plan referred to in subparagraph (i) 
above involving 
the resettlement of 200 persons or more, promptly 
upon its preparation, to the 
Association for approval and ensure that 
all said persons shall be resettled 
in accordance with such 
resettlement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and 
make available to the Association for review, if it shall so 
request, any other resettlement plan referred to in subparagraph (i) above. 
4.
Field Crop Inspections
 
In order to ensure the production of high quality seed within its jurisdiction, 
the Project Province shall develop, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and introduce, not later than December 31, 1996, a program of random field 
crop inspection and packaged seed inspection.
5.
Monitoring and Reporting
 
(a)
The Project Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project (including the 
Subprojects carried out by Seed Enterprises operating within its jurisdiction) and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof.
(b)
The Project Province shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable 
to the Association, and furnish to the Borrower for consolidation in the reports to be 
furnished by the Borrower pursuant to Part D of Schedule 3 to this Agreement (i) 
semiannual reports, not later than February 15 and August 15 in each calendar year, 
Page  13
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed by it 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above, during the preceding calendar semester in respect of 
the Project, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the then 
current calendar semester and (ii) a mid-term report, not later than June 15, 1998, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed by it 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above, during the period preceding the date thereof and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date.
(c)
The Project Province shall exchange views with the Borrower and the 
Association on each report furnished by it pursuant to paragraph (b) above, and 
thereafter, take all measures required on its part to ensure the continued efficient 
implementation of its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and 
the Borrower's and the Association's views on the matter.
6.
Financial Reporting
 
The Project Province shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of its Respective Part of the Project of its departments or 
agencies responsible for carrying out its Respective Part of the Project or any part 
thereof;
(b)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above, for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(d)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
II.
Sub-loans
 
For the purposes of Part C.3 of Section I of this Annex, Sub-loans shall be made 
in accordance with the following provisions.
A.
Eligibility Criteria
 
1.
Each Sub-loan shall be made to a Seed Enterprise, which shall have established 
to the satisfaction of the Project Province, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory 
to the Association that:
(a)
it is an enterprise duly established as a limited liability company or a 
company limited by shares pursuant to the Company Law promulgated by the Standing 
Committee of the National People's Congress of the Borrower on December 29, 1993, and 
operating in accordance with the laws of the Borrower and has established a suitable 
benefits system for its employees; and
(b)
it is creditworthy and has a sound financial structure and the 
organization, management, staff and other resources required for the efficient 
carrying out of its operations, including the Subproject which it proposes to carry 
out.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be made for a Subproject which is determined, on the basis 
of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association:
(a)
to be technically feasible and economically and financially and 
Page  14
commercially viable; and
(b)
to be in compliance with environmental standards satisfactory to the 
Association, and with all applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to 
health, safety and environmental protection, and, without limitation on the foregoing, 
if the Subproject would involve the involuntary resettlement of persons, includes a 
resettlement plan for said persons developed in accordance with the provisions of Part 
C.3(b) of Section I of this Annex.
3.
No expenditures for a Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of a Sub-loan unless the Project Province making the Sub-loan shall have 
furnished to the Association the appraisal report (including, if applicable, the 
resettlement plan) for said Subproject and said Sub-loan shall have been approved by 
the Association.
B.
Terms
 
1.
Each Sub-loan shall be denominated and repaid in Dollars. The principal amount 
of each Sub-loan shall be the equivalent in Dollars (determined on the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on 
account of the cost of goods and services for the Subproject for which said Sub-loan 
is made, and shall be repaid over a period not to exceed twenty years, inclusive of a 
grace period not to exceed five years.
2.
Interest shall be charged on the principal amount of each Sub-loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to or greater than six and one half 
percent (6.5%) per annum.
C.
Subproject Implementation
 
1.
Each Sub-loan to a Seed Enterprise for a Subproject shall be made on conditions 
whereby the Seed Enterprise shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out the Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate technical, economical, financial and commercial practices 
and appropriate health, safety and environmental practices acceptable to the 
Association, maintain adequate records and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)
if the Subproject involves the involuntary resettlement of persons, the 
Seed Enterprise shall take and cause to be taken all measures necessary to ensure that 
all such persons shall be resettled in accordance with the resettlement plan referred 
to in Part A.2(b) of Section II of this Annex;
(c)
(i) procure the goods and services required for the Subproject and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, (ii) ensure that all farm chemicals required for the 
Subproject shall be selected exclusively from a list of chemicals acceptable to the 
Association and shall be used, handled and stored in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and (iii) utilize all such goods and services 
exclusively in the carrying out of its Subproject;
(d)
enable the Association and the Project Province to inspect the goods, 
sites, works and plans included in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(e)
take out and maintain such insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including such insurance 
to cover the hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any 
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Seed 
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(f)
have its financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association and the Project 
Page  15
Province, as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after the 
end of each such year, certified copies of its financial statements for such year as 
so audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(g)
provide such information as the Association or the Project Province shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing, to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Seed Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Subproject.
2.
The Project Province making a Sub-loan shall suspend or terminate the right of 
the Seed Enterprise thereof to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by 
such Seed Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the Project 
Province.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions 
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C.3 of this Section I, (a) germplasm, seed licenses, 
specialized equipment and pesticides which the Association agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, and (b) fertilizer estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, together, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $7,130,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
 
(a)
Except as provided in Part C.5 of this Section I, works shall be procured 
Page  16
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
(b)
Except as provided in Parts C.3 and C.4 of this Section I, (i) goods 
(other than germplasm, seed licenses, fertilizer or pesticides) estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$3,700,000 equivalent, and (ii) market surveys, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
 
(a)
Germplasm and seed licenses estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, 
and (b) goods (other than germplasm, seed licenses, fertilizer or pesticides) and 
market surveys estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
 
Goods which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract or must 
be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or 
are of a proprietary nature, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Force Account
 
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $6,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's 
prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
Page  17
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $7,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  18
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the respective General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or 
Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of the Development Credit 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Page  19
Account (as the case may be) for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the respective General Conditions applicable thereto.
