Donmmet of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6296
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
NEPAL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 730-NEP)
June 20, 1986
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCI4L U.SE ONLY
TNf WORLD SANK
Wah.nSton. D.C 20433
U.S A
OWit. f DIMINvCOM&I
Opq tuw It,htuslnl
June 20, 1986
MEMORAUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nepal Second Highway Project
(Credit 730-NEP)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Nepal Second Highway Project (Credit 730-NEP)" prepared
by the South Asia Regional Office. Under the modified system for project
performance auditing, further evaluation of this project by the Operations
Evaluation Department has not been made.
Yves Rovani
by Otto Maiss
Attachi.ent
Thts document has a rstricted distrntsuon and may be usd by recipients on)) _ the performance
of theit official duties Its contents r.ay not otherwise be disclosed without Woi: Bank authorization.



no OnVUIAL U ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT   *      Average Anntial Daily Traffic
CIDA   *      Canadian International Development
Agency
DoR    *      Department of Roads
FY     *       Fiscal Year
GDP    *       Gross Domestic Product
"MG    *       His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICB            International Competitive Ridding
ILO    *       International Labor Organization
LC8    -      Local Competitive Bidding
MWT    a       Ministry of Works and Transport
NTC    a      Nepal Transport Corporation
UNDP   *      United Nations Development Program
USAID  -      United States Agency for International
Development
TOR    -       Terms of Reference
GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL
FISCAL YEAR
mid-July to mid-July
ThI documet hss a rIcted dibutibn V  may be mod by rcipent onIy nd h Peformanc
of ther oflke dutie. Its cntes Ma no othefW be dbid wihou  Wo ak 0batrI.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 730-NEP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .............. ........... .... ...... ..... .*..... i****  ******** 
Basic    Data    Sheet ....................................i
CHAPTERS
I.  INTRODUCTION ...............................                           1
II.  HIGHLIGHTS ........   2.................................... .          2
III.  PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL ........... ...........              4
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......... .. ...........                        7
Feeder Road Construction              ............................  7
Main Highway Improvement              ............................    12
Five-Year Road Maintenance Program              ..................   14
Consulting Services ....... . . . . . . .          .             16
Training of Heavy Equipment Mechanics ...............            18
Project Cost ...........         .............................    19
Project Schedule            ................. ........ ..... .   22
Project Disbursements  ....... .....         ...................   22
Conditions and Covenants              ............................   23
Performance of Consultants              ..........................    23
Performance of Contractors              ..........................    24
Performance of Suppliers              ............................    24
V.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT          ..............................    25
VI.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...... ...............    26
Background          ....................... ............ ......   26
The Dang Valley Feeder Road              .........................   26
The Thankot-Naubise Main Road              .......................    28
The Road Maintenance Program              ........................   31
Overall Conclusion             ..................................    33
VII.  THE ROLE OF THE IDA  ..........................              .        33
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS ...C........... .CCC......                                34
ANNEX
1  Feeder Road Analysis .....             ................              37



TABLES
A-1 Production Area - Paddy        ................................   42
A-2 Production Area - Maize        ................................   43
A-3 Production Area - Wheat        ................................   44
A-4 Production Data -Oilseed         ..............................   45
1   Nepal Highway Expenditures (DOR Budget)        ................  46
2   Feeder Road Contract Details ...........................   47
3   Feeder Road Contractor Prequalification Data ...........  48
4   Road Construction Equipment Procurement        ................   49
5   Main Highway Improvement - Contract Details ............   50
6   Road Maintenance Equipment Procurement .................   51
7   Details of Five-Year Maintenance Program        ...............  52
8   Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Cost .........   53
9   Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Completion ...   54
10   Schedule of Estimated and Actual Disbursements   .........    55
11   Compliance with Credit Agreement Covenants       .............  56
12   Estimated and Actual Traffic Volumes        ...................  59
13   Estimates of Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
by Road Type ....    .....................................   60
14   Reestimate of Benefit and Cost Flows - Feeder Road .....  61
15   Reestimate of Benefit and Cost Flows - Main Road .......  62
16   Reestimate of Benefit and Cost Flows - Road
Maintenance Program .....        ........................... .   63
17   Summary of Overall Project Benefits and Costs       ..........  64
CHARTS
1   Construction Equipment Availability at
Feeder Road Site ...........99999999..999..999..9..9999.  65
2   Organisation Chart for Department of Roads .............  66
3   Planned and Actual Disbursements and Procurements  ......   67
4   Cumulative Expenditure (Cost) by Loan Category    .........  68
MAPS
1  Nepal Road Network
2   IBRD, Second Highway Project, Project Locations
3   Traffic Volumes on Selected Links - 1984



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 730-NEP)
PREFACE
This is a Completion Report of the Second Highway Project funded
through IDA Credit 730-NEP. The Credit was signed on October 19, 1977 in
the amount of US$17.0 million and was closed on December 31, 1984. The
Credit amount was disbursed in full by August 1985.
This Project Completion Report was prepared in part by the
Canadian consultant, N.D. Lea, on behalf of the Transportation Division of
the South Asia Projects Department and follows a country visit of Highway
Engineer and a Transport Economist from that firm. The costs of their
services were met from the credit. The Report is based upon information
provided by the Department of Roads - Government of Nepal, the World Bank
resident mission in Kathmandu, the records of consultants who participated
in the various components of the Project, and records held at World Bank
headquarters in Washington.
The Report has been prepared in accordance with the procedures
outlined in the World Bank document "Guidelines for Project Completion
Reports for Transport Sector".
In accordance with the revised project performance reporting
procedures this report has been read in the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft Completion
Report was sent to the Borrower for comments; however, none were received.



- It -
P7OJUCT COMPLETIO REPORT
NEPAL SECOND RIGUIAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 7301-U)
BASIC DT  SURE
KR.Y PRnlIPCT nATA
Appr.l A1 I
I tem                                   Expectation      Actual
Total Project Cost (USR Million,                     pn.n           19.1
Underrun or Overrun (t)                                            4.5
Credit Amount (US$ Kllion)                         17.n(          17.0
Disbursed         )                                  -            17.0
Cancelled        )                                   -             -
Repaid to         ) 12/31/R4                         -             _
Outstanding to   )                                   _             _
Date Physical Components Completed                 Dec 82          Dec R4
Proportion Completed by Above Date (0.)            10               76
Proportion of Time llnderrun or Overrun (%)          -            + 40
Economic Rate of Return (2)                         28              32
Financial Performance                              Fair            Fair
Institutional Performance                          Fair            Fair
original
Item                             Plan       Revisions      Actual
First mention in Files or Timet-ihle       -            -           02/17/71
Government's Application                   -
Negotiations                              05/77
Board Approval                        07/07/77
Credit Airement Date                  10/19/77
Effectiveness Date                     12/23/77
Closing Date                           12/31/R2     1?.l!!$A       12/31/84
Borrower                              Kingdom of Nepail
Executive Agency                      Department of Roads
Fiscal Year of Borrower                16 .1uly  - 15 Julv
Follov on Project Natmo               Third Highway Project
Credit Number                        1515-NEP
mount (US$ Million)                  SD R44.7 Miltion (VS5 47.5 Millinni
Credit Agreement Date               08/28/84



- iii -
MISSION DATA
Month    No. of  No. of               Date of
Item                         Year      Weeks  Persons  Manweeks   Report
Identification                 May 73      1.8       1       1.8      May 71
Preparation
Preapraisal                    Mar 76      1.8       2       3.6       May 76
Appraisal                      Nov 76      2.8       2       5.6       Nov 76
Total:                                  6.4              11.0
Month     No. of   No. of       Man-       Date of
Item                    Year     Weeks    Persons    Weeks        Relport
Super-
vision
1                      Dec 77      1.2       2         2.4        01/06/78
2                      Jan 78      1.0       1         1.0            -
3                      May 78      1.0       2         2.0        06/29/78
4                      Sep 78      2.0       2         4.0        09/10/79
5                      Nov 78      1.4        1        1.4        11/30/78
6                      Mar 79      1.4        1        1.4        03/21/79
7                      May 79      3.4        1        3.2        02/07/79
8                      Oct 79      2.2        2        4.4        11/26/79
9                      Jan 80      2.0        2        4.0        02/27/80
10                      May 80      2.0        1        2.0        05/30/80
11                      Jan 81      1.4        1        1.4        02/24/81
12                      Apr 81      1.4        1        1.4            -
13                      Aug 81      1.0       2         2.0        09/17/81
'4                      Nov 81      2.6       2         5.2       01/26/82
~.5                    May 82      1.0       2         2.0        06/15/82
16                      Nov 82      1.8       3         5.4        12/15!8?
17                      Apr 83      2.4        1        2.4            -
18                      Oct 83      2.0        1        2.0        12/01!83
19                      Feb 84      1.n        I        1.0        O2!28!84
20                      Mar 84      1.8        1        1.8       0f5/1 '84
Nov 84        -       -           -            -
TOTAL:                     34.0                 50.4
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                Nepali Rupees (NRs)
Year:
Appraisal Year Average                 Exchange Rate: US$ 1 - 12.45
Intervening Years Average                              USS I - 13.35
Completion Year Average                                USS 1 - 16.50



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 730-NEP)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1     The development of transport infrastructure in Nepal was an important
component of the first four Five-Year Plans from 1956 to 1976. During this
period approximately 50% of total public capital expenditure was directed
towards the transport sector. The objective of this investment was to
integrate the many independent or loosely linked village economies scattered
throughout Nepal, as well as to stimulate general economic development. A
substantial amount of bilateral aid from the USA, UK, the Peoples Republic of
China, the Soviet Union and Switzerland was directed toward establishing and
improving the main highway network during this period.
1.2     Although the objective of more closely integrating the scattered
village economies was largely achieved, it was found that this infrastructure
development by itself did not stimulate extensive economic development. The
emphasis in the Fifth Plan, from 1976-1980, and the current Sixth Plan is
therefore on encouraging productive investments which can make use of this
transport infrastructure.
1.3     The First IBRD Highway Project (NEP-223) was a small loan of US$2.5
million extending from 1970 to 1977. It recognized that the maintenance of
the main highway network would become of greater importance in future years,
and hence, provided for the construction of workshops as well as the provi-
sion of essential road maintenance equipment. Several small road and porter
suspension bridges were also provided by this project.
1.4     The appraisal of the Second Highway Project was carried out in
November 1976 at the start of the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1976-1980). The main
thrusts of this credit were: (a) to continue assistance for the maintenance
of the highway network through provision of road maintenance equipment,
institutional support, establishment of workshops and the training of
mechanics; (b) to utilize the main highway network more efficiently by the
construction of a feeder road linking the fertile Dang Valley to this net-
wiork; (c) to improve the critical Thankot-Naubise section of the main highway
which links the Kathmandu Valley with both India and the rest of Nepal; (d)
to provide technical assistance in the implementation of the above components
and to prepare further projects suitable for international financing.
1.5     The Second Highway Project, therefore, aimed at achieving two broad
objectives, the first to support the Government's goal in the Fifth Plan by
utilizing more effectively the main highway network through the construction
of feeder roads, and the second to promote IDA's own objectives of
strengthening the road maintenance capability throughout the country.
1.6     The credit agreement (NEP-730) for US$17.0 million was signed on
October 19, 1977 for a project costing US$20.0 million. The closing date was
December 31, 1982, but this was subsequently postponed to December 31, 1984.



-2-
II. HIGHLIGHTS
Objectives
2.1     The credit was intended to continue the support given under the First
Highway Project in strengthening the institutional capability of the Depart-
ment of Roads (DOR) to manage its road network (3.14). This assistance was
provided through improved basic infrastructure - the construction of mechani-
cal workshops in key locations; the acquisition of an inventory of equipment
geared to DOR's deployment of maintenance resources, and through the training
of personnel at the grass roots, especialLy heavy equipment mechanics.
Through the inclusion of the construction of a 50 km gravel standard secon-
dary road, the project alsr provided valuable "hands-on" training for at
least 10 local contractors who were previously inexperienced at working to
specification under a quality control regime. The project also provided for
the purchase of construction equipment for DOR to on-lease to these contrac-
tors (3.15).
Implementation Experience
2.2     The project was expected to take about 5-1/2 years to complete, but
the original closing date of December 1982 had to be pcstponed by two years.
The extended period catered mainly for delays in implementing the feeder road
component, where, quite apart from the contractors' relative inexperience,
there were shortages of essential materials (4.7), Government was slow in
making payments to them (4.17) - a serious constraint to under-capitalized
firms - promised equipment did not arrive until two years late (4.25), and
labour was seasonally lost in this rich agricultural area during the planting
and harvest seasons (4.8). However, the end result was a road of acceptable
quality, and some small contractors better fitted to manage contracts of a
more equipment-intensive nature than before.
2.3     Reconstruction of a section adjacent to Kathmandu of the main road to
Iuidia encountered more problems. The work was divided in such a way that one
contractor was responsible for earthworks and sub-base and another for base
course and surfacing (4.33). This sequential method of working resulted in
considerable delays, friction between contractors and a generally less than
satisfactory end product.
2.4     The institutional assistance to the Department of Roads was also
dogged by delays. Deliveries of the first tranche of road maintenance equip-
ment dragged out from late 1979 to mid-1982 and for the second tranche to
mid-1983 (4.41). Ttre workshops were not completed until mid-1982 and
remained idle through lack of equipment and personnel (4.44). In the case of
the latter, the training program for mechanics was supposed to have helped
redress the shortfall of artisan staff, but the start of this program was
also delayed until almost the end of the project period through late delivery
of training equipment. The shortfall of workshop equipment is being met from
a Third Highway Project allocation.



-3-
2.5     CIDA was providing technical assistance to the DOR through a Roads
Department Support Services Project which involved recommendations for a
Five-Year Road Maintenance Program. The consensus of those concerned with
reviewing their proposals was that they seemed geared to conditions in
countries more developed than Nepal, and were overly optimistic (4.45).
Results
2.6     Continuing delays have been a feature of the project, but in spite of
these the feeder road has been satisfactorily completed, giving a positive
impact on development in this previously isolated valley, and the main road
section has been rehabilitated and is carrying the heavy traffic for which it
w3s designed. The contractors who built the feeder road have profitted from
their experience of working to specification under close supervision.
2.7     The equipment purchased for on-leasing to contractors arrived late
and only some took advantage of it. The equipment for road maintenance also
arrived late. However it has now been deployed to the districts and is
having a positive impact on the standard of road maintenance.
2.8     The training program for heavy equipment mechanics, long delayed
through lack of equipment and personnel changes has finally started, but too
late to have an impact on the manning levels needed for the new workshops.
However, the Third Highway Project, which also caters for this training
component now has a flying start.
Sustainabitity
2.9     Nepal's road network is relatively new, and many of the recently
built links are having their teething troubles. Traffic levels are low, but
given the unstable nature of much of the terrain, road maintenance is a much
more demanding task in Nepal than in many developed countries. DOR's inten-
tions to meet this challenge are confirmed in the commitment now being given
to training of personnel begun under this Second Highway Project but expanded
under the Third, and recognition that traditional labour-intensive methods
must now give way to mechanical equipment if the network is to be kept
viable. Some maintenance tasks can be carried out by contract, and the
development under the feeder road component of a core of small entrepreneurs
who now know how a contract should function could be a valuable resource.
Given budgetary support, DOR is on the right lines to manage its network
effectively. The Bank's Third Highway Project also promotes this objective.
Findings and Lessons
2.10    The main lesson from this project is that longer lead times for
procurement and other vital actions should be allowed for than is customary
in the sector. It would save HMGN commitment charges if as much preparatory



-4-
work as possible up to but short of contract award could be carried out prior
to credit signature.
2.11    The project highlights the dangers inherent in the inclusion of an
ill-prepared road component whereby the problems arising from an outdated
method of contract division persist to the present day in the form of
unresolved contractual claims before the courts.
III. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
3.1     The content of the Second Highway Project was first discussed in
February, 1971, when IDA expressed interest in funding those roads, then
under study by the UNDP with the UN as Executing Agency, which showed high
economic priority. The UNDP studies were monitored by IDA throughout 1971
and 1972, and reservations were expressed concerning the methodology of
economic evaluation and the apparently high design standards chosen. In
November 1972 a tentative timetable for the Project was suggested calling for
appraisal in May 1974 and presentation to the Board in FY1975.
3.2     In 1973 the Project was identified as comprising three feeder roads
totalling 200 km in length and connecting with the East-West Highway, and the
procurement of road maintenance equipment. The total cost was estimated at
US$27 million with a loan component of US$18 million. The need for com-
plementary investments in agriculture for the feeder roads component was
recognized in May 1974, but the initial proposal for such investments at US$9
million was considered unrealistic. An amount of US$1 million was considered
to be more practical, given likely implementation constraints.
3.3     In 1974 the Project was reduced in scope by eliminating two of the
feeder roads because the agricultural benefits they might generate appeared
uncertain. Design standards of the remaining feeder road were also reviewed
with a view to reducing the high construction costs of US$120,000/km.
3.4     The UNDP had previottsly agreed to finance a Support Services Techni-
cal Assistance Project for the Roads Department. However, in August 1975,
the UNDP advised IDA that funds for this purpose were no longer available.
The Government of Nepal subsequently negotiated an agreement with CIDA for
this financing.
3.5     There was considerable bureaucratic delay in selecting a consultant
for the Tulsipur feeder road feasibility study and design work (the contract
was not signed until December 1975 although proposals were submitted in June
1974).  The Pre-appraisal Mission visited Nepal in March 1976 and identified
the construction of the Tulsipur feeder road, procurement of maintenance
equipment, construction of suspension bridges and consulting services as Lhe
main compvnents of the project. It was then recognized that the project
would slip into FY1977.



-5-
3.6     Further refinement of the Project's composition was made in 1976.
The complementary investments in agriculture and the construction of suspen-
sion bridges were deleted in November when USAID agreed to finance those
components. Tho Project was appraised in November 1976 and the Issues meet-
ing took place in December. The total Project cost at this time was
estimated at US$17 million.
3.7     The November 1976 appraisal mission considered that HMG's budgetary
allocations for maintenance were not sufficient to maintain properly the
rapidly expanding road network.  HMG and IDA therefore agreed that further
assistance to increase the DOR's maintenance capability was essential. An
outline Five-Year Program for road maintenance was agreed with HMG and incor-
porated in a Side Letter to the Credit Agreement. The network has grown
rapidly since 1976, confirming the correctness of emphasizing maintenance
activities in this Second Highway Project (refer to Table 1).
3.8     At the time of appraisal most maintenance activities were
labor-intensive although some bulldozers were used to clear landslides,
trucks were used for transporting materials and steel wheel rollers were used
for compaction. The equipment maintenance base workshops at Kathmandu and
Hetauda, which were set up in the First Highway Project, were in operation.
Maintenance activities had been controlled by two DOR branches in the East
and West of the country for many years prior to the appraisal but in November
1976 the increase in the length of the road system forced the DOR to reor-
ganize into four regional offices (Far Western, Western, Central and Eastern)
in order to carry out maintenance activities more effectively.
3.9     As both of the base workshops previously established were located
within the Central Region, two additional workshops, one each in the Eastern
and Western Regions, were included in the newiproject to give a more balanced
coverage of the road network. Equipment for the new workshops was also to be
provided. An analysis of existing usable equipment as well as overall needs
was made by the Appraisal Mission and recommendations regarding the type and
number of total units deemed necessary were made. The recommended procure-
ment of heavy equipment (175 units) almost equalled the existing inventory of
usable equipment (157 units) and would thus double the resources of the DOR.
3.10    Because of this two-fold increase in the heavy equipment fleet and
the patent inexperience of the department's mechanics to maintain it, provi-
sion was also made in the project to establish a Heavy Equipment Mechanics'
Training School. The UNDP agreed to provide funding, and the ILO sub-
sequently agreed to provide two experts to set up and run the school.
3.11    The Amile-Tulsipur feeder track was selected for construction in the
UNDP study of 1970 and its feasibility was confirmed in 1973 by the same
study team. This track was a link to the fertile Dang Valley of about 42,000
arable hectares and a population of about 110,000 from Nepalgunj accessible
only during the dry season.  The extension of the East-Wes; Highway from



-6-
Butwal to Nepalgunj was underway at the time of appraisal (see Map 1) and
the construction of a feeder road from this highway to the Dang Valley would
therefore link the valley with the main highway network.
3.12    However, there were some doubts about which route into the valley
should be upgraded, as the Koilabas-Lamahi-Ghorahi route seemed to be traf-
ficked more by porters, pack animals and trucks in the dry season than the
Amile-Tulsipur link. Consultants were therefore engaged to examine the
feasibility of alternative access roads into the valley. The Study TOR also
required the consultants to examine the extent of agricultural development
benefits which would derive from the road and the complementary investments
in agriculture needed to maximize these benefits.
3.13    During the appraisal HMG made a strong case for including the
improvement of the Thankot-Naubise section of the main highway (Tribhuvan
Rajmarg) to India in the Project. The poor physical condition of this link
and its closures due to Landslides frequently isolated Kathmandu from the
rest of Nepal and cut its link with India. The Chief Engineer, DOR, also
urged that his department be given the opportunity to carry out the design
work for this upgrading without the assistance of consultants, and that it
deal directly with the contractors during the construction period.
3.14    The Project was a logical extension of the First Highway Project,
emphasising the strengthening of road maintenance activities through equip-
ment procurement, workshop construction, training of mechanics and technical
assistance. There was also provision for limited main road improvement and
the construction of a feeder road.
3.15    The main components of the Project are:
(a)  construction of a 50 km all weather gravel feeder road from Lamahi
on the East-West Highway to the fertile Dang Valley in the Inner
Terai. The road passes through Ghorahi, the main commercial town
of the valley, and Tulsipur, the Government zonal headquarters, and
ends at the Dang airport, the district's main air field (Maps 1
and 2). The estimated cost of this component at the time of
appraisal, including contingencies, was US$4.8 million;
(b)  procurement of construction equipment for hire to local contractors
building the above feeder road, estimated to cost US$1.32 million;
(c)  improvement of a 17.5 km section of the main highway between Thankot
and Naubise. The improvement consisted of pavement widening
(from 3.5 m to 6.0 m), pavement strengthening and stabilization of
adjacent slopes. The cost of this work was estimated at US$1.78
million (refer to Maps 1 and 2);
(d) improving DOR's road maintenance capability through the provision of
road maintenance equipment, spare parts and workshop tools, at an



-7-
estimated cost of US$7.4 million. (In parallel with this effort, a
team of specialists financed by CIDA was providing technical
assistance in this field); and
(e) provision of consulting services for:
-   feasibility studies, design and construction supervision for
the feeder road in (a) above;
-   prefeasibility studies, feasibility studies and detailed
design of the 190 km uncompleted section of the East-West
Highway in the far west of Nepal. (The UNDP also provided
funding to the extent of US$707,000 for these studies for
which IDA was the Executing Agency); and
-   other minor technical assistance.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Feeder Road Construction
4.1     The feasibility and design of this 50 km long feeder road was carried
out between January and November 1976, funded retroactively from the credit,
and provided information for project appraisal. After studying several
different improvement options the study recommended that a 5.0 m wide
all-weather access gravel road be constructed. It also recommended the
construction of one major bridge, 60 m long to cross a steep valley in the
hilly section, and 10 low cost floodways over the wide but shallow riverbeds
in the Dang Valley.
4.2     The route chosen to provide all weather access to the Dang Valley was
from Lamahi, on the East-West Highway, across the Churia Hills (a rise of
250 m) to Ghorahi in the Dang Valley and then on to Tulsipur and the Dang
airport. This alignment was found to yield a greater economic return than
the Amile-Tulsipur route previously chosen in the UNDP country-wide study of
1970. The alignment of an existing earth track was generally followed except
for a bypass around the town of Ghorahi and a diversion in the mountainous
section which followed a river and which eliminated a rise and fall of about
60 meters.
4.3     The road, bridge and floodway construction was divided into 10 con-
tracts, each of about US$300,000 in value, so that local contractors could
participate. This division of the work was adopted as the project as a whole
was considered too small and too remote to attract foreign bidders. A fur-
ther contract was offered for the construction camp at Ghorahi, making eleven
in all. The construction of culverts at the junctions of access roads to the
feeder road was included in one of the roadway contracts.



-8-
4.4     Prequalification data for local contractors was requested by December
14, 1976 but, due to the poor initial response, the submission date was
postponed to January 20, 1977. Twenty contractors submitted requests, of
whom 16 were recommended for prequalification.
4.5     Tenders were invited in June 1977 and were opened on August 31, 1977.
Although bid prices were within 5% of the engineer's estimate (refer to Table
2) HMG took nearly eight months to sign eight of the eleven contracts and a
further seven months to sign the remaining three.
4.6     In consequence, further delays occurred in mobilization because the
date of award (May 1978) coincided with the beginning of the monsoon season
when access to the Dang Valley by road became impracticable until the rains
ended in December. Most construction camps and offices were set up in 1979.
4.7     Construction progress was slow in the first year (1979) because of
shortages of diesel fuel, cement, reinforcing steel, explosives and construc-
tion equipment. Actual completion reached only 19% at the end of the year.
DOR's procurement of the construction equipment which was to be hired to the
contractors was delayed and most equipment did not arrive on site until early
1980 (refer to Chart 1).
4.8     Construction activity in subsequent years generally peaked in Decem-
ber-April and slowed down or stopped during the monsoon season. This was
because most construction work was labor-intensive and laborers left the
project for agricultural work during the June to November monsoon. Moreover,
construction supplies could only be brought in from necember onwards as
access into the Dang Valley was only possible after the monsoon.
4.9     Progress was steady but slow in 1980 and 1981 reaching, respectively,
45% and 78% of that planned. No contract was completed on time but there
were sound reasons for extensions of time d e to shortages of materials and
equipment and, to some extent, to the increased value of works. Six of the
eleven contracts (2, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 10) were substantially complete by the
end of the extended time period in mid-1982, but about one to one and a half
years later than the original contract completion dates.
4.10    There was little progress on contracts 1 and 8, both awarded to the
same contractor who was having problems with his joint venture partner.
These two contracts were eventually sub-contracted to others, and progress
slowly picked up. They were finished about the middle of 1983. Another
contractor who had two contracts, that for the camp and No. 7, also performed
poorly. The camp contract was eventually terminated and re-awarded and the
road contract was subcontracted. These were all completed in mid-1983, about
two and a half years behind schedule.
4.11    The construction period was therefore about four years for six of the
11 contracts and five years for the remaining five. This compares with the



-9-
two and a half years specified in the contract document, the three and a half
years assumed in the Appraisal Report and the normal four to five years on
highway construction projects of a similar nature in Nepal.
4.12    An analysis was carried out to determine whether stricter pre-
qualification screening might have eliminated the poorer performing contrac-
tors (refer to Table 3). No pattern could be observed, with the ranking of
both good and poor contractors scattered over the full spectrum of the pre-
qualification marking. It is conjectural that the reduction in the numbers
of bidders by the elimination of some of the lower ranked firms might have
stimulated some of the bigger contractors to bid, as some of the latter were
prequalified but did not take out tender documents when invited to do so.
Provision to "package" contracts might have offered an inducement for the
larger firms to bid.
4.13    DOR had overall responsibility for supervision of the work, with
quality control, reviews of design changes and the checking of progress
payments and claims being handled by consultants. Achieving satisfactory
quality of concreting operations, earthwork compaction and gravel surfacing
operations was difficult and some training of the contractors in these
activities was necessary to reach the required standards. However, earthwork
excavation and culvert and retaining wall construction were generally of a
much higher standard.
4.14    In most cases the quality of construction was as good as had been
anticipated. Furthermore, it is likely that the contractors benefited
greatly from having to work to modern specifications enforced by consultants
who also provided much practical training. In particular, the quality of the
60 meter reinforced concrete bridge was of high standard.
4.15    Some minor design changes were needed during construction.  More
retaining walls were needed in the hilly sections, more culverts for irriga-
tion channels were required in the Dang Valley, and some alignment changes
were found necessary in the steeper sections where there was also more rock
excavat.ion than inticipated. Some problems were experienced with scour of
the concrete surfacing of the floodways and downstream of the aprons.
Repairs involved increasing the concrete surfacing from a 6 cm to a 10 cm
thickness, and placing gabions along the downstream edge of the aprons.
4.16    The overall construction cost, excluding escalation payments,
totalled 20% more than the original contract sums of NRs 40.1 million (refer
to Table 2). The major increases were due to the increased number of retain-
ing walls (WRs 2.1 million), extra rock excavation (NRs 1.4 million), extra
culverts (NRs 1.0 million) and overhaul payments (NRs 1.3 million).
4.17    Payments to contractors were slow, particularly those in respect of
price escalation, and IDA supervision missions frequently had to press HMG
to expedite them. DOR's reluctance in this respect was due mainly to lack of



-10-
familiarity with the processing of this type of payment as few if any con-
tracts in Nepal contained escalation clauses.
4.18    In summary, a road of generally good quality was achieved using
Nepali contractors despite construction awards being delayed by about one
year and delays in construction operations of between one and two and a half
years. The originally specified gravel surfacing is causing concern as it
is presently very rough and in places now below the required thickness
through attrition by heavy bus, truck and tractor traffic. In addition,
because some over-size material was used during construction, the surface is
now bumpy and travel speeds have been reduced to 30-35 km/hr, much lower than
the design speed. Very little improvement to the pavement condition can be
expected because of low maintenance allocations coupled with the likely
increases in traffic. Moreover, the gravel surfacing in some of the steeper
sections (8-10% grades) is eroding badly from stormwater during the monsoon
season, and a consistent maintenance effort is needed to prevent this.
4.19    Bituminous surfacing is the only reasonable long-term solution to
these problems and there is already considerable local pressure for this work
to be done. The volume of traffic using the road now is greater than
anticipated at appraisal and the economic benefits deriving from the road and
the complementary investments are correspondingly higher than estimated (para
6.15).
4.20    There is, moreover, further extensive feeder road construction
already completed and in progress in the area which is generating even more
traffic for the project road. Additionally, the completion ef the East-West
Highway east of Lamahi will provide all weather access from the Dang Valley
to Kathmandu. The upgrading of the gravel pavement to a 5.0 m bitumen sur-
face would probably cost about US$1.5-2.5 million but the benefits fro¢m
further vehicle operating cost savings are likely to be considerable. Con-
sideration should be given now for a staged upgrading of the road.
(i)  Procurement of Equipment for Feeder Road Construction
4.21    Provision was made in the Project for the purchase of road construc-
tion equipment and related spare parts for hire to local contractors engaged
in feeder road construction. This provision was considered important as the
majority of contractors in Nepal possess little or no equipment.
4.22    A construction camp and workshop were also planned at Chorahi for use
during the construction phase, and for later use as a base for maintenance of
this feeder road as well as for construction of other roads in the Dang
Valley and in the adjacent hills.
4.23    International Competitive Bidding was called for the construction
equipment in July 1977 (about five months later than scheduled in the
Appraisal Report) and contract awards were made in May and June 1978 for most



-11-
of the equipment. There were problems, however, with the tenders for compac-
tion equipment and tractors and retendering was necessary. Fresh bids for
rollers were received in July 1979 and awards were made in February-March
1980. Tenders for the tractors were received in March 1982 and the award was
made in January 1983.
4.24    Final costs were within 1Z of the appraisal estimate (refer to
Table 4). There were no changes requested by the DOR in the number or com-
position of the equipment items procured.
4.25    Delivery dates of this equipment to the construction sites are shown
in Chart 1 which indicate that most of the equipment arrived in 1980. The
appraisal report anticipated deliveries in the first half of 1978, so delays
of about two years occurred.  It was fortuitous that all of the construction
contracts were also delayed by about one year otherwise the non-availability
of construction equipment would have severely hampered construction
activities. Nevertheless the non-availability of most equipment in the 1980
construction season (the first half of the year) did delay construction
progress. The DOR did, however, transfer three rollers from other works to
the sites when it was realized that the delivery was going to be delayed
(refer to Chart 1). Several contractors made their own arrangements for
rollers.
4.26    Most of the project equipment was used by the contractors, although
much less extensively than expected (an indication of their utilisation is
given in Table 4). The amount that contractors paid in hire charges is
estimated at Nrs 2.3 million (about US$160,000). The equipment was essen-
tial, however, for completion of the feeder road to the required specifica-
tions. As anticipated at the time of appraisal, equipment items surplus to
both the needs of the contractors and the requirements of future maintenance
of the project road were transferred to other DOR maintenance divisions. The
equipment presently remaining on site is listed in Table 4. Only a few items
are currently in use on site by the DOR and some further equipment could be
transferred without sacrificing maintenance capability.
4.27    The choice of equipment was generally appropriate to the needs of
construction and future maintenance, the only oversight being the absence of
front-end loaders to handle material for pavement operations. Unfortunately,
the reluctance of contractors to make use of the water tankers, graders and
vibrating rollers is reflected in the low quality of the finished gravel
surface. During a site visit in March 1985, it was found that about 20% of
the equipment was under repair (generally for minor problems only). All the
appropriate spare parts are stored at the Ghorahi camp.
4.28    The construction camp has not yet been integrated into the DOR
regional organization as a permanent maintenance base. A project office is
still functioning there and will continue to be manned until a regional
maintenance organization is established. The project area comes under the
Mid-Western Regional Headquarters in Surkhet and it is probable that the



-12-
Rapti Division Zonal headquarters will be located at Lamahi where a more
commodious camp will be available after the completion of the East-West
highway between Nepalgunj and Butwal. The camp at Corahi will then probably
become a district headquarters for maintenance of the Lamahi-Ghorahi-Tulsipur
feeder road and for other road projects in the area. The tracks between
Chorahi and Piuthan, Tulsipur and Sallyan and Chachuke and Liwang are
presently being upgraded by the DOR using the camp as a base and some project
construction equipment is being used for this work.
4.29    In summary, the construction equipment was successfully procured for
use on the construction of this feeder road. The total procured cost was
close to that estimated. However, late award ot contracts and extended
delivery times were responsible for some delays in construction. These
delays did not constitute a major constraint to progress because of the
labor-intensive nature of most activities and the fact that the DOR and the
contractors endeavored to make do with other compaction equipment until the
new rollers arrived.
Main Highway Improvement
4.30    The Thankot-Naubise highway comprises about 3 km of relatively flat
road in the Kathmandu valley and 14 km of winding road along the steep slopes
of the Mahess River as it descends toward Naubise. The design of improve-
ments and the preparation of contract documents were carried out by the
Design Section of the DOR early in 1977 but the design was extensively
revised later that year and finalized in March 1978. The DOR cost estimate
at this time was $1.80 million. Prequalification of contractors was com-
pleted by October 1977 and tenders were called for three earthworks contracts
including retaining walls, culverts and subbase and one contract for base
course and surfacing in June 1978. Work commenced in August 1978 on the
three earthworks contracts and October 1980 for the surfacing contract. The
starting and completion dates are given in Table 5.
4.31    The sub-project comprised the widening of the 3.5-4.0 m wide pavement
to 6.5 m by means of additional earthworks, cuttings and the construction of
retaining walls. It also provided for some new culvert construction and the
laying of a 15 cm gravel subbase, followed by a 20 cm thick crushed stone
base course and double bituminous surface treatment.
4.32    Construction began in the latter half of 1978 on the three earthwork
contracts but problems were encountered in following the DOR design. A
redesign was made during construction which resulted in increased earthworks
and subbase quantities, and the number of retaining walls.
4.33    However, the main organisational problem arose from the separation of
the surfacing contract from those for earthworks and sub-base. It was
well-nigh impossible in practice for the base-course and surfacing contractor
to coordinate his program of works with the completion of the earthworks and
subbase by the other contractors, because they did not make their scheduled



-13-
progress. As a result, uncompleted work at sub-base level or lower was often
left unprotected throughout the monsoon, and this, coupled with the fact that
many side drains were blocked by slides, resulted in a great deal of water
damage to the exposed road works during each rainy season.
4.34    In April 1981 an IDA supervision mission expressed serious concern
regarding the quality of construction and informed HMG that expenditures for
this project component would not be eligible for reimbursement through the
credit unless unsatisfactory work was corrected and future materials and work
were in compliance with specifications. That mission, however, agreed with
DOR's proposal for additional subbase quantities and a modification of the
base course from a gap-graded to a continuously graded type, giving a
smoother surface for traffic during construction.
4.35    Half-width construction in the hilly sections was difficuit and time-
consuming under the substantial bus and truck traffic (construction of devia-
tions was impracticable). The surface treatment work was not good with
bitumen applications being streaky and non-uniform. Construction supervision
was carried out by DOR engineers although the CIDA Road Services Support Team
gave some advice on technicaL matters.
4.36    Construction progress was slow as two of the earthworks and subbase
contracts of 14 months duration were delayed by 16 months - until April 1981.
This lack of satisfactory progress can be attributed partly to delayed pay-
ments by the DOR as the increased construction costs exhausted their annual
budgets. Work stopped completely in March 1979 for several months as a
result. The surfacing contract, scheduled for completion in February 1982
was only 43% complete at this time and was not completed until July 1982.
Construction, therefore, took about four years compared with the two years
estimated during appraisal.
4.37    Substantial claims were made by the paving contractor concerning,
firstly, price escalation arising from ambiguities in the contract documents
and, secondly, to the extra cost incurred in maintaining the road during the
prolonged construction period. Arbitration did not resolve the matter as the
three arbitrators each proposed different settlement amounts - NRs 0.3, 2.1
and 2.7 million. The claims are still under adjudication by a higher court.
4.38    An inspection of the road in March 1985 revealed no serious deficien-
cies despite the quality problems encountered during construction. Some
small earth slides have occurred which have blocked the site drains. Also
pothole patching is being carried out on some areas of poor base and unsatis-
factory bituminous surfacing. Nevertheless, the road is fulfilling its
design function.
4.39    This is the only component of the project which experienced major
difficulties. Final costs were about twice those estimated, major design
changes during construction were required and quality control problems and
large claims developed. The DOR requested that it handle both design and



-14-
construction supervision and IDA agreed that the Department should be given
the opportunity. In retrospect, the difficulty of the works was underes-
timated and it would have been better for consultants to have assisted in the
design and supervision work.
Five-Year Road Maintenance Program
4.40    The Five-Year Road Maintenance Program (FY1978-1982) included in this
Project consisted of the following components:
(a)  the supply of road maintenance equipment and spare parts foa
both the newly purchased items and the existing fleet (total
cost estimated at US$7.16 million including price contingencies);
(b) the construction of two regional workshops at Butwal and Ithari
and the supplv ot tools to equip four other such base workshops
elsewhere in the country;
(c) the provision of technical assistance by CIDA to review the Outline
Five-Year Maintenance Program, and to assist DOR in implementation
by establishing a model maintenance subdivision which could be
used as a training ground for others; and
(d) the implementation of a Five-Year Maintenance Program (detailed
in Table 9 of the Appraisal Report and summarized in Table 7 of
this Report).
4.41    Tenders for the road maintenance equipment were divided into two
groups. The first group of contracts was awarded between December 1978 and
April 1979 but because of ambiguities in some of the bids retendering of
certain items had to be carried out. The retendered contracts were finally
awarded between February and July 1980. The second group of equipment con-
tracts was awarded between August and November 1981. Delivery acceptance
dates for all items of equipment are given in Table 6.
4.42    The road maintenance equipment procured was allocated mainly to the
Central Region (50%) but also to the Western (25%), Eastern (20%) and Far
Western Regions (5%). Utilization of equipment has been low, except in the
case of pickups and trucks, and the stone crushers have yet to be used.
Sample checks of hours of use since delivery indicated an average of about
500 hours/year compared to the 2,000 hours/year considered normal in more
developed countries. This low utilization rate is attributed to two main
factors - the restricted working season for much of the equipment (from
January to June) and the extended downtime of the machines.
4.43    The choice of equipment was found to be appropriate although some
flat-bed trucks for transporting materials and supplies would have been a



-15-
useful addition. However, the track dozers have not been used for main-
tenance works as originally intended, but were transferred to construction
activities.
4.44    The construction of the two workshops was delayed from the appraisal
estimate of July 1979 to July 1982. These workshops are not yet operational
due to the lack of workshop equipment and permanent staffing.
4.45    The technical assistance provided by CIDA in the form of the Roads
Department Support Services Project is summarised in a final report issued in
February 1980. This Project also produced a Road Maintenance Management
System Manual and an Equipment Management Manual, both issued towards the end
of 1979. IDA supervision mission reports have been critical of the value of
this technical assistance. For example, the consultant's recommendations
on future financing of the Outline Five-Year Road Maintenance Program were
considered unrealistically high by both IDA and HMC. In particuLar, the
maintenance methods proposed were considered too idealised, too centralized
and inappropriate to Nepali conditions. Although the need for an improved
information and maintenance management system remains, subsequent IDA mis-
sions recommended that the IDA should not press HMG to implement the consult-
ant's recommendations because:
(a) no effective cooperation between the consultants and the DOR
could be established;
(b) the maintenance systems recommended were those appropriate for
use in more developed countries, dissimilar in terrain and
climate from Nepal; and
(c) the systems proposed failed to build upon the existing methods
and budgetary systems being used by DOR.
4.46    The Five-Year Road Maintenance Program included in the Project for
Fiscal Years 1978-1982 covered estimates of funds for capital expenditures on
equipment and spare parts (mainly to be provided by foreign aid) and for
recurrent expenditures on labor, materials and equipment for maintenance
operations (mainly to be funded through domestic resources).
4.47    An estimate of actual road maintenance expenditures between FY1978
and FY1982 is given in Table 7. Government expenditures exceeded those in
the outline program and recorded a real average annual growth of 33% over the
period as compared to 13% in the appraisal estimate. Hopefully this quantum
increase in allocations, particularly since 1981, coupled with the growing
concern by HMG regarding road maintenance has been partly due to the atten-
tion directed to maintenance by the Second Highway Project. There is still
an urgent need to increase the routine maintenance budget (refer to Table 1),
however, as District Engineers find that at least double the average
per-kilometer budget provided is needed to carry out permanent surface
repairs satisfactorily. Some diversion of materials (e.g., bitumen) from



-16-
development projects has had to be made in order to provide adequate routine
maintenance resources.
4.48    A reorganization cf the DOR occurred in July 1982 which has
decentralized responsibilities for maintenance activities, construction
projects and workshop activities to the Regional Directorates. The new
organization structure is given in Chart 2 and consists of 5 Regions, 14
Zones and 75 Districts.
4.49    Road budgets, which had previously been given to the DOR and then
distributed to Regions, have now been given directly to the Zonal Engineers
who distribute funds to the Districts where fiscal control is exercised.
Generally the District Engineers are responsible for routine maintenance and
Zoral Engineers are responsible for periodic maintenance. The budget alloca-
tion and expenditure control system is still quite rigid, however, with the
usage of funds restricted to particular items, sometimes very tightly
defined, specified in the budget. An improved road maintenance management
system must therefore take this rigid budgeting system into account.
4.50    The performance of the various components of the Five-Year Road
Maintenance Program has been mixed. The supply of road maintenance equip-
ment, the major component of this program, was carried out successfully
within budget, although there was a delay of two years in procurement. The
use of this equipment has contributed significantly to raising the general
network roadway condition from fair/poor to fair. The construction of the
two workshops was also successfully carried out although three years late.
The technical assistance program, which was to have been a key factor in
coordinating the other components of the program, was not effectivet however,
and more assistance will be needed in the future. DOR did perform well in
achieving substantial budget increases for road maintenance as well as in
reorganizing the Department so that a national structure of Regions, Zones
and Districts throughout the country is now responsible for road maintenance
at well-defined levels. Overall, there is now a sound basis for long-term
improvements in road maintenance activities.
Consulting Services
(i) Feeder Road Consulting Services
4.51    A feasibility study of the Dang Valley road followed by detailed
engineering design was carried out by consultants, commencing in December
1975. The Feasibility Report was submitted in March 1976 and the Design
Report in November 1976. These studies were funded from allocations under
both the First and Second Highway Projects.
4.52    The feasibility study highlighted the need for a low-cost road
because of the low levels of traffic and resulting benefits expected and the
designs were prepared accordingly. The design consultant also assisted DOR
in supervising the work.



-17-
4.53    Extensions of time were necessary due to delays in construction and
these were approved progressively - to June 30, 1982; June 30, 1983; and,
finally, November 30, 1983. The major supervision work was carried out by
DOR Resident Engineers. The consultant's assistance focussed on reviewing
design changes, quality control, checking of financial estimates and the
training of Resident Engineers in all aspects of project monitoring and
control.
(ii) East-West Highway Consulting Services
4.54    A pre-feasibility study for this final section of the East-West
Highway in the Far Western region of Nepal was completed by consultants in
early 1978 and was financed by the IDA through the Second Highway Project.
The Second Highway Project also funded some of the feasibility study and
detailed engineering design work, but the UNDP with IDA a.Ling as Executing
Agency also p.articipated.
4.55    The original UNDP agreement (NEP/80/017/A/01/42-UNDP) for consulting
services, dated September 25, 1980, was for US$610,000 and NRs 200,000. It
was amended on Octobcr 28, 1982 to US$707,374 to cover additional feasibility
investigations on two alternative alignments for crossing the Karnali River.
4.56    The consultant's contract for the feasibility study and detailed
engineering was signed in November 1980, about two years later than
anticipated during appraisal. The final feasibility study report was issued
in March 1982 and final design reports and contract documents were submitted
in May 1982. The amendment to the Final Feasibility Report, covering align-
ment alternatives near the Karnali River, was submitted in January 1983.
(iii) Minor Technical Assistance
4.57    A report on the recommended pavement design and slope stability
measures for the Thankot-Naubise main highway, rehabilitated under this
credit, was prepared by consultants and submitted in January 1977. However
the detailed design, preparation of contract documents, tender evaluation and
construction supervision was carried out by the DOR.
4.58    A study of the proposed reconstruction and rehabilitation measures
for bridges between Kathmandu and Raxaul, the widening and pavement recon-
struction of the road link between Mugling and Naubise, and the reconstruc-
tion of the Bhainse-Birgunj section of the Rajpath was carried out by con-
sultants between February and May 1983 as part of preparatory work for the
Third Highway Project. Cost estimates and feasibility studies were prepared.
Funding for these consulting services was provided under the project.
4.59    Similarly, the Credit funded the consulting services for (1) the
design of the Kazaali Bridge on the East-West highway; (2) the refinement of
the economic feasibility study; and (3) the design review and tendering of



-18-
the four roadway contracts comprising the Kohalpur-Mahakali section of the
East-West Highway.
Training of Heavy Equipment Mechanics
4.60    Although the ILO was the Executing Agency for this component under
UNDP financing, its implementation is worthy of note because of the follow-up
training for heavy equipment operators which has now to be provided under the
Third Highway Loan.
4.61    The UNDP originally committed US$400,000 for technical assistance to
this program in Agreement No. NEP/79/019iA/01/11 of December 4, 1980. The
Government of Nepal committed a further NRs 1,485,000. IDA also promised an
additional US$250,000 for training aids. This agreement was subsequently
revised in March 1983 to increase the UNDP budget to US$720,380.
4.62    The UNDP technical assistance consisted of funds for adapting exist-
ing buildings to training purposes and for two expatriate training officers
to be assigned for 26 months each. These officers were expected to establish
a long-term training program for heavy equipment mechanics and to train
Nepali instructors to continue this program. The original program encom-
passed the training of nine instructors and 200 mechanics. The training
officers arrived in May and July 1981, but the Diesel Training Expert left
early, having completed only 14 months of his assignment. The second train-
ing officer left in January 1985.
4.63    Appreciable delays occurred.  The appraisal estimate envisaged the
training program to start at the beginning of 1978, but the training officers
arrived only in mid-1981, and the final items of training aids and equipment
were received just before the Credit closed. The first mechanics' training
program for nine trainees took place between December 1983 and June 1984, a
full six years behind schedule; a further 20 mechanics from DOR base and
subdivision workshops attended six-month upgrading courses from August 1984
to February 1985.
4.64    Despite the delays, the start has been encouraging.  It was found,
incidentally, that most DOR mechanics at level 11 or III (the groups from
which trainees are selected) have had no formal training, only 5-10 years of
practical workshop experience. This has necessitated the Training Officers
to revise the curricula and courses while they were in progress.
4.65    Government approval has recently been granted to convert this
Mechanical Training Division to a permanent entity with 28 full-time staff
and with senior staff consisting of one Division Engineer and two Assistant
Mechanical Engineers.



-19-
4.66    A failing of the project has been its inability to produce course
curricula, training aids, manuals, slides and instructional tapes in the
Nepali language, as originally planned. At present instructors must trans-
late all such material from English into Nepali during training courses.
4.67    Another problem encountered ha_. been the lack of depth in the number
of instructors trained. Two instructors have been well trained, as planned
but the training of a further eight instructors could not be carried out
because of the lack of available resource staff in the DOR. This has left
the program vulnerable to the departure of the few instructors.
Project Cost
4.68    The Appraisal Report estimated the total cost of the Project to be
US$20 million. This comprised the following:
Estimated Cost at Appraisal (US$ Millions)
Foreign       Local
Exchange     Currency      Total
Base Project Ccst                   11.13        3.73        14.86
Price Contingency                    1.85         1.40        3.25
Physical Contingency                 1.35        0.54         1.87
Total                               14.33        5.67        20.00
4.69    Actual project expenditure reached US$19.05 million, or US$0.95
million less than planned, by the end of June 1985. This includes about
US$0.84 million in unpaid commitments carried out after the credit closing
date of December 31, 1984.
4.70    The slight under expenditure was brought about by certain changes in
the physical content of the various components as well as by price movements.
The main reasons for divergence between planned and final cost for individual
components are discussed below. A graphical representation of the difference
between planned and actual cost and completion dates is shown in Chart 3 and
a summary of the cost data is contained in Table 8.
4.71    Category 1 - Feeder Road Construction and Workshops
US$ Million
Estimated Base Cost                                       3.17
Price Contingency                                         1.63
Total Estimated Cost at Appraisal                         4.80
Final Cost                                                5.09



-20-
The final cost of this component, at $5.09 million, is only 7% above the
appraisal estimate with price contingencies allowed for. The apparent over-
run of US$0.29 million had a number of contributing factors which are
described below.
4.72    The base contract amounts (without price contingencies) for the road
construction were only about 3% above the US$2.72 million allowed at
appraisal (refer to Table 2). Physical contingencies, valued at about US$0.6
million, absorbed some of the additional costs ot providing extra culverts
and retaining walls and for more extensive rock excavation than was
originally envisaged (para 4.15). The net effect was that, excluding price
escalation, the cost of the final road construction was nearly US$0.7 million
more than estimated. However, the actual amounts paid out in price escala-
tion, totalling about US$1.0 million, were about 30% less than the US$1.42
million anticipated at appraisal despite the delayed startup (November 1979
rather than November 1978) and the prolonged construction period (five years
rather than the three and one-half years originally scheduled). Price
escalation during the construction period was well under the 12% per annum
average annual rate allowed at appraisal. This occurred, to a large extent,
because the construction methods used were heavily labor based and the price
of labor rose only marginally during the construction period. As the cost of
the construction camp at Tulsipur and the maintenance workshops at Butwal and
Ithari was almost exactly as estimated, the US$0.4 million price contingency
for this item nearly offset the US$0.6 million additional cost of the road.
4.73    Category 2 - Main Road Improvement
US$ Million
Estimated Base Cost                       1.50
Price Contingencv                         0.37
Total Estimated Cost at Appraisal         1.87
Final Cost                                3.50
The final cost exceeded the appraisal estimate, inclusive of price contingen-
cies, by US$1.63 million or 83%. This was due almost exclusively to the
extensive redesign required during construction which resulted in additional
sub-base, earthworks and retaining wall quantities and to some extent by the
delays caused by the inefficient sequential working of contractors.



-21-
4.74    Category 3 - Construction and Maintenance Equipment Purchase
US$ Million
Estimated Base Cost                       7.95
Price Contingency                         0.79
Total Estimated Cost at Appraisal         8.74
Final Cost                                8.37
At US$8.37 million the final estimated cost of Category 3 items was only
US$0.37 (or about 4%) less than that budgeted at appraisal. The construction
equipment for the feeder road and the maintenance equipment purchased com-
ponent was virtually identical to that determined at appraisal.
4.75    The actual total cost of US$1.33 million for construction equipment
was only US$14,000 above the appraisal estimate inclusive of price contingen-
cies (refer to Table 4). This proximity to the estimated cost was obtained
despite the five month delay in the calling of tenders and the later delivery
dates.
4.76    The final cost of the maintenance equipment portion of this component
was US$6.99 million as compared to the US$7.42 million budgeted at appraisal.
As there were no changes in the composition of the equipment purchased, the
lower price increases which prevailed contributed to this minor under expen-
diture.
4.77    Category 4 - Consuitant Services
US$ Million
Estimated Base Cost                      1.44
Price Contingency                        0.26
Total Estimated Cost at Appraisal        1.70
Final Cost                               2.11
The final cost of US$2.11 million exceeded the Appraisal estimate (with price
contingencies) by only US$0.41 million.
4.78    Although under expenditure occurred due to (a) some of the feeder
road consultants' fees for feasibility and design being paid for under the
First Highway Project and (b) to UNDP paying for the East-West Highway
Feasibility Study and; design, this category was fully utilized because some
of the preparatory work for the Third Highway Project was paid for under this
category.



-22-
4.79    Category 5 - Mechanics' Training
US$ Million
Estimated Base Cost                     0.80
Price Contingency                       0.20
Total Estimated Cost at Appraisal       1.00
Final Cost                              0.16
The final cost of US$158,000 is US$0.84 million below the Appraisal provision
of US$1.0 miltion.
4.80    Actual expenditure through the credit was incurred only on the pur-
chase of training aids and other course materials as the UNDP financed the
technical assistance portion through a UD$720,000 allocation (refer to Sec-
tion III (b) (vi)) which had not been anticipated at Appraisal. The total
cost of all elements, including that covered by a NRs 1.5 million contribu-
tion by HMG, thus matched almost exactly the Appraisal estimate of cost.
,Project Schedule
4.81    The implementation of all loan components slipped to varying degrees
as indicated in Chart 3. This has necessitated a postponement of two years
(to December 31, 1984) of the Credit Closing Date.
4.82    A minor part of the slippage may be attributed to delays in Credit
signature and meeting conditions of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement.
However, most of the delay was due to both slow start-up and prolonged
implementation for all major components. The estimated and actual dates for
completion of various components are given in Table 9.
Project Disbursements
4.83    Chart 3 shows the cumulative planned and actual disbursements over
the life of the Project together with the planned and actual procurement
period for the individual loan categories. Table 10 shows actual quarterly
disbursements against appraisal estimates.
4.84    At Appraisal, disbursements were scheduled to commence during the
fourth quarter of calendar year 1977 at which time the construction contracts
(Category 1) and the consultant supervision services (Categorv 4) for the
feeder road project were to commence. Although minor delays can be



-23-
attributed to the five-month period taken to have the credit declared effec-
tive, the protracted disbursement period can be attributed primarily to
substantial delays in implementation as described in paras 4.4-4.11 above but
also to late start-ups for all components.
4.85    For various reasons the start up of the feeder road and main road
construction was delayed by about six months. The procurement of road main-
tenance equipment also was delayed by nearly six months (para 4.4, Table 6).
Disbursements for the feeder road component extended over a nearly five-year
period compared to the four-year period planned, for the main road it
extended over four and one-half years as compared to the planned two years
and the procurement of maintenance equipment lasted for nearly six years
compared to the approximately two years planned.
4.86    There was little indication found of significant delays between the
submission of withdrawal applications by HMG and payment by the IDA. This
factor, therefore, did not contribute to the the extended disbursement
period.
4.87    With payment of withdrawal application 422 in August 1985, the Credit
amount of US$17.0 million was completely disbursed.
Conditions and Covenants
4.88    Most covenants in the Credit Agreement, as described in detail in
Table 11, have been fulfilled. The principal ones which were necessary to
ensure that the economic benefits anticipated from the Project were to be
realised (such as compliance with the Outline Five-Year Maintenance Program,
the commencement of a complementary agricultural investment program for the
Dang Valley and appropriate low cost design standards for the two road
improvement projects) have been complied with.
Performance of Consultants
4.89    The feasibility and engineering studies which prepared the project
feeder road for appraisal were competently carried out by the Canadian firm
selected. During the implementation phase the consultant's field staff went
beyond the terms of reference in providing a great deal of practical assis-
tance to the small-scale contractors who were unfamiliar with working to
specification under quality control.
4.90    The consultants involved with the preparation of the East-West High-
way studies also performed satisfactorily. The engineering and economic
studies carried out were appraised as the principal component of the Third
Highway Project, approved by the Executive Directors as Credit 1515-NEP.



-24-
Performance of Contractors
(i) Feeder Road Construction
4.91    Contractors' performance was mixed.  All contracts took longer to
complete than anticipated, but much of the delay could fairly be attributed
elsewhere. For example, there were shortages of diesel fuel, cement, rein-
forcing steel and explosives during the first year (para 4.7). Also, the
construction equipment purchased specifically for DOR to [ease to the con-
tractors arrived nearly two years late (para 4.25) which delayed programs
for these contractors who had an interest in using it. Another factor was
the recurring delay on the part of DOR in making payments to contractors.
Small firms with little capital did not have the financial resources to
continue working for extended periods without payment.
4.92    On the whole, however, the quality of workmanship was satisfactory.
The participation of these small firms in works when quality control has been
firmly exercised has been beneficial to all concerned.
(ii) Main Highway Improvement
4.93    The contract formulation of this component was such as to frustrate
contractors' efficient operations. Instead of having responsibility for all
the reconstruction works in one linear section of the road, the contractor
was engaged to build only particular structural layers, and thus the work as
whole was performed sequentially. One contractor, for example, was given
earthworks and sub-base to build and another was given base course and sur-
facing. Thus, delays incurred in the first contract carried forward to the
second and the whole process lent itself to contractual claims through delay
and frustration. Quality of work was often unsatisfactory and involved
recriminations between contractors. Bank supervision missions expressed
serious concern at the lack of compliance with specifications and the threat
of withholding disbursements was needed to ensure that acceptable quality of
workmanship was restored. The contractors were also delayed by the slow
processing of progress payments by DOR and the difficulties of half-width
working with the road under traffic.
4.94    Under normal contracting procedures for road works the contractors
concerned could well have performed better.
Performance of Suppliers
4.95    Even given the isolation of Nepal from traditional sources of
road-making equipment, the time taken from contract award in June 1978 to
delivery on site during 1980 of some items appears excessive. Records do not
reveal the reason for the delays although the transit from the normal port of
entry, Calcutta, to Kathmandu is known to be time-consuming.



-25-
V. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
5.1     For the Second Highway Project IDA dealt almost exclusively with DOR,
a branch of the Ministry of Works and Transport (MWT). However, HMC's formal
representative was the Secretary, Ministry of Finance, and matters relating
to the conduct of the Credit were referred to him.
5.2     The Project as appraised concentrated on upgrading the institutional
maintenance capability of the DOR by procuring maintenance equipment, train-
ing heavy equipment mechanics. arranging for technical assistance and ensur-
ing that maintenance budgets were adequate. Later, during implementation,
attention was given to DOR's operational procedures such as the establishment
and routine updating of a road inventory, traffic surveys, improving planning
practices and the introduction of computers for data storage and processing.
5.3     IDA Supervision Mission reports emphasized the slow process of deci-
sion making within the DOR and the MWT which contributed appreciably to
delays in implementing the Project. This problem applied particularly to
procurement matters. The main cause of delay appears to be the highly
stratified evaluation process which requires excessive time to reach a deci-
sion acceptable to all. This delay could be greatly reduced by delegating
responsibility from the MWT to the DOR Chief Engineer and, if necessary, from
the Chief Engineer to the various Regional Managers (who are generally suffi-
ciently technically competent to make such decisions).
5.4     Although the Government of Nepal did decentralize much of the deci-
sion making from Kathmandu to the various regions and districts, and the DOR
implemented a revised organization (refer to Chart 2) which emphasized
regional developments, little progress was observed in the delegation of
responsibility from the MWT to the DOR and within the DOR headquarters in
Kathmandu. The implementation of future IDA projects must take account of
these foreseeable delays if the present lengthy procedures cannot be
short-circuited.
5.5     The Project setved to promote the development of the road maintenance
capability of the DOR. This was accomplished primarily through the effective
doubling of existing maintenance equipment. The average road condition has
been seen to improve due to this increased capability for equipment-intensive
maintenance. Less success was apparent in upgrading personnel skills as the
ILO/UNDP heavy equipment mechanic training was less effective than originally
planned. In addition there has been very little lasting impact from the CIDA
funded technical assistance on maintenance undertakings.
5.6     IDA agreed to a request from DOR for the Department to design, manage
and supervise contractors on the Thankot-Naubise highway improvement. It was
argued that this work would enhance DOR's capabilities in this field.
However, weaknesses in DOR's organization became apparent during the
implementation of this component and the involvement of IDA Missions was



-26-
required to ensure that the work was completed to acceptable standards. It
is likely that some strengthening in the Department's technical and manage-
ment capability did, however, result.
5.7     The Project formulation was devised to involve Nepali contractors in
the construction phase. Considerable difficulties were experienced on at
least half of all contracts. However, the training and demonstration
afforded by the consultant during construction of the feeder road in par-
ticular was beneficial to many of the participating contractors and this has
contributed to the strengthening of the local construction industry.
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
(a) Background
6.1     During appraisal economic benefits were quantified for the following
three Project components:
-   Dang Valley feeder road construction
-   Thankot-Naubise main road upgrading
-   Road Maintenance Program
These elements were estimated to account for approximately 85% of the total
Project cost. The weighted average economic return for the entire Project
was estimated to be 28% at appraisal.
6.2     The remaining component, that which covered consulting services, was
partly represented in the economic evaluation for the Feeder Road as the cost
of supervision was included in the construction costs used in the analysis.
The remaining consulting services provided for the feasibility study of the
East-West Highway, for which construction will be funded partly through the
Third Highway Loan, and for engineering investigations of the Thankot-Naubise
road.
(b) The Dang Valley Feeder Road
(i) Summary of Appraisal Evaluation
6.3     The objective of this Project component was to provide improved
access to the Dang Valley, one of the largest in the Inner Terai. The val-
ley, covering about 60,000 hectares and a population at appraisal of more
than 100,000 people (with a further 500,000 in the hinterland to the north)
was reached only by two dry season tracks from the East-West Highway; one
leading from Amile to the valley town of Tulsipur and the other connecting
the highway at Lamahai to Ghorahi. A valley track also connected Tulsipur
and Ghorahi (refer to Map 2).



-27-
6.4     The valley was assessed as being of moderate to good fertility with
traditional crops including rice, maize, wheat and oil (mustard seed).
Surpluses of these crops were already being exported to the hill region to
the north as well as to India.
6.5     Because of the poor condition of the existing tracks motorized traf-
fic volumes were extremely low at the time of appraisal (refer to Table 12).
Much of the movement of goods, particularly during the monsoon season of July
through September, was accomplished by porter and pack animal.
6.6     Feasibility studies undertaken by the feeder road consultant prior to
appraisal concluded that the most economic solution to providing sig-
nificantly improved access to the valley was to construct the 48.5 km
Lamahi-Ghorahi-Tulsipur link to an all weather gravel surface standard with a
five meter carriageway width. The major quantifiable benefits predicted to
result from this improvement were to be realized through lower transport user
costs from normal traffic and that diverted from other links or modes (i.e,
porter traffic to vehicles) and through the value added of increased agricul-
tural production within the valley. The latter benefit source was estimated
to contribute about 85% of the total benefits.
6.7     With construction completion scheduled for 1981 it was estimated that
the improvement would yield an economic return of about 30%. This return,
however, was contingent upon the introduction of a minimum complementary
package of agricultural extension services. Without such services the
economic return was estimated to reach only 13%.
(ii) Reevaluation
6.8     The following is a synopsis of the economic reevaluation.  Because of
the many factors involved in the analysis the details of the reevaluation
have been described in Annex A of this Report.
6.9     In order to bring up to date the assessment of transport user cost
savings, vehicle operating costs were reestimated. In addition roadside
counts of both motorized and non-motorized traffic were conducted in March
1985, two years after the road had been completed. A summary of the 1985
counts is shown in Table 12 which compares actual traffic to that estimated
at appraisal.
6.10    Measured traffic on the Lamahi-Ghorahi section was actually about 30%
greater in 1985 than that forecast at appraisal. On the Ghorahi-Tulsipur
section the actual was 23% greater than that forecast. The proportion of
heavy vehicles on the two links varied between 70% and 83% which was not far
off the appraisal estimate.
6.11    Transport user cost savings resulting from the improvement have been
estimated in such a way so as not to double count benefits which might be
quantified through the estimate of agricultural producer surplus (see below).



-28-
This implies that only benefits attributable to "normal" traffic and
"diverted" traffic (both link and mode) should be included here. The benefit
stream attributed to such road user cost savings is shown in Table 14.
6.12    At appraisal the agricultural benefits estimated to accrue due to the
road construction represented a full 85% of total benefits. In that analysis
the only complementary agricultt'ral investment considered was a minimum
package of improved extension services for rice production with an estimated
cost of NRs 4.6 million. It was noted, however, that a comprehensive rural
development project for the entire Rapti Region, including the Dang Valley,
was under preparation and was scheduled to begin in 1979/80.
6.13    Implementation of the USAID supported Rapti Integrated Rural Develop-
ment Project (RIRDP) actually began in 1980 at which time a total of NRs 475
million was budgeted for the scheme. However progress to date on the project
has been slower than anticipated. Indeed, by mid-1984 only about NRS 110
million had been spent of which just over NRs 50 million was related to
agricultural improvements within the entire Rapti Region. While there
remains an unspent balance for further agricultural support within the RIRDP
program of over NRs 200 million it is likely that only a portion of this will
actuaLly be spent as the current commitment to the project by USAID h-s been
extended for only one to two more years.
6.14    The benefits estimated to accrue in the form of increased agriculture
production are indicated in Table 14. Also shown are the streams of sup-
plementary agricultural investment, capital construction cost of the feeder
road and the additional road maintenance costs associated with the new
construction.
6.15    The internal rate of return computed for the economic reevaluation of
the combined road construction/agricultural investment is 37.7% or about 8%
greater than that estimated at appraisal. The net present value has been
reestimated at NRs 247.8 million with a 10% discount rate, and at NRs 210.4
million with a 12,^ factor.  It is noted that the capital expenditure on the
feeder road has been estimated at 60% of the total combined investment.
6.16    In the reestimation the share of total benefits contributed by
increased agricultural production is about 85%, or a similar proportion as
that estimated at appraisal. The somewhat greater rate of return presently
estimated is due to the larger than anticipated level of economic activity
stimulated by the greater agricultural investment (see Annex A for more
details).
(c) The Thankot-Naubise Main Road
(i) Appraisal Summary
6.17    This component was aimed at improving, through carriageway widening,
pavement reconstruction and slope stabilization, the 17.5 km Thankot-Naubise



-29-
road. This vital link, commencing at the western edge of the Kathmandu
Valley and traversing mostly mountainous terrain, is part of the only land
connection between Kathmandu and the remainder of Nepal as well as India
(refer to Maps 1 and 2).
6.18    At appraisal the road surface was in very poor condition with indica-
tions of complete pavement failure at many locations. The narrow pavement
width of 3.5 meters throughout most of the length restricted the passing of
vehicles and contributed to both excessive travel times and a high incidence
of accidents. During the monsoon season the occurrence of landslides which
would block the road for several days, and hence isolate Kathmandu, was not
uncommon.
6.19    Traffic on the link at appraisal exceeded 300 vehicles per day of
which more than 80% were trucks and buses. It was estimated that traffic
would grow at an average annual rate of 5% for the initial ten years after
the improvement was complete (i.e., from 1980) and thereafter remain constant
to reflect the possibility of an alternate major route between the Kathmandu
Valley and the Terai being built.
6.20    It was concluded that the optimum solution given budget constraints
was to widen the carriageway to 6.5 m throughout, reconstruct the pavement
and take measures to improve slope stability where practical. Benefits were
estimated to accrue from road user cost savings, which would be realized
through a smoother pavement, greater volume capacity and fewer delays, as
well as through savings in emergency maintenance and resurfacing activities.
The estimated cost of this work was US$1.9 million and the economic return
was estimated at 14%.
(ii) Reevaluation
6.21    Revised traffic forecasts were developed from data gathered by the
DOR through surveys conducted in February 1983 and March 1985. The results
of these surveys are shown in Table 12 together with the traffic forecast
prepared at appraisal. Traffic forecasts up to the year 2000 are shown in
Table 15 which contains the reestimate of benefit and cost flows for the road
improvement.
6.22    Traffic increased at a rate of more than 11% per annum between 1976
and 1983 and has topped the 12% per annum mark since 1983. For reevaluation
the following assumptions regarding future traffic growth were made:
(1) From 1985 to 1990 the growth rate will gradually drop off from its
current level to an annual rate of 6.5%. This is the medium term
rate employed in the IBRD Staff Appraisal Report for the Third
Highway Project.
(2) From 1990 until 1995 this rate of 6.5% will maintain but will
decline to 5% per annum beyond 1995.



-30-
(3) There will be no halt in traffic growth over the 15 year analysis
period. As noted above the Appraisal Report assumed an end to
traffic growth after 1988 to reflect the possibility of an
alternative route between Kathmandu and the south and west being
constructed by that time. There is little likelihood of such an
alternative being available within the analysis period despite
recent interest exhibited by the Japanese Government in developing
such a link.
6.23    A more detailed evaluation methodology compared to that used at
appraisal was employed to reestimate the economic benefits resulting from the
investment. At appraisal total road user cost savings were approximated by
the difference in vehicle operating costs between a gravel and paved road
surface. This was assumed to account for benefits arising from improving
the road surface, widening the carriageway and eliminating traffic delays due
to road closure caused by landslips. In the reevaluation these three com-
ponents were examined separately.
6.24    Other benefits, such as those from savings in resurfacing costs as
well as those from the reduction in emergency clearing of landslips and the
repair of damaged pavement from same, were calculated in a similar manner to
that used at appraisal. The costs of these operations, however, were updated
following discussions with DOR officials. At this time it was also confirmed
that no significant landslips had occurred along the road section since
upgrading.
6.25    The construction and engineering costs used in the reevaluation were
based upon actual costs incurred, adjusted to exclude transfer payments. The
costs and intervals of post-improvement routine and periodic maintenance were
also updated based upon DOR information.
6.26    The benefit and cost flows from the reevaluation are shown in
Table 15. The internal rate of return has been calculated at 15.7% and the
net present value, computed at 10% and 12%, is US$15.0 million and US$8.0
million, respectively. A separate calculation of benefits was also carried
out using the methodology followed at appraisal. This resulted in an inter-
nal rate of return of about 18%.
6.27    In summary, the far higher construction costs encountered (para 4.73)
were offset by higher benefits due to traffic growth rates which were much
greater than foreseen at appraisal. The net effect was to render the rees-
timated economic return virtually identical to the appraisal estimate.



-31-
(d) The Road Maintenance Program
(i) Summary of Appraisal Evaluation
6.28    This component of the Project was aimed at achieving an adequate
standard of maintenance on both the existing road network and the planned
expansion to the network. This was to be brought about through the purchase
of maintenance equipment, spare parts, tools and workshops, the training of
mechanics and the provision of technical assistance for maintenance program-
ming and operations.
6.29    At appraisal it was estimated that the DOR had full responsibility
for the maintenance of 2,700 km of roads throughout Nepal. With the network
expanding at an estimated rate of more than 12% per year, it was anticipated
that by 1982, 4,300 km would be under DOR care.
6.30    Benefits from the Road Maintenance Program were assumed to accrue
from three main sources: (1) savings from the deferment of future recon-
struction; (2) savings in road user costs due to improved road conditions
over the network; and (3) savings in future maintenance costs. In the
benefit-cost evaluation, however, only the road user cost savings were quan-
tified. These savings were estimated for paved, gravel and earth roads over
an eight-year period - the interval selected to approximate the expected life
of the equipment.
6.31    Because of the broad nature of this Project component the estimation
of benefits was necessarily done in a crude fashion. A growth rate in total
annual vehicle kilometers for the entire community was derived from trends
in vehicle registrations and motor fuel consumption. The traffic levels
forecast were applied to both the "without project" case, which assumed a
slow increase in unit user costs, and the "with project" case, which assumed
a gradual reduction. Although the rates of change in user costs were not
explicitly stated within the Appraisal Report, through the use of the vehicle
registration traffic, road network and vehicle operating cost data available
to the Appraisal Mission it has been possible to ascertain that the user cost
benefits used in the appraisal evaluation were derived under the following
assumptions:
(1) For paved roads, user cost savings amounted to about 1.5% in
the first year and increased by a further 1.5% per year in each
subsequent year.
(2) For gravel roads, user cost savings amounted to about 4% in the
first year and increased by a further 4% in each subsequent year.
(3) For earth roads, user cost savings amounted to about 6% in the
first year and increased by a further 6% in each subsequent year.



-32-
6.32    Project costs comprised additional recurrent expenditures directly
related to the Road Maintenance Program as well as the estimated capital cost
of the Program. The latter included both those elements funded through the
Second Highway Loan and those financed by CIDA, the UNDP and HMC.
6.33    The economic rate of return for the Program was estimated at 30%
under base assumptions. Under the most pessimistic assumptions, benefits
reduced by 20% and costs increased by 20%, the return was still estimated at
an acceptable rate of 12%.
(ii) Reevaluation
6.34    A methodology similar to that used at appraisal was adopted for
reevaluation. The analysis, however, differs in the following ways:
(1) Updated information regarding traffic, road Lengths maintained and
vehicle operating costs have been used. For traffic over the entire
road system, DOR vehicle counts on approximately 1,900 km of the
2,500 km paved road network were employed as a sample and were
weighted by road section length (this data for the major links
is summarized in Map 3). For the gravel and earth road networks
maintained by the DOR, average traffic levels of 100 AADT and
25 AADT were assumed, respectively, following a review of the
limited existing data and from discussions with DOR engineers.
An overall traffic growth rate of 6.5% per annum was assumed
throughout the study period and this is based upon recent
consultants reports and the Appraisal Report. for the Third
Highways Loan. Road lengths for each service type were taken
from the DOR survey of 1983. Vehicle operating costs were
updated and are shown in Table 13.
(2) Actual capital costs and updated recurrent costs have been used.
An estimate of the cost of the CIDA technical assistance component
and the ILO maintenance training component was made and included
in the capital costs. The recurrent costs directly related to the
Program were taken from the Appraisal Report and inflated to 1983
prices. These were then compared to the actual DOR recurrent
maintenance expenditure and found to be reasonable.
(3) The effective period of the Program has been changed to reflect
actual implementation. In particular the benefit stream commences
in 1980 rather than 1978 as assumed in the Appraisal Report.
(4) The benefits ascribed to the Program have been reduced by one-third
to reflect the lack of success encountered in implementing the
technical assistance component and the delays in establishing and
making operational the mechanics' training program (para. 4.63)
This reduction is based upon observation and discussions
with senior DOR officials.



-33-
(5) The base year for the reevaluation was taken to be 1983 and all
benefits and costs were adjusted accordingly.
6.35    The benefit and cost flows from the reevaluation are shown in
Table 16. The Internal Rate of Return has been calculated at 32.9% and the
net present value, computed at both 10% and 12%, is NRs 123.5 million and
NRs 99.4 million, respectively.
6.36    In summary, the rate of return calculated at reevaluation is just
marginally higher than that estimated at appraisal. This return was made
possible, despite the difficulties encountered in the implementation of
certain components, by the greater than anticipated traffic growth rates
which produced greater road user savings.
(e) Overall Conclusion
6.37    Table 17 provides a summary of the economic analysis for the Project
as a whole. As overall internal rate of return of 32.2% has been estimated
which compares very closely to the 28% estimated at appraisal. A net present
value of NRs 373.9 million at a discount rate of 10% and NRs 202.2 million at
a 12% rate has also been calculated. This, however, includes benefits from
the complementary agricultural investment on the feeder road and, though of a
lesser magnitude, the investment by UNDP/ILO and CIDA in the road maintenance
component.
VII. ROLE OF IDA
7.1     The preparation of the Project took a considerable amount of time
from it's inception in 1971, until Board approval in July, 1977. Part of the
delay was directly attributable to the IDA's difficulties with the initial
UNDP feeder road feasibility study as the project focussed initially on these
feeder roads. Delay associated with the performance of other aid agencies in
providing information and in implementation of their components is a sig-
nificant feature of this project and indicates that IDA could have been more
fully involved in all aspects of project preparation and implementation.
7.2     The formulation of the Project, although time consuming, permitted
a more mature choice of project components. The selection of the Dang Valley
feeder road and the emphasis on complementary agricultural investments was
sound as it is now evident that the construction of the road has stimulated
rapid economic development in this previously inaccessible region. The
stress on appropriate design standards for this road and the actual achieve-
ment of this goal ensured that benefits were commensurate with costs.
Similarly the emphasis on supplying equipment and technical assistance for
road maintenance was sound as well as being cost-effective. Moreover, the
inclusion of technical assistance has allowed the preparation of the Third
Highway Project to proceed smoothly.



-34-
7.3     The two main problems identified in project formulation were:
(1) The inclusion of a main highway link at the last moment, without
sufficient preparation and analysis, and entrusting implementation
to an ill-prepared DOR, created difficulties. This component was
proposed by DOR only during the Appraisal Mission in November 1976.
Responsibility for finalizing the designs and cost estimates for
inclusion in the Appraisal Report was entrusted to DOR. This
late decision was ill-advised as the design, cost estimates and
preparation of bidding documents were inadequate. They resulted
in the need for substantial redesign, a doubling of costs over
the initial estimates, and considerable claims by the contractors.
(2) The dependence of certain components in the Project on other aid
agencies. The lack of direct IDA control over the mechanics'
training component and technical assistance for maintenance
activities led to delays and less than satisfactory performance.
7.4     Supervision of the Project was intensive, with an average of three
missions per year over the extended loan period of seven years. Supervision
requirements were high due to the involvement of other aid agencies (USAID,
UNDP/ILO, CIDA) and the problems resulting from allowing direct management of
the main highway improvement component by the DOR.
7.5     Implementation was very slow but, except for the two problems in
formulation described above, there was little that the IDA could have done
to improve this situation without committing even more supervision effort to
the Project. The Project was altered little by the Borrower or the IDA
during implementation.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.1     Although completion of most components of the Project and disburse-
ments of the credit were delayed by about two years, the project's overall
objectives as identified at appraisal were generally realized.
8.2     The most successful of the components was the provision of a low cost
feeder road to open up a previously inaccessible but fertile valley in the
Far Western Development Region of Nepal. The timing of this road construc-
tion was good es it preceded a major rural development scheme in the Region.
IDA maintained a strict brief on keeping the cost of this road commensurate
with benefits and fostered interest in complementary agricultural investment
which USAID assumed. This enhanced considerably the effectiveness of the
road component.
8.3     The economic benefits of the feeder road to the 110,000 people living
in the Dang Valley have been substantial. Major contributing factors have
been the cheaper cost of imported goods, the higher farmgate prices for
agricultural products, the increased agricultural production and a general



-35-
opening up of the valley to the outside monetary economy. Traffic on the
road has risen from a dry season level of about 10 ADT in 1976 to over 100 in
1985 and the estimated rate of return of nearly 38% is significantly higher
than that envisaged at appraisal. There are now good grounds for upgrading
the road with a bituminous surface.
8.4     The second major component of the Project involved upgrading the road
maintenance capabilities of the DUR. Here, the performance was mixed. The
supply of maintenance equipment, which effectively doubled the equipment
resources available to the DOR, was beneficiaL and resulted in improved road
network condition - thereby producing substantial road user savings. The
re-estimated rate of return from this component of 33% is also somewhat
higher than the 30% estimated at appraisal.
8.5     The improvement of personnel skills and organizational practices
through the maintenance component was not, however, as effective as
anticipated. The training of only two instructors and 29 mechanics was far
less than that planned (9 instructors and 200 mechanics), and this training
was completed about four years later than scheduled. The technical assis-
tance for establishing a maintenance management system also was not effective
and more effort wilL need to be devoted in the future to develop
cost-effective maintenance practices in a simple maintenance management
system.
8.6     The value of the third major component, the main highway between
Thankot and Naubise, has been proved in recent years as traffic levels have
doubled from ADT levels at appraisal of 400 to about 850 at the present time.
The previous single-lane highway would by now have presented a serious
bottleneck in this main entry to the Kathmandu Valley, which is the major
economic entity in the Nepali economy. Lessons should be learned, however,
from the difficulties experienced in the formulation and implementation of
this component.
8.7     With hindsight, IDA ought to have made some allowance, by an extended
period of project implementation, for the problems likely to arise from the
employment of local contractors unfamiliar with mechanised construction
procedures, and the requirement for them to work to specification. However,
the problems arising from the unassisted efforts of DOR to prepare adequate
designs for the main road component would have been more difficult to
anticipate without more intensive project preparation and early supervision
missions by Bank staff.
8.8     The overall economic return re-estimated for the Project as a whole
is in excess of 32%, comparing favorably with the 28% return anticipated at
Appraisal.
8.9     Some problems were experienced during the course of the Project with
effective implementation being dependent upon other aid agencies for their
technical assistance input. The cost of the Technical Assistance provided by



-36-
other agencies (US$1.5 to US$2.0 million) was not high compared to both the
credit amount of US$17 million and the benefits from improved implementation
which are likely to have resulted had control been centralized with IDA.
8.10    As in the First Highway Project, there were again serious delays in
implementation, suggesting that HMG's difficulties in decision-making must
be recognized in future projects. Certainly, Appraisal Reports have, in the
past, greatly underestimated the difficulties in meeting agreed construction
programs and disbursement schedules in Nepal.



-37-                       Annex 1
Page 1 of 5
FEEDER ROAD ANALYSIS
This Annex provides details of the reestimate of economic benefits
resulting from the construction of the Dang Valley Feeder Road which is
covered in Section V (b) of this Report. For the most part the reestimate
follows the methodology contained in the 1976 report "Mahendra Rajtarg -
Tulsipur Road Project Review of Feasibility Study" by the consultants N.D.
Lea & Associates.
a) Road User Cost Savings
Traffic counts we-re carried out by the DoR in March 1985 at four locations
along the Project road. The results of the survey are shown in Table 12
which c'ompares tihe measured volumes to those forecast in the feasibility
report of 1976.
Actual traffic was assessed as being between 20% and 30% greater than that
originally forecast although the proportion of heavy vehicles observed is
approximately that anticipated. For the purpose of quantifying road user
savings adjustments were made to the observed traffic. The results of the
1982/83 12 month survey were used to adjust the dry season traffic
(observed during the March 1985 counts) to Average Annual Daily Traffic
(AADT).    In the  1982/83 dry season traffic was 39X greater than the AADT
but  work  on  the  feeder road had not been fully completed at the time of
the  survey.    For  the  purpose of adjustment, therefore, we have assumed
that dry season traffic is 252 greater than the current AADT.
Road user cost savings benefits have been reestimated using the revised
base traffic volumes, an updated traffic growth rate of 12% per annum
(which is based upon observations of long term trends in other parts of
Nepal and confirmed by the average growth rate observed between 1983 and
1985 along the route) and amended vehicle operating costs (refer to Table
13).    Only  user  cost savings attributable to "normal" and both link and
mode diverted traffic have been included as the apparent benefits which
accrue to other agricultural traffic (generated) have been estimated
through the producers' surplus approach described below.
For purposes of the analysis "normal" traffic has been assumed to be 502
of  observed  traffic.    "Diverted'  traffic  and "generated" agricultural
traffic  have  been  assumed  at  25%  each.   This split is based upon the
forecasts made in the feasibility study and has been validated through
observations during the traffic surveys and through comparisons with
agricultural  production  estimates.    For  simplicity  there  has been no
non-agricutural "generated" traffic assumed.
The road user savings benefits for "diverted" traffic have been taken at
50S of that allowed for "normal' traffic. The benefit stream for road
user cost savings is shown in Table 14.



-38-                        Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
b) Agricultural Benefits
It is important. that benefits which are attributable to supplementary
agricultural  investment  are not mistakenly allocated to the highway.   In
cases such as the present one, where the road and agricultural investments
are truly complimentary It is possible to AccoMplish this by including the
cost of the non-road Investment in the co't-benefit analysis.
Using the RIRDP annual progress report (1983-1984), and from discussions
with USAID officials concerning the future of the scheme, we have
estimated   the  complimentary  agricultural  expenditure  which  has  been
applied  to  the  Project  Area.    Out of the approximately NRs 40 million
which  has  been  spent in the Region thus far on undertakings speciflcally
directed at agricultural improvement we have assumed that NRs 26 million,
or   about  60%  of  the  total,  has  been  aimed  at  the  Project  Area.
Furthermore we have assumed that for the 1984/85 and 1985/86 fiscal years
a  similiar  level  of  expenditure  as  that  achieved  in 1983/84 will be
forthcoming.    This, is based upon the current outlook for continuation of
USAID invo!vement in the RIRDP.
In order to guage the extent of the agricultural benefits we have examined
the four main crops of paddy, maize, wheat and oilseed (mustard). The
results of our analysis are shown in Tables A-1 through A-4.
Data concerning the various cropped areas within the Project area were
provided by USAID and is based upon the LRMP air photo survey recently
carried   out  through  the  RIRDP.    This  was  also  compared  with  the
"Preliminary   Statistien  of  Production"  published  by  the  Agicultural
Statistics Branch of the Ministry of Agriculttre in order to confirm the
assumptions.   Data on crop yields through both "improved" and "unimproved"
procedures were taken from the "Pre-Production Verification Trials in
Rapti Zone", carried out on behalf of the Project Coordinator's Office for
the  RIRDP.    Production costs and prices have been provided through USAID
and the RIRDP consultant - PADCO.
In order to simplify the analyses the following assumptions were made:
1)   The  value  of  the  agricultural  benefits  have been
estimated as the difference in production (net value
added) between the "with" and "without" Project road
cases.    It  has  been  assumed  that this additional
production is an exportable surplus and may thus be
valued at the prevailing farmgate prices.
2)   Only  benefits  from  increased production of the four
main crops of paddy, maize, wheat and oilseed were
quantified.    It is noted that during the feasibility
study these were assumed to contribute about 95% of
all agricultural benefits. The reltive importance of
these   crops  were  reconfirmed  with  RIRDP  project
personnel during the preparation of the PCR.



Annex I
Page 3 oJ 5
3)   No  quantification  of  the net agricultural transport
revenue or the net Increase tn agricultural transport
costs was carried out as It was judged that these
benefit and cost streams would nearly cancel out.
c) Reevaluation SuumarZ
A   summary   of  the ,analysis  for  the  complimentary  road/agricultural
Investment is shown in Table 14. The internal rate of return has been
computed at 37.72 or nearly 82 above the 302 estimated at Appraisal. The
net present value of the combined investment has been estimated at NRs
274.8  million   with a discount rate of 102 and at NRs 210.4 million  with
a  12  2  discount  factor.    It is noted that the share of total benefits
contributed through increased agricultural production is approximately
equal to the 852 estimated at Appraisal.
The hither economic return is attributed primarily to the greater than
anticipated level of economic activity. In particular traffic levels and
agricultural production are significantly higher than that forecast at
Appraisal.    It  is  likely  that  the  greater  than planned agricultural
investment contributed signicantly to this outcome.
For   the   most  part  the  economic  return  estimated  here  is  on  the
conservative  slde.    Indeed there is reason to believe that the impact of
the  feeder  road  on  the Dang Valley and surrounding areas is far greater
than  initially  envisaged.    An  indication  of  this impact was gathered
during a site visit made in March 1985, during the preparation of this
Completion Report. This is described in the following section.
d) Site Vlsit Report
These notes describe the findings of a site visit made in March 1985 and
provide some qualitative information to supplement the economic evaluation
described above.
All people interviewed in Dang commented on the large beneficial efforts
of the new road and the improved standard of living. A great many
complimentary investments in infrastructure and agriculture which have
already taken place or are planned. These are described below:
(1) Construction of further feeder roads which link to the Lamahl-
Ghorahi-Tulsipur  Road.    The budgets for the 1984/85 fiscal year
for these roads were:
-    Tulsipur   to  Amile  -  NRs  1.5  million  (for
gravelling from Tulsipur to the southern end of
the valley);
-    Lanahi to Koilabes - NRs 1.0 million;
-    Tulsipur  and  Ghorahi  city  streets  - NRs 0.6
million;



Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
-40-
Tulsipur  to  Sallyan,  Ghorahl  to  Piuthan and
Chachuke  to  Liwang.    All  are USAID financed
vwth. NRs 25.0 million being spent during the
past  two  years  and  a further NRs 8.5 million
anticipated for the next budget year.
The  alm  of  the  USAID financing of these three roads, comprising 200
ka, is to provide dry season access from hill centres to Tulsipur and
Chorahi.     USAID,  however,  is  financing  a  feasibility  study  to
determine whether further upgrading is required;
2) Electricity is now available in Ghorahi (supplied from India) and will
be extended to Tulsipur during the next year. Tvo large cinemas are
under construction in Ghorahi;
3) The Rapti Integrated Rural Development Project, with an initial total
budget of NRs '475 million over five years, was approved subsequent to
commencement  of' construction  on  the  road.   Although only NRs 60.0
million was spent in the first three years it is believed that the
rate of Implementation has increased during the past year. Although
the USAID committment is, at present, only for a further twelve months
it is possible that the scheme could continue beyond that time;
4)  Godowns   for   storage  of  seeds  and  fertilizer  have  been  built.
Extension work has been carried out in agrlculture, horticulture,
forestry,   education   and   livestock.    Ground  water  studies  for
irrigation are also now proceeding;
5) The construction of the paved section of the East-West Highway between
Nepalgunj and Butwal/Bhairawa is now virtually completed. The road
section vas opened in sections in 1983 and 1984 and paving is now
complete.   Although there is presently year round access to Nepalgunj,
the highway to Kathmandu and Eastern Nepal is virtually closed for
five months of the year, in the monsoon season, due to the absence of
a  bridge  over  the  Rapti  River.    Although  a ferry can take light
traffic during this season the effect of the completed road on wet
season traffic will only become apparent during the next monsoon when
the bridge construction will be completed.
The observed benefits from the road construction are as follows:
1) On both the Tulsipur-Ghorahi and Lamahi-Ghorahi sections travel times
were reduced from five hours previously, to less than one hour at
present.
2) Access to the Dang Valley is now possible throughout the entire year
rather than half the year as before.
3) The Dang Valley is now connected to the monetary economy of the rest
of  Nepal  and  India.   This has resulted in imported goods (kerosene,
diesel, cement, steel, consumer goods) becoming 20-40X cheaper and
higher prices being realized for exported goods (mustard oil, pulses,
forest products and ghee) because farmers are now getting close to the



-41-                        Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
prevailing market prices at major centres in the Central Terai. The
production of. export crops, particularly mustard seed, has increased
significantly.
4)  Increased  mobility  and  communicattons  with areas outside the valley
have introduced new ideas and modern practices to the area. About 15
buses, carrying about 800 people, leave and return to the valley every
day.
5)  Transport  costs  have  decreased  considerably.  The rates recorded in
1976, which have been increased to 1985 prices, together with the
present rates are as follows:
Bus Passenger Rates                Truck Rates
(NRs)                         (per ton-km)
1976 Estimates      1985        1976 Estimates        1985
'   Actual. 1985 Prices  Actual       Actual  1985 Prtces  Actual
Ghorahi-   20          40         5.5        4.0         8.0        2.0
Lamahi
Tulsipur-   8          16         5.5        4.1         8.2        1.5
Ghorahl
Truck payloads have increased from 3.5 tonnes on average in 1976
(generally in tractor-trailors) to 8-10 tonnes (now in standard Tata
trucks). Increased competition has also served to push down rates.
6)  Although  land  reform  was Implemented in Nepal about twenty years ago
it is only in the last three years, with greater access to the area,
that   actual   reductions  in  the  size  of  holdings  has  occurred.
Generally the land is sold to immigran s from the hills who are more
hard working than sharecroppers.  Yields   ve therefore improved.
7)  Agricultural  production  is  higher.    More  dryland has been brought
under production with mustard seed followed by maize as the second
winter crop. This has caused increases in cropped areas of both these
crops.    Yields  have increased for paddy due to better access to high
yielding seed varieties and the trend to more owner-farmers described
in (6) above.
8)  The  two  main  towns  of  Ghorahi  and  Tulsipur  are booming with new
housing subdivisions and roads and buildings under construction.
Consumer goods are now freely available at both locations.
9)  Land  prices,  which reflect many of the above benefits, have increased
spectacularly.    Urban  land  prices  adjacent to Tulsipur and Ghorahi
have increased feom NRs 5,000 to NRs 70,000 per unit over the last
five years and agricultural land has doubled in price.
10) There have been significant benefits to the population in the hill
areas north of the Dang Valley due to cheaper rice and kerosene and to
better and cheaper, agricultural Inputs. In addition, the export of
ghee, ginger and other products has been facllitated and made cheaper.



-42-
Table A - I
- -                   PU.CT@IUN ITA - PNM
Agricultural
Crop hia ('000 Pa)  I1OV                        Pr"dction ('000 too)  Icrtal   Idditioal
With   Without    Crop bA     Yield (ton/)       With   Without    Wm Naris Agric.  oct.
Year Project Project     000 H) Uniproved Iepqv    Project  Projet         (lNl/to)     (Nbh H.)
1962    27.0    27.0         0.0        2.3      3.5    62.1      62.1          2200            0.0
1983    27.2    27.0         0.0        2.3      3.5    62.6    62.1            2200            1.0
1984    27.4    27.0         0.5        2.3      3.5    64.8    62L1            2200            5.9
1985    27.6    27.0         1.0        2.3      3.5    67.0    62.1            2200           10.0
1966    28.0    27.0,        1.5        2.3      3.5    69.7      62l           2200           16.6
1987    28.0    27.0 ,       2.0        2.3      3.5    71.4       1            2200           20aS
1968   2L0    27.0           2.5        2.3      3.5    73.2    62.1            2200           24.3
1989    28.0    27.0         3.0        2.3      3.5     74.9    6;L1           2200           282
1990    28.0    27.0         3.0        2.3      3.5    74.9    621             2200 2tO2
1991    28.0    27.0         3.0        2.3      3.5    74.9    62.1 !O0                      28L2
1992    28.0    27.0         3.0        2.3      3.5    74.9      6L2.          2I00           2L8
1993    2L0    2.0           3.0        2.3      3.5    74.9    621             Z!O            2OL2
1994    28.0    27.0         3.0        2.3      3.5    74.9    62.1            2200           2L2
199    2L80    27.0          3.0        2.3      3.5    ?4.9      6L21          2200           2L
1996    28.0    27.0         3.0        2.3      3.5    74.9    62.1 O                        28.



-43-
Table A - 2
NPIULCI0ON DATA - MIE
Aricultural
Crop R  ('000 No)  I1irod                       Prodction ('000 too)  limtl    Additioral
With   Withot    crop ba      Yield itt )        with   Withou    boss Marin Awit. Prout.
Yer Project Prject    ('000 Ha) Uniqnved lmpod Project  Prject            (Nuton)    (MI NIL)
i192    16.0    16.0         0.0        1.7      4.0     27.2     27.2          2100            0.0
1983    16.0    160          0.0        1.7      4.0     27.2    27.2           2100            0.0
1964    16.0    16.0         0.1        1.7      4.0    27.6    27.2            2100            0.6
1985    16.0    160          0.2        1.7      4.0     28.0     27.2          2tO0            1.7
1966    16.0    16.0         0.3        1.7      4.0     2L4      27.2          2100            2.5
19      160    16.0          0.5        1.7      4.0     29.2    27.2           2100            4.2
19      16.0    16.0         0.6        1.7      4.0    29.6      27.2          2100            5.0
189    16.0%   16.0          0.9        1.7      4.0     30.8    27.2           2100            7.6
1990    16.0   16.0          0.9        1.7      4.0     30.8    27.2           2100            7.6
1581    16.0    160          0.9        1.7      4.0, 30.8    27.2              2100            7.6
1992    16.0    16.0         0.9        1.7      4.0     30.      27.2          2100            7.6
1993    16.0   16.0          0.9        1.7      4.0     30.8     27.2          2100            7.6
199     16.0    16.0         0.9        1.7      4.0     30.8    27.2           2100            7.6
1995    16.0    160          0.9        1.7      4.0     30.8     27.2          2100            7.6
1996    16.0    16.0         0.9        1.7      4.0     30.8     27.2          2100            7.6



-44-
Table A - 3
PROUCION DATA - NOT
Agricultural
Cre  le  ('000 NA)  Ivd                        Production ('000 ton)  linc mltal    Additionsl
With   Without    Crop Arem    Yield  ton/Ha)   With   Without    6rorm   rgin qrik. Product.
Ver Project Project    ('000 Ha) Uniproved Iwoved Project  Project        (MRs. M)     (1MS  n.)
192    16.0    16.0         0.0       0.7      0.0     11.2    11.2           6N0             0.0
1903    17.0    16.0         0.0       O.7      0.0     11.9    11.2           6400            4.5
1964    18.5   16.0   ,    0.0         0.7      0.0     13.0    11.2           6400           11.2
1905    20.0    16.0         0.0       0.7      0.0     14.0    11.2           6400           17.9
1966   21.      16.0.        0.0       0.7      0.0    14.7      11.2          6400           22.4
I967    21.0    16.0         0.0       0.7      0.0     14.7    11.2           6400           22.4
I906    21.0    16.0         0.0       0.7      0.0     14.7    11.2           6400           22.
1989    21.0   16.0          0.0       0.7      0.0     14.7    11.2           6400           22.4
1990    21.0    16.0         0.0       0.7      0.0     14.7    11.2           6400           2L4
1991    21.0    160          0.0       0.7      0.0     t.7    11.2            6400           22.4
1992    21.0    16.0         0.0       0.7      0.0     14.7    11.2           6400           22.
1993    21.0    16.0         0.0       0.7      0.0     14.7     11.2          6400           2.
199    21.0    16.0          0.0       0.7      0.0     14.7     11.2          6400           22.
1995    21.0   16.0          0.0       0.7      0.0     14.7    11.2           6400           22.4
1996    21.0    16.0         0.0       0.7      0.0    14.7    11.2            6400           2L4



-45-
*Table A- 4
PU-  IS  MA - OILlD
Auricultural
Crop bu.t'000 lb)  lopr ed                      Pdtiom ('000 too)  Incrutal   AdItional
With   Witut       rp b       Yield (ton/Pm)     With   Withou    Grobi. argin Airic.   uct.
Yea  Projet Project    ('000 NA)  uni*W  d  IpoVed Project  Project        (N/ton)      (Nh b)
1912    16.0    l6.0         0.0        0.7      0.0     11.2    11.2           600             0.0
1983    17.0    16.0         0.0        0.7      0.0     11.9    11.2           6400            4.5
114    16.5    16.0          0.0        0.7      0.0     1X0      11.2          6400           11.2
1185    20.0    16.0         0.0        0.7      0.0     14.0     11.2          6400           17.9
1966    21.0    16.0         0.0        0.7      0.0     14.7    11.2           600            2L4
1t7    21.0    160           0.0        0.7      0.0     14.7     11.2          6400           22.4
118     21.0,  16.0       .  0.0        0.7      0.0     14.7     11.2          600            2L4
199    21.0    160           0.0        0.7      0.0     14.7     11.2          600             2L4
1990    21.0   1L0           0.0        0.7      0.0     14.7    11.2           6400           2L4
1911    21.0    160          0.0        0.7      0.0     14.7     11.2          60             224
1992    21.0    160          0.0        0.7      0.0     14.7     11.2          60             2L4
1913    21.0    160          0.0        0.7      0.0     14.7    11.2           640            2L4
194    21.0     I0           0.0        0.7      0.0     14.7     11.2          600            2L4
1915    21.0    160          0.0        0.7      0.0     14.7     11.2          60             2L4
1996    21.0    160          L0         0.7      0.0     14.7     11.2          640            2L4



It-*                    Average Annual   Average Annual  197IS     1976/  1979/ 1960/  1961/  1962/  1983/  1984/
_____________-                1967-1971          1972-1976    _1976 -1979    96_          l9L          _L9    _
Aduinistration                    3.0               2.4          3.6   9.6   10.2   12.5   12.0   18.6   18.2   20.6                 1
Routine Ulant.enanac              3.2              14.1         24.5  17.0   18.0   19.0   Z0.0   25.0   28.9   28.9
Periodic and Emergency
Maintenance                     6/A               N/A         19.8  36.2   26.2   13.9   70.2  141.2  106.1   93.6
Construction                    V/A               V/A        343.1 495.5  527.2  505.0  452.0  725.8  086.0  616.9
Subtotal - Periodic
Nadintennce and Construction  129.6               2_4.3        362.9 S31.7  553.4  518.9  522.2  867.0  942.1  710.1
Total Nighvay Expenditure       135.8             290.8        391.0 556.3  581.6  550.4  SS4.2  910.6  969.1  759.6
Foreign Aid Contribution           86                72         3/A   83     62      78     75     29      48    VI A'
to  oad  Sudget (m)
Road Lengta Maintained by       1.069             1,606        1748  2444   2601   2606   2870   3041   3304   N/A
DoX (bitume/grav.1 only)
Routine & Periodic NaIntennace  VIA                 U/A        .025  .021   .013   .013   .031   .055   .041   V/A
Expediture par Kilometre
Source   Department of Roa  and Ninistry of Finance budget lotimates.
Ii



SECON 9MIBEVATH2PROJECTC70-
£eeder Road Contract_Detaila.
Contract    Contractor               Data of      Contract    Contract    Engineer's   Final            Finol        Substantial
No.                               Contract    Cospl,tion  Amount        Estlote     Eatiasted       Eatioated   Completion
Signing     Dote         (gas)       (Ni.)         Amount (*Ra)   Escalation  Date
(so eaclatiton)  (NRa)-- ~~~~
1   Nav*en Construction Co.        Apr 21,      Nov 21,    5,294,135   5,284,406      6,007.064      1.989.480   Jul 15. 1983
(PNt) Ltd.                     1978         1980
2   D.*. Engineers and Co.         Nay 21.      Dec 21,    4,139,984   3.913,112      4,946.922      1.339.500   Jun 21. 1982
(Pvt) Ltd.                     1978         1980
3   3iay Construction Co.         May 21,      Doc 21.    4,629.977   4.300.518      4.389.687        816.979   Mar 21. 1983
1978        1980
4   Engineers & Engineering        Dec 25.      Jul 25.    3.147,319   2,807,213       3.849.939     1.287.395   Apr  5. 1983
Ent,rpriam,                    1978         1981
5   Thakali Subbu Construction    Nay 21,       DOc 21,    3,295.481   3,113,976      4,718,656    1585,635   Jun 21. 1982
Conpany                        1978         1980
6   Sb.rps Construction Co.        Dec 27,      Jul 27,    3,415,856   3,088,906      4,235,116           -      Jul 27, 1982
1978        1981
7   Khistee Construction Co.       Apr 21,      Nov 21.    3.317,229   3.439,995      3.213.940        768.321   Jul 15. 1983
1978        1980
8   Naveen Construction Co.        Apr 21,      Nov 21,    3,541.139   3,670.995      4.324.921      1.348.036   Jun  8. 1984
(Pvt) Ltd.                     1978         1980
9   Hirechan Construction Co.      Apr 21,      Sep 21,    2,624,922   3.711.430       2,821.911       59S.294   Jun 21. 1982
1978        1981
10   D N  Engineers & Builders      Dec 17,      Nay 17.    4,271,150   3,996,866      5,431,256      1,827.134   May 17. 1982
1978        1982
Sub Total         37,677.196  36.327,487    43.935.412
tXl
Camp  Khiatee Construction Co.       Feb  5.      Nov  5.    2.428.240    2,126,302       3,410,266        99.730   Aug 16. 1983             ta
1978        1978
Tree Plantation                                                                             261,267
Total (HRs)       4O,105.i36  38,453,i89    47,606,9;5    11.667.504



VI_MCOO NIID_?3__CH_YeQZT__(t30-NEP)
Prequalification         Contractor             Prequallfl-    Capacity   Contracts  Construction  Completed
Ranking                                      cation        (R'OOO0)   Awarded    Performance    by aid
_Poits___     __________________198_1
S           D0 Enginers and Builders         58.8         17,400      2, 10        Good          Yes
8           816ay Construction Co.           40.8          7.500        3          Poor           no
10           Thakall Subba Construction Co. 31.2            8,600        5        Very Good       Yes
11           Nevin Construction Co.*         28.4          11,100      1, 8       Very Poor        No
12           Sherpa Construction Co.         22.8           8,500        6         Average        Y-a
13           Kbintee Construction Co.         20.1          4,000        7        Very Poor        go
15           Engineers and Engineering        13.0          4,300        4         Averag        YUs                                     4
Enterprises
19           Nirachan Construction Co.        9.4           3,000        9        Very Good       Yes
* Partnersbip djso1olad and work on both contract- was sublet to others.
tI



NEPAL_ SEgOD_C RIOVA  PRJC  (730-!gP)
Road_ ComtructAom ggui      lnt  r_urmnt
Description                      Appralil Actuallr  On Sit.  Average Nrs.  Average Ka
Number     Bought    Feb. a    usZ by       used by DoR
Bulidozers                                  2           2         2        410           -
Grader-                                     2            2        2        442          56
Pumaotic Rollers                            2            2        2        686      -   4
Road rollers, steel whel (8/10 tons)        4           4         4        453          20
Vibrating rollers, towed                    4           4         4**      224           0
Tractors (light)                            4           4         4         -            0
Tipping trucks (S ton)                     12           12        6       1576        5020
Flat trucks (5 ton)                         4            4        2        435      10,450
Water distributors                          4            4        2         -           76
Generator&                                  5            S        4                       -
Pickup vehicles                             4            4        3         -          N/A
4_whoel drive vehicles                      2            2        2         -          */A
Portable compactors                         4            4        4         74
Melding ats                                 2            2        2         -
Mobile crane                                1            1        -         -            -
Compressors                                 6            6        4        233           -
Pnmatic drills                             25           24       24        233           -
Actual Total Cost                 US& 1,334,4S8
Estimated Cost at Appraisl             1,320,0000*0
*     For usa In future maintenance activities.
me   Two taken for use on Thankot-Naubls, project and returned to sIte In December 1983.
me. From Table 11 of Appraisol Report (Includes price contingencies).



NEPAL SECOND 3168Mb? PIOJECt (730-NEP)
Contract  Contractor          Stort Date   Contract    Contract   Final E ta-   Escalation  Subetantial  Scope of
No.                                     Completion    Asomat    mated Amount   Amount       Cosplation   Works
--------  -----------         __________                                   -(--)                            ------t-
1.    Cooperative           Aug 78      Oct 79       4.901,591     5,8S8,462   1,752,055      Nar 80    Eartbwork
Constructlon                                                                                      of subbas*
2.    Gosaikunden Nirn-n   Aug 78       Oct 79       S,955,496     9,923,724   5,024,S92      Apr St       -do-
3.    Goaikund*n Niran   Aug 78         Oct 79       5,479,954     e,857,461   4,63,479       Apr 81       -do-
4.    fhakali Subb&         Dec 80       Feb 82     12.827,523    13.603.109  jIk,97t,! 4,    Jul 82      Pavement
Construction Co.
27,431,290*
Total                                         29.244,564   38,252,756    B.864.084-0-  47.116.840*0
Apprisa l Estimate                                         23,281,500
(based on US7 1.00 a URs 12.45)
a Contractors claiss being negotiated.
** Estimate of escalation settlements at date of expiry of credit.
Source: Department of Roads.



D.acrlttloa              Erlatlgn   Total Unlts   ---tuPg__e                  R&!fl:h&ee
Usable     to be         flrt   ke@o@d   Total   First   Seen"
Equipmt  Purclsd         Group  Group              Group   Croup
_ ----------                                   -- - 1M _ ------  ------  ------  ------- $
Grader                      6            8           6       2        a      nor 91  Jun 83
Boilldozer  (200 bp)        4            5           3       3 .      S      J a  C0  Jul 2
bulldoers 140 hp)            -           5           3       2        S      Jun 81   Jul 83
Looder.                     10           9           6       3        9      A"g81  Jul 2
Tippling Truck& (5 too)     35          65          45      20       65      Jul 82  ul 62
Water Distributor            -           a           6       2        a      Jul 82  Mar 83
Reed Rollers, Steel Whel   14            16         12       4       16      Ja&   A"ug 82
(8/10 tons)0                                                                Jul 81
Portable Sot Nix Plent       I           a           6       2        a      Ner 81      -
Portable Vibrating Rollers  12          21          1S       6       21      Jul 81  Apr 82
Small Dumprs, I cu. yd.      1           10         10       -       10      Oct s0     -
Pickups                     18          26          18       8       26      Nar a1  DeC 82
Truck, 16J20 ton             -            2          2       -        2      no tB      -
Lo Loders                   -            2           2       -        2
Roller Trailers              -           3           -       -        3      Apr s0     - 
Tractors llgbt)              -           7           7       -               N ar*0    -I
Crene a(lton)                -            1           1      -        1      Apr79      -
Crusber  Mobile             11           6           3       2       -5      Sep "   Jon 83
& Apr a0
motorcycle                  16          89          65      26       65      Ape "   fov e1
CGnerstore 3  vA             -            9          9       -        9      Oct s0     -
Portable Engine Drills      16           19         19       -       19      Jon 81     -
P o_etic Drills             26          32          24       8       24      -        Noy 82
conpres ee                   2           8           6       2        6      A" g1   Ny 82
Tractor Grade  (light)       1           6           6       -               ae 81
Situs.n Distributors         -           -           -       2        2       N.A.    N.A.
-- - -- - --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - -- --    -- - -- --- --- -- - --- --- - -- --- --- --- ---
as4



a)    Outline Fiv* Year Road i       n Por Fa  *3grss&_ eprt CURs_Millon, - 19??_rc.g
Domestic Raeources                23.0       28.4       29.4      34.1      33.6      149.0
Foreign Resources                 43.4       45.3       36.2      29.7 -   26.7       181.3
Total                             66.4       73.7       66.1      63.8 ,   60.3       330.3
b)            ffggRo i_"1tnnffANp_!o4 krY,£_UIL!h19^9L:..-_g£tBL_tKh     >
(Expenditure In Constant 197t Prices shown In Brackets)
Domestic Resourcs                S3.2        44.2       32.9      90.2    166. 2   386.7
Foreign Resources                  -           4.8        6.6      25.2      33.3    69.9
Total *                           S3.2        49.0       39.5    115.4    199.5   456.6
(47.8)      (42.6)     (31.3)    (S0.6)   (126.2)  (326.3)
Note:  b Figures in brackets have been ed3ustod to coostant 1977 prices
using the National Urban Consumer Price Index to permit coapriamon
with the Appraisal estimates.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPQRT
N!P4L SECOND  IGHWAY POJECT (730-NEP
Actual _nd Aatajsal Estimates of Priqec£ Cost
Actual Cost         __________ __D praisal Estimate of Cost
Local     Foreign      Total         Local       Foreign     Total         Actual Cost as
Project                  Component  Component  US$ Equiv.   Component   Component USS Equiv.           Percent of
Compnen                  (ha sMn)   'USt Mnt  __n)__    (IRs Mn)    USS Mn)_    (Mn)__            -Pria   t   t
Cate&or,_l
Feeder Road Construction    50.1         1.38       4.98          41.1        2.00        5.30              94
Categ~orgL2
Main Road Improvement        32.2        0.95       3.50           10.3       1.24        2.07              130               V
Road Maintenance Program      -          8.32       8.37            5.1       9.24        9.65               87
CatejLqKL_4
Consulting Services           3.7        1.51       2.11            7.2       1.30        1.88              112
CatejsorL 5
Mecbanics Training            -          0.16       0.16            6.9       0.55        1.10               15
TOTAL                    86.0       12.32     19.12           70.6       14.33      20.00               96
'-I
LI,



Contractor/
Consultant                                            i;eiaaIg of    CoWpletion of         x Completed
Protect                         and             lid Recipt     Contract Award     Workiollverty      ork/Delivry        by Expcted
I  Construction of Feeder Road        Contractors/  Au 77  Jul 77   Feb 76-  Aug 77    may 78  Oct 7    Jun 62   ar S1                Ss I
(10 Contracts)                    1e1l1                            Dec 76             Jan 79
II  Construction Rental Equipment     Contractorsl  Fob 77  Feb 77   Jun 76   Nay 77    Noy 79  Oct 77   Fob 82   Nay 7a               ox
Var ious
III lain Road Upgrading               Contractors/                     Aug 78   Doc 77    ug 76   Feb 76  Jul 82   Nor 60             So%
3".911                           Dec s0
IV  oaintenance Equipent Spare        Contractors/  Nar 76  Aug 77   aug 78   Oct 77    Bar 80  Sep 76  Jun 83   Nor 60                Ox
*ad orkabop Tools                 V rlou         Fob S1            Jaa 82
IV  Workabop Construction             Comtractoral           Dec 77             Feb 78             Apr 78            Jun 79            Ox
Nepali
V   Construction Supernvllom          CUaeultont     Dec 77  Bar 77    Dec 76  Jul n    Dec 78  Oct 77  Dec 83   Nor 61               4St
of Feeder load                  Cooed.
V   Es "tVet Highway Feaslbillty      Consultant/            Jon 77   Now 60   Jun 77   Nov 80  Sep 77   Nor 82   Aug 78               Ox
Source  : 1) Tbis to work In original contract nd does not inclode additional works reque-ted.
it



-55-
TABLE 10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (730-NEP)
Schedule of Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ '000)
Estimated                      Actual
IDA Fiscal Year*            Incremental   Cumulative   Incremental   Cumulative
1978  1st Quarter
2nd Quarter              1,000          1,000           -
3rd Quarter              1,000          2,000           -               -
4th Quarter              2,300          4,300           41              41
1979  1st Quarter              1,800          6,100           421            462
2nd Quarter              2,700          8,800          849           1,311
3rd Quarter              1,700         10,500          538          1,849
4th Quarter                900         11,400          796           2,645
1980  1st Quarter                900         12,300           657          3,302
2nd Quarter              1,400         13,700          695           3,997
3rd Quarter              l,200         14,900          497          4,494
4th Quarter                500         15,400          666           5,160
1981  1st Quarter                300         15,700           772          5,932
2nd Quarter                300         16,000        1,001          6,933
3rd Quarter                300         16,300        1,120          8,053
4th Quarter                300         16,600          379          8,432
1982  1st Quarter                200         16,800           586          9,018
2nd Quarter                100         16,900          209          9,227
3rd Quarter                100         17,000        1,181         10,408
4th Quarter                                          1,611          12,019
1983  1st Quarter                                             763         12,782
2nd Quarter                                            429         13,211
3rd Quarter                                            204         13,415
4th Quarter                                            317          13,732
1984  1st Quarter                                             527         14,259
2nd Quarter                                              9         14,268
3rd Quarter                                            329         14,597
4th Quarter                                            188          14,785
1985  1st Quarter                                             505         15,290
2nd Quarter                                            844         16,134
3rd Quarter                                            328         16,462
4th Quarter                                            326         16,788
Aug. 1985                                              212          17,000
Notes:  * Commencing July 1.
Sources:  Appraisal Report and IDA Withdrawal Reports.



PROJECt CQMkETI01_ gEPOR
NEPAL SECOIID NIGUT PROJECT (730-REP)
ComPliano.!with Credit Agrees-nt_tC.A. )C0veQflafl
Referne                  Nature of Covenant #tb!  ortoer                         Statue of Comeii ne
C.A/Section  3.01        To carry out pro3ect diliently and efficiently          Mostly cooplied with but
delays of
and to provide resources needed.                        2-3 yerw  were comamo  on
most
preoect coepaoents.
C.A/Section  3.02         mploy Coo ultat.a
1. Who st  satlfactor, to IDA                           1. Compiled with
2.  Who are  ppolated before awrd of                   2.  Not coeplied with as
feeoder
coMetutoo Contrecta                                     rotd cottects
aw_dod before
comeltant apotp ted.
3. To aslit read msint_mamo  pgram              -       3. Complied with by wa
of
misteme free CIDA.
C.A/Smetion  3.03        For five Veer  aisteanee Program,
and Side Letters         I. _re  cmeultast to review prorm                       1. Complied with                                       u
I and 2 of 10/19/7?     2. Allow IDA to  ae" seeios  with comultant              2. Complied with
froe Covt. of %*pa           md DOR to review wok dom  ad recoemedt Los
3. Carry out reesses"_tiam   of saeb reviw              3. Partly complied with
dwe
to OoP   s zmilOt
see-
tmcptoac  of tbese
recomaeadstiams.
4.  Releaos  agrd upo  funds for road maintenance       4.  Complied with
activities
C.&aSection  3.04        1.  Insure lported goods finmsdebd      r this crdit  1. Cmplied with
2.  Ensmre that goods sad services fiesacud Wer         2. Complied with
this cr dit arm used for this pro3ect
C.A/Seetion  3.05        1. Furnias  docuents promptly                           1. Complied with                                14
2.  Usieteia progress r e4rds                           2. Coaplied with                             *I
3.  Enable IOA represetatives to visit sites  nd        3. Compled with                              a
equipeatn
4.  furnish r-queted information                        4.  Complied with
w4



R-f-r-ace         ""!ur!g{_g!ag t_bl _Bgg     vEg!                          St!..y_S9!CoopAnn
C.A/Section  3.06        Acquir- land for the pro3ect when needed                 Complied with
C.A/S*ction  3.07        For Feeder Road Conatruction Equipment
1.  Properly  raintain it                                1.  Cosplied with
2.  If not used transfer It to other projects            2.  Compiled with as some equipment
not used was transferred to
other pro acts.
C.A/Sectlon  3.08        Design standards for both Feeder Road  nd                Complied vith
Rain Nighway to be aa per schedule 4 to C.A.
C.A/Section  3.09        1.  Subsit mechanics training progrnam  by               1.  Delay of 2-3 year. experienced
December 31. 1977 or by later date as may                due to deaiy in UODP/ILO
be agreed                                                agreement.
2. Submit staff training progrs by July 31.              2. Delay of 2-3 years experienced
1978 or by later date as say be agreed,                  due to delay in UNDP/ILO
agreement.
C.A/Section  4.01        Solatain appropriate accounting records                  Generally compIled with
for the pro3ect
C.A/Section  4.02        1. Collect on a continuing basis traffic data            1. Compiled with
*nd road conatructionmanlatennce co t-
2.  Improve accuracy of vehicle registration             2. Not conplled with as outside of
DOR juriadiction. Vehicle                         n
numbers still *xaggeratied.
C.A/Sectlon  4.03        Ensure axle loads do not *xced appropriate               No sxle load enforcement Vet
carried                                                                           carried out nor any determination
of                                                                                of what are appropriate lislta
for epal.
C.A/Section  4.04        1.  Properly and promptly maintain all roads.            1.  Complied wLth as for as
Side lettor/2 of             bridges and other road structures                        possible within budget
10/19/1977 from                                                                       limitations.
Govt. of Nepal           2.  Make provision for funds and *quipnent               2. Outline Five Y*ar Road Nainten-
£or road maintenance according to agreed                 ance Program complied with. See
Five Year Naintenance Program.                           Table 7.
t L4
OI-t
o b
LA)



R-f-r nc          "~Nture .f Covenant hi DorrgweE                            ttro_C-          c
C.A/Section  4.05        1.  Not charge a road caes  on the Feeder Rood           1.  Cosplied with following IDA
1DA                             during construction                                   ob3ection to Nln. of
-        Finance in June 1979.
2.  Undertake study by June 30. 1978 on                  2.  Road ce-  tax removed in FT
alternotive means of raising road revenues               1961 and 1982, reiatroduced in
1963 and aboliLhed again in
1984. tolls or. now only col-
lected at 12 bridges in Nepal.
C.A/Section 4.06         Strengthen DO  Planning Branch to undertake             Some atrengthening has been carried
road improve-ent studles.                                out but mor- needs to be done
C.A Schedule 3           ICB of equipment end tools to be followed                Complied with. Some supervision of
Section A                                                                         tender aword needed fer compliance.
C.A Schedule 3           LCB of items under US  10.000 and under                  Complied with
Section B                construction contracts for Feeder Road
and Hain Road to be followed.
C.a Scbhdule 3           1   IDA Review of pr.qualificatlons needed               1. Complied with                                       3
Section C                2.  IDA Review of bidding documents, awards,             2. Complied with
contracts needed
3.  Two copies of tech contract to be forwarded          3. Complied with
to DA.
Side Letter go. 3        1.  Agreed implementation program                         1.  Delays of 2-3 years hav* occur-
of 10/19/1977 of                                                                      ad on most components.
Govt of Nepal            2.  Subait pr*gr*a reports on quarterly                  2. Complied with for some coapon-
b-ais for each project component.                        ento of loan only.
Side Letter No. 4        Complete preparation of ogricultural development         Ninor delays in pro)*ct preparatr on
of 10/19/1977 of         program for bang Valley before January 1, 1979           and implementation delayed this
Govt. of Nepal           and start imple&mntatlon before January 1,1980           schedule by about six months.
Q3W
o i-
w



£3ILU~4fl  REONAE
NEFPAL SECE UIRNVA LOA c73- ---- -E)
Estlmted and Actual traffic VoluXme
1. Egfoa.ff3g, -tg
La^Eraimal (l97i_Raet)  1_______ _               ___985 D_y_S ^eason     _
Road Section        Light   Bus   Truck  Tractor  go-Motor.   Nn-Rotor.  Total    Light    Bue  Truck/ Total
_____________      Vehicle      -  ----- ___       Truck Unite  Sus Units            Vehicle    __   tractor
kawab&._~_ borsh!
Actual (St-. 2000)        1       -     2       1          4           10         18      50        36     99    185
Estlate at Appraisl                    -       -          -            -          -       12       13    75      99
&ctal                    2       2     1       2          3            5          Z5      20       26     74    120
Av. Slte. 23.500 
474000                                                                                                                                n
I
Estimat at ApWraisal       -      -     -       -          -            -          -       37       46     21    106
9&AH  (1tl-lf976 D4g)    _____  ___9a8____     
Light   Bus  Truck  Total      Light   Bus Truck  Total    Light   Bus Truck   Total
Vehicle                        Vehicle                       Vehicle
Tbankot-laubise
Actual                  47      70    201   318        130    130   400    660      184    214   435      833
Estimat, at Appralil   -        -      -     -          90       350       440      100        385        48S
Source: Departsent of Roads roadside traffic counts.



f!DJeg! COUP1ET10 UEPOUt
!~?~.SEP.g!IGIW8?  0CHWT_ (730-2")
Ea mterts of £coaoaAc Vehicle 0peratiag Coat.
! load Srface _Tze (1983 Rtk
_  Earth____          __  G_ravel____           __  _Paved__
Vehile* Category                                           no uew                    new
lnforation  Appralisl    l.foratioa  Ap&praisal    Information  apprala.l
Fuel                          0.79       -             0.73       -          0.01
Oll                           0.12       -             0.00       -          0.04
Tre                           .S1       -             0.61       -          0.12
niotntence                    O."        -             0.44       -          0.26
Operator- TISe                2.09       -             1.76       -          1.62
Dpreclation. Intereat.
Overheds                      0.96       -             0.83       -          0.76
total             6.37     3.28            44S       2.03        3.61       1.56
Foel                          1.78       -             1.42       -          1.23
01                           0.27       -             0. 18      -          0.09
Tyrca                         1.41       -             0.57       -          0.39
Uelntenao                     3.10       -             1.70       -          1.00                                                       0%
Operator's Time                1.29      -             0.76       -          0.72
Depreclatlon. Interest.
Overheds                       2.19      -             1.29       -          1.22
Total            10.04     4.39            s.92      2.65        4.65       2.09
Truck
Fuel                          1.62       -             1.26       -          1.16
01                           0.27       -             0. 18      -          0.09        -
Tyres                         1.41       -             1.57       -          0.39        -
Naistnmace                    2.S1       -             1.38       -          0.81        -
Operator'  Time               1.21       -             0.77       -          0.67        -
Depreciation. Interest,
Overbead                      2.49       -             1 .6       -          1.38        -
total             9.51     4.47           5.76       2.57        4.90       2.13
Source:  t.D. Lea cod AsocLatea. Prelllnart £ng -nerang Report for
Propoed Improwemnts to (A) Selected Irldg"e setween Eathasadu
and  lrgun3; CB) Pavemnt between bahla  and S1rgum; *a Id
CC) 9o0dvorka Between sublaoe and luglig, May 1983.



-61-
TABLE 14
PROJET CAPLTISN VWOR
II.ECAWm  H IIIIRECT mm     f-730)
bw inte of  ,wfit Wd CWstI Fla   - Folder od
(Rsh Nillio)
MEfITS                                 mT                      I
.....       we.     _ .*-, ..                        ...... _.._.  -.-.--
Splemey             d           d
Year  Road Usr Rqricultural   Total    Agriuevtural  Cmstrutias Nhint
1978                                                                              -83.0  -8
1979                                                           9.4                -9.4
1980                                                          1L9                -l2.9
1961                                             2.2          1&6                -1.
192                                             6L1           11.5               -17.6
1963       4.0          6.      11.1             L7'           9.1         0.6    -7.3
1964       5.6         El1    30.?               9.6           U3          0.6    12.2
1915       63          44.0    50.3              99                        0.6    39.8
1986       0.          61.5    69.               9.9                       0.6    59.2
1917       9.2         7.5    3.6                                          0.6    02.0
190       10.2         0.7      .0                                         3.0    91.0
1919      11.5         95.7   107.2                                        0.6   106
1990      12.9         97    1086                                          0.6   100.
1991      14.4         957    110.1                                        0.6   109.5
1992      £6.8         IL?   111.9                                         0.6   111.3
1993      1.0          957   113.0                                         3.0   110.8
994       19.8         5L7    115.5                                        0.6   114.9
1995      21.0         I57    117.6                                        0.6   117.0
1996      24.0         I.    119.7                                         0.6   119.1
Ina    37.7
WV   10%*   274.8
NIPI 120 a   210.4



PROT    CaOnILT  EON W
NEP  SECW  HI1   PROJECT (730-lEP)
Resstieate of Befit and Cost Flows - Nain Road Upgrading
(MRs Millions)
TRMFIC (ADT)                                 BENEFITS                                                    COSTS                        NET
V(X Savings                     Ewuny
Repvring   Naint. I                                    Addit.
Light                       PaveUnt  Paveent    Delay        Cost   Reconstrct.                                   lbutrie
Veoicle   Bus    Truck      Imprvwnt. Ilidening   Avoidance Savings  Cost Savings  Total       Construct. Repavlng  Mbint.   Total
Year
1977                                                                                                       0.6                        0.6         -0.6
1978                                                                                                       4.0                        4.0         -4.0
1979                                                                                                       8.2                        8.2         -8.2
1980                                                                                                       7.2                        7.2         -7.2
1981                                                                                                       7.8                        7.8         -7.8
1932                                                                                                       5.2               0.1     5.3          -5.3
1953     146      173     346           2.6       0.1        0.4       1.6          1.0      5.7           0.2               0.1     0.3           5.4
1964     164      194     387           2.9       0.2        0.5       1.6          1.0      6.2                             0.1     0.1           6.1 I
1965     184      17     434           3.3       0.2        0.5       1.6          1.0      6.6                             0.1      0.1          6.5
1986     204      241     48i           3.6       0.2        0.6       1.6          1.0      7.0                             (.      0.1           6.9
194?     222      263     525           4.0       0.3        0.?       1.6          1.0      7.6                     .3      0.!   1.4             6.2
1988     241      285     569           4.3       0.3        0.7       1.6          1.0      7.9                             0.°      0.1          7.8
1939     259      306      6;1          4.6        0.4       0.6       1.6          1.0      8.4                             0.1      0.1         L83
1390     275      325      650          4.9        0.5       0.6       1.6          1.0      8.8                             0.1      0.1          8.7
1991     293      346      692          e          0.5       0.9       1.6          1.0      9.2                             0.1      0.           9.1
19Ie     312      369      738          5.6       0.6        0.9       1.6          1.0      9.7                             0. :     0.1          9.6
1993     332      393      785          5.9        0.7       1.0       1.6          1.0    10.2                      *.3    (I.1      1.4          L8
1394     354      419      837          6.3       0.7        1.0       1.6          1.0    10.6                              0.1     0.1          10.5
1995     376      445     U89           6.7        0.6       1.1       1.6          1.0    11.2                              0.*      0.1         11.1
1396     396      468     936           7.0       0.9        1.2       1.6          1.0    11.7                              0.°      0.1         11.6       *e
1997     416      491     983           7.4        1.0       1.2       1.6          1.0    12.2                              0.1      0.1         12.1       r
1993     437      516    1032           7.8        1.1       1.3       1.6          1.0    12.8                              0.1     0.1          12.7
1999     458      541    1082           8.1        1.3       t.3       1.6          1.0    13.3                      1.3     0.1      1.4         11.9
2000     481      568    1136           8.5        1.4       1.4       1.6          1.0    13.9                                       0.1         13.6
IRR:    15.7S
PV  10S: - 15.0 Ws  llil
MPY   12%:    LO      llillii



-63-
TA   _
PRDJECT COPLETION REPORT
NEPAL SECON HIBIASY PROJECT (730-WEP)
Reestinate of kmnefit and Cost Flows - Road Naintenance Program
Benefits (NRs Millions)                  Costs (MRs Millions)
Addit.
Road Surface Type                      Recurrent Capital                   Net
Year         Paved      Gravel      Earth      Total      Expends. Expends. Total           Benefits
---- -  - ----  -- ---  --- ---   ---- ---   ---   -    -- ----     -      -  ---
1978                                                           1.5      3.3    4.8            -4.8
1979                                                           1.5     15.4   16.9           -16.9
1980              9.5        2.7         4.2      16.4         4.4     24.9   29.3           -12.9
1961             20.2        5.7        9.0       34.8        13.6     62.9   76.5           -41.7
1982             32.2        9.1        14.4      55.6        18.6     66.7   85.3           -29.7
1983             45.7       12.9        20.4      79.0        31.7     35.3      67           12.0
1964             48.7       17.1        27.2      93.0        38.0               38           55.0
1985             77.8       21.9        34.7     134.4        38.0               38           96.4
1966             96.7       27.2        43.1     167.0        36.0               38          129.0
1987            117.7       33.1        52.5     203.3        38.0               38          165.3
IRR:      32.9 %
NP: 010% 123.5 NRs Millions
:i2%  99.4 MRs Millions



-64-
TABLE 1 7
PROJECT CONLETION REPt
MEPM. SECOND HISIMAY PROJECT (730-NEP)
Sumaury of Overall Project Benefits and Costs
(NRs Nillions)
BEIEfITS                               COSTS                      NET
feeder    in   Mairt.                Feeder   Nain   Naint.
Year   Road    Road    Prog.   Total        Road    Road    Prog.   Total
1977                                                  0.6              0.6         -0.6
1978                                          3.8     4.0      4.8    12.6        -12.6
1979                                          9.4     8.2    16.9    34.5         -34.5
1980                    16.4    16.4         12.9     7.2    29.3    49.4         -33.0
1981                    34.8    34.8         15.8     7.8    76.5   100.1         -65.3
1982                    55.6    55.6         17.6     5.3    85.3   108.2         -52L6
1903    11.1     4.8    79.0    94.9         17.0     03      67.0    85.1          9.8
1904    30.7     5.2    93.0   128.9         17.9     0.1    30.0    56.0          72.9
1985    50.3     6.6   134.4   191.3         10.5     0.1    38L0    48.6         142.7
1986    69.7     6.1   167.0   242.8         10.5     0.1    38.0    48.6         194.2
1907    82.6     6.5   203.3   292.4          0.6     1.4    38.0    40.0          52.4
1968    94.0     7.9            101.9         3.0     0.1              3.1         98.8
1989   107.2     7.4            114.6         C.6     0.1              0.7        113.9
1990   108.6     7.8            116.4         0.6     0.1              0.7        115.7
1991   110.1     b.e            119.3         0.6     0.1              0.7        118.6
1992   111.9     8.7            120.6         0.6     0.1              0.7        119.9
1993   113.8     9.1            122.9         3.0     1.4              4.4       IL5
1994   115.5    10.7            126.2         0.6     0.1              0.7        125.5
199    117.6    10.2            127.8         0.6     0.1              0.7        127.1
1996   119.7    10.7            130.4         0.6     0.1              0.7        129.7
1997            12.2             12.2         0.6     0.1              0.7         11.5
1998            11.8             11.8         3.0     0.1              3.1          8.7
1999            12.3             12.3         0.6     1.4              2.0         10.3
2000             13.9            13.9         0.6      0.1             0.7          13.2
IRR:    32.2%
NPV t 10%:   373.9 NRs Millions
NPV e 12%:   2822 NRs Millions



CHART I
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT AVAILABILITY
AT FEEDER ROAD SITE
DESCRIPTION             %        1979           1980           t961          1982           1985           1984
SUPPLIED THROUGH IDA CREI: T
VEHICLES              5                                                                     70 _ _: r,  - ,__.
FIAT. ALLIS DOZER     2                                                       ...... J772 z
NIIIGATA   GRADER     2                            "WI              -    _                 ___.____,  ___
FLAT TRUCK It)       4                                      3 _
TIPPER TRUCK(St)     12 (7t)  27 ,                                                              r/         ' ,       ,
AIR COMPRESSEq      | e                     ' *_____
SOK  ItJNZIERATOR     2             t&  mzMiZ ,z.  r  
10 KVA OZNRATOR       a    00
WATTR TANKERS         4___________ _____ ___ ___________ ___________
STEEL WHIEEL ROLLERS  4                                                                   f,,.
PNEUMATIC ROLLERS   2 a                           /.                    ..
VISRATORY ROLLERS    4    20                                                               ____________
TRACTORS              4 1
SUPPLIED bY D0R
STEEL WH4EEL ROLLER   3                   .    ..,
PRfOJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (730 - NEP)



CHART 2
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS
ORGANIZATION CHART
CHIEF ENGINEER)
IRECONAL ENGINEER                         I                                           . 
i. EASTERN  O94ANKUTA                     PC" -                                   SUPERVISIN eNUEtE
. CENTRAL   KAY"MAi_V
3. WESTERN  POKNARA
4 MD WESTERN  SUNWHKET
Ch
& FM    ItIA ItPI                                            S
t zOtNANENGtNEERS  JE WpatZtoJURtZaD  tSCCt)|""          RFI                          U    t aNSCA
DISTRICT ENGINEERS                                                              AOMSthAflON    FtSCAL
PfOJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT ( 730 - NE P)



CHART 3
PLANNED AND ACTUAL
DISBURSEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT
10___ +-                    _-WSTRUCTIOW/i  EST~AI D  SSURSEOMENT
CATOMY I- FEEDER ROAD CClSTCT/;  KHOPS                AT APPRAISAL
14   4 --
CATEGOOR. 2. MAIN jOAD IMPROVEMENT
t              CATEh  YtAAWMTWANCE /CONSTRUCTION EUPPMCN?
10                      /r
CATEGORY 4. CONStIA.T#CY SERVICES            /
to8 
-   +       CATIORY.5- IMECHA%tICS TRAINIS         /,
0     .m                 m     mmn         m _____________ a                               ta. 
24 
0
t97?        1978        69r9        1980        1m1          1$2         1363        1964        965
DIS3uRSEMENT                     PROCUREMENT
-       PLANNIEO              - _
ACTUAL
PRO-JECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (730- NE P)



CHART 4
CUMULATIVE EXPENDITURE (COST)
BY LOAN CATEORY
9
0 CAT. S
MAWnt(ANOCE /CO6S1TRJCT1ON 90%XPMENT         CATS.
7                                        CA'  I                                         CA._
6-~~~~~~~~~~~ .-
s0                                        F,,C ROA  / l>9T0cl0Mr. tDP
7 4                                                7
MAIIOAT MS V9E
3                                        / t
2~C S T      S _      ~CO .LTA%CY S£RV-
O I S t I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    C   eI @§r.  CA. 
1977       1978 <979                      19M1       IM         W3        M4         1985
PLANNED COMPLETION AND FOIAL COST
O3  ACTUAL COMLETION AND t-t COST
PROJECT COMPLTION REPORT
NEPAL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT ( 730 - NE P)



MAP I
NEPAL ROAD NETWORK
- .-            rTHAWOT - NAUBSIS
J  ~~~  (               \L......., ~ROAD
,>~~~ /               ( N  E P A             _          .                      U O U N T A ,f*4§*t P3^- o*l4  
I    t  ._K                 |                     _    Ot.-f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"I IIAI"I-A@  011 --*^4*
ANG VALZ_Y .                                           TiANTAKT*.AS
29          /   /                                                          4sl **C#t~ .*V ROAO@~_O -  _.*
I N 0 1 A ~ ~       ~       ~           N~ 
INDIA                                             \CN  SECOND -7    8L WA A2}.        ( N30 - _  PI
'.2~~~~1
*  OANG VALLEY Ss ; ~~~~~~~~~~0'-'*                            09*g
| N p t A t ROAPRO*ECT COJPLETION.REPORT
NPAL 8ECOT      HOIGHW   fTIOJEC  C 730  NE



MAP 2
PROECT LOCATION PLANS
THANKOT NAUBISE MAIN ROAD
~~~~~~~~~~ IN
ACANG VALLEY FEEDER ROAO
I N 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAE  5,0
PROJECT OOMPUETION REPORT
NOaL SECOND HfH0V cECT (730- NEP)



MAP 3
TRAFFIC VOLUMES ON SELECTED LINKS - 94
/           ~~NEPAL
0                                  h-   .,0
__ 100-3000a  
PROJECT COPLETION REPORT
>  wo                      NLVL~~~~~~MIMI. ICO   SNMIT4l  I
SOURC * DEPARTNT OF ROADS
I-.                                                                                    ..



