R-;port No. 1439a-NEP                                                                 FILE  COPY
Nepal: Appraisal of a
Second Highway Project
June 9, 1977
Transportation Division
South Asia Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit         -  Nepalese Rupee (NR)
US$1.00                3 NR 12.45 (January 1977)
NR 1.00                = US$0.08
NR 1 million           - US$80,321
* The exchange rate is floating; the rate used in this report is as above.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                        British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                  0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)          2,204.6 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)                    2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT     = Average Daily Traffic
CEDA    =  Center for Economic Development and Administration
CIDA    m Canadian International Development Association
ER      a Economic Rate of Return
GDP     3 Gross Domestic Product
ILO     -  International Labor Organization
MWT     = Ministry of Works and Transport
NTC     = Nepal Transport Corporation
UNDP    - United Nations Development Program
USAID   - United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL
FISCAL YEAR
mid-July to mid-July



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SU.INTRODCTO ....................................................1
I.   INTRODUCTION...........                                                       .       ..1
II.   THE  TRANSPORT  SECTOR  .................. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .  .                        2
A.   Geographic,  Demographic  and  Economic  Setting  .........                                   2
B.   Transport Modes  . ....... .           ........... .......... . .... .s.                      3
C.   Transport  Coordination  . .........................  .....                                   6
III.   THE  HIGHWAY  SECTOR  ......                .................................                        6
A. The Network ...........    6
B.   Traffic   ...................................7
C.   Administration    ..................................... .                                     8
D.   Planning  and  Finance  .................................                                     9
E.   Design  and  Construction  ..............................                                   10
F.   Maintenance  ..........................................                                     11
IV.   THE  PROJECT                 .................................                ..........           12
A.   Formulaticn  ..........................................                                      12
B.   Description  ................................                                               12
C.   Cost  Estimates  .......................................                                    17
D.   Execution                   ............................................                    20
E.   Financing                   ............................................                    21
F.   Disbursements  ...............................                        ...........           22
V.   ECONOMIC  EVALUATION    .....................................                                     22
A.    Introduction   .......              ..................................                     22
B.   Feeder  Road    .................................... . .....                                23
C.  Main Road Upgrading .* ................... . ...                                             24
D.   Road Maintenance  Program                          ............................             25
VI.   AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND  RECONMENDATIONS  ...................                                     26
Thb  domenthi*" has a rei.ik     deWbuiton  na  may be used by recipients only in the performance
of thof OSa dUti. ItA cownts may iM  gAS              c  0 dbcoeId without World Snk authorization.



TABLES
1. The National Highway Network and Estimated Growth
2. Registered Motor Vehicles (1964-1975)
3. Fifth Highway Investment Plan
4. Highway Expenditures (1967-1977)
5. Road Transport Revenue
6.  Road Maintenance Allocations
7. Selected Design Standards
8. Road Construction Equipment
9. Outline Five-Year Road Maintenance Program
10. Road Maintenance Equipment and Workshops
11. Total Project Costs
12. Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
13. Economic User Costs and Savings
14. Feeder Road: Estimated Benefit and Cost Streams
15. Main Road Upgrading: Estimated Benefit and Cost Streams
16. Five-Year Road Maintenance Program: Estimated
Benefit and Cost Streams
17. Implementation Schedule--Bar Chart
CHARTS
IBRD 16771 Department of Roads, Previous Organization
IBRD 16770 Department of Roads, Recently Introduced Organization
MAPS
IBRD 12622 NEPAL: Transport Network and Project Location
IBRD 12621 NEPAL: Five Year Road Maintenance Program



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        Nepal, a mountainous, landlocked country with an estimated per
capita income of US$110 per year, is one of the least developed countries
in the world. Over the past ten years GDP growth has hardly exceeded the
estimated 2.2X annual growth rate of population, currently about 12.6 mil-
lion. The growth of the main economic activity, agriculture, has been dis-
appointing except in 1975/76 when favorable weather conditions produced a
relatively large grain crop.
ii.       Since 1951, when Nepal emerged from a century of isolation,
development efforts have emphasized infrastructure, particularly roads, in
order to integrate the many loosely linked village economies. In 1958, the
first road from Kathmandu to the Indian border was completed, and substantial
progress in the development of a road network has since been made. Despite
the difficulties of topography and climate, with the assistance of princi-
pally bilateral aid, the network now consists of about 4,200 km of road, of
which nearly 1,600 km are paved. Also, over 30 airports and landing strips
have been constructed.
iii.      As indicated by the present Five Year Plan (FY 1976-1980), directly
productive investments are now being emphasized so that increased benefits
can be derived from the previous infrastructural investments. However, this
shift in emphasis will be gradual because infrastructure decisions taken in
preceding years still dominate the current plan and the basic infrastructure
is not yet complete. Within the highway sector, feeder road construction
which will stimulate agricultural production will become of increased impor-
tance. Also, His Majesty's Government realizes that in order to preserve the
rapidly expanding road system increased emphasis will have to be placed on
road maintenance.
iv.       The Bank Group has assisted the Government in the transport sector
with a highway project (223-NEP) for US$2.5 million. This project included
the construction of five road bridges, five pedestrian suspension bridges in
the hills, implementation of a four-year maintenance program and consulting
services. The principal objectives of the first highway project have been
met, particularly in that roads are quickly reopened after the monsoon land-
slides. However, due principally to the shortage of materials in 1974 and
contractual difficulties, the project will be completed only around the end of
June 1977, about two and a half years behind schedule. In the preparation of
the second highway project, these previous implementation difficulties have
been taken into account.
v.        The proposed second highway project is comprised of the following
elements: (i) construction of a 50 km feeder road, together with improvement
of connecting local roads; (ii) procurement of construction equipment for use



- ii -
by contractors constructing the feeder road; (iii) upgrading of about 17.5 km
of main road; (iv) support for a five-year maintenance program with procure-
ment of road maintenance equipment, tools and construction of workshops; (v)
consulting services in connection with the feeder road; and (vi) training of
equipment mechanics. Also, as a separate but integral part of the project,
technical assistance for the Roads Department will be provided by the Canadian
International Development Association (CIDA).
vi.       The Department of Roads, Ministry of Works and Transport, will be
responsible for the execution of the project. Contracts for feeder road con-
struction works, for the upgrading of the main road and for the construction
of the maintenance workshops will be awarded using local bidding procedures
in accordance with the Association's "Guidelines for Procurement." The road
construction and maintenance equipment are to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Association's "Guide-
lines for Procurement." The estimated cost of the project is US$20.0 million
with a foreign exchange component of US$14.3 million. The proposed credit of
US$17.0 million will finance 85% of project costs including 100% of the foreign
exchange and some local expenditures.
vii.       Improvement of the feeder road, which will provide nearly all
weather access to the Dang Valley, will stimulate agricultural production and
reduce user cost. For this project element the economic rate of return (ER)
is estimated to be about 30%, assuming only a minimum improvement in agricul-
tural extension in the Dang Valley. When the agricultural/rural development
investment project takes place as now being prepared by Government and USAID,
benefits would be enhanced. The upgrading of the main road leading to
Kathmandu will lower user costs and reduce losses caused by landslides. This
project component is estimated to have an ER of about 14%. The maintenance
program component will help to preserve the substantial investment which has
recently gone into the construction of highways as well as contributing to
lower user costs for the main highway network. Based on user cost saving
alone, the maintenance program would provide an ER of 30%.   Combining the
various project components, the weighted average ER for the entire project
is estimated to be 28%.
viii.     The project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$17.0 million to His Majesty's Government of Nepal.



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      His Majesty's Government of Nepal (the Government) has asked the
Association to assist in financing a second highway project comprised of: (i)
construction of a 50 km feeder road, together with improvement of connecting
local roads; (ii) procurement of construction equipment for use by contractors
constructing the feeder road; (iii) the upgrading of about 17.5 km of main
road; (iv) support for a 5-year road maintenance program with procurement of
road maintenance equipment, tools and construction of workshops; (v) consulting
services in connection with the feeder road and for East-West highway feasi-
bility studies; and (vi) training of construction and maintenance equipment
mechanics. The estimated cost of the project is US$20.0 million equivalent;
the proposed Credit of US$17.0 million would cover 85% of project costs in-
cluding the foreign exchange cost of US$14.3.
1.02      This would be the second Bank Group lending operation for high-
ways and in the transportation sector in Nepal. The first highway project
(NEP-223) in 1970 included the construction of road and porter suspension
bridges and support for a four-year maintenance program mainly within the
Central Region. Initial delays in project implementation followed by a short-
age of materials, notably cement, and transportation difficulties in the hills
delayed completion of the bridges by about 18 months to mid-1976. Contractual
difficulties due to price increases delayed minor work; and to accommodate the
completion of these and to allow for the procurement of some additional spare
parts, the Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1977. The general objectives
of the project have been realized, and account has been taken of implementation
difficulties in the preparation of the second highway project. UNDP-financed
technical assistance was included in the first highway project; technical
assistance will be provided for part of the duration of the second highway
project by the Canadian International Development Association (CIDA).
1.03      The present project forms part of the Government's Fifth Five-Year
Plan (FY1976-80) with the feeder road element being prepared on the basis of
a UNDP-financed feasibility study carried out between 1971 and 1973. The
5-year maintenance program is a continuation of maintenance support begun
under the first highway project.
1.04      This report is based on information provided by the Government and
its consultants and on the findings of the November 1976 appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. M. W. Dickerson, engineer, and R. N. Panfil, economist.
Mr. V. Ross, agriculturist, assisted the mission.



II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic, Demographic and Economic Setting
2.01      The Kingdom of Nepal is a landlocked country bordering on China
(Tibet) in the north and India, its main trading partner, in the east, south
and west (Map No. 12622). Nepal, roughly 800 km long and 170 km wide (about
the size of Greece), is divided into three distinct physical regions which
extend in an east-west direction across the country: (i) the relatively fer-
tile Terai plains (21%) in the south; (ii) the Hills (45%) in the center which
includes the important Kathmandu Valley; and (iii) the Himalayas (34%), the
world's highest mountains, in the north. The central and northern regions are
dissected by deep valleys running generally from north to south.
2.02      The population of Nepal is estimated to be about 12.6 million (1975)
and is presently increasing at a rate of about 2.2% per year. With an average
of 90 persons per square kilometer, Nepal is one of the most densely populated
mountainous countries in the world. About 41% of the population lives in the
Terai region, while 59% live in the Hills and Himalayas regions   Considering
only arable land, the population density reaches 450 persons/km for all Nepal
(vs. about 950 for Bangladesh and 400 for India) and even higher in the hills
at about 930 persons.
2.03      For more than a century prior to 1951, Nepal maintained a policy
of isolation from the rest of the world. Partly as a result of this policy
and also of the difficulties of internal communications, Nepal is still
in the early stages of economic development. It consists of many loosely
linked minor valley economies rather than one integrated economy. Recent
Government development efforts to provide infrastructure, particularly roads,
have yet to benefit the general population. Over the past ten years, GDP
growth has hardly exceeded the 2.2% growth rate of the population. The per
capita income is about US$110 per year which is among the lowest in the world.
The growth of the agriculture sector, which contributes about 67% of GDP and
employs 94% of the work force, has been disappointing. However, in 1975/76
weather conditions were favorable, the grain crop was relatively large,
and GDP grew by about 6.0%.
2.04      In the current Fifth Five-Year Plan (FY1976-80), the Government has
recognized that a shift from the expansion of infrastructure to the expansion
of directly productive activities is warranted. The plan rightly indicates
that the time has come for Nepal to derive increased production benefits from
its past efforts to expand the infrastructure. However, this shift in emphasis
is bound to be gradual because the infrastructure decisions taken in preceding
years still dominate the current plan, and the need for completion of the basic
infrastructure cannot be neglected. In addition, while Nepal has significant
long term development possibilities in agriculture, forestry, and water re-
sources, their development will require a lengthy period of project prepara-
tion and institution building.



- 3 -
B. Transport Modes
2.05      Historically, transport in Nepal has been by means of porters and,
to a smaller extent, by pack animals. These means of transportation are
still of great importance, especially in the hills of central Nepal where
the majority of the population lives (para. 2.02). With the Government's
relatively recent emphasis on infrastructure, since the 1950's a road network
has begun to emerge and numerous airports and STOL landing fields have been
built. Other modes such as railroads, ropeways and waterways play a minor role
within Nepal's transport system (Map 12622).
2.06      Topographic and climatic conditions are the major obstacles to
reliable and inexpensive transport. The rugged, mountainous terrain and the
large number of rivers and streams, together with heavy monsoon rains create
great difficulty in the construction and maintenance of the transport system,
particularly with roads and all-weather aircraft landing facilities. In
addition, since Nepal is a landlocked country and the nearest ocean port,
Calcutta, is over 1,000 km away, the transportation of overseas trade is
difficult and expensive.
2.07      In the past, transport demand had been local in nature, between
nearby villages and rural areas located in the hill terrain. Since the
1950's with the eradication of malaria in the Terai region and increased
trade with India, transport demand has been largely concentrated in a north/
south direction. Grains and manufactured goods move in a northern direction
into the hills while herbs and spices come south. Also more recently, with
emphasis on the integration of the country and the development of the East-
West highway system, some lateral transport demand is starting to develop
along the Terai.
Hill Trails
2.08      Although it is difficult to identify and measure the total length
of the hill trails, estimates have ranged from 15,000 to 20,000 km. These
trails not only link the many minor village economies but also play a vital
role in unifying the country since often there is no other means of access.
During the rainy season the numerous rivers which dissect the mountains rise
and swift currents make their crossing difficult or impossible so that many
villages are isolated during a significant part of the year. Government
is anxious to make movement of people and goods easier in the hills and to
this end has been taking a number of measures, including constructing porter
trail suspension bridges--five of which were financed under the first highway
project. To further assist the suspension bridge program, German Consult
(Germany) carried out a study of 66 proposed sites which was financed by UNDP
with the Bank as Executing Agency. Government has asked and USAID has agreed
to finance further suspension bridge construction based on the study findings.
Government will also be receiving assistance from the World Food Program to
upgrade four major north-south trails for use by mules and also to make one
passable for jeeps.



-4-
Highways
2.09      Although the road system is the dominant modern mode of transpor-
tation, Nepal still has one of the smallest networks, either in relation to
surface area or to population, of any country in the world. Road construc-
tion for motor vehicle travel outside the Kathmandu valley was only started
in 1953, and the road network now consists of about 4,200 km, of which about
1,600 km are paved. In 1975, total motor vehicle registration was about
15,500 units, 35% of which were trucks and buses. The highway system is
described in more detail in Chapter III.
Civil Aviation
2.10      The Government has given high priority to air transport communica-
tion to remote and inaccessible parts of the country and such transport is
also a pre-condition for the development of tourism. Commercial air transport
started in Nepal in 1950 with services by Indian Airlines between Kathmandu and
Patna, India. In 1955 the first domestic airline company was formed and now
Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation (RNAC), which is Government owned, serves four
international airports (New Delhi, Calcutta, Patna and Bangkok), 25 air fields
by means of scheduled flights and an additional 8 landing strips by means of
charter flights. The volume of domestic traffic, which reached 17,000 passen-
gers in 1975/76, has increased at about 25% p.a. during the last two years.
This reverses a decline in traffic which took place after the Kathmandu-Pokhara
highway was opened. International traffic carried by RNAC, on the other
hand, has remained relatively constant at around 80,000 passengers during the
last 3 years. Cargo traffic, which tends to fluctuate widely, amounted to
1,650 tons in 1975/76 and over the long term appears to be declining as the
road network improves.
2.11      With the growth in domestic traffic, improvement in operating
efficiency and international fare increases, RNAC has been able to realize an
increasing profit during the last three years. Domestic operations, where
passenger fares have not changed since 1972, are, however, being subsidized
by the international operations. The tourist traffic seasonality and the
monsoon rains, which close more than half of the domestic airports, are two
major factors which cause difficulties in the airline operation. By upgrading
existing airports to an all-weather standard, the Government hopes to some
extent to improve the utilization of the existing fleet. Also, RNAC has
recently started international services to Sri Lanka.
Railroads
2.12      There are three short, separate, narrow gauge railroad lines in
Nepal:  The Janakpur line (53 km), the Nepal line (8 km) and the Kosi line
(35 km). The Janakpur line, which is an extension of the Indian railroad
network from Jayangar, principally caters to a growing number of pilgrims 1/
(1.2 million in 1975/76) from India who visit the shrines in Janakpur, where
there is no alternative road transport. The Nepal line is also an extension
1/   Numbers dropped in 1976 due to the poor serviceability of rolling stock.



of the Indian railroad, extending from Raxaul to Birganj, and transports
principally bulk cargoes. Because of the long delays at Indian and Nepalese
customs checkpoints, railroad transshipment costs are sometimes said to be
lower than comparable trucking costs. However, in 1975/76 railroad traffic
declined to only 5,000 tons p.a. The Kosi line was built in order to trans-
port construction materials to the Kosi River Barrage and is no longer in
operation.
2.13      Both the Janakpur and Nepal lines are operated by the Nepal Trans-
port Corporation (NTC), a Government entity. Until 1974/75 the traffic on both
lines was able to cover operating expenses, but little was generated to
cover depreciation or replacement of capital. Since both lines have reached
a point where little useful life remains and the Government wishes to keep both
operations, the Government is now considering the purchase of additional
secondhand equipment for the Janakpur line and the conversion of the Nepal
Railroad to meter gauge to avoid the cumbersome transshipment of international
goods which now has to take place at Raxaul, in India. However, before rail-
road investments are made, the viability of using alternative transport modes
should be considered.
Ropeways
2.14      The first ropeway, which was built in 1928 to serve the Kathmandu
corridor, was for many years the only means of freight transportation other
than by porter to and from the Kathmandu valley. The present ropeway between
Kathmandu and Hetaura which was opened in April 1964 has a length of 42 km and
a design capacity of nearly 22 tons per operation hour. A practical annual
operating capacity of 70,000 tons has been estimated by NTC who operate the
system. Transport charges on the ropeway are generally lower than on the
competing road system; however, when storage, pilferage and transshipment
costs are taken into account, only in the transport of large bulk shipments
is the ropeway found to be competitive, and trucks are preferred by the
private sector. However, even with this type of cargo, since 1972/73, the
ropeway appears to be losing its competitive edge, and traffic only amounted
to 11,500 tons in 1975/76. In recent years, with the drop in traffic, the
ropeway has not been able to cover even direct operating expenses. At pres-
ent, a UNDP project team is studying the feasibility of constructing three new
north-south ropeway systems in the western, central and eastern parts of
the country.
Waterways and Maritime Transport
2.15      Because of the nature of Nepal's mountainous topography and the
seasonality of rainfall, the use of waterways as a mode of transportation is
of limited importance in Nepal. A few rivers in the Terai area are navigable
by small craft and some movement of grain takes place to and from India.
Also, in central Nepal, rivers are sometimes used to transport logs from the
hills to the Terai region.
2.16      As a result of a request for a license to establish a private ship-
ping company in 1968, the Government has established legal and administrative
procedures for maritime shipping. Since then two private shipping companies
have been established, but only one ship has been chartered for one journey.



- 6 -
C. Transport Coordination
2.17      All modern modes of transport are regulated and/or operated by the
Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MWT). Within the MWT there is no
separate entity which specifically coordinates the various modes. Some as-
sistance has been provided in transport planning by a transport economist
financed by the UNDP. Also, the Center for Economic Development and Admin-
istration (CEDA) is now carrying out a study to evaluate the relative merits
of investment in various modes of transport, particularly in the hills.
Proposed investment plans are reviewed by the National Planning Commission
and final approval for implementation depends on the Ministry of Finance.
2.18      Because of the relative infancy of the transport system and the
dominance of roads, problems of inter-modal competition (paras. 2.12 and 2.14)
are minimal. Nepal's investment strategy has been generally based on a 1965
transport survey organized and financed by the Bank which concluded that
transport should be given high priority and that roads should be the prime
mode. Most development expenditures, including investment in transport,
have been financed by bilateral agencies. Although this bilateral assistance
has been essential for the development of the infrastructure, the preference
by donors for major self-contained projects, usually donor designed and super-
vised, has sometimes made preparation and implementation of consistent invest-
ment plans more difficult.
2.19      In line with giving more emphasis to the directly productive sec-
tors (para. 2.04), future investments such as feeder roads, are now being
favored. Also, greater emphasis is now being given to the maintenance of
the existing transport system and the possibility of increased investments
in modes of transport other than roads (paras. 2.13 and 2.14).
III. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Network
3.01      The total road network is about 4,200 km of which about 1,600 are
bitumen paved (Table 1).  The two main national roads are:  (i) the north-south
road from the Indian border at Birganj to Kathmandu and then to the Mainland
Chinese (Tibet) border; and (ii) the East-West Highway located in the Terai
which when complete (about 1985) will traverse the entire length of the country
(1,040 km).
3.02      Since there were only a few local roads in 1950, the present-day
network is impressive. The terrain is rugged and landslide prone, making
road construction difficult and expensive. Most major construction has been
of main roads and has been undertaken with bilateral assistance including
aid from Mainland China, India, Russia, UK and USA and is continuing with
Switzerland and ADB joining the ranks of donors. Currently, the average



- 7 -
road density is 0.024 ke of road/km  of land area.  This indicator c mpares
poorly with 0.033 km/km for Afghanistan but better than 0.019 km/km for
Ethiopia. By 1982 the total road network will be about 5,800 km (about a
40% increase over the present system).
B. Traffic
3.03      Vehicle registration statistics are limited in Nepal.  Over the last
five years, the vehicle fleet has grown at an average rate of 9% per annum,
and in 1976 there were 15,500 registered vehicles (Table 2). Of this number,
35% were trucks and buses. However, no information on scrapped vehicles is
available, and it is probable that only about two-thirds of registered vehicles
are in operating condition 1/. During negotiations, the Government agreed to
improve the collection of vehicle registration data so as to enable accurate
estimates to be made of the running fleet in Nepal.
3.04      In addition to operating the ropeway and two railroads (paras. 2.13
and 2.14), NTC also provides truck services and operates a Mainland Chinese
constructed trolley bus service in the Kathmandu valley. One of NTC's truck
transport operations is concerned with supplying the ropeway terminal at
Hetaura from the Indian railhead at Raxaul. NTC's truck operations have
suffered from neglect and inadequate management and efforts are being made
through a UNDP-financed Road Transport Development Project to improve the
truck serviceability. However, management and administration still require
improvement. The trolley bus service commenced operations in 1976 and
although no financial or traffic figures are yet available, the service,
which operates on a 13 km route between Kathmandu and Bhaktapur, appears
popular.
3.05      With the exception of the Kathmandu valley, roads are not heavily
trafficked. One of the more heavily trafficked is the road between Birganj
and Hetaura, with about an Average Daily Traffic (ADT) of 500. On the same
road through the hills leading to Kathmandu, the figure drops to about 400
ADT and for all other rural roads, the figures are low. In general, traffic
seems to be growing at about 5% per annum; however, these growth rates vary
throughout the road system.
3.06      There are few restrictions on the licensing of trucks and buses.
There are weight regulations, but these are for loads only and are difficult
to enforce. There are no size regulations; however, the rugged nature of the
terrain precludes the operation of vehicles much larger than the present 5-7
ton capacity trucks.
1/   Resource Paper on Roads in Nepal, World Bank 1974, Page 35.



- 8 -
C. Administration
3.07      The Roads Department (the Department) is responsible for the con-
struction, maintenance, administration and, to some extent, planning, of all
national roads (Table 1). In charge of the Department is a Chief Roads
Engineer, with superintending engineers heading regional offices and func-
tional branches. Until recently, the Department was overcentralized and
not adequate to administer the rapidly expanding network (Chart 16771). Re-
cognizing the Department's increasing limitations and resulting from a UNDP-
financed institutional improvement study included under Highways I, the Depart-
ment has now been decentralized with a phased expansion planned to match net-
work growth (Chart 16770). Four regional offices, located in regional admin-
istrative centers, have been sanctioned, together with operating divisions and
appropriate subdivisions (Map 12621). As far as possible, regions will be
eventually self-contained with respect to maintenance and all but major con-
struction projects. At headquarters in Kathmandu, the Department will con-
tinue to administer major projects and will maintain technical and adminis-
trative branches to provide backup services to the regions. The proposed
reorganization is generally satisfactory and provides for the expansion of
the Department over the next five years to match road network growth. Imple-
mentation of the reorganization has already started.
3.08      Senior staff are reasonably well qualified and, with respect to the
past limited road network, are well experienced. As with other Government
departments, salaries are very low compared to the private sector; and until
recently, there has been little room for professional initiative. However,
with the expansion of the road system and the Government's intention to more
actively manage bilateral and multilateral projects, professional staff will
be called upon to play a more meaningful role. In addition, all staff will
benefit from further training and technical assistance with respect to their
increasing responsibilities. The Department has received technical assistance
in the past; the most recent being financed by UNDP as part of the first
highway project. The team was moderately successful, particularly with respect
to equipment management; but to assist in the execution of this project,
further technical assistance due to commence about September 1977 will be
financed by CIDA and will consist of four specialists for an initial period
of 18 months.
3.09      There is an even greater need for training of road overseers and
mechanics. The CIDA-financed team, which will include short term training
experts, will draw up recommendations for both professional and artisan
training, including the training of road overseers; the team will also assist
the Department in assessing the additional staffing and associated training
needs. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government will,
by July 31, 1978, submit a training program for staff of the department for
approval by the Association. For mechanics' training, the Government has
approached the International Labor Organization (ILO) to prepare a suitable
program (paras. 4.14 and 4.15).



- 9 -
D. Planning and Finance
3.10      Planning priorities stem from a desire for national integration,
access to hill areas and also from offers from bilateral donor agencies.
The formation of the Aid Coordination Group (December 1976) and regular
meetings of Group representatives in Kathmandu should go some way to achieve
coordination and standardization of bilateral- and multilateral-financed
highway projects.
3.11      The Government is basically working to a 20-year road improvement
plan (1966-85) modified and updated by five-year plans. The five-year plans
include main features of the 20-year plan (i.e., continuation of the East-West
Highway) but also include new proposals and results of the UNDP-financed feeder
road feasibility studies of about 1,000 km, undertaken by COALMA 1/ (Italy)
which were completed in 1973. The current plan aims at completion of about
an additional 1,200 km at a cost of about US$91.0 million (Table 3); this
investment represents 23-26% of the national development plan -- a reduction
from 44% in the previous Five-Year Plan (para 2.04). However, 60% of the
planned expenditure still represents the Government's ongoing commitments to
the major bilateral aid programs and only 24% will be directed towards feeder
roads. The plan is ambitious and there may well be some delays in completion,
particularly of the major bilateral programs.
3.12      The current investment program is largely dictated by national aims
of integration and also by the desire to construct penetration roads into the
hills regardless of economic viability. Although completion of the main high-
way network was expected in the next ten years, two major additional road
schemes totalling 800 km and both running through difficult country have been
recently added to the future road program. Although the aim of the schemes is
to integrate the mid-hills, it is extremely doubtful that construction could be
justified on economic grounds.
3.13      The Planning Branch of the Department is engaged principally in
undertaking simple feasibility studies and converting road construction pro-
posals into possible alignments. In preparation for the recent Aid Group
meeting 2/, IDA assisted the Government in selecting and ranking future proj-
ects which would need external financing. IDA will continue its dialogue with
the Government in order to improve planning so that sector lending may be
possible in the future. During negotiations, the Government agreed to take
measures to strengthen the Department's Planning Branch in order to upgrade
its capability to undertake appropriate economic and technical analyses of
all major investments in the road sector.
3.14      The Department's annual budget is based on the current Five-Year
Plan and for FY76 was NRs 75 million (US$6.0 million equivalent). However,
in addition, bilateral and multilateral agencies contributed NRs 121 million
(US$9.7 million equivalent) making a total annual expenditure of NRs 196
1/        Comtec in association with Alpina and Studio Macchi (Italy).
2/        December 2, 1976.



- 10 -
million (US$15.7 million equivalent). About NRs 22 million (US$1.8 million
equivalent) was spent on road maintenance. The Department's total budget has
increased at an average rate of about 21% per year (1972-76). Total foreign
aid expenditure averaged about US$14.0 million per year (Table 4). A sharp
increase in expenditure is predicted for both the Department and foreign aid
in the forthcoming years reflecting increased maintenance and construction
costs.
3.15      Revenue from the highway sector is derived principally from customs
on fuel and vehicles, vehicle tax, licenses and road cess (Table 5). Gross
revenues which were generally increasing in previous years (NRs 60 million in
FY75) showed a sharp decline in FY76 possibly due to fuel shortages and the
consequent loss of customs revenue. Although highway sector revenue is not
set aside for highway expenditure, gross annual revenue in FY76 covered high-
way recurrent expenditures (NRs 25.0 million) and almost half of the non-aid
construction budget.
3.16      A notably unsatisfactory feature of highway taxation is the road
cess. This is not only expensive in terms of driver and vehicle delays, but
there is a high administrative cost. 1/ The Bank has suggested that the road
cess be dropped but Government is reluctant to relinquish this significant
source of revenue. 2/ During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the
Government will undertake a study, by June 30, 1978, under terms of reference
approved by the Association, of practical methods of raising revenues alterna-
tive to the road cess. The Government and the Association also affirmed that
mutually agreed recommendations from the study will be implemented. Further
assurances were obtained that no road cess will be charged on the feeder
road project during construction.
E. Design and Construction
3.17      The Design Branch has a complement of about ten design engineers
and is currently engaged on design of hill roads and minor projects, and the
quality of work is reasonable. Major projects are designed by foreign con-
sultants under contract to the Department. Road design standards were for-
mulated by the Department in 1970 and are generally on the high side for
present and prospective traffic volumes in Nepal. However, the standards are
being relaxed for feeder road schemes. Bridge design standards are based on
1/   In 1973 a CEDA study indicated that two-thirds of the revenue collected
from road cess was consumed in administrative and collection charges.
2/   Recently the rate has been doubled and the road cess is now expected to
contribute nearly a quarter of total highway revenue.



- 11 -
Indian loaJing for main roads and American Association of State Highway Offi-
cials (AASRO) H15 loading for feeder roads. Both road and bridge design
standards will be reviewed by the CIDA-financed technical assistance team,
and one team member will assist specifically with bridge location and design.
3.18      Although some development of the local contracting industry has
taken place in recent years, there is still considerable room for improvement.
Currently, there are about 300 contractors in Nepal but only five to ten
medium-sized firms with the largest being the Government-owned organization,
National Construction Corporation of Nepal (NCCN). Several foreign contrac-
tors are active on bilateral and multilateral projects. Small contractors'
operations are labor intensive while the larger contractors use a blend of
labor and equipment. Constraints to further development of the industry are
lack of access to credit, shortage of Nepalese skilled labor, lack of equip-
ment, one-sided conditions of contract and the growth of NCCN.
3.19      The Government is keen to promote local contracting, and a CEDA
study of the industry is now taking place. However, the study is concentrat-
ing only on specific projects. At the Government's request, and using a
Bank-financed specialist, the Association will shortly give assistance in
broadening the study to cover all construction agencies together with estimates
of future construction requirements. Concerning other constraints, the Depart-
ment has recently revised and improved its conditions of contract. Several
measures have also been taken in preparation for this project to assist con-
tractors working on the feeder road project (para. 4.22).
3.20      Force account work is mainly undertaken on minor projects and also
in conjunction with some bilateral aid projects and on self-help schemes.
The UK is financing a construction unit, which while constructing a feeder
road, is being used to train staff in road construction techniques. Emphasis
is also being placed on self-help schemes, and one or two hill penetration
roads are being constructed by voluntary labor.
3.21      Contract supervision is carried out either by Department engineers
or by the Department's consultants. Formerly, contract supervision was admin-
istered by a construction branch. With the abolition of this branch in the
recent reorganization (para 3.07), supervision for all but major projects will
be administered by regional offices. The transfer of supervision responsi-
bility will be at a pace appropriate to regional staff ability. The Depart-
ment is, however, considering forming a construction/maintenance branch to set
standards and provide backup assistance to the regions.
F. Maintenance
3.22      Nepal's road network is one of the most difficult in the world
to maintain. Some roads run through tropical plains, and some are perched
on mountainsides subjected to freezing, snow and landslides. The network is
also expanding rapidly, bringing additional responsibilities to the overcen-
tralized organization which has been underfunded for years. The Department



- 12 -
has therefore been constantly striving to cope with both these natural and
administrative difficulties and to catch up with its ever-increasing mainte-
nance commitments.
3.23      In the late 1960's, the Government began to plan ahead to maintain
the expanding network. The first highway project included a four-year main-
tenance program which was comprised of equipment procurement, workshops, spare
parts and a commitment by Government to adequate maintenance funding. The
project's resources have been concentrated in the four more heavily trafficked
areas of Bagmati, Narayani, Gandaki and Lumbini; and although funding has
proved to be inadequate (para. 3.24) some improvement in road maintenance has
taken place.
3.24      Budgeted maintenance allocations in the past have not been adequate
to maintain the expanding network. Budget allocations have, however, shown a
regular increase over the past years and from FY72 to FY77, the allocation has
increased from NRs 6 million to NRs 43 million (Table 6). While this latest
budget allocation is about in line with present requirements for recurrent
costs, in the past the Department has only received about 75% of the mainte-
nance allocation from the Ministry of Finance. The Government is now taking
steps to ensure that this situation will not occur in the future.
3.25      While the maintenance budget for FY77 appears adequate to cover
recurrent costs, little of this amount is allocated for the purchase or main-
tenance of road maintenance equipment. The Department intends to reintroduce
a rental system with updated hire charges which should reflect the true cost
of purchasing and maintaining road maintenance equipment, During negotiations
the Government agreed that, based on maintenance rates and equipment hire
charges, the Department will at all times allocate adequate funds from the
road maintenance budget for equipment maintenance.
3.26      Maintenance is generally labor intensive and will remain so for the
foreseeable future. Equipment is used to complement labor and the principal
items include bulldozers and loaders for landslide clearing, removal of
boulders and emergency works, graders for maintaining surfaces and trucks for
moving materials and labor. There are currently about 3,000 laborers employed
on road maintenance, and in the next five years, the number is expected to
increase to about 5,000. The CIDA program for road overseer training should
help improve supervision and labor productivity.
3.27      Formerly, two branches were responsible for all construction and
maintenance to the east and west of the country, respectively (Chart #16771).
The latest reorganization (November 1976) puts responsibility for maintenance
in the field; i.e., in the four regional offices which among them cover the
country. The principles are sound; although implementation has started, much
remains to be done to make the regional offices fully operational.



- 13 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Formulation
4.01      The proposed Second Highway Project has developed as an extension
of the First Highway Project (223-NEP) which assisted maintenance efforts
mainly within the Central Region. With the rapid expansion of the road
*          network, support is now needed for a nationwide maintenance program together
with upgrading sections of older roads. In addition, in order to promote the
integration of the hills with the Terai region, a comprehensive feeder road
study was financed by UNDP (para 3.11). During the study, the Tulsipur feeder
road was identified as a top priority project and, after further study updating
and final design undertaken by N.D. Lea Associates (Canada), has been included
as an element of the proposed project.
B. Description
4.02      The project consists of:
(i) construction, generally on an existing alignment, of
a 50 1/ km feeder road, together with improvements to
connecting local roads;
(ii) procurement of construction equipment for use by the
feeder road construction contractors;
(iii) upgrading, on the existing alignment, of a 17.5 km
mountainous section of the main Kathmandu to
Indian border road;
(iv) a five-year nationwide road maintenance program including
the provision of road maintenance equipment, spares, two
workshops and facilities;
(v) consulting services for: (a) feasibility studies, de-
tailed engineering and assistance in construction super-
vision for the feeder road; (b) feasibility studies of
the remaining 190 km section of the East-West Highway;
and (c) technical investigation assistance;
(vi) training of construction and maintenance equipment
mechanics.
The location of the project roads are shown on the Map 12622 at the end of
this report. Design standards are shown in Table 7.
1/   Includes 3 km road to Tulsipur airport.



- 14 -
Feeder Road Construction
4.03      The feeder road to be constructed is located in the Far Western
Region and with a gravel surface will provide nearly all-weather access from
the East-West Highway (para. 3.01) in the Terai to the Dang Valley. Within the
Valley, the proposed road will link the main trading town of Ghorahi to the new
Government administrative (Zonal) headquarters at Tulsipur. One river will be
crossed by a bridge and the remainder by concrete paved fords. There are
numerous tracks within the valley, and the project includes culverting and
minor improvements to these to allow greater use in both dry and wet weather.
Road Construction Equipment
4.04      The project includes procurement of some construction equipment for
rent or sale to contractors working on the feeder road. While construction
will be primarily labor intensive, certain items of equipment will be required
to tackle rock excavation, to transport materials and labor, and to compact and
finish the subgrade and gravel surfacing. In addition, vehicles will be
provided for supervisory staff and tools for the equipment maintenance work-
shops (Table 8). In order not to delay the start of construction, bids were
called in January 1977. About US$400,000 of the total cost of US$1.25 million
will constitute retroactive financing.
4.05      The construction equipment will be made available on hire to con-
tractors at commercial rates and will be maintained by the Department mechanics
in a workshop to be constructed initially for this purpose. On completion of
the road, the workshop and other buildings will house a maintenance unit for
the feeder road and for other roads in the area. The equipment may also be
sold to contractors either outright or on a hire/purchase basis. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that: (i) the
Department will maintain the feeder road construction equipment in good operat-
ing condition; and (ii) equipment which is not rented or sold to contractors
engaged on the project feeder road construction would be made available to
contractors on other road works or would revert to the road maintenance fleet.
Main Road Upgrading
4.06      The 17.5 km section of the Kathmandu-Indian border road to be up-
graded is located between Thankot in the Kathmandu Valley and Naubise, the
junction with the main road to Pokhara. The alignment, which is tortuous,
traverses a mountain pass and is subject to landslides. Upgrading work will
comprise pavement widening from 3.5 m to 6.5 m, minor realignments, improvement
to drainage and landslides protection works. Detailed engineering is under
preparation by the Department and N.D. Lea, consultant, advised on pavement
design and slope stability (para 4.13).
Five-Year Maintenance Program
4.07      The Five-Year Road Maintenance Program (FY1978-1982) included in
the project is aimed at achieving adequate road maintenance on existing roads
and increasing the Department's capacity to cope with the network increase.



- 15 -
The Department prepared the program in late 1976, based on the expected com-
pletion of construction projects included in the 5th Five-Year Plan, together
with increased assistance to local Panchayats 1/. The program will be reviewed
periodically, and the CIDA team will assist with a detailed program review
in early 1978. The team will make recommendations and assist with implementa-
tion--in particular, the establishment of a model maintenance subdivision for
training.
4.08      The Program covers estimates of funds (Table 9) for equipment, mate-
rials and permanent facilities required during FY1978-1982. Manpower require-
ments will be estimated and translated into training programs with the assist-
ance of CIDA and ILO (paras. 3.26 and 4.13). The budget requirements call for
a total expenditure of NRs 330 million during the Program of which NRs 200
million will be recurrent expenditure. The estimated annual recurrent require-
ments, commencing with NRs 30.5 million in 1978 are expected to increase by
about 13% annually 2/. Of the capital expenditure of NRs 130 million, about
67% will be financed by the proposed credit. The capital requirements are
principally road maintenance equipment, tools and spares, together with con-
struction and equipping of two base workshops in the Eastern and Western
Regions near Ithari and Butwal. The road maintenance equipment will be procured
in two groups to match the road network growth.
4.09      The equipment (Table 10) will comprise the normal range for road
maintenance with emphasis on trucks, rollers and supervision vehicles. Bull-
dozers and front-end loaders are primarily for emergency works including rapid
clearing of annual road-blocking landslides during the monsoon. Light motor-
cycles (first procured under 223 NEP) have proved successful in improving
supervision, and the project will expand the Department's current fleet. The
GIDA team will review equipment requirements and, if appropriate, recommend
adjustments in the composition of the second group (para. 4.07).
4.10    The successful implementation of the program will require substantial
effort by the Department and availability of resources. Accordingly, during
negotiations, the Government and the Association agreed on the five-year road
maintenance program (Table 9) and specifically agreed that the amount of NRs
30.5 million represented a reasonable estimate of the funds to be released for
road maintenance in FY78. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
the Government will: (i) consult annually on an informal basis during the
project period on the adequacy of road maintenance allocations; (ii) make
timely releases of maintenance funds based on a 5-year program (Table 9) or as
modified by the Department after review by the technical assistance team with
such modifications being mutually acceptable to the Government and the Asso-
ciation; (iii) with respect to the 5-year maintenance program, employ a tech-
nical assistance team on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(iv) cause the technical assistance team to carry out by March 31, 1978, a
1/   Local village governments.
2/   Basic requirements only (see Table 9).



- 16 -
review of the 5-year maintenance program, and; (v) enable the Association to
participate and comment in appropriate technical assistance review sessions
and exchange views with the Association regarding the findings and major
recommendations resulting from the review including: (a) composition of the
program; (b) the composition of the project maintenance equipment list; (c)
the effectiveness of the technical assistance provided; and (d) need for
technical assistance throughout the 5-year program. The Government will carry
out such recommendations resulting from the review as are mutually acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association.
Consulting Services
(a) Feeder Road Feasibility Study, Detailed Engineering and Construction
Supervision
4.11      To undertake the feeder road feasibility study and detailed engi-
neering, the Department engaged consultants, N. D. Lea (Canada), in December
1975 under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. 1/ Provision
for 100% of the cost of these services (US$0.44 million) is included in the
credit. This would constitute retroactive financing. For construction
supervision, the Government intends to request N. D. Lea to supply one engineer
to provide training and assistance to both Department site staff and to the
local contractors. 2/ During negotiations the Government agreed that, prior to
awarding any contracts for construction, it will employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment are satis-
factory to the Association. The relatively high cost of the feasibility study,
design and construction supervision in respect to total road construction cost
results principally from the short and isolated nature of the project (see Map
No. 12622).
(b) East-West Highway Feasibility Studies
4.12      The Government is undertaking a prefeasibility study of the remaining
unbuilt section of the East-West Highway (190 km). The study findings are
intended to form the basis of a request to Saudi Arabia to finance construction.
The Government is engaging consultants on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association, and the four-month study is expected to be completed January
1978. 3/ 100% of the cost of these services (US$0.2 million) is included in
the credit. Financing for a detailed study (US$0.4 million) is also included
in the project if further investigation and evaluation is required. During
negotiations, for any work on the East-West Highway financed under the credit,
the Government agreed to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the Association.
1/   Services included 43.5 expatriate and 140 local man-months.
2/   Services include about 38 expatriate and 160 local man-months.
3/   For the prefeasibility study, the services will include about 18 expa-
triate and 40 local man-months. For further preparation work, the ser-
vices include 32 expatriate and 80 local man-months.



- 17 -
(c) Technical Investigation Assistance
4.13      While employed on the feeder road studies, N. D. Lea was requested
by the Government to assist with pavement and slope stability investigations
for possible improvement of the Thankot-Naubise road section (para 4.06) 1/.
Cost of this, estimated to be some US$20,000, has been included in the project.
Mechanics' Training
4.14      With the network increase, the procurement of road maintenance
equipment, and the eventual construction of three 2/ new base workshops, the
number of mechanics will have to be increased considerably. At present,
vocational training for mechanics in Kathmandu is largely directed towards
producing, for example, lathe operators and not heavy equipment mechanics.
To meet the need for equipment mechanics, the Government had requested and UNDP
had agreed to provide assistance in financing an appropriate training project
to be executed by the ILO. However, due to paucity of UNDP funds the project
was canceled. The Government has now included a similar training program to be
financed under the proposed second highway project, with ILO remaining as
executing agency.
4.15      The program is expected to provide two training streams:  (i) train-
ing school leavers over a three-year period; and (ii) upgrading the Department's
own staff of mechanics and recruits. ILO will prepare the program and will
recruit two trainers for an initial period of three years. The program will
be conducted by the Engineering Institute of Nepal which has been fortunate
in taking over an adjoining recently vacated Department equipment workshop for
this purpose. During negotiations the Government agreed to submit, by
December 31, 1977, the ILO-proposed training program for approval by the
Association.
C. Cost Estimates
4.16      The total estimated cost of the project including contingencies is
NRs 249 million or US$20.0 million equivalent. 3/ The Credit of US$17.0 will
finance 85% of project costs, including foreign exchange costs of US$14.3
million equivalent. Estimated project costs are summarized on page 19 with
details shown in Tables 8, 9, 10, and 11.
4.17      Cost estimates, including contingencies for feeder road construction,
prepared by the consultants, N.D. Lea, average US$50,000/km in the Valley
and US$100,000/km in the hills. Cost estimates for main road upgrading,
1/   Services included 4 expatriate and 22 local man-months.
2/   The two project workshops and a third workshop to be constructed
about 1983.
3/   Includes Taxes:  civil works, about 10% and equipment, about 3%.



- 18 -
prepared by the Department, average US$90,000/km. Quantities have been
derived from preliminary and detailed engineering, and the unit prices are
based on cost of labor, materials, depreciation and running costs of equip-
ment, overhead and profit. Recent bids for similar works were also taken into
account. The cost estimates for road construction and maintenance equipment
and workshop equipment are based on recent preliminary quotations by manufac-
turers.  Actual costs have been used for feeder road feasibility studies and
detailed engineering with average man-month billing rates, including the
firm's overhead and profit, of US$4,900. The cost of supervision is based
on detailed time schedules and expected foreign and local staffing rates. The
cost of the East-West Highway studies is based on man-month rates and studies
under similar conditions elsewhere. For the main road upgrading, a 20% con-
tingency allowance for quantity and time overruns has been included. For
other civil works, maintenance equipment and consulting services, a 10%
allowance is considered adequate. The price escalation allowance is based
on an annual increase of 12% for civil works and 8% for road maintenance and
construction equipment and consulting services. During negotiations, the
Association and the Government agreed on project cost estimates.
4.18      A principal consideration in calculating the foreign exchange com-
ponent of the feeder and main road civil works is whether the contracts will
be awarded to foreign, foreign/local or local contractors. In light of past
experience it is expected that local contractors will be awarded all contracts.
The foreign exchange component for the maintenance program is estimated prin-
cipally on the CIF costs of road construction and maintenance equipment, work-
shop equipment and tools--nearly all of which will be procured outside Nepal.
The foreign exchange component for consultants' services is based on the
estimated man-months of expatriate personnel, air travel and also on imported
survey and design equipment. The resulting estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent for the total project is 72%.



- 19 -
PROJECT COSTS                       % Foreign
NRs (millions)               US$ (millions)       Exchange
Item           Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total  Component
A. Feeder Road
Construction
1. East-West High-
way to Tulsi-
pur (50 km) 1/    19.4       16.6      36.0      1.56     1.33      2.89      46
2. Contractor
rental equipment   0.2        8.5 2/   8.7      0.02      0.68 2/  0.70       97
3. Local road
improvements        2.5       2.5      5.0      0.20      0.20      0.40      50
Subtotal (A)    22.1       27.6     49.7      1.78      2.21      3.99     55
B. Main Road
Upgrading (B)       7.5      11.2      18.7     0.60      0.90      1.50      60
C. Road Mainte-
nance Program
1. Equipment and
spares              3.7      76.7      80.4     0.30      6.16      6.46      95
2. Workshops and
tools               2.7       5.6      8.3      0.22      0.45      0.67     67
Subtotal (C)      6.4      82.3     88.7      0.52      6.61      7.13     93
D. Consulting
Services
1. Feeder road
feasibility 3/
studies and
detailed
engineering         1.3       4.2       5.5     0.10      0.34      0.44      77
2. Feeder road
construction
supervision         1.6       3.4       5.0     0.13      0.27      0.40     68
3. East-West High-
way feasibility
studies             2.5       5.0       7.5 4/  0.20      0.40      0.60 4/  67
Subtotal (D)      5.4      12.6     18.0      0.43      1.01      1.44     72
E. Mechanics'
Training (E)        5.0       5.0      10.0     0.40      0.40      0.80     50
Subtotal (A,
B, C, D & E)  46.4    138.7    185.1        3.73    11.13    14.86       75
F. Contingencies
1.  Physical            6.7      16.8     23.5      0.54      1.35      1.89
2.  Price              17.4      23.0      40.4     1.40      1.85      3.25
Subtotal (F)    24.1       39.8     63.9      1.94      3.20     5.14
TOTAL          70.5 5/ 178.5    249.0       5.67 5/ 14.33    20.00       72
1/   Includes 3 km road to Tulsipur airport and supervision/maintenance facil-
ities (US$180,000).
2/   Figure represents residual value after completion of feeder road
Total value = US$1.25 million of which about US$0.57 million included as
hire charges in A-1.
3/   Includes technical investigation assistance, US$20,000.
4/   Prefeasibility study-US$0.2 million, feasibility study-US$0.4 million.
5/   Includes taxes of about NRs 5.0 million (US$0.40 m).



- 20 -
D. Execution
4.19      The Department will be responsible for the execution of the project.
Advice and assistance will be rendered by N. D. Lea for the feeder road and for
the main road by a specially-appointed construction engineer. For the imple-
mentation of the Five-Year Maintenance Program, advice and assistance will be
provided by the CIDA team.
4.20      The feeder road construction works have been divided into ten
contracts; eight for road works 1/, one for bridge works and one for paved
fords. Estimates for individual contracts, based on detailed engineering,
range between US$100,000 and US$300,000 equivalent. The contract sizes were
determined to allow local contractors the opportunity to bid for the separate
contracts. However, the construction work may be bid as one contract or in
any combination. Individual bids and combination bids will be evaluated to
determine the lowest evaluated cost for the whole works. Prequalification
is open to registered contractors, and those contractors not registered have
been given the opportunity to do so. Government registration, which does not
discriminate against foreign firms, classes contractors in four groups accord-
ing to annual volume of work with the first three groups being eligible to
participate in project works. Out of 20 contractors who applied for prequali-
fication for the feeder road works, 18 have been considered eligible to bid.
The contracts will be awarded using local bidding procedures in accordance with
the Association's "Guidelines for Procurement" and on the advice of the consul-
tants retained for detailed engineering.
4.21      The contracts for the upgrading of the main road will be divided
and evaluated in a manner similar to the feeder road. In addition, the
Government has agreed that no disbursements will be made until the Association
approves the detailed engineering, contract drawings, specifications, construc-
tion program and the arrangements for construction supervision.
4.22      Under the project, the Government has taken the following steps to
assist the local contracting industry: (i) the Department's conditions of
contract have been revised to put both the contractor and the Government on an
equitable footing; (ii) contractors awarded contracts may receive a 15% cash
advance against a suitable guarantee; (iii) contractors will have several
options concerning the use of equipment--these include: (a) providing their
own equipment; (b) hiring from the Department; and (c) using the cash advance
to purchase equipment with import assistance by the Government; and (iv)
management and technical assistance will be offered to contractors by N.D.
Lea's construction supervision advisor. The Government is also considering
selling the equipment to contractors.
4.23      Road maintenance and construction equipment, tools, workshop machin-
ery and spare parts will be procured on the basis of international competitive
1/   To include earthworks, compaction, gravelling and culverts.



- 21 -
bidding procedures in accordance with the Association's "Guidelines for Pro-
curement" and on the advice of the technical assistance team. Contracts for
construction of workshops will be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding, also in accordance with the guidelines.
4.24      Bids were called for the feeder road construction in May 1977 and
will be awarded shortly after Credit effectiveness so that construction can
commence at the end of the monsoon, i.e., November 1977. While the construc-
tion period is scheduled for 40 months 1/, based on past performance (para.
1.02), completion may be delayed. Accordingly, disbursement estimates are
based on a 4 1/2-year construction period. Bids for the main road works will
be called in late 1977 with a construction period of 24 months. Bids for
the feeder road construction equipment which were invited January 1977 have
been received and are in line with cost estimates. Evaluation was completed
in May 1977 and contracts are now being awarded. The equipment should arrive
late 1977/early 1978. Bids for the first group of road maintenance equipment
will be invited in August 1977, and the equipment with spares should arrive
about one year later. Bids will be invited for workshop construction about
November 1977, after the layouts have been reviewed by the CIDA team. The
consulting services to be financed by CIDA will commence about September 1977
for an initial period of 18 months and are expected to be extended to cover
satisfactory implementation of the five-year maintenance program. During
negotiations the Association and the Government agreed on the project imple-
mentation schedule (Table 17) and progress reporting requirements, including
the borrower's project completion report.
4.25      The potential of the project for relieving unemployment has been
considered. As local contractors will probably win nearly all contracts for
the road construction, the work will be largely labor intensive. It is ex-
pected that on the feeder road works 2,000 laborers will be employed for a
total of three years. However, for short periods of intensive earthworks the
number of laborers may reach 10,000. With the relatively low population in the
Dang Valley area, for feeder road construction contractors will bring laborers
from the relatively highly populated eastern area of Nepal.
4.26      No particular ecological problems are expected with the project
elements. The feeder road mostly follows an existing track, and little
additional right-of-way will be required. For the main road, grass and
tree planting will take place as part of slope stabilization measures.
E. Financing
4.27      The proposed credit of US$17.0 million represents 85% of total
project cost and will finance the foreign exchange component of all project
items together with some local costs. The Government intends to fully fund the
recurrent expenditures of the 5-year maintenance program; and although not
specifically allocated for this use, gross revenues from the road transport
1/   30 months for road construction, 40 months for floodways and bridges.



- 22 -
sector should be larger than these expenditures. During negotiations appro-
priate assurances were received from the Government regarding provision of
funds for the successful completion of the project.
F. Disbursements
4.28      Disbursements from the Credit Account will be on the basis of:
(a) 75% of both feeder and main road construction (excluding the purchase of
contractor rental equipment) and road maintenance workshops; (b) 100% of the
foreign expenditures of imported road construction and maintenance equipment;
(c) 100% of the costs of consulting services; and (d) 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of mechanics' training.   Retroactive financing is required as
follows: (i) feeder road construction equipment, US$400,000; (ii) feasibility
studies and detailed engineering for feeder road construction (US$420,000), and
technical investigation assistance (US$20,000), totaling about US$500,000.
During credit negotiations, the Government and the Association agreed on the
estimated schedule of disbursements (Table 12).
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.01      The broad objective of the project is to contribute to the mainte-
nance and improvement of the transport system of Nepal so as to facilitate
economic development. More specifically, the improvement of the feeder road,
which will provide access during the rainy season to the Dang Valley, will
stimulate agricultural production and reduce user costs. The main road up-
grading between Thankot and Naubise will reduce losses due to landslides and
lower user costs. The maintenance component will help to preserve the sub-
stantial investment which has recently gone into the construction of highways
and also lower user costs for the main highway network.
5.02      Most of the project benefits will accrue to the Nepalese economy
through various means. The vehicle fleet is principally owned by the private
sector; however, there is Government ownership directly through the Nepal
Transport Corporation and indirectly through nationalized industries. While
the majority of private trucks are owned by Nepalese, a substantial proportion
of long-distance hauling is also done by trucks with Indian ownership. Since
there are relatively few barriers restricting free competition and there is
an ample supply of vehicles, most of the transport savings will be passed on
from the transporter to the consumer in terms of lower prices and increased
product availability. With respect to Government transported items, however,
the passing on of lower transport costs will probably be mitigated by the



- 23 -
fact that most products have fixed and uniform prices. Passenger vehicles
are predom-1nantly owned by Nepalese and the benefits would directly accrue
to the owners of cars and jeeps in terms of lower operating costs. For
buses, in the short run, the transport savings would accrue to the bus owners
since routes are controlled by Government licensing. However, in the long
run, the medium and lower income groups should benefit when rates are adjusted.
5.03      Combining the various project components, the weighted average
economic rate of return (ER) for the entire project is estimated to be 28%.
B. Feeder Road
5.04      The Dang Valley, which is the primary area of influence of the
proposed feeder road, is an inner Terai valley covering appproximately 60,000
hectares of which about 40,000 hectares are considered to be arable, of mod-
erate fertility. The principal crops are rice, maize, wheat and mustard seed
and surpluses are exported both to the adjacent hill areas and to India. The
valley has a population of about 100,000 people, and the most important trad-
ing centers are Ghorahi and Tulsipur, the zonal headquarters. In addition, the
hinterland to the north of the valley includes a population of about 500,000.
While there is no available data concerning the average income for inhabitants
within the valley, annual per capita income for the far western development
region is estimated by the Government to be only about NRs847 (US$68) compared
with a national average of NRs1,370 (US$110).
5.05      At present, the Dang Valley is accessible during the dry season by
two truckable tracks (Amile-Tulsipur, 35 km and Lamahi Ghorahi, 25 km), which
start from the East-West Highway and then cross the Churia mountains. Within
the valley, these two tracks are joined by a common link which connects the
towns of Tulsipur and Ghorahi (24 km). Daily dry season traffic volumes on
the existing tracks during 1975 were estimated to range from only about five
to fifteen vehicles (nearly all trucks). Access to and within the valley
during the wet season from June to October is not possible since there are
numerous rivers within the valley which cannot be crossed, and the soils
become soft and slippery, particularly on the mountain sections.
5.06      Feasibility studies undertaken by the consultant, N. D. Lea,
indicated that projected traffic volumes would still be low and that the
existing Lamahi-Ghorahi-Tulsipur alignment would be the most economical
alternative to improve. By 1980, with the completion of the construction of
the East-West Highway, which would greatly improve access to the area near
the Dang Valley, traffic volumes on the existing tracks were projected to
be double current levels. The ten-year traffic projections, which included
normal, diverted and generated traffic, amounted to an ADT of about 100
(about 65% heavy traffic). After study of six different alternatives, the
Lamahi-Ghorahi-Tulsipur alignment with a 5-meter gravel surfacing was found
to provide the access required to increase agricultural production at the
lowest cost (user, maintenance and construction costs).



- 24 -
5.07      Benefits for the selected alignment were measured in terms of
both user cost savings and value added from expected increased agricultural
production (Tables 13 and 14). The expected user cost savings which include
time savings for commercial drivers were derived from the projected normal,
diverted (both link and mode diverted traffic) and generated traffic. The
user cost savings amounted to about 15% of the total benefits while the re-
mainder came from agricultural development. With the improvement of access,
production is forecast to increase since not only will transportation costs
be lowered for inputs and for the marketing of products, but, of possibly
greater importance, extension agents will be able to provide services during
the growing season. In anticipation of construction of the road, the Govern-
ment has already included the Dang Valley within the ongoing IADS/USAID Basic
Cereals Program 1/. Under this program research, development and extension
services for rice and other cereals will be undertaken. In addition, the
Government and USAID are now preparing a comprehensive regional development
project which would include the Dang Valley, as well as the surrounding dis-
tricts. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it will endeavor
to complete the preparation of a development program for the Dang Valley
before 1979 and start implementation of the program before 1980 to coincide
with completion of the project road.
5.08      The economic return (ER) for the feeder road project is estimated
to be about 30%. In the analysis a minimum package of improved agricultural
extension for increased rice production similar to the IADS/USAID is assumed.
If an agricultural/rural development investment project as discussed above
were included, project benefits would increase. The economic return is most
sensitive to the expected increase in agricultural production and construction
costs. A 20% decrease in benefits from the agricultural production or a 20%
increase in construction costs would give an ER of 27%. Combining a 20%
decrease in production benefits with a 20% increase in costs, the ER would be
24%. Even assuming in the most unfavorable case that no package of improved
agricultural extension services were put into effect with the completion of the
road, the project is still estimated to have a satisfactory ER of about 13%
which is based on road user saving and spontaneous agricultural development.
C. Main Road Upgrading
5.09      The Thankot-Naubise section of the Kathmandu Indian border road
currently serves as the only connection between Kathmandu and the southern,
eastern and western regions of the country. This section commences at the
edge of the Kathmandu valley and runs over a mountain range down to Naubise
which is at the junction with the main road to Pokhara. The road surface is
in poor condition with frequent undulations and jagged edges and many sec-
tions have failed completely. Presently, side drainage is poor and also
several bridges need to be replaced. During the rainy season it is not
1/   International Agricultural Development Services/United States Agency
for International Development.



- 25 -
unusual for landslides to occur which block the road for several days. The
traffic is currently around 300 vehicles per day of which about 80% are
trucks and buses.
5.10      The main benefits for the upgrading of the Thankot-Naubise road
would come from reductions in user costs and avoidance of future emergency
maintenance and reconstruction costs.  With the improvement and widening of
the pavement (from 3.5m to 6.5m), user cost savings on average are estimated
to be about equal to the normal savings between a paved and a gravel road.
Upon completion of the improvement in 1980, initial traffic (which takes into
account the completion of the Mugling-Naryanghat road) is estimated to be
about 300 trucks and buses and 75 cars and jeeps per day. An annual traffic
growth of 5% was assumed for the first 10 years of the project; thereafter no
additional traffic growth was assumed since there is a possibility that an
alternative alignment might be constructed between Kathmandu and the Terai
which would divert traffic away from the road. Other benefits will accrue
to the project from the improvement of the pavement since the structural
strength of the existing pavement is inadequate and resurfacing is needed
about every two to three years instead of the normal six-year cycle. Also,
with the improvement, the average yearly expenditure for emergency maintenance
and road reconstruction caused by landslides is expected to be reduced from
about NRs 1.2 million to about NRs 0.2 million. In addition, time losses
because of road blockages would be considerably reduced.
5.11      The economic return for the main road upgrading project is estimated
to be about 14% (Table 15). A sensitivity test, assuming there was no growth
over the projected initial traffic, would yield an ER of 12%. Assuming that
benefits decreased by 20% and costs increased by 20%, the ER would be 8%.  The
risks appear to be within reasonable limits and the project is recommended.
D. Road Maintenance Program
5.12      The recommended program for improving the standard of maintenance
covers 2,700 km of road that will be maintained directly by the Department in
1978. 1/ By 1982, 4,300 km of roads are expected to be covered under the
program. In addition to the normal task of building an organization to main-
tain the road system, maintenance work is complicated by the severe terrain
conditions found in Nepal. Landslides are a constant threat within the moun-
tainous regions of the country, while in the Terai area, flooding and washouts
are a major problem.
5.13      Benefits from an improved maintenance program would include:  (i)
savings from the deferment of future reconstruction costs; (ii) savings in
user costs; and (iii) savings in future maintenance costs. Only the user cost
savings were included in the quantification of the program's benefits in the
economic analysis. The user savings were developed for paved, gravel and earth
1/   The Department also assists in the maintenance of an additional 1,600 km
of Panchayat roads.



- 26 -
roads for improved maintenance over an eight year period, which approximates
the expected life of the equipment. Estimates of user cost savings assume
that, with the maintenance program, user costs will gradually reduce, and
without the program, they would slowly increase. Taking into account the
expected growth in the road network, the growth trends of vehicle registration
and fuel consumption, total annual vehicle km were projected to increase at a
9% growth rate.
5.14      The estimated cost and benefit streams for the five-year maintenance
program, FY1978-1982, are shown in Table 16. The economic return for the pro-
gram would be 30%. A sensitivity test of a pessimistic solution with a cost
increase of 20% and a reduction in benefits of 20% would reduce the internal
rate of return to 12%. Even on pessimistic assumptions, the maintenance com-
ponent deserves a high priority in the road development program.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
issues:
(a) the five-year maintenance program (Table 9) and speci-
fically the funds to be released for road maintenance
in FY78, technical assistance and training provisions
and further review procedures (para 3.09 and 4.10);
(b) the transfer of feeder road construction equipment
which is not rented or sold to contractors engaged
on the project to contractors on other road works or
to the road maintenance fleet (para 4.05);
(c) the study of practical methods of raising revenues
alternative to the road cess (para 3.16);
(d) the allocation of funds, based on maintenance rates
and equipment hire charges, from the road maintenance
budget for equipment maintenance (para 3.25); and
(e) the disbursement of funds for the Thankot-Naubise road
subject to approval by the Association of the detailed
engineering, contract drawings, specifications, construc-
tion program and the arrangements for construction
supervision (para 4.21).
6.02      Based on the agreements reached during negotiations, as indicated
above, the project constitutes a suitable basis for an Association credit
of US$17 million equivalent.



TABLE 1
NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
The National Highway Network and Estimated Growth
(Kilometers)
Year    Total Length    Department of Roads    Department of Roads    Panchayat
Bitumen      Gravel         Earthl/            Earth 1
1965       1,826          289          147            300              1,090
1967       2,430          536          344            320              1,230
1969       2,750          661          408            360              1,321
1971       2,810          934          486            206              1,184
1972       2,951        1,115          475            186              1,175
1973       3,016        1,356          318            166              1,176
1974       3,900        1,456          150            640              1,654
1975       4,179        1,540          219            800              1,620
1976       4,199        1,568          160            850              1,621
% Average Annual Growth Rate (1966-76)
8.2          15              0             16
1977       4,238        1,568          170          1,000/             1,600 2/
1978       4,337        1,651          186          1,000              1,600
1979       4,722        1,946          276          1,000              1,600
1980       4,927        2,084          343          1,000              1,600
1981       5,505        2,437          568          1,000              1,600
1982       5,800        2,600          700          1,000              1,600
Estimated % Average Annual Growth Rate (1976-1982)
6.5          10.7          34.1
1/   Many earth roads are only tracks.  Earth roads are not shown on maps.
2/  Notional only--likely to increase gradually.
Source: Department of Roads and Mission Estimates.
June 1977



TABLE 2
NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Registered Motor Vehicles (1964-1975) 1/
Year      Jeeps and Cars        Trucks       Buses       Total
1964            2,362           1,352          290       4,004
1965           N.A.             N.A.         N.A.       N.A.
1966            3,761           1,834          426       6,021
1967            4,411           2,150          497      7,058
1968            5,142           2,534          561       8,237
1969            6,oo8           2,993          578       9,579
1970            6,649           3,072          541     10,262
1971            7,215           3,258          652     11,125
1972            7,810           3,627          713     12,150
1973            8,768           L,109          919     13,796
1974            9,611           4,612        1,021     15,244
1975            9,684           4,651        1,223     15,558
Average Annual Growth Rates in %
1964-75          13.6            11.9         14.0         13.1
1970-75           7.8             8.6         17.4          8.7
1975-76            .8             1.8         19.8          2.1
1/ The number of vehicles registered in a given year is obtained
by taking the total in the previous year and adding the new
vehicles registered during the given year. No account is taken
of scrapped vehicles.
Source: Department of Roads
June 1977



TABLE 3
NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Fifth Highway Investment Plan 1/
(NRs millions)
Fifth Plan
(1976-80)           %
Trunk Highway             642.5           56.8
Feeder Roads              267.5          23.6
Urban Roads                35.0            3.1
Bridges                    22.2           2.0
Suspension Bridges         47.9           4.2
Hill Trails                30.0            2.6
Maintenance                59.5            5.3
Miscellaneous              27.5            2.4
TOTAL              1,132.1          100.0
1/ Minimum Allocation
Source: The Government's "Fifth Plan (1975-80)."
June 1977



NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures
(NRs millions)
Item            1967    1968    1969       1970     1971      1972     1973      1974      1975     1976      1977 1/
Administration            4.1     4.1      2.6      2.6       1.6      1.0       1.1       2.9      3.6       3.2       3.6
Maintenance               3.0     3.0      2.5      3.5       3.9      6.o       8.o     14.7      19.5      22.3     43.4
Construction
(excluding bilateral
financing)                5.0     7.2     8.8      18.3     24.0      27.9      32.6     37.8      73.2      49.7    108.0
Subtotal                 12.1    14.3    13.9      24.4      29.5     34.9      41.7     55.4      96.3      75.2    155.0
Construction
(bilateral financed)    73.5    77.6    96.5    198.3    139.0    140.5    147.6    172.4    178.2    121.0    235.1
TOTAL                    85.6    91.9   110.4    222.7    168.5    175.4    189.3    227.8    274.5    196.2    391.0
1/ Estimated from budget
Source:  Department of Roads
June 1977



TABLE 5
NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Transport Revenue A/
(NRs millions)
Item                 1974             1975         1976
Road Cess                     6.2             6.9           7.6
Vehicle Tax                   1.1             1.8           2.0
Customs from Vehicles         1.4             4.3           2.5
Customs from Petroleum       25.7            28.5          15.6
Customs from Diesel          16.9            17.1           9.9
Route Licenses               (1.2)  /         1.3           1.4
52.5            59.9          39.0
1/ Gross receipts
2/ Assumed--data not available
Source: Department of Roads
June 1977



TABLE 6
NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Allocations
(NRs millions)
Received
as % of
Year      Requested       Received       Requested
1965                        1.7
1966                        1.4
1967                        3.0
1968                        3.0
1969                        2.5
1970                        3.5
1971         6.4            4.0             63
1972         8.2            6.o             73
1973        14.0            8.0             57
1974        16.8           14.7             87
1975        24.7           19.5             79
1976        29.9           22.3             76
1977                       43.0
Estimated (See Table 9.)
Capital ./     Recurrent 2/    Total
1978        35.9           30.5             66.4
1979        38.o           35.7             73.7
1980        27.6           38.5             66.1
1981        17.9           45.9             63.8
1982        10.9           49.4             60.3
1/ Includes external financing.
2/ No allowance made for rehabilitation, contingencies
or traffic growth. All estimates to be reviewed by
technical assistance team.
Source: Department of Roads and Mission Estimates
June 1977



TABLE 7
NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Design Standards
East-West Highway -
Tulsipur Feeder Road    Thankot-Naubise Road
Flat    Mountainous
Design Speed                      (km/h)      50         30                 30-45
Formation Width                   (m)          5          5                   8   1/
Paved Width                       (m)          -          _                   6.5
Average Gradient                  (%)          5          8                   8
Maximum Gradient                  (%)          8         10                  10
Cross Slope                       (%)          5          5                  10
Stopping Sight Distance           (m)         50         30                 120   1/
Minimum Horizontal Radius         (m)         90         30                  20
Distance Between Passing Bays    (m)           -        150
Structural Design: "Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges" adopted by the
American Association of State Highway Officials (AASHO),
Loading HS 15.
1/ Where this can be achieved.
2/ Except for hairpin bends where absolute minimum is 11 m with widened
formation of 9.25 m.
Source: Consultants to Department of Roads
June 1977



TABLE 8
NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Construction Equipment
(Foreign Exchange Cost)
Total Cost
Description                          Number            us$
Bulldozers (140 hp) with rippers                2
Graders                                         2
Pneumatic rollers                               2
Road rollers, steel wheel (8/10 tons)           4
Vibrating rollers, towed                        4
Tractors (light)                                4
Tipping trucks (5 ton)                         12
Flat trucks (5 ton)                             4
Water distributors                              4
Generators                                      5
Pickup vehicles                                 4
4-wheel drive vehicles                          2
Portable compactors                             4
Welding sets                                    2
Mobile crane                                    1
Compressors                                     6
Pneumatic drills                               25
1,088,000
Spares and Tools 15%               162,000
Grand Total                1,250,000
Source:  Department of Roads
June 1977



NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Five-Year Road Maintenance Program
(NRs million)
(Fiscal Years)
A.  Capital Expenditures         Financed By                1978                     1979                    1980                     1981                     1982                    Totals
Item                                  Local   For.   Total   Local   For.   Total  Local   For.   Total   Local   For.   Total   Local   For.   Total   Local   For.   Total
Maintenance Equipment       Gov't/IDA           1.3    24.6    25.9    0.9    16.4    17.3    0.7    12.4    13,1    0.1           2.2      2.3    0.1      0.9      1.0    3.1    56.5    59 6
Spare Parts (New Equip.)   Gov't/I1p            0.3     6.0      6 3    0.3      4.2      4.5    0.2      3.2     3.4    0.2       0.5     0.7    0.0       0.2      0.2    1.0    14.1    15.1
Maintenance Equipment       Gov't. -            ---     ---      ---    ---      ---    ---      ---      ---    ---      0.3      6.2      6.5    0.3      6.2      6.5    0.6    12.4    13.0
Spare Parts (Exist. Equip) Gov't/IDA            ---     ---      ---    0.3      3.7      4.0    0.2      2.2      2,4                                                      0.5      5.9      6.4
Workshop Buildings and
Equipment                 Gov't/IDA          0.2      ---      0.2    0.6      3.8     4.4    0.6       0.9     1.5    0.4       0.8     1.2    0.1       0.1     0.2    1.9       5.6     7.5
Technical Assistance        Gov't/CIDA-         0.5     3.0      3.5    0.6      4.0      4.6    0.6      3.2      3.8    0.8      3.0      3.8    0.3      2.7      3.0    2.8    15.9    18.7
Training                    Gov't/IDA/ILO       ---     ---      ---    1.6      1.6      3.2    1.7      1.7      3.4    1.7      1.7      3.4    ---      _        ---    5.0      5.0    10.0
Total Capital                              2.3    33.6    35.9    4.3    33.7    38.0    4.0    23.6    27.6    3.5    14.4    17.9    0.8    10.1    10.9   14.9   115.4   130.3
B. Recurrent Expenditures 4/
Local   For.   Total   Local   For.   Total   Local   For.   Total   Local   For.   Total   Local   For.   Total   Local   For.   Total
Labor                        Gov't.            12.3    ---      12.3   14.2    ---       14.2   15.1    ---       15.1   17.7    ---       17.7   19.0    ---       19.0   78.3              78.3
Equipment Operation         Gov't.              3.1     1.6      4.7    3.7      1.9      5.6    4.0      2.0      6.0    4.7      2.4      7.1    5.1       2.6     7.7   20.6    10.5    31.1
Spare Parts 5               Gov't.              0.3     4.5      4.8    0.4      5.3      5.7    0.6      5.7      6.3    0.9      7.0      7.9    0.9       7.7     8.6    3.1    30.2.   33.3
Materials                    Gov't.             3.0      3.0     6.0    3.6       3.6     7.2    3.9      3.9      7.8    4.6      4.6      9.2    5.0       5.0    10.0   20.1    20.1    40.2
7         =     .27.8    T5  T5          _7        =      W                        T'77      T                      45.    1;7        W7     TI!:
Emergencies                                     2.0     0.7      2.7    2.2      0.8      3.0    2.3      1.0      3.3    2.7      1.3      4.0    2.8       1.3    4.1    12.0       5.1    17.1
Total Recurrent                              20.7     9.8    30.5   24.1    11.6    35.7   25.9    12.6    38.5   30.6    15.3    45.9   32.8    16.6   49.4   134.1    65.9   200.0
Total Program Cost                             23.0    43.4    66.4   28.4    45.3    73.7   29.9    36.2    66.1   34.1    29.7    63.8   33.6    26.7   60.3   149 0   181.3   330.3
1/ All at FY77 prices--no escalation included.
2/ Replacement equipment for 1976 fleet.
3/ Costs and program tentative.
4/  Based on standard per kkm rates less equipment depreciation.  Resulting rates are: NRs 12,750 paved; NRs 8,800 gravel; and NRa 4,500 earth.
No allowance for contingencies, rehabilitation or traffic growth. All estimates tu be reviewed by Technical Assistance team.
5/  Estimate on percentage hire-charge basis.  To be reviewed by Technical Assistance team. taking into account ILA-financed spares in "A" above.
Source: DLepartment of Roads and Mission estimates.
June 1977



TABLE 10
NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Equipment and Workshops
(Foreign Exchange Cost)
Total
Total
Existing             Units
Usable      Total   To Be         First    Second                   First    Second   Total
Description               Equipment  Needs   Purchased   Group    Group                       Group    Group    Cost
US$        US$       US$
Graders (100 hp)                    6        14          8           6         2
Bulldozers (200 hp)                 4         9          5           3         2
Bulldozers (140 hp)                 -         5          5           3         2
Loaders                            10        19          9           6         3
Tipping Trucks (5 ton)             35       100         65         45        20
Water Distributor                   -         8          8           6         2
Road Rollers, Steel Wheel
(8/10 tons)                  14        30         16          12         4
Portable Hot Mix Plant              1         9          8           6         2
Portable Vibrating Rollers         12        33         21         15          6
Small Dumpers, 1 cu.yd.             1        11         10         10         -
Pickups                            18        44         26         18          8
Trucks 16/20 ton                    -         2          2          2         -
Low Loaders                         -         2          2           2         -
Roller Trailers                     -         3          3           3         -
Tractors (light)                    -         7          7           7        -
Cranes (10 ton)                     -         1          1          1         -
Crushers, Mobile                   11        16          5           3         2
Motorcycles (125 cc)               16       105         89         65         25
Generators 3 KVA                    -         9          9           9         -
Portable Engine Drills             16        35         19         19          -
Pneumatic Drills                   26        58         32         24         8
Compressors                         2        10          8           6         2
Tractor Grader (light)              1         7          6          6         -
3,295,000    1,245,000    4,540,000
gpares (new equipment) 29%                          824,000        311,000    1,135,000
Spares (existing equipment)                         300,000        175,000        475,000
4,419,000    1,731,000    6,150,000
Base Workshops (near Ithari, Butwal) @$150,000                   300,000
Workshop Equipment                         150,000               150,000
450,000
Grand Total       $6,600,000
Source: Dept. of Roads
June 1977



TABLE 11
NEPAL
PROPOSED SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Total Project Costs
(US$ millions)
Without Allocated Contingencies    With Price Contingency Allocated                Financing
X                                                               % IDA
Local   Foreign   Total   Foreign            Local   Foreign   Total             HMG   IDA   Financed
CATEGORY (1)
Feeder Road (Excluding
Equipment)                  1.56       .76      2.32        33            2.33       1.15    3.48
Local Road Improvement          .20      .20        .40       50              .33        .33      .66
Workshops                       .22      .23        .45       50              .33        .33      .66
TOTAL (1)           1.98    1.19        3.17                     2.99        1.81    4.80           1.20   3.60    75%
CATEGORY (2)
Thankot-Naubise Road            .60      .90       1.50       60              .75       1.12    1.87             .48   1.40    75%
CATEGORY (3)
Rental Equipment               .02    1.25        1.27       98              .02       1.30    1.32
Maintenance Equipment(lst)   .20    4.42          4.62       95              .24       4.77    5.01
Maintenance Equipment(2nd)   .10    1.74          1.84       95              .11       2.04    2.15
Tools                          .0       .22        .22      100               -         .26      .26
TOTAL (3)            .32    7.63        7.95                       .37       8.37    8.74             .34   8.40   100% F.E.
CATEGORY (4)
Feeder Road Study              .10      .34        .44       77              .10        .34      .44
Feeder Road Supervision        .13      .27        .40       67              .18        .36      .54
East-West Highway
Feasibility                   .20      .40        .60       67              .24        .48      .72
TOTAL (4)            .43    1.01        1.44                       .52       1.18    1.70            -      1.70   100%
CATEGORY (5)
Mechanics' Training           .40      .40        .80       50              .50        .50    1.00             .50    .50   100% F.E.
CATEGORY (6)
Unallocated
Price Contingency         1.40    1.85        3.25
Physical Contingency        .54    1.35       1.89                        .54      1.35    1.89
TOTAL (6)           1.94    3.20        5.14                                                          .48   1.40
GRAND TOTAL         5.67   14.33       20.00                     5.67       14.33   20.00           3.00  17.00
June 1977



TABLE 12
NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ thousands)
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter       Disbursements       Cumulative Disbursements
1978
September 30, 1977
December 31, 1977                 1,000                        1,000
March 31, 1978                    1,000                        2,000
June 30, 1978                     2,300                        4,300
1979
September 30, 1978                1,800                        6,ooo
December 31, 1978                 2,700                        8,800
March 31, 1979                    1,700                       10,500
June 30, 1979                       goo                       11,490
1980
September 30, 1979                  goo                       12,300
December 31, 1979                 1,400                       13,700
March 31, 1980                    1,200                       14,goo
June 30, 1980                       500                       15,400
1981
September 30, 1980                  300                       15,700
December 31, 1980                   300                       16,000
March 31, 1981                      300                       16,300
June 30, 1981                       300                       16,600
1982
September 30, 1981                  200                       16,800
December 31, 1981                   100                       16,goo
March 31, 1982                      1oo                       17,000
June 30, 1982                                                 17,000
Closing Date December 31, 1982
Source: Mission Estimates
June 1977



TABLE 13
NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic User Costs and Savings
TERRAIN
Rolling                Hilly
Cost      Savings      Cost      Savings
CAR
Paved        .96                   1.18
.24                    .34
Gravel      1.20                   1.52
.81                    .85
Earth       2.01                   2.37
JEEP
Paved       1.56                   1.87
.47                    .60
Gravel      2.03                   2.47
1.25                   1.27
Earth       3.28                   3.74
TRUCK
Paved       2.13                   2.63
.514                   .75
Gravel      2.67                   3.38
1.80                   1.88
Earth       4.47                   5.26
BUS
Paved       2.09                   2.68
.56                    .72
Gravel      2.65                   3.40
1.74                   1.96
Earth       4.39                   5.36
1/ Road surface in good condition.
Source: N. D. Lea (consultants) and Mission Estimates
June 1977



NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Feeder Road: Estimated Benefit and Cost Streams
(NRs millions)
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .B  E  N    E  F    I  T    S.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .C  O    S  T    S.    .    .  .  .  .  .
1/                      Road                   Additional           Road    2/
Road User-   Agricultural    Maintenance    Total    Agriculture    Construction-   Total
1978                -                        -            -            .4             7.0            7.4
1979                -                        -            -           1.2            11.0          12.2
1980        -              -                 -            -           1.0            11.0          12.0
1981       1.8              .4               -           2.2           .9             7.0            7.9
1982       2.2            1.7                -           3.9           .1              -              .1
1983       2.4            2.6                -           5.0           .1              -              .1
1984       2.6            6.8                -           9.4           .1              -              .1
1985       2.8           15.5                .1         18.4           .1              -              .1
1986       3.0           23.2                .1         26.3           .1              -              .1
1987       3.2           31.0                .1         34.3           .1              -              .1
1988       3.5           38.7                .2         42.4           .1              -              .1
1989       3.7           42.0                .2         45.9           .1              -              .1
1990       4.0           42.0                .2         46.2           .1              -              .1
1991       4.4           42.0                .2         46.6           .1              -              .1
1992       4.8           42.0                .3         47.1           .1              -              .1
1993       5.2           42.0                .3         47.5
1994       5.8           42.0                .3         48.1
1995       6.6           42.0                .4         49.0
1/ 80% of N.D. Lea's user cost benefits.
2/ Economic costs are estimated to be 90% of financial costs including physical
contingency but excluding price contingency.
June 1977



NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Main Road Upgrading:  Estimated Benefits and Costs Streamn
(NRs millions)
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .B  E  N  E  F    I  T   S.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Cu T  S.    .  .  .  .  .  .   .
Emergency
Maintenance
User          Repaving         and                                                                   Additional
Cost   1/    Cost   2       Reconstructiq9        Total          Constupction        Repav"g         Routine    6/   Total
Savings,-    Savings-/    Cost Savings-_          Benefits       Costs-              Costs-         Maintenance-    Costs
1978        -             .61              -                   .61           6.00                 -                              6.00
1979                      -                -                   -            14.2n_                                 -            14.20
i980       1.62           -               1.00                2.o2            -                   -                .05             .05
1981       1.70           .61             1.00                3.31            -                   -                .05             .05
1982       1.79           -               1.00                2.79            -                   -                .05             .05
1983       1.88           -               1.34                2.88            -                   -                .05             .05
1984       1.97           .61             1.00                3.58            -                   -                .05             .05
1985       2.07           -               1.00                3.07            -                    .79             .05             .84
1986       2.17           -               1.00                3.17            -                   -                .05             .05
1987       2.28           .61             1.00                3.89            -                   -                .05             .05
1988       2.39           -               1.00                3.39            -                   -                .05             .05
1989       2.50           -               1.00                3.50            -                   -                .05             .05
1990       2.50           .61             1.00                4.11            -                   -                .05             .05
1991       2.50           -               1.00                3.50             -                   .79             .05             .84
1992       2.50           -               1.00                3.50            -                   -                .05             .05
1993       2.50           .61             1.00                4.11             -                  -                *05             .05
1994       2.50           -               1.00                3.50             -                  -                .05             .05
1995       2.50           _               1.00                3.50             -                   -               .05             .05
1996       2.50           .61             1.00                4.11             -                  -                .05             .05
1997       *.J5           -               1.00                3.50             -                   .79              .05            .84
1998       2.50           -               1.00                3.50             -                   -               .05             .05
1999       2.50           .61             1.00                4.11             -                   -               .05             .05
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1/  1980 - 300 truck/bus per day.  NRs 73 user savings per km x 17.5 km x 365 days + 75 car/jeep x .45 user savings
per km x 17.5 km x 365 days.
2/ Estimated at NRs 35,000/km.
3/ Estimated at NRa 45,000/km.
4/ Economic construction costs are estimated at 90X of financial costs including physical contingency but excluding
price contingency.
5/ Estimated at NRa 45,000/km.
6/ Estimated at NRs 3,000/km.
June 1977



NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Benefit and Cost. Streans
(NRs millions)
BENEFITS                                                COSTS
Additional
-Pn-vp(i    Gravel    Earth      Total             Recurrent         Capital L'      Total
Roads     Roads       Roads                        Expenditures      Expenditures
1978      5.3         .7         1.8         7.8                2.5               35.9          38.40
1979     11.6        1.9         4.o        17.5                7.7               38.0          45.70
1980     18.8        3.5         6.4        28.7               10.5               27.6          38.10
1981     26.7        7.6         9.6        43.9               17.9              17.9           35.80
1982     36. 0      11.6        12.8        60.4               21.4               10.9          32.30
1983     45.2       14.5        16.2        76.5               21.4               --           21.40
1984     55.2       17.6        19.8        94.0o              -1.4               __           21.40
1985     65.7       21.0        23.7       11-3.               21.4               --           21.40
1/ No salvage value has beer. included.  It was estimated that the salvage value at the end of 1985 would
approximately equal equipment replacement costs during 1983 to 1985.
June 1977



MrPAL
SECOND IIISPRAY PROJECl
Profoao Implf oniaLOon Sclodoin
76    1 97 7                     1978                   _    1979                             1980    l            I       l        L-~
boom                             Aoootnvl Action Bv                                      2   FY 77 4  _             2      3    4   _         2      39  4  _            2     3    4                2    3 _2
Asa-cistio- Credit               Nego.taL-oos                     HM G/IdA
Signiog Cr-dir Agrem-n-t         IMWT/DAiR
Cr-dit Ag- -  -      facve H7di    GIGA
CoOsoroco I on of                Po'oqna if O coOf on             EMCIG 
Feader Road                      Bid Pr-par-t.on                  ConfrLto-t-
PO,R CoVr- to-L-n                HMG/Contractr 
LoafOeton and A-ord              VIM/BiLA
Coos tra  Loan                   BMB/Conltrattoro                                                                               
Cootraroor OmentAl               AdvIrtisemn- - .MG    /t_
Eqaipweet                        Bid  .reparation                 Sapploer_
EvLoaf 0040  and iloard          MOB/IRA*__                                                     _    _
Beivory                          -orplor_
Locsl Road, M.nor                Proirdo Praporation -MG
improvement6   Construl-tzolz                   H7~d21/Contratoars                                                                                        
Main E ad Upgr-ding              D-Lailod E.gi-eerng               1MG_
foffoesriog Approno- l           IDA
POeulCalfi -tLion                MG                                               _     _
Bid Proparrtoon ..otrerOoo*
EBnsatoioo -ad A-ard            IMG_
C-o-Lratio-                      HMOC--ntr-aPs
Ro.d Maiote-a'e                  Prepara-ioo Spe ificGtions    dG_B
Eqoip-eoe, Sparo-  sod           Associatlon  Appro-.1             DA/
Workshop TooI6                   oOdvertisesaeOf                  BMG
Bid Prepar-e-o                  SBoppl-er*
vls-ion s-d A-ard                EMG/IDA__
DBin-e-y                         Suppli-rs
Workshops                        Breoiog Bod Program_ S 
Prepars..t oMs                                                                    O.
Aesoiatlio  A'ppo...             BilkA
Ad-erni.emen.                    HnGt
Rid Prep- rsf-o-                 CoeRcs Lr                                                 *
foafoseloa sad Riard             h4G/IL_
feeder Rosd                      siasuEiaofo  Assistenos          Conealfotsn6*  
Fe .ibtliy StpdLus snd           ORher Actinitiio   Coapfooo
Detailed  .gi.-ieerReg
Feeder Rosd CoostrooLio          Ptep-psti.f  of Te.-s of
Nuperiasios                        Referesoe                      HMGW
Caet,oct Ner,tistion. -nd
SLgning                        HG/IDA_                                                                                   _      ___
ConaetruceLLoO  RspeLOfOfion     BSI/Consosl Lenet                                                                   _      _     __     
Ea.I-W.eE HigbesoY               Trees of Ref-reece               HMG/IDA
Peeeiblity stRdiRE               Prep-rption_
Pr-ops-l Prepar--Ron             Co.e. lLanfY
.E-Lali.. sed A-erd              MGMlA _P_
Pre_eRRibillty Study             Co-a lt tes_
FestbiRlity Study                CosnBl5t.t_
rl   IlraElOlO       PreReeRp-rtion T-rining Perarsr   H4G/ILO/IP/fB
Treiner Rearsitmeo-              ILOB
Prep.eatLon Trfa.i.                                                                        _
P         --iRitee              MG/FI/ILO_                                                     ____
TrolseRag ProWrsm                sec4/RI/ILO                                                     _     _      _      _                      
T-bcaifol A.eis.tanc              Coasoleset BlesL                 CIGA
PrJnRetee of 19e77fee            Cosoitae_                                                             __
RoAd Mageteonrne Progsam   RMB/Caeo ltaetsne/OOAt                     






NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAYS PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS
Previous Organization
|CHIEF ENGINEER
Western                                                                                                                                                                                                       Eaand Far  Suspensitr   astern
Suantitn             Administrative          Fiscal                 ooprtin               Mechanical             Supensi                  Design                 Planning    ion
Roads                 Surveying            Branch                  Branch                 Cooperaton             Branch                 BridgesWBranch                                                        Bradsh
Branch                Branch                                                              Branch                                        ProjectBrnhrac
Nepalguni                                                Hipeavy                HetaudnauHetauda
Pokhara               Sub-iipmentns                                                                   (Mechanical)                       Divisin                 Diiuo
DivisionSu-Kth.nu Division                                                                                  Division               Division
Maintenance and                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Maintenance and
loailntfnance ad cosrcin              Ilocally financed construction
projects in Western and Far                                                                                                                                                           proectsa ReionEstran
Western Regions                                                                                                                                                                       CetaRein
World Bank - 16771






NEPAL
SECOND HIGHWAYS PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS
Recently Introduced Organization
CHIEF ENGINEER
Other                     lang                                           MehnalConstruction                                Quantity
Maior                   Branch                   DBranch                                         and Mainten-              Surveying             Adinsra tive                Briscal
Projects                                         Br.C.ne Brunc.h                                                           BranchBrnhrac
Far Western                                                Western                                                               Central                                                               Eastern
Regional                                                   Regional                                                              Regional                                                              Regional
Office                                                     Office                                                                Office                                                                Office
Godawvari           Nepalgune           Mechanical         Butwal              Poka                MchaniCal            ath nu           Kathmandu            Hetauda             Mechanical bhtahari                                         Mechanical
Division           Division            Division            Division            Division            Divso               ivision -         Division -2          Division            Division             Dvision            Div,sion            Division
Divisions are responsible for both construction and maintenance






-  -                                                                                                                  NEPAL                                       1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 12622R
INDIA                                                                                                                                                                             '~TRANSPORT NETWORK
30'                                                                                             HE PROiE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                 OTHER TRAN5.POR.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ FACILniES~~~~FAILTIS
[7'&i Bose W~~~~or~rshe~~,s                 4' ~tnternsational Airport
~~~~~~-o~~~~~~~~~~~~~   0                                                                                          REL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z~ ATEE~ PROGRA*~Sjtot Prpij#M  -           0hj    p  loe  Airports
/                                                                                                           0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p~~~~~~~~~%  Tr'ori  06flsrrs~     OCPSTO     Airpo..rt
+~~~                                                                             -                    -      Pruss~~~~~~~~~y  il~~~~Iswrrys                       0    O~~~~~~~~~Iter Tlwtss, Cities~~~~~O ,      -    -
L.A                                                                                                                                                                                [of~~~~       (Pitip   ~aIAtoO    eeVRoskernotionaG B6,uodai-ias
~~~  o                                                                                    ROADS (Uhder Comiroctioni)                                           Ri3ners~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ir
INDIA  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e 
tI~~~~~~~~~~~3  20140 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ y~           4      M ~3~'
160~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~r                           tLW    cessAR q0ii+ -R9                                              W
SR LANKA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nl
~_________________________T_______________________






VYNVI 18SU
69
o! o L
*4 43 N I
As'
%
41
J;I
U&):UORNO3 PPFO"' -
0/.6t
M44
iN
WIVSD,044 DNY
N31NIVW 604 Wlk; 3A14
qq
17.



