Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22309
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24880; TF-24365; COFN-03170)
ONA
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$19 MILLION
TO THE
LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
LA-EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 28, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia & Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 25, 2001)
Currency Unit = LAK
8560 LAK = US$ 1
US$ I = 8560 LAK
FISCAL YEAR
October 1  September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           -     Asian Development Bank
ASLO         -      Assessment of Student Learning Outcome
BEGP         -      Basic Education Girls Project
CMIS         -      Construction Management Information System
EDP          -      Education Development Project
EMIS         -      Education Management Information System
EQIP         -      Education Quality Improvement Project
FMIS         -      Financial Management Information System
GOL          -      Government of Laos PDR
IDA          -      International Development Association
LCLM         -      Low Cost Learning Material
MIS          -      Management Information System
MOE          -      Ministry of Education
MOF          -      Ministry of Finance
MTR          -      Mid Term Review
NGO          -      Non-Government Organization
NTUC         -      National Teacher Upgrading Centers
PDO          -      Project Development Objectives
PMIS         -      Personnel Management Information System
PUCDA        -      Provincial Units for Construction and Development Assistance
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
UNICEF       -      United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Ian Porter
Sector Manager/Director:    Maureen Law
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Kathryn T. Johnston



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LA-EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   12
6. Sustainability                                                                       15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      18
9. Partner Comments                                                                     19
10. Additional Information                                                              20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   31
Annex 8. Borrower's Comments                                                            32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004203                                       Project Name: LA-EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Kathryn T. Johnston                          TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: LA-EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-24880; TF-24365;
COFN-03170
CountryIDepartment: LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                     Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/15/89                                Effective: 09/24/93            12/23/93
Appraisal:  10/31/91                                  MTR: 02/28/97              06/15/97
Approval:  04/27/93                                Closing: 06/30/2000           12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: LAO PDR/MIN OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:  Swiss Development Confederation; Kingdom of Norway
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        R. Cheetham
Country Manager:     Ian C. Porter                              C.E.Madavo
Sector Manager:      Maureen Law                                J. Shivakumar
Team Leader at ICR:   Kathryn Johnston                          A. Salmon
ICR Primary Author:   Kathryn T. Johnston
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Project Development Objectives (PDO) were addressing immediate needs for quality and access
improvements in basic education and establishing the policy and institutional framework for longer term
sector development. Sub-objectives included: a) improving education quality by developing and



implementing new curricula, instructional materials and pedagogical support systems in primary and lower
secondary education; b) increasing access and laying the foundation for a sustainable construction program
for primary and lower secondary schools; c) establishing systems for data collection and analysis to
support sector management and strategic planning; and d) strengthening institutional capacities in
educational administration and management at the central and local levels.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Neither the PDO nor the sub-objectives were revised and remained the same throughout the
project.
3.3 Original Components:
To support the PDOs, four components and a number of sub-components were developed. These
were as follows:
Sub-objective One: Improving Education Quality. Component: Curriculum and Pedagogical Support
(estimated cost US$ 12. 2 m) including; i) curriculum and instructional materials development; ii)
instructional materials provision; iii) teacher training and support; iv) a primary schools network pilot; and
v) a study on Lao language teaching and the schooling of ethnic minorities.
Sub-objective Two: Increasing Education Access and Establishing a Sustainable School
Construction Approach. Component: School Infrastructure (estimated cost US$ 13. 4 m) including; i)
primary school construction in seven provinces as well as limited construction of lower secondary schools
and some administrative buildings at district and province levels; ii) creation of Provincial Units for
Construction and Development Assistance (PUCDAs); and iii) institutional support for the Education
Construction Service (ECS) of MOES. l/.
Sub-objective Three: Improving Education Planning, Management Information and Assessment.
Component: Sector Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation (estimated cost US$ 1. 3 m) including; i)
establishment of systems of data collection, analysis and utilization; and ii) carrying out of studies to assess
educational outcomes.
Sub-objective: Improving Educational Administration and Management Component: Administration/
Management (estimated cost US$ 4.7 m) including; i) strengthening of Ministry of Education's capacities
in financial and personnel management and the preparation of plans for revised administrative structures
and a staff development program for the MoE; ii) institutional assessment of local and school
administration and training of staff at these levels; and iii) support to project management and
implementation.
1/ In 1993 the Ministry of Education and Sport (MOES) changed its name to the Ministry of Education
(MoE).
3.4 Revised Components:
As detailed below, there was very little substantive revision to the design or scope of the original
components, with the exception of the school construction component.
The Mid-Term Review (MTR) mission found that the first sub-objective on education quality was
- 2 -



being achieved, that implementation thus far had been exemplary, and that no major changes would be
required. The innovative Pedagogical Advisor program was up and running. The new primary curriculum
had been developed, albeit without much participation by teachers in development or testing. Textbook
development and printing was ahead of schedule, quite a remarkable occurrence given that this was the
country's first experience with large-scale textbook production. A school network was established in one
pilot district and appeared to be having the desired impact on education quality. Despite this success,
large-scale adoption of a cluster model based upon a successful pilot in one district was considered
premature. Instead, subsequent supervision missions encouraged the Ministry of Education (MOE) to
develop closer interface with other school networks supported by UNICEF and NGOs to see what might be
learned from them. Finally, although the teacher orientation training program for the new curriculum was
complete the MTR recommended abandoning the 'cascade' approach to training because it was not cost
effective and the sustainability of both the approach and the benefits were questionable.
By contrast, the second sub-objective (extending access and laying the foundation for a sustainable
construction program) was experiencing major problems, showed few achievements by the time of the
MTR, and required major restructuring. In fact, the construction component had been poorly implemented
up to that point that EDP was declared a "Problem Project" at the MTR stage, a status which it retained
until it was conclusively demonstrated that the new decentralized approach to school construction was
working effectively.
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) anticipated 390 primary and 34 lower secondary schools would
be constructed or rebuilt using a community-built option using prefabricated concrete blocks made at the
school site. MOE never liked this approach (feeling that it had been imposed by IDA) and never made a
serious effort to implement it. Furthermore, community participation was low due to limited experience
with prefabricated construction. Finally, no consensus been reached between IDA and the Government on
the meaning of community contribution. During the early stages of implementation, MOE approached IDA
requesting to pilot a contractor-built option, a request to which IDA agreed. Nevertheless, school
construction made little progress and half way through the project only thirteen schools (or 5% of total)
were built.
During the Mid-Term Review and subsequent Restructuring Mission it was agreed that the
construction approach would be revised and programmed into two (later three) stages concentrating mainly
on primary schools. The earlier approach of relying heavily on community participation for school
construction was abandoned in favor of the contractor-built method. The role of the communities was
reduced and redefined to include provision of water at the school site and undertaking routine maintenance
work. The very costly U-shaped primary schools constructed under the pilot phase were abandoned in favor
of a simpler block shape. The new design (utilizing a simpler architectural design, alternative building
materials, and private province-based construction companies) decreased primary school construction costs
dramatically between the first and second half of the project - from 160 US$/m2 to 112-115 US$/m2.
In order to speed up construction, bidding procedures were simplified and an IDA Procurement
Specialist from the Bank Office in Bangkok trained Lao staff at the provincial levels and worked closely
throughout implementation to provide hands-on assistance to MOE.
Thus, the major changes to the civil works component were the following: a community-built
option was abandoned in favor of a contractor-built approach, construction programs were rigidly set and
monitored by the PUCDAs, ECS, and IDA, priority was given to primary schools over all other
construction, and - most importantly -- responsibility for construction was decentralized to the provinces.
- 3 -



The third and fourth sub-objectives (focusing on information systems, institution building and
management strengthening) were rated satisfactory by the MTR even though there were significant
problems and shortfalls. Two important components -- the Education Management Information System
(EMIS) and Personnel Management Information System (PMIS) -- had been established and were working
well. The remainder showed promise of being implemented and therefore, it was not considered necessary
to materially alter their design or scope.
One minor design change was the movement of the "Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes"
(ASLO) from Sub-ojective Three to One. The reason for this was that assessment of learning achievements
was intimately related to the work of two of the Implementing Units (IU) responsible for quality - namely
the Department of General Education (DGE) and the National Research Institute for Educational Science
(NRIES). In fact, the latter had already prepared the first steps toward an such an evaluation.
The Credit Agreement was amended twice; i) in November 1997, after the MTR, primarily to unite
construction and furniture costs under a single category ("Civil Works"); and ii) in September 1999, to
reallocate undisbursed funds from the Project Management and Unallocated Categories to the Civil Works
component in order to initiate a final stage of primary school construction.
The Closing Date was extended once by six months from June 30, 2000 to December 31, 2000.
The extension was justified on the grounds that implementation had been delayed owing to: i) early
difficulties in implementing the school construction component and poor performance during the first four
years of the project; ii) the East Asia financial crisis (1997-99) which increased the cost of imported
building materials and adversely affected contractors involved with Stage II civil works; and iii) initial
allocation of project funds into narrow budget categories nominally controlled by individual departments
which made it difficult to move funds across cost centers. By extending the project for six months it was
anticipated that most of the IDA credit would be spent.
Main problems up to that point were attributable to the failure of MOE departments to prioritize
their work programs, share resources, and collaborate across departmental lines on common goals. This
was particularly obvious in the case of the student assessment component, where there had been no
progress up to the MTR.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
EDP was formulated before the requirement regarding performance indicators was instituted by the
Bank and no formal evaluation structure or methodology for ascertaining project impact was proposed.
Nevertheless, the PDO, sub-objectives and project components were carefully identified, systematically
quantified, and programmed in terms of their targets and well presented in the SAR. For this reason, project
quality at entry is deemed Satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
The project met its development objectives, although it had a few shortcomings, especially with
regard to some aspects of training, technical assistance, and management information components and
delivery of textbooks. Overall, the project has achieved i) Increased education quality through provision of
new curriculum, textbooks, and teacher guides and improved education relevance for children whose
mother tongue is not Lao; ii) Improved access to basic education through new primary schools and, more
- 4 -



importantly, a sustainable approach to school construction that has been picked up and replicated by
projects financed by the Asian Development Bank; and iii) Stronger management and administrative
capacity within MoE, effective education and personnel management information systems which are
essential to the planning and management of education, and institutionalization of the Department of
Planning and Cooperation in the Ministry to oversee all foreign-financed projects and house key
information and statistical functions. Based on these factors, the overall outcome of the project is rated
Satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Curriculum and Pedagogical Support
Outputs of this component were generally satisfactory. Particular problems were experienced with
textbook distribution and training, especially after 1998, when the East Asia Financial Crisis brought about
a major devaluation of the local currency.
a) Curriculum and instructional materials development: Targets defined in the SAR were
generally met or exceeded as follows: i) 12 textbook titles in three core subjects developed for grades 1-5;
ii) 20 teacher guide titles in four subjects developed for grades 1-5; iii) 15 textbook titles in five core
subjects developed for grades 6-8; and iv) 15 teacher guide titles in five core subjects developed for grades
6-8. In addition, 100 prototype titles for Low Cost Learning Material (LCLM) and two sets of LCLM
teacher guides (one for primary and one for secondary level) were developed.
Although output exceeded SAR objectives, MoE was in a rush to develop textbooks that they never
conducted any quality assurance of the textbook content. At the suggestion of an IDA supervision mission,
a Textbook Working Group (TBWG) was created to recommend improvements on the contents of the
books as well as printing and distribution practices.
b) Instructional materials provision: The main achievements under this sub-component were the
following: i) 2,235, 950 textbooks printed and distributed for primary level in three core subjects; ii)
1,1 14,200 textbooks in five core subjects printed and distributed for lower secondary level; iii) 196,400
teacher guides in five core subjects printed and distributed for primary level; and iv) 45,000 teacher guides
in five core subjects printed and distributed at secondary level.
In addition, 1,118,322 textbooks and 113,724 teachers' guides for grades 1-3 were reprinted and
distributed. For the preparation of Low Cost Learning Materials, (LCLM) 6,000 teacher guides were
prepared for primary and lower secondary grades and 320 teachers were trained during nine workshops.
The total amount of school supplies (excluding chalk) delivered was equivalent to 561,579 items.
Despite these quantities, the goal of one textbook in each subject per student (as established in the
SAR) was not achieved. MoE estimates that the student textbook ratio (STR) for grades 1-5 is currently at
1.7 students/textbook in Lao Language and 1.6 students/textbooks in Mathematics.
More importantly, the program did not establish an efficient delivery system for textbooks and
school supplies. Although transportation should have been undertaken through private companies, and the
cost covered to the school level by the project, this did not obtain in practice. Distribution was undertaken
by the MOE Warehouse, and schools bore the responsibility for picking up the books at the district office.
The result was that many schools did not receive sufficient number of textbooks and teacher guides, while
poorer schools in remote areas frequently received no books at all. When IDA realized that delivery was not
- 5 -



taking place through private companies but through the warehouse (in violation of the Credit Agreement),
IDA insisted that the last distribution of textbooks be undertaken as originally agreed, and this was done
with considerable cost savings. IDA strongly endorsed the recommendation of the study on textbook
distribution recommended that, for future distribution, the printer shrink wrap the books and take
responsibility for delivery to the district.
c) Teacher training and support: Although characterized by several weaknesses in design and
implementation, this component did succeed in establishing effective Pedagogical Advisor program, which
was subsequently picked up and expanded by the ADB in its Basic Education (Girls) Project, or BEGP.
Unfortunately, neither EDP nor the ADB-fmanced Education Quality Improvement Project (EQIP), which
supported pre-service teacher training, sufficiently addressed in-service teacher training issues, and this
important element of teacher support simply fell through the cracks. Although UNICEF picked up the
slack and started an exceptionally successful in-service program through National Teacher Upgrading
Centers (NTUCs), this effort was too small to really familiarize all teachers with the new curriculum and
new textbooks. And, as mentioned earlier, the cascade approach to teacher orientation provided under the
project was ineffective. Specific outputs of this component include: i) 495 Master trainers trained at
provincial and district levels, ii) 35,406 teachers trained in the use of new curriculum and teachers guides
(31,226 primary teachers and 4,180 secondary teachers); and iii) 403 primary pedagogical advisors (PPA)
and 142 Secondary Pedagogical Advisors (SPA) recruited and trained. In addition, 18 resource centres for
PAs at the secondary level were established, of which six were fully equipped and will be evaluated as a
pilot phase. According to an evaluation made on the experiences of the PA program, the respondents
(teachers, PAs, provincial and district educators) were generally positive about the program and it seems
that the PAs have played an important role in upgrading teachers' skills. An excellent study of the status of
teacher support has provided important insights for future projects. All things considered, outcomes for
this component were satisfactory.
d) Primary Schools network pilot: Seven pilot school networks (including 69 schools) were
established in one district. Two workshops and one evaluation study of the experiences with these
networks were conducted. Assessment of this pilot indicated a positive influence on cooperation between
schools, student performance, quality of teaching, parental involvement and extra curricular activities.
Collaboration with UNICEF and Save the Children Norway on the experiences of various cluster models
proved to be fruitful, and DGE is continuing to expand school networks (now called clusters) where this
approach is deemed appropriate. Based on the generalized acceptance of clusters into the Lao education
system, the outcome of this small component can be regarded as highly satisfactory.
e) Study on Lao language teaching and the schooling of ethnic minorities: Although intended to
be studies, the component was changed at the Government's request to focus on piloting the Concentrated
Language Encounter (CLE) approach which had proven effective in teaching ethnic minority children in
neighboring Thailand. The CLE method uses highly effective pedagogic practices to teach second language
literacy, and therefore it is not in violation of the law that all formal schooling must be in Lao language.
The program was introduced in two phases: Phase I included 11 pilot schools (with a total of 30
classrooms and 600 students) and Phase II included another 11 schools (with a total of 30 classrooms and
861 students). In total 10 Provincial Advisors (two at provincial level and either at district level), 11
principals and 60 teachers have been trained in CLE methods. In addition 10 illustrated starter books, one
game book and two sets of teacher guides were produced for grades 1 and 2, respectively.
Workshops conducted by NRIES for CLE teachers and PA's indicated a positive influence of the
method on teaching practices e.g. by increasing the level of school attendance and classroom participation
with great willingness to leam and increased self confidence of the teachers. The test result also showed
-6 -



that CLE students performed better than non-Lao children who were not part of the training. Despite its
many achievements, some weaknesses were also demonstrated, including: i) insufficient command by the
teachers themselves of Lao language; ii) significant (7%) absentee levels among the student population;
and iii) fairly high costs, particularly in comparison with similar efforts in Thailand. All things considered,
this small component is rated as highly satisfactory. In fact, it has been so successful that the CLE
approach is being widely adopted under the BE(G)P.
f) Cartying out of studies to assess educational outcome: The Assessment of Student Learning
Outcomes (ASLO) study was considerably delayed. It finally started in 1998 with a comprehensive review
of all aspects of current student assessment and examination practice. Pilot testing of 280 schools
(primary, lower secondary and upper secondary - grades 4, 7 and 9) was conducted. Responsibility for the
study was divided between three TUs: NRIES, responsible for inputting data from primary and lower
secondary schools; SPI (Statistics Planning Information), responsible for the upper secondary cohort; and
DGE. One staff from each of these IJ was sent to Melbourne, Australia for a one month training to
analyze the test results. The end product of this component was recommendation for a system that could be
used nationally and has the potential to include broader assessment and reporting frameworks linked to
common testing procedures and formal examinations. Its outcomes were satisfactory.
2. School Infrastructure
General assessment of the construction and infrastructure component clearly showed that, with the
exception of establishing a Construction Management Information System (CMIS), objectives set during
the restructuring mission in October 1997 were met and, in some cases, exceeded. This was despite
permanent shortage of skilled staff in both the ECS and PUCDAs and the regional financial crisis that
brought implementation of several other foreign-financed projects to a standstill. Under these
circumstances, the component is rated as highly satisfactory.
a) School Construction: During the first 16 months after the MTR took place, construction of over
200 schools were initiated, and by the completion of the EDP a total of 342 buildings had been completed
of which:
277 primary schools with approximately 1108 classrooms
31 lower secondary schools with approximately 217 classrooms
16 provincial education buildings
18 district education buildings
Although the original target in the SAR ( constructing 390 primary and 34 secondary schools) was
not achieved, progress was remarkable considering that: i) from 1994 to 1997 only 13 schools had been
completed and ii) the Crisis took place during the construction. With respect to the Crisis and the
devaluation of the Kip, two factors were particularly helpful. First, the Ministry of Finance agreed to
reverse the disbursement proportion for civil work contracts from 60% in Kip and 40 % in USD to 40 % in
Kip and 60% in USD. This lessened the financial burden that contractors had to bear as a result of the
high cost of imported building materials. Second, IDA increased the proportion of eligible expenditures
from 90 to 95%, therefore allowing a higher portion of construction to be covered under the IDA Credit.
However, if the construction itself has been highly satisfactory, much remains to be done about
maintenance and provision of water to schools. Field visits showed that the awareness among
stakeholders regarding school maintenance is very low and that villagers may not be in a position to carry
out this work. Latrines were not used because of lack of water. They were often locked and used only by
- 7 -



the teachers. Sanitation conditions were far from satisfying and in some places alarming. Supervision
missions emphasized that the MoE give high priority to these issues by developing a national framework
for school maintenance.
b) Creation of Provincial Unit for construction Assistance (later Provincial Unit for
Construction Development Assistance, PUCDA) in six provinces: Many elements of the experience with
decentralizing construction to the provinces proved to be very positive and empowering for the local levels.
One of the most successful initiatives was to establish PUCDAS in all eighteen provinces. PUCDAS'
primary role was to facilitate site selection and provide supervision before, during, and after school
construction. In the seven Provinces where primary schools were built, PUCDAS were staffed with one
engineer and one architect. These persons were trained by the central ECS on three different occasions in
procurement, evaluation, site supervision and contract administration. Nevertheless, PUCDA capacity has
been limited because of lack of sufficient staff and knowledge of how to perform effective and efficient site
supervision. IDA missions noted that site selection criteria for construction did not work satisfactorily and
site selection itself was far from transparent. IDA has reiterated that transparent and well-defined
selection criteria is a requirement for further support in the sector.
c) Support to the School Construction Service Unit (later Education Construction Service, ECS)
of the MoE: Training of construction staff was treated as an issue of marginal importance before the MTR.
Training for potential contractors, especially in bidding procedures, was not offered. This attitude changed
during the last years of implementation and capacity building under the construction component was
regarded as very important by the MoE. As a result, one key staff from each of the PES in all 18 provinces
participated in construction design and management training together with PUCDA and ECS staff. In
addition, two ECS staff and three PUCDA staff received overseas training in India in 1999 and the Head of
ECS spent one month in France to attend a course in low-cost building construction.
In order to monitor and plan for school construction, a Construction Management Information
System (CMIS) was developed using Microsoft Access database software. This program was installed at
central as well as provincial levels. The CMIS was never effectively used primarily because i) the central
management failed in providing adequate training in data entry and consequently few staff could handle the
database at the PES; and ii) relevant and reliable data on implementation progress and procurement
tracking related to school construction was not available through the databank.
3. Sector Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Compared with the original targets in the SAR, the immediate outputs of this component seem
marginally satisfactory. The highly complex process of developing transparent and efficient Management
Information Systems, or MIS, that is used for both planning and evaluation needs a lot of time, dedication,
and secure funding. Nevertheless, it is also true that the SAR objectives were too ambitious for Lao PDR
where technical capacity and knowledge about these issues were practically nonexistent at the time the
project was initiated. Therefore, with the establishment and decentralization of a solid EMIS, the
component is rated satisfactory.
Establishment of Systems of data collection, analysis and utilization: The MIS (i.e. personnel,
education statistics, finance and construction) were all developed separately, at different times and in
response to different needs. The lack of compatibility made data processing across the systems practically
impossible, led to unnecessary duplication of efforts, contributed to the perpetuation of errors and made
further analysis and synthesis difficult. Furthermore the different systems were used mainly for
documentation and insufficiently for decision making.
- 8 -



Besides CMIS (described above) the individual MIS systems were; i) Education Management
Information System (EMIS): This system contains information on education statistics and was developed
in a Microsoft Access database. EMIS was installed in all 18 provinces with varying results; ii) Personnel
Management Information System (PMIS): The core responsibility of PMIS related to updating and
processing personal records for effective personnel management. The PMIS was never decentralized and
the unit in charge, Department of Personnel (DOP) could not undertake local training because of the low
per diem rates and lack of computers at the provincial level; iii) Financial Management Information
System, FMIS: The FMIS was developed using MS Quicken software, but soon became outdated and was
not replaced.
The non-competitive public salaries, which made it difficult to recruit skilled staff has contributed
to the weak MIS development. Training in computer language often proved to be unsustainable, since
many staff tended to leave their positions for better job opportunities once their skills had been upgraded.
As a result, the unit in charge of statistical and planning information development, SPI was permanently
understaffed. Instead of the sanctioned four staff for statistics and four for planning, the actual figure has
only been two and two.
4. Administration/Management
Although the achievements of this component did not fully meet the original targets in the SAR,
significant unanticipated institutional development and strengthening of management have taken place.
Therefore this component is rated satisfactory.
a) Strengthening of Ministry of Education 's capacities in financial and personnel management
and the preparation ofplans for revised administrative structures and a staff development program for
the MoE: The original objective with this program was to strengthen Department of Finance, (DOF) and
Department of Personnel, (DOP) (which both carried out key functions in the management of the project) to
equip them to be responsive to overall administrative and fiscal reforms of the government. The DOF
component was never implemented and consequently, DOF remained weak with an inadequate organization
structure in terms of staff capacity, efficiency and transparency. Accounting and budget procedures
remained highly centralized and disbursement and accounts reports were not prepared on a regular basis.
Training of staff was not a high priority in DOF and on-the-job training of DOF staff occurred only once,
when four persons were trained in disbursement at the Bank office in Bangkok. DOP did not conduct any
on-the-job training, but a few high ranking officers participated in overseas study tours to Malaysia,
Vietnam and France.
b) Institutional assessment of local and school administration and training of staff at these
levels: 98 Master trainers and 208 personnel managers at provincial and district levels were trained under
this program. In addition 4,280 principals were trained in a two-week workshop on educational
administration, school management and development training. The training of principals was followed up
with an assessment of the effectiveness of the training. DOP planned to train another 6,000 principals, but
due to the delay in reaching an agreement on the new Per Diem rate, this training was never carried out.
Instead these activities will be moved to SEDP/EDP II.
Despite the intentions of the SAR, an institutional assessment of the PES and DES at the beginning
of the project was never undertaken. However, at a later stage of the project a Human Resource
Development Assessment and Plan for MoE was developed, assisted by an intemational consultant. The
report indicated that the present training system lacked consistency and was unsustainable. In fact, there is
-9-



no pre- or in-service training for education managers at any level (central, provincial, district or school).
Furthermore, MoE has no budget earnarked for this purpose and consequently relies heavily on foreign aid
for this purpose. The recommendation of the consultant was to establish an autonomous training institute
under MoE/DOP that will be responsible for the training and development of educational administrators.
This recommendation should be considered further in the context of the follow-on program.
c) Support to Project Management and Implementation: A Project Support Unit was established
at the beginning of the project to coordinate the activities and ensure an effective implementation. The unit,
consisting of a project director and support staff, was later integrated in the Department of Planning and
Cooperation, DPC, that was established in February 1998 to strengthen internal and external cooperation in
order to achieve better integration of planning, financing and management of education programs. This
arrangement proved to be a more efficient solution and the PSU, (whose name changed to Project
Coordination Unit, or PCU) could integrate and coordinate the project activities with other sector
programs.
One of the preconditions for EDP was that an international Project Advisor would be hired to work
together with PCU until the completion of the project. An initial Project Advisor did not work out well, and
after some delay, a second Project Advisor was hired and stayed from 1998 through the end of June 2000.
All DPC staff (in total 40 persons) participated in English Language training courses of which 12 officers
received overseas training at Holmesglen institute in Australia. The DPC was also the only department in
the ministry to have a satisfactory description of its primary functions and major responsibilities.
In addition,10 overseas study tours for Senior Executive officers were undertaken, of which the
Director of DPC joined six. However, the effectiveness of these study tours is highly doubtful. No
reporting or follow-up of the lesson learned of the study tours was required and in most cases the only ones
who benefited from the trips were a small exclusive group of the highest ranking officers. In future, study
tours should be better planned and monitored, and include a wider group of MoE staff.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No Net Present Value (NPV) or Economic Rate of Return (ERR) were calculated for the project in
the SAR. Nevertheless, given the weaknesses of the basic education system prior to the project, the ICR
considers the use of project funds satisfactory from both institution building and education perspectives.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No Financial Rate of Return (FRR) or other financial indicators were calculated for the project in
the SAR, nor are these generally needed in education projects.
4.5 Institutional development impact.
The project had significant intended and unintended impacts on institutional development --
virtually all of which were positive. For this reason the institutional development impact of the project is
rated as high. Key intended results included: (i) establishment of the Project Steering Committee within
MOE; (ii) development of a sustainable approach to education facilities provision through strengthening of
the ECS, creation of the PUCDAs, and development of an effectively decentralized process to contract and
construct education facilities; (iii) creation and institutionalization of excellent education and personnel
management information systems; (iv) strengthening the planning and statistics function within the central
Ministry and, to a lesser extent, Provincial Education Services; and (v) building up the capacity of NRIES
- 10 -



to (a) design curriculum, (b) address the specific problems of providing a quality primary education to
ethnic minorities, and (c) organize and undertake most of the functions related to publishing of textbooks
and learning materials.
The Project Steering Committee continued to play a major role throughout implementation and, in
fact, was institutionalized within the Ministry responsible for overseeing preparation and vetting of all
foreign-financed education projects. Its primary role has been to monitor project implementation,
determine strategic policy lines and assure the overall coordination of the project. All policy issues
affecting the project and its outcomes were routinely discussed within the Project Steering Conmuittee, so
its impact on implementation was extensive. Given its leadership (the Minister) and broad membership
(from both within and outside of MOE) and its impact on the policy context for further IDA-financed
education projects is assured. Other intra-departmental bodies established over the course of
implementation which worked more or less well (depending largely upon the commitment of their
membership) were the Project Working Group, the Textbook Working Group, the ASLO Working Group,
Information Technology Task Force, and the Project Preparation Task Force.
Aside from establishment of a seemingly effective Pedagogical Advisor Program at the primary
and secondary levels, there is little evidence that the various training programs ran through the Department
of General Education had much long term institutional development impact. This could be because of the
training modality chosen (the now largely discredited "cascade" approach) or the result of insufficient
attention by DGE to really institutionalizing the benefits of the training through routine follow up of
training outcomes.
The major unintended result was the establishment of the Department of Planning and Cooperation.
Established by the Minister in 1997, it was an outgrowth of the expanded functions of the Project
Support/Project Coordination Unit (PSU/PCU). DPC came to play an important role in terms of both
internal policy dialogue within the Ministry and interface with the Donors. DPC was the MOE agency
responsible for preparing the Ministry's Strategic Vision for 2020, the sectoral document prepared in the
context of the Government Roundtable in CY2000. In this document, which is now widely cited by actual
and potential donors to education, DPC presented the long term priorities and strategies of the Ministry in
terms of the progranmmatic headings of Access, Quality and Relevance, and Management. These
programmatic categories (which have become the standard nomenclature in most foreign-financed
education projects) will facilitate future planning, financing, and monitoring and will make it easier for the
donors to overview and coordinate their investments in the sector.
The impact of the project on the both the structure and organization of MOE and its internal
management (of such things as procurement through internationally recognized bidding practices) also was
substantial. EDP also led or directly contributed development of other foreign-financed activities in the
education sector. The ongoing ADB-financed Basic Education (Girls} Project (BEGP) and
Australian-financed Lao-Australia Basic Education Project (LABEP) for example, continue to support
CLE, Pedagogical Advisors, learning materials development, and extension of primary education access -
with particular focus on girls and ethnic minorities in rural Laos. UNICEF continues to support school
clusters and has stepped in to support quality-enhancements and future curriculum development through
assistance to NRIES for the design of competency-based curriculum. Planned investments - such as the
Second Education Quality Improvement Project (EQIPH) will continue ADB's earlier role in teacher
training, but also utilize many of the institutional mechanisms established under EDP -- such as the
PUCDAs and the Department of Planning and Cooperation. It is noteworthy that all foreign-financed
investments containing construction components are now subject to the scrutiny of the DPC, which also
houses the Ministry's statistics and planning function as a result of EDP investments.
- 11 -



The textbook component supported under the project was intended to meet immediate needs for
learning materials and neither have significant institution building impact or establish a sustainable system
to provide school books. As a first step toward bringing books into a system which heretofore had none,
this was appropriate. At present there few 'private' printing companies in Lao PDR. Since the project
allowed procurement of textbook printing contracts through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) only,
most printing contracts were undertaken by the same Thai fimn which always managed to win the bid. In
the few cases where a local printer did win, MOE had trouble demonstrating to IDA's satisfaction that firm
in question had all the necessary aspects of a independent business concern separate from the Government.
In order to strengthen the domestic printing capacity, which is necessary to national development, IDA
recommended that GOL consider alternative financing arrangements for future textbook components.
Borrowing from the Nordic Development Fund, for example, could allow for joint ventures between Lao
and Scandinavian printers. This would serve the dual purpose of providing textbooks and building up a
local printing industry.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major factor outside the control of government was the East Asia Crisis, which lasted from
about mid-1997 to mid-2000, roughly the last three years of implementation. There were two identifiable
Crisis-related impacts on the project. Firstly, the collapse of the Kip triggered a rapid decrease in the
purchasing power of civil servant salaries and per diems allowable. Training activities were suspended
because the old per diem rate (7,000 Kip) was entirely insufficient to finance food or housing allowances
for civil servants. By the time a new rate was agreed between the MoE and MoF (May 2000), it was too
late to program training activities. While the ability to resolve the per diem dispute was well within the
Government's capacity to resolve, the ICR feels that the major cause of the problem in the first place was
the meteoric drop in the value of the local currency, a clear result of the Crisis. Given the impact of the per
diem decision on other aspects of public expenditure (and not just the IDA-financed education project) the
ICR feels that it is understandable that GOL would take its time over such a decision and wait until both
the currency and overall macro-economic situation had stabilized.
Secondly, as noted earlier, the Crisis adversely - if temporarily -- affected the construction
program because of the sudden increase in the cost of imported building materials. In a few cases it
resulted in construction delays owing to the cancellation of contracts and re-issuance of bids. As a result of
IDA's willingness to increase its share of financing from 90 to 95 %, construction became even less
dependent on GOL ability to provide resources to the project.
It is the opinion of the ICR that -- except for the East Asia Crisis (whose direct impact in Lao PDR
lasted about three years from mid-1997 to mid-2000) -- most of the factors affecting project
implementation and outcomes were well within the control of the Government, the Ministry of Education,
and/or its implementing agencies and instead reflected: (i) relative priorities attached to education and
equitable social services provision; and (ii) perceptions about the role of human capital development in
poverty reduction and economic growth.
In fact, it is interesting how little the project suffered from either the crisis or the inconsistent
pattern of public budgetary support for education throughout the period. (See Section on Sustainability for
a more detailed analysis of these issues).
- 12 -



It is the opinion of the ICR that EDP was insulated from these two factors owing to the project
financing structure which required relatively little financial commitment from the Borrower owing to: i) a
large grant from the Government of Switzerland which covered virtually all aspects of the educational
quality, management, and institution-building components; ii) a large grant from the Government of
Norway which provided 100% of the financing for production and distribution of textbooks, teachers
guides, and other school supplies and learning materials; and iii) an IDA credit which covered 90-95% of
civil works expenditures and 100% of other capital costs and foreign expenditures.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The persistent non-competitiveness of civil service salaries (clearly an issue within Government
control) resulted in an inability to fill important positions in the Ministry throughout the implementation
period. This was particularly true of positions relating to the development and maintenance of EMIS and
other statistical functions essential to the effective planning and management of the education system. Low
salaries - sometimes exacerbated by delayed payment of the same - also contributed to a growing malaise
among education staff at all levels after mid- 1997.
IDA missions expressed concem during implementation about the low civil service salaries and
frequently abysmal teaching conditions. Once the Crisis hit, evidence began to emerge that - adding insult
to injury - teachers frequently went unpaid for months at a time. Just as "an army marches on it stomach"
so it is that the quality of education is inextricably linked to the teaching conditions and teacher salaries.
Although recognising the urgency of the problem, GOL was slow to respond with concrete action. It was
not until October 2000 (almost two and a half years after the onset of the Crisis) that GOL would add a
monthly living allowance of Kip 30 000 to the salaries of all civil servants, including teachers. While
certainly a step in the right direction, this ad hoc measure did not address deeper issues of remuneration and
conditions of service. Other aspects of this problem - including the variability of teaching conditions
across provinces and districts and persistent lack of transparency with regard to reporting financial
transfers across levels of government - did not bode well for the long term sustainability of the
quality-related project benefits.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementation of project activities was conducted with limited efficiency due to four
reasons, most of which were subject to Ministry influence if not direct control: (i) complex
financial transfer and reporting mechanisms within MoE which did not put accountability with the
responsible implementing unit; (ii) lack of a clear delineation of roles and responsibilities between
departments in MOE and consequent overlap and duplication of functions; (iii) empire-building
and/or rent-seeking behavior among some MOE officials; and (iv) apparent unwillingness to
prioritize or compromise over higher-order goals. All of these problems were inadvertently
exacerbated by the implementation structure of the project, which emphasized collaboration
between the various departments and implementing units under the general direction of the
Project Support/Project Coordination Unit.
Financial management and control of budget and cash flow within MOE - both under the
project and generally -- has been the exclusive responsibility of Department of Finance and its
overworked staff. This resulted in excessive control and a "pre-audit" mentality within DOF
which produced severe delays in moving money and reporting on financial transfers. Better
separation of accounting and auditing functions within DOF would help, as would greater reliance
- 13-



on private audit firms for at least part of the process (something which future IDA-financed
projects should seriously consider along with building better financial controls within the
departments themselves)
The fact that DOF bore exclusive burden for financial transactions and ensuring good
accounting had significant implications for the way other departments viewed their roles and
responsibilities. Because they did not control their own budgets and were not responsible for
planning or administration of resources, financial efficiency or transparency of processes or the
relationship of outcomes to budgets provided, MOE departments did not mature or become more
accountable. Because essential mechanisms to engender fiscal responsibility were not established
under the project, the implementation process was slow and an opportunity was missed to
improve the management practices within the individual departments responsible for different
aspects of project implementation.
Heavy administrative responsibility also fell on the PSU/PCU within the DPC. Apart from
being responsible for overall coordination of the project and the lUs, DPC was also responsible
for all (written) communication with IDA and overseeing the efficacy of the procurement process.
Misunderstandings and misinterpretations of procurement functions delayed the implementation of
several activities, especially at the beginning of the project. Most of these problems were however
solved when an IDA Procurement Operation Officer in Bangkok, conversant in Lao and an easy
phone call away, became actively involved in the project. Nevertheless, the transferring of
procurement skills to a wider cohort of staff in MoE has been limited and the ICR recommends
that further decentralised of procurement functions be considered in future IDA-financed
education projects.
The PSU/PCU was generally understaffed throughout implementation, and the fact that
most implementation problems were identified and dealt with before they reached crisis
proportions was due to the long term expatriate consultant who served as Project Advisor
through out most of the implementation period and the diligence of the two successive Deputy
Directors of the DPC. Nevertheless, there was a general tension between the lUs and the PCU
throughout implementation, and the former often complained that the latter caused a lot of delays.
One solution for this problem would have been for the PCU to delegate some tasks to the
implementing units and increase both their independence and accountability for financial and
performance outcomes. This approach should be explored in future IDA-financed projects.
Finally, the failure within MOE to set prioities, then program and budget them in the
context of an Annual Operations Plan for the project (a requirement of the Development Credit
Agreement) contributed to many implementation failures and ultimately led the Swiss Government
to cancel about US$2.0 equivalent of the Grant proceeds. Although the PSU/PCU was blamed
for the Swiss Government's decision to summarily cancel about US$2.0 million of Grant proceeds
during the latter part of implementation, the blame should fall equally on all implementing units
under the project, who refused to collaborate in the annual planning exercise and heed the "use it
or lose it" messages repeatedly sounded by IDA supervision missions.
The Swiss Government's rationale for reducing the Grant was clearly justifiable. The decision was not
communicated to either GOL or IDA in a timely manner however, and the PCU continued to work with the
- 14 -



implementing units to reach agreements on terms of reference for training and technical assistance activities which
could be undertaken during the remaining year of project. In the final analysis the fact that money remained
unutilized in the Swiss Grant account demonstrates that GOL's ability to effectively spend these free resources
never exceeded the reduced amount of the Grant.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project financing levels were generally adequate given: (i) the fact that virtually all activities were
fully funded through Grants (by Governments of Norway or Switzerland) and the IDA Credit, (ii) the main
defacto Government contribution - namely staff and office space - remained unchanged throughout
implementation; and (iii) GOL's requirement that communities provide in-kind support to match
construction financing under the project proved effective in mobilizing resources at the local level.
Project costs - especially during the second half of project implementation and especially with
regard to construction - were closely monitored by IDA supervision missions and are considered
reasonable. In fact, actual costs of construction were seen to decline over the course of the project, mainly
because of IDA's careful attention to actual prices of bill of quantities for primary school construction
under differing geographic and design conditions.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
If the activities introduced under EDP are sustained in the short term this will be due in large part
to the continuing financial support of the donors, including IDA, which is planning to support the
Govemment's goal of establishing UPE by 2015 through a ten year Adaptable Program Loan scheduled for
approval in late CY200 1. A clear successor to EDP, the Second Education Development Program
(SEDP) is expected to comprise three discrete investments: EDP II, III and IV.
Longer term sustainability of the benefits of this project, however - as well as all other education
investments supported by the donors -- will be detenrnined by the Government's commitment as translated
through support for financing and an appropriate policy framework. Although the policy framework is
clearly in place and GOL statements appear supportive of education, the entirely inadequate budget and
apparent abdication of national responsibility in favor of the provinces has led the ICR to give a
sustainability rating of Unlikely.
The ICR is not the place to discuss Government spending pattems on education or the impact of
the Crisis on spending levels, issues which will be addressed in greater detail in the forthcoming Public
Expenditure Review. Here it is sufficient to mention three points. Firstly, Lao PDR has never devoted
resources to education of the level of other countries in the region when they were at a similar level of
economic development as Lao PDR. Secondly, while education spending rose from 7.2% of government
budget and 1.9 percent of GDP in 1990/91 to 13.9% of government budget and 3.6% of GDP in 1994/95,
it then declined to current levels of 6% of government budget and 1.4% of GDP. Thus, budget support to
education started declining well before the East Asia Crisis in mid-1997. Finally, while IDA and GOL
tried to insulate the project from some of the worst impact of the Crisis by enacting measures to protect
contractors already involved with school construction and increasing the IDA-financed portion of
construction, similar measures were not enacted by GOL to protect crucial recurrent elements of the
education system, namely primary teacher salaries and building maintenance. As a result of insufficient
attention to recurrent budgets, the country may lose much of the progress made during the 1990's.
- 15 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the activities assisted under the project have been well- integrated within the
appropriate departmental structure in the Ministry, which is essential for sustainability and exactly
what those designing the project had hoped for. If decentralisation is effective, then provinces
and hopefully districts will take increasing responsibility for planning, implementing and
monitoring many of these activities. This is already true for many elements in school construction,
although some tasks, such as site selection for construction of schools, are still not running
properly. In order to establish a well functioning and transparent system for site selection, the
selection criteria for schools need to be focused, clearly defined and closely monitored by
PUCDAs. Thus, while there has been a smooth integration within the Ministry of virtually all
components of this diverse and innovative project and full ownership by concerned departments,
sustainability remains moot pending a clear financial commitment by the Government to both
investments supported under the project and the education sector itself.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The planning process for EDP was both lengthy and costly (6 missions and US$ 800 000 spent on
preparatory work funded by the Japanese government through a PHRD grant). This is mainly because
EDP was one of the first large IDA-financed projects in education in Lao PDR at that time. The
preparation of the project was conducted in a context of unstable development of the political and economic
system, lack of basic information and statistics on the educational system and a competitive rather than
cooperative attitude of international donor agencies entering the field. Closer coordination between the
major donor agencies active in the sector - in particular IDA, ADB and UNICEF - could have ensured
better linkages between parallel, sequential and interdependent activities supported by various donors.
Nevertheless, the design of the project was coherent and sound, although probably too anbitious. A major
design shortcoming was lack of performance indicators, which made monitoring and tracking achievements
of targets difficult. Output indicators were later added at the Mid Term Review stage, but the project
continued to lack solid outcome and impact indicators.
7.2 Supervision:
Although supervision missions were mounted at least twice a year and generally contained staff
with backgrounds appropriate to the technical aspects of the project and the demands of supervision,
excessively high turnover of IDA Task Managers in the units responsible clearly undermined initial
implementation. Failure to provide the consistency needed to establish effective levels of trust, monitor the
quality of implementation, provide technical assistance or trouble shooting as needed led to a weak and
frequently non-productive relationship between the Borrower and the Bank. Had IDA demonstrated
stronger leadership during the first half of the project, it is likely that both school construction and textbook
distribution problems would have been resolved more effectively and/or at an earlier stage in
implementation. In the event, both issues were eventually addressed - construction at the Mid Termn and
textbook distribution at the very end (thanks to an excellent study underscored by fimnness by the Task
Manager on the issue of using private transportation companies to distribute textbooks). To a great extent
the initial weaknesses of IDA supervision were overcome by strong and effective input by the Swiss
Government and the Bank's field office in Vientiane (EACLF). The latter liased with the Borrower in the
absence of IDA missions and were very effective in following up on both administrative issues and matters
- 16-



of substance. Most importantly, through patient mentoring and frequent translation of essential IDA
documents (such as the Disbursement Handbook) into Lao language, they improved the Ministry's
understanding and eventual acceptance of IDA procedures and guidelines. Finally, the fact that the same
Task Manager, architect, and procurement officer worked on the project through mid-1996 to the end of the
implementation period undoubtedly had significant positive impact upon implementation after that point.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
In the final analysis, IDA played an effective role in project design, in nudging the project into and
out of the "Problem Project" category, and in achieving the overall satisfactory rating for the project. For
these reasons, Bank performance is considered satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower (MoE) participated actively in project identification, preparation and design, and
made significant contribution to the soundness of its concept and scope. The Borrower's performance is
Satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
MOE placed a high priority on project implementation, especially after mid-1996 when EDP was
declared a "Problem Project." MOE devoted considerable attention to implementation, provided funding
without any delay, and supplied some of the best staff in the Ministry to work on the project and with the
IDA supervision missions. Establishment of the Education Steering Committee headed by the Minister of
Education and with representation from both outside and inside the Ministry was an important signal of
MOE's commitment to effective implementation, as well as a significant step in institution building as
outlined earlier. IDA supervision missions had routine access to the Minister and were able to raise and
address problems at this level as the need arose. It is the opinion of the ICR the effective working
relationship between IDA and the Ministry demonstrated GOL's overall devotion to the project and to
making it work well. The working relationship between MoF and MoE also was been solid throughout
implementation, with the flow of money between the two entities was far smoother than in other
IDA-financed projects in the country.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PSU/PCU and the Department of Planning and Cooperation remained strongly committed to
the project and its development objectives throughout implementation. Overall performance was quite
satisfactory -- especially in the areas of textbook development and school construction. Active
participation by all involved departments and sub agencies were ensured by the establishment of the
Education Steering Committee and the Project Working Groups.
The PCU was generally quite effective at coordinating and adequately planning for the different
activities under the project. Despite the lack of baseline performance indicators, the PCU developed a
monitoring tool in the Semester Reports and used these to chart project achievements. In fact, data from
these Semester Reports has been used to describe the specific outputs and outcomes in the Aide Memoires
from IDA supervision missions and the ICR itself and were key in helping MOE to track the large and
varied number of project activities.
- 17 -



The only weak aspects of implementation had to do with coordinating EDP and the ADB-fmanced
EQIP. In the first place, neither ADB nor IDA took effective responsibility for developing in-service
teacher training programs, which was key to the impact of the components aimed at enhancing quality.
Consequently, teaching remained very weak, textbooks were not properly utilized by teachers, and
pedagogical approaches remained outmoded. Because in-service teacher training was not decisively
addressed during the preparation of either project, this remained a fundamental weaknesses in the formal
education system throughout the 1990s. In the second place, MOE did not make sure that a common
approach was taken to materials development and provision. Consequently, for most of project
implementation no IDA-procured EDP primary textbooks were supplied to the ADB-built Teacher Training
Centers - a startling oversight given the need for primary teachers to teach using the textbooks.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Nevertheless, given the strong commitment evidenced throughout both preparation and
implementation by the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Education and PSU/PCU and DPC, the Borrower's
perfornance is rated Highly Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Oualitv and Relevance:
Development. Production and Printing of Educational Materials.
The importance of (i) not rushing curriculum and textbook development, (u) taking time for an
adequate testing and evaluation period before proceeding to scale, and (iii) integrating teachers and other
stakeholders in the entire process.
- The need to build local capacity for publishing, printing and distributing pedagogic and other reading
materials to (i) link all aspects of curriculum design and textbook production in a seemless whole; (ii)
create an affordable and sustainable environment for textbook production; (iii) establish a local
publishing industry able to handle efficiently and cost effectively the emerging needs for Lao language
materials for both schooling and pleasure; (iv) reinforce the habit of reading.
Pedagogic Inputs.
The efficacy of using better trained teachers as Pedagogic Advisors to improve teaching and
learning in the classroom.
The appropriateness of the CLE approach to Lao language literacy training in the formnal education
system and particularly primary schools with one or more ethnic minorities present.
The need to consider all aspects of teaching conditions, not just pre and in-service training but
conditions of service (salary, housing, and transportation) and promotion within the rank.
The need to support a variety of organizational options for primary school (multigrade, multi-class,
school cluster, and school group) to accommodate the reality at the grass roots level and the need to involve
local stakeholders in deciding which options best suit local conditions.
Access and Eguity:
The importance of having the approach to construction clearly understood and accepted by all
stakeholders prior to project implementation.
- 18 -



*     The efficacy of decentralized facilities construction programs when adequate attention is paid ex -
ante to building procurement and construction management capacity at that level.
*     The need for MOE to look for even cheaper options for supporting primary facilities, since GOL
simply cannot afford to offer the "Cadillac models" supported under EDP to all Laotian children, however
attractive and durable they may be.
*     The failure with the community contribution part in school construction under EDP should be used
as an example of how important it is to have a common understanding of these issues at the beginning of
the project. During project preparation it is therefore essential that the Bank and the Borrower hold regular
joint workshops to discuss and agree upon key concepts and policies of the project.
*     The importance of providing an understanding of both the technology and hygiene aspects of when
supplying schools with water and sanitation facilities.
*     The usefulness of a Construction Management Infonnation System for rapidly and transparently
implementing civil works components, provided there is sufficient attention to (i) designing a database
structure which cannot be tampered with subsequently and (ii) providing re-training and upgrading training
throughout implementation.
*     The utility of providing hands on assistance in the local language for newer borrowers or when
implementing decentralized components;
Mana-gement and Institution BuiIdinr:
*     The need to include institutional capacity analysis during project preparation when attempting
project implementation arrangements for the first time.
The ability of a project to have significant unintended institutional impact through provision of
well-designed technical assistance support and close project monitoring by the Borrower.
IDA Performance:
Close collaboration between the IDA and other education donors, plus continuity of IDA staff, can
have a positive multiplier effect on the outcomes of a project.
Donor Performance:
*     Projects fmanced by different donors but with closely-linked components (like EDP and EQIP)
must make every effort to ensure continued interface during project implementation.
Sustainabilitv:
Even components that (i) perform well during implementation, (ii) are well integrated into the line
agencies policies and day-to-day activities upon project completion and (iii) are replicated by other donors
may, not be sustainable in the long run if adequate budgets (for recurrent and complementary expenses) are
not assured.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's Report has been incorporated as Annex 8 of this Report.
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 19 -



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
10.1   Role of Partner Agency Financing in Project Implementation and Achievement of Targets, Goals,
and Project Development Outcomes.
Partner agencies, the Governments of Norway and Switzerland, provided co-financing grants of
US$ 3.0 million equivalent and US$ 9.8 million equivalent, respectively. The Norwegian Grant covered
development and distribution of textbooks, teacher's guides, and learning materials, while the Swiss Grant
covered the remaining education quality and relevance components, as well as those components concerning
management and the institutional development of the education system. As the Government of Lao PDR
had been unwilling to borrow from IDA for technical assistance and training activities at the time EDP was
forrnulated, these Grants were essential aspects in the overall design of the project as well as key to the
achievement of output targets and the broader Project Development Objective.
The grants were administered by IDA in accordance with applicable bilateral agreements between
these governments and IDA as well as IDA's guidelines governing procurement of project-related goods
and services. Since the Credit Agreement and IDA guidelines specified International Competitive Bidding
for the printing of textbooks and teacher guides, the Norwegian Grant was key to providing an essential
infusion of textbooks into the system. Nevertheless, it did little to build the overall capacity of Lao printers
which, while not among the objectives of the project, would have been important for overall sustainability
of the textbook component and the building up of a stronger reading culture in the country.
Aside from financing different components in the projects, the Governments of Norway and
Switzerland played very different roles in project implementation. The Norwegian Government's role was
very low-key, limited to receiving reports on project implementation, an occasional exchange of
correspondence with the IDA Task Manager, and sending a team from the Auditor General's office to
review the project in 1999.
By contrast, the Government of Switzerland played a very active role throughout project
implementation, sending experts in education quality and school construction to accompany IDA
supervision missions and even financing an Independent Mid-Term Review Team whose findings were
essential to the IDA MTR and subsequent restructuring of the school construction component. In fact,
during the initial period of project implementation - between 1993 and mid-1996 - the only staffing
continuity during supervision missions was thanks to the clear commitment of the Swiss Government to the
project and the dedication of one Swiss expert in particular. Given the relative levels of effort put into
supervision by the Swiss Government and IDA during the first half of the project, it is hardly surprising
that - at the project mid-term - disbursements of the Swiss and Norwegian Grants were right on target
whereas that of the IDA Credit was far below expectations.
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
indlcatortMatrix                   Projected in last PSR                 ActuaULatest Estimate
(i) Number of textbooks, teachers guides,
supplementary readers, and essental
leaming materials developed and distributed
on schedule.
(ii) Three initiatives:
1. Pedagogical Advisors - number
recruited and trained;
2. School Clusters - number successfully
established under project pilot;
3. Lao Language and language of
instruction - progress of studies and pilot
activities;
Outcome indicators which were not included
in the design and delivery of the project and
for which no base line data exists are: i) The
benefits and impact of cunriculum
development and distribution on students'
leaming achievement; ii) The benefits and
impact of school construction on equal and
improved access to education; iii) The
benefits and impacts of HRD on institutional
capacity building on central, provincial and
district level.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrti                   Projected in last PSR                 AcPaUlLatest Estimate
1.Curriculum and Pedagogical Support
a. Curriculum and Instructional Material  12 textbook titles in three core subjects, 13   12 textbook titles in three core subjects
development                          teacher guide btles and support materials for developed grade 1-5; 20 teacher guide tities
all five primary grades. 15 textbooks titles in four subjects developed grade 1-5;
with corresponding teacher guides in five    15 textbook tites in five core subjects
core subjects and support materials for lower developed grade 6-8; 15 teacher guide titles
secondary grade                       in five core subjects developed grade 6-8;
100 prototype tUes for low cost leaming
materials developed and 2 sets of teachers
guides for LCLM developed, 1 for primary
and 1 for secondary teachers
b. Instructional materials provision  1.7 million primary, 670 000 lower secondary 1,362,200 textbooks grade 1-3 printed and
and 176 000 upper secondary as well as 117 distributed; 133, 600 teachers guides grade
000 teacher guides would be produced for all 1-3 printed and distributed; 1,915, 250
grades. 935 000 reprinting copies of existing textbooks grade 4-8 printed and distributed;
book titles. 200 000 copies of supplementary 104 300 teachers guides grade 4-8 printed
materials printed and distributed     and distributed; 1,118,322 text books grade
1-3 reprinted and distributed; 113,724
teachers guides 1-3 reprinted and
distributed; 657,100 boxes of chalk
distributed; 9,731 units of Globes distributed;
3,762 units of World Maps distributed;
11,286 units of charts of Body system
distributed; 341,120 units of Small Black
board distributed; 168,730 units of Geometry
set for students distributed;
26,950 units of geometry set for teachers
distributed
- 21 -



c. Teacher training and support                                             403 PPAs recruited and trained of which 401
successfuily passed examinations.
142 SPAs recruited and trained
18 resource centres for Secondary PAs
established of which 6 are fully equipped.
394 motorbikes and 9 boats for PPAs
provided
142 motorbikes for SPA provided
495 Master trainers trained at provincial and
district level
31,226 teachers trained in use of curriculum
and teacher guides
320 teachers trained in LCLM methods
during 9 workshops.
d. Primary school network pilot                                             7 school networks in one pilot district
successfully established
e. Study on Lao language teaching and the                                   Model I and II (out of three phases) of CLE
schooling of ethnic minorities                                              successfully launched. 10 illustrated starter
books, 1 game book and 2 sets of teacher
guides produced for grade 1 and 2
respectively. CLE method introduced in 2
phases: Phase 1 included 11schools, 30
classrooms and 600 students and Phase II
included 11 schools, 30 classrooms and 861
students. In total 10 PAs, 1 1principals and
60 teachers have been trained in CLE
methods.
f. Carrying out of studies to assess                                        Assessment instruments developed, tests
educational outcomes, ASLO                                                  administered, data analysed, results used in
management decisions.
2. Civil Work                         390 schools in six provinces.         277 primary schools with 1,108 dassrooms
34 secondary schools                  31 lower secondary schools with 217
a. school reconstruction                                                    classrooms; 16 provincial education
buildings; 18 district education buildings
A total of 7 PUCDAS in 7 provinces
established and working efficiently. Staff has
b. creation of Provincial unit for construction                             received training in procurement, evaluation,
assistance in six provinces                                                 site supervision and contract administration
1 Key staff from each of the PES in 18
provinces have been trained in construction
and administrative management.
c. reinforcement of the School Construction                                 2 ECS and 3 PUCDA staff received
Service Unit of the MOE                                                     overseas training in India. Head of ECS
received 1 month training in Low cost
construction in France. A Construction
Management Information System, CMIS
developed but currentiy not in use.
3. Sector Planning, Monrtoring and                                          EMIS established, decentralised to all 18
Evaluation                                                                  provinces and currently in use. PMIS
a. estabfIshment of systems of data                                         established but only partly in use at central
collection, analysis and utilization                                       level; CMIS established but no longer in use;
FMIS developed but never in use
1,501 staff (81 at national level, 203 at
provincial level and 1,217 at district level)
trained in data collection and analysis and
planning and computer use.
- 22 -



4. Administration/Management                                                    DOP staff participated in overseas study
tours to Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam.
a. strengthening of MoE's capacities in                                         HRD plan developed for educational
financial and personnel management and                                          administration
the preparation of plans for revised                                            4 DOF staff trained in disbursements.
administratve structure and a staff                                             98 Master trainers trained; 4,280 pnncipals
development program for the MOE.                                               trained; 208 personnel managers trained at
b. institutional assessment of local and                                        provincial and district level
school administration and training of staff at                                  PSU established with a Project Director and
these levels                                                                    support staff; 1 Project Advisor and 1
c. support to project management and                                            executive officer recruited; 40 DPC staff
implementation                                                                 trained in English Language of which 12
participated in overseas training in Australia;
10 overseas study tours for Senior
Executives undertaken.
End of project
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
App0  raisal  iActuatlLatest   Percentage of
Est: ;f imate   n0Estimate  A0ppaisal
P"oject Cost 0y Component             USS $million    US$ million
Civil Works                                         4.60
Construction Materials                               8.60
Furniture                                            1.90          11.82            78
EquipmentlVehicles                                   2.10           2.13            101
Instructional Materials                              5.60           4.05            72
Training/Specialists/Studies                        10.40           8.10            78
Management/Operations                                2.50           0.50            20
Incremental Recurrent                                1.80
Total Baseline Cost                                 37.50          26.60
Total Project Costs            37.50           26.60
Total Financing Required             37.50          26.60
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
I          ~~~~Procurement Methods:
PExp9ditraego           1GB           NCB         Other         N.B.F.     Ti Cost
1. Works                     3.00         1.60         0.00          0.00         4.60
(2.70)       (1.40)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (4.10)
2. Goods                     6.50         0.20          6.20         0.00        12.90
(6.30)       (0.20)       (5.90)        (0.00)      (12.40)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          2.50         0.00         2.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.50)        (0.00)       (2.50)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     9.50          1.80         8.70         0.00         20.00
(9.00)       (1.60)       (8.40)        (0.00)      (19.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
J          ~~~ProcjUrement MethodTtICs
gxpenditure Categor       iC                                               TOWtl CostB.
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
-24 -



2. Goods                          0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
1' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA       Govt.      CoF.      Bank        Govt.     CoF.    IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Civil Works                4.10      0.50                                                 0.0    0.0
Construction Materials     5.40      3.20                                                 0.0    0.0
Furniture                  1.70      0.20                                                 0.0    0.0
Equipment/Vehicles         2.10                                                           0.0
Instructional Materials    3.20                 2.40                                      0.0             0.0
Training/Specialists/Studie                     10.40                                                     0.0
s
Management/Operations      2.50                                                           0.0
Incremental Recurrent                 1.80                                                        0.0
TOTAL                     19.00                                                           0.0
- 25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The project was not subject to economic or cost-benefit analysis at Appraisal.
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
08/89-02/90
Appraisal/Negotiation
7/93                        3   1 Educator, 1 Publisher,
I Architect
11/93                       3   1 Educator, 1 Economist,
1 Task Manager
Supervision
7/94                         4   1 Educ. Planner, 1 Educ.           S             S
Economist, I Economist, I
Task Manager
12/94                        3   1 Educ. Economist, 1 Economist,    S             S
I Implem. Specialist
2/95                         3   1 Book Development, I Architect    S             S
- Mgmt, I Economist
6/95                         4   1 Mgmt. Specialist, 1 Architect,   S             S
1 Sr. Ed. Specialist, 1 Economist
11/95                        2   1 Architect, 1 Economist           S             S
6/96                         4   1 Educator, 2 Sr. Ed. Specs.,      S             S
1 Architect
11/96                        2   1 Architect, I Sr. Ed. Spec.       S             S
6/97                         4   1 Architect, I Sr. Ed. Spec.,      U             S
3 Educ. Specialist
1/98                         6   1 Educ. Spec., 2 Operations        U             S
Officer, I Proj. Mgmt. Spec., I
Textbook Specialist, I Architect
6/98                         4   1 Educ. Spec., 1 Operations        U             S
Officer, I Textbook Spec., I
Architect
1/99                         8   1 Educ. Spec., 1 Project Mgmt      S             S
Officer., I Procurement
Operations Officer, I Economist,
I Education Operations Officer,
1 Liaison Officer, I Gender
Specialist, I Architect
- 27 -



6/99                           4   1 Procurement Operations              S             s
Officer, I Education Operations
Officer, I Gender Specialist, I
Architect
1/00                          4   1 Task Team Leader, I                 S              S
Operations Officer, I
Procurement Officer, I Architect
(Consultant)
1/00                          5   1 Operations Officer, I               S              S
Procurement Officer, I Architect
Cons., 1 Deputy Counselor,
SDC, I Proj. Prepar- ation
Specialist
ICR
10/00                         3    1 Operations Officer                 S              S
1 Procurement Officer
I Architect (consultant)
(O) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                us$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                144.7                         440.0
AppraisaVNegotiation                      102.1                         342.9
Supervision                               171.8                         553.4
ICR                                        N/A                           N/A
Total                                                     __
-28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Sector Policies                        OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
Z Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
F Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
Cl Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
* Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
F Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
C Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS*S OU OHU
0 Supervision                                        OHS OS   O  u  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS  O U   O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS OS   0  U  0 HU
1 Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   0 U  O HU
OI Overall                                           OHS Os O U O HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Reports available in EACLF Project Files
1. GOL Households of Lao PDR: Social and Economic Indicators LECS 1997/98 (December 1999)
2. GOL Poverty in the Lao PDR: Participatory Poverty Assessment (October 2000)
3. GOL Fighting Poverty through Human Resource Development, Rural Development, and People's
Participation:
Government Report to the Seventh Round Table Meeting (November 21-023, 2000)
4. MOE ECS Evaluation of Prototype School Construction by Community and by Contractor (June
1996)
5. MOE Information Technology Master Plan (October 2000)
6. MOE EFA 2000 Assessment: Technical Guidelines (NB: Part 10: Core EFA Indicators) no date
7. Thaumalingam: Project Financial Rules and Regulations (PFRR) for EDP (October 1, 1994)
8. Dhersigny: Administration and Management Mission Report (August 22 - September 23, 1994)
9. Denning: EDP Instructional Materials (May 3-19, 1995)
10. CARE: Report on Community Participation in Primary Schooling (1996)
11. Darouny: Girl's Study Paper (June 1996)
12. Beuler: Education Development Project Mid-Term Evaluation (June 1997)
13. Malhortra: Mission Report (August 1-October 29, 1999
14. Courtney: Evaluation of the Pedagogical Advisory and School Network Pilot Schemes (October 26,
2000)
15. McCurry: An Analysis of the Standards Monitoring Tests for Grades 4, 7, and 9 (1999)
16. McCurry: An Analysis of Sample Scripts from the Lao Grade 11 Examinations of 1999 (1999)
17. Morrissey: Consultancy Report for SIDA - Support to EQIPII (November 18, 2000)
18. Morrissey: Assessment of Institutional Arrangements for Delivery of Teacher Education Services
(November 15,2000)
19. CHEG: Second Education Quality Project Preparation Documents (November and December 2000)
20. Nagel, Fox, Bounthong: Teacher Education in Laos, Focus on Improving the Quality of Education -
Report prepared by SIDA Identification Mission (February 23 - April 28, 2000)
2 1. Datt and Wang: Poverty in Lao PDR: 1992/93-1997/98 (World Bank Report Revised March 13,
2001)
Reports available in EASHD Project Files
1. MOE Semester and Annual Reports from EDPI
2. MOE MOE Strategic Vision 2020 (October 2000)
3. OPIFER: Project Preparation Documents for Cambodia Textbook Project (April 1998)
4. Mingat: Policies and Options for Education Financing in Lao PDR (November 2000)
5. Brown: District and Provincial Education Budgets in Lao PDR (September 2000)
6. Noonan Education Financing in Lao PDR during the Financial Crisis - First Draft (November 2000)
7. Baumgart Mission Report on Providing Teacher Support (November 2000)
8. Watson A study of the Distribution of Textbooks in Lao PDR (November 2000)
9. OPCV Semester Reports on the Implementation of the Basic (Girls) Education Project (various)
10. Ovington Semester Reports on the Implementation of LABEP (various)
11. World Bank: Staff Appraisal Report for the Education Project in Senegal (1998)
- 31 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND COOPERATION
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WORLD BANK IDA 2488 LA
FROM 1993 - 2001
- 32 -



Borrower/Implementing agency
I.    INTRODUCTION
This report is intended to complement the Implementation Completion Report(ICR) being prepared
by the World Bank in connection with the finalization of the Education Development Project phase I (EDP
I)
II.    BACKGROUND OF THE PROJECT
The government of Lao PDR is firmly committed to strengthening the education system as the
cornerstone of a human resource development strategy focussed on poverty alleviation and increased labor
productivity and affirmed the right of all citizens to quality basic education.
To implement this policy, it was necessary to increase the efficiency of educational management,
improve the quality of education, and expand access to the improved system. Immediate priority was given
to primary education. However, taking into account the needs for social and economic development, it was
also necessary to improve and develop secondary education, in a well planned manner, especially the lower
secondary level.
The project aimed to address immediate needs for quality improvements in basic education and to
establish the policy and institutional frameworks for longer-term sector development.
Project objectives were:
(a)   to improve student and teacher performance in primary and lowers secondary schools, by
supplying instructional materials, introducing new approaches to teaching and learning, and providing
in-service training and sustainable pedagogical support to teachers;
(b)   to develop viable mechanisms ensuring the provision of appropriate educational facilities in
primary and secondary education, by supporting local communities in the construction and maintenance of
their primary schools, and building staff capacity at the central and provincial levels to plan, manage and
implement school construction programs;
(c)   to promote efficiency in the allocation and use of resources by installing systems to collect and
utilize management information, and developing technical skill in education planning, monitoring and
evaluation;
(d)   to enable more effective delivery of basic education services, by strengthening management
capacities at all administrative levels, and developing the structures and processes required to respond to
clearly identified needs of the educational system.
- 33 -



To accomplish these objectives, the project  consisted of the following components and
sub-components:
Curriculum/Pedagogical                           12.3
Support
Curriculumn  and  Instructional Support the development of curricula and
Materials Development          instructional materials in primary and lower
secondary education
Instructional Materials Provision   Support the  printing  and  distribution  of
textbooks, teacher guides and supplementary
reading materials
Teacher Training and Pedagogical Introduce teachers to the new curriculum and
Support                       curriculum materials and approaches through
orientation program and thereafter provide
continuing support by a corps of pedagogical
advisers
School Networks Pilot         Test a model whereby teachers and principals of
neighboring schools would form a network of
mutual support as they attempt to implement the
new teaching and learning approaches
Lao Language Study            Evaluate classroom practices in schools catering
to ethnic minorities, develop appropriate
strategies for teaching Lao to students whose
mother tongue is not Lao, identify other
interventions or policy options for the education
of ethnic minorities
School Infrastructure                            13.4
School Reconstruction          Establish the foundation for a systematic and
sustainable construction for primary and lower
secondary schools
Provincial Units for Construction   Develop  institutional  arrangements  that
Assistance(PUCA) then PUCDA preserve the vital role of local communities in
Provincial Units for Educational Construction school  provision.  To  provide  technical
and Development Assistance    assistance to communities continuing to build
provisional and semi-permanent structures.
School   Construction   Service Develop in the SCS the institutional capacities
Unit(SCS) becoming ECS Education to plan and manage the investment program for
Construction Service          the construction of schools as well as the
provision of administrative facilities
Sector Planning                                                              1.3
Infornation System             Develop  systems  of data  collection  and
utilization to support sector planning and
management
- 34-



Assessment of Educational     Support sample-based studies to provide data on
Outcomes                      rates and patterns of student attendance and
achievement, examine school and non-school
factors affecting educational outcomes, evaluate
the cost-effectiveness of specific educational
policies and interventions
Educational Administration                      4.7
and Management
Central Administration        To  strengthen  institutional capacities  in
educational administration and management
while assisting the sector to respond to the
overall administration and financial reforms of
the government.
Local Administration          To complement the overall administration and
financial reforms of the government with a
focussed effort to elicit the participation of local
educational services and schools in defining
more efficient and effective structures and
procedures for educational administration and
management.
Project Support Unit(PSU)     To  provide  essential services  in  project
management and administration.
Total Baseline Cost                                                        31.7
Physical Contingencies                                                     1.5
Price Contingencies         |                                              4.3
Total Pro_ect Cost                                                         37.5
IH. ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT
In the course of its implementation the Project has been modified in concept and process. For
example the implementation schedule of some components and sub-components was altered.This led to the
modification of the implementation process of the Curriculum Development and Instructional Materials
Component. The Curriculum Development and Instructional Materials for grade I has been completed
successfully.For the other grades the implementation was undertaken without trial phase. In the School
Civil Work Component the contribution and/or the participation of the Communities seemed to be
problematic and was modified by agreement with the Bank in the type of schools to be constructed,and by
devolution of responsability for implementation to PUCDA & PES,supported a central ECS.
A.  OVERALL PERFORMANCE
The overall perfomiance of the Project including financial management is considered by the
Ministry of Education as has been imiproved.
The Ministry of Education as a core of human resource development has dealt great effort in the
development of capacity building through a wide range of its sub-sectors.
During the Project implementation a large scale of staff have been trained on planning,
editorial capacity,CRC preparation, procedures of bidding, procurement, printing, disbursement of goods
- 35 -



and services,infrastructure,materials and equipments, english language upgrading for all IU's supported
staff. But in some sub-sectors the efficiency was not satisfactory.
Bank Performance
Overall the Project is satisfied with the assistance and support by the Bank. The Project gratefully
acknowledged the clear and cooperative efforts made by the Bank Staff in assisting it with precious advice
during each periodic appraisal.
Another impressive way the Bank Staff assisted the Project was their flexibility in seeing the SAR
vis-a-vis the emerging needs felt in the course of its implementation.
B.    OUTPUT/ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND IMPACT
Curriculum and         New curriculum and curriculum materials   The introduction of new curriculum
Instructional Materials    for Primary and Lower Secondary    has been judged to be relevant to
Development            education developed and introduced in  local reality and needs,especially at
classrooms                            Primary level.
Editorial capacity of NRIES enhanced  The professional competency on
through the project(CRC Camera Ready Copies   editing and publishing of NRIES has
preparation, staff training, physical  been improved.
facilities improved)
Instructional Materials    Textbooks and teacher guides produced and  Teaching-learning materials
Provision              distributed, for Primary education 12 titles  (textbooks and teacher guides) are
of textbooks and 20 titles of teacher guides  available for most of schools.
produced. For Lower Secondary education
15 titles of textbooks and 15titles of teacher The delay of the printing and
guides.The printing and reprinting of T.B &  reprinting affected seriously the
T.G for Primary and Lower Secondary   planning of the distribution.As a
Schools was completed with noticeable  result the children did not receive the
delay between 1993 and 1998 through ICB   textbooks on time.
process.The delay of the printing was due
to the slowness of the development and the
revision of Camera-Ready-Copy.The
reprinting for grades 1-2 & 3 was
completed as planned in February 2000.But
for the grades 4,5,6,7 and 8 there was some
mistake in the preparation of Bid     This mistake led to the rebidding
documents.                            process and the postponement of
reprinting .
- 36 -



Low Cost Instructional Materials . more  Theorically the use of LCIM enables
than 100 prototype kits produced and 320   teachers to activate the learning
teachers trained                       environment and assist them in
implementing student centered
approach.
The prototype has been designed
without any consideration on the use
of local materials. Therefore the cost
involved is expensive.
A study on textbook distribution carried  Appropriate and sustainable
out.                                   distribution mechanism of TB
Textbooks and other curriculum
materials has been found out.
Systematic methodology for the
distribution of school supplies in a
fair and effective manner has been
developed.
Teacher Training and    Cascade training system provided for new    Large scale teacher orientation
Pedagogical Support     curriculum developed and implemented,  program by adopting cascade
Training of trainers: 40 at regional level    approach was not cost-effective
and 405 at district level.             .Since the basic academnic
Large scale teacher orientation courses  knowledge of the teachers is still
carried out: 31,226 primary school     poor and the teaching-learning
teachers and 4,180 lower secondary school  environment is still inappropriate
teachers trained .                     (over crowded class-room,poor
infrastructure of the class-room,...)
a large number of teachers can not
change the teaching practice (from
the chalk- and-talk method to the
student centered approach.
6 trainers at central level, 40 trainers at  Positive response by educators to
province level 403 and 166 pedagogical   the innovative introduction of the
advisers were trained.Training of 68   PA system.
replacements of Primary Pedagogical    Good impact on teaching -learning
Advisers is pending.                   at classroom level.Adoption as
nation-wide approach.
Study conducted to review the PA Pedagogical  The role of P.A was not fully
Advisor. experience. 906 participants from  accomplished as described in job
central, provincial and district level  description.
attended 2 annual review meeting.
- 37 -



Extemal evaluation on primary pedagogical  Despite some improvement of
advisors performance has been conducted    student leaming achievement in
in 8 provinces, 24 districts covering 604  general,it is observed that
teachers                               teaching-learning approach was not
changed as expected in many cases.
The sustainability of P.A seems to
be problematic.The ability of the
current education system to support
and sustain additional
differenciation of education cadres is
questionable.There is a visible
jealousy of interests between P.A
and the Head of District Educational
Bureau regarding the provision of
vehicle and materials.
Primary School Networks  253 schools cluster established        Positive influence of the school
Pilot                   country-wide .                         network: Cooperation between
Unicef funded             55           schools, effective sharing and
SC Norway funded        : 10           utilization of resources, student
World Bank funded       : 7            performance, quality of teaching,
CWS                     : 12           parental involvement, and
CRS                     .  9           extracurricular activities.
Government of Lao P.D.R: 160
Study conducted to review the network  Good cooperation established with
experience.                            UNICEF and NGO assisted
clusters.
Training on establishment process,     Enhanced admninistration and
administration and management and      management skill which encourage
conduct evaluation workshop of school  better school cluster activities. Head
cluster implementation.                and technical teachers assist
Training of resource center managers and   teachers to improve
technical teachers.                    teaching-learning processes.
Resource centers managers are able
to assist teachers to produce
instructional materials
Resource centers established, 150 resource   Satellite school teachers' gained
centers within 150 cluster schools     knowledge and skills for the
production of IM laswuctional Materials.
- 38 -



Lao Language Study     CLE Concentrated Language Encounter approach  The learning performance in Lao
delivered the desire impact. Teaching  language of the children whose
materials( 12 titles of starter books and 2    mother tongue is not Lao has been
titles of teachers' books) developed and 120  improved.
teachers trained.                     Pedagogically the use of
Concentrated Language
Encountered could be extended and
generalized for all Lao children,but
financially,due to its expensive
nature,the nation-wide use could not
be cost-effective.
Stooll        u e _.__              _      _     _      _    __
SCS, and PUCA then     Rehabilitation of old facilities and   Significant improvement of access
becoming respectively  construction of new facilities carried out    of schooling at all levels in general
ECS, and PUCDA.        despite the initial delays because of the  education.
inappropriate design and lack of community  Creating good conditions for the
participation.                        involvement of community
participation in the maintenance of
schools and the development of
education.
Major steps towards decentralization. ECS   The capacity building of PUCDA
and PUCDA capacity strengthened through  enhanced.
decentralization, staff training, and the  The management system of school
development of the CMIS system.       construction improved. Viable
mechanism for the provision of
appropriate educational facilities
institutionalized.The on site
supervision and monitoring of
construction were undertaken
without firmness and severity.(In
some localities,the materials used
for school construction did not meet
the specifications prescribed by the
Ministry.(There were changes of
materials)
There was irregular coordination
between PUCDA and ECS.
LCB of primary schools construction.  Provincial bidding committees has
The implementation of primary schools  been set up and capacity building
building did not meet the number planned in  notably improved.
SAR document which is 390.Currently the   Most of contractors have had limited
number of primary schools consructed  recurrent fund to undertake the
is 277.                               construction and often lack of
experienced staff.
In some cases, the company started
the work without signing the
contract and then gave up the
activity.
- 39 -



histitutional Development  EMIS Educational Management Information System  Timeliness, reliability and relevance
of the statistics and   established and operational at central and    of educational data have been
planning unit           provincial levels.                      improved.
Statistical Bulletins have been published.    The capacity building of EMIS has
District School Maps have been produced.   substantially improved at central
level as well as at provincial level.
At present 18 provinces are capable
to undertake data collection and data
entry in a timely manner. But the
capacity in analyzing, synthesizing
and interpreting the data was not
accomplished in a satisfactorily
manner.
The development of School
Mapping can provide complete
database essential to educational
planning.
Key study on cost and financing of     Mingat's and Noonan's work on
education successfully completed.      teacher supply: inefficiencies and
wastage revealed.
Assessment of           An AEO study design was prepared by     The capacity building of MOE staff
Educational Outcomes.    SPU.It was too broad and was changed to   in temns of evaluation and
Assessment of Student    Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes.  assessment of ASLO Student Leaming
Learning Outcomes.      ASLO core Team established              Outcomes has been substantially
(SPU,NRIES, DGE ). 9 staff trained on  improved.
Measurement and Evaluation,Design and    An assessment mechanism by
Development of Instrument,Data Analysis.  benchmarking ASLO against
Two local training programmes have been   national standard has been
implemented for the staff of PIU,PESs and   developed. The implementation of
DEBs on:                               ASLO Assessment of Student Learming
- data collection                      Outcomes and AEO Assessment of Education
- education indicators                 Outcomes enables the staff and
- micro-planning                       departments concemed to find out
- computer use                         what should be changed for the
Pilot phase of Assessment of Student   examination and the way to
Leaming Outcomes and Examination for    systematize the assessment and the
General Education implemented ( in     evaluation.
cooperation with ACER)
- 40 -



Edtcaitoial Adnthisi ion and   ga&aeement
Central and Local       Establishment of the Department of     Cornerstone of coordination between
Administration          Planning and Cooperation               projects and donors
Personnel and Finance managers trained  Procedures have been shortened and
made more reliable.
PMIS has been developed. 3 PMIS         The management procedures of
administrators and staff trained.       personnel has been improved.The
linkage of PMIS and EMIS has
provided the MOE with
management tools.
PMIS is considered by the MOE as
the basic system that would
facilitate management, placement
and promotion of the staff.
Headmasters trained and training materials   Headmasters becoming more
developed                              responsible
Development of HRD Human Resource      Two studies carried out:
Development concepts in the Ministry of  development of HRD strategy for
Education.                             MOE and review of professional
support for teachers
-41 -



Project Support Unit (PSU) A Project Support Unit was established in Due  to  the  lack  of  staffing
then Project Coordination   1993 to provide essential services in project appointment, PSU was faced to the
Unit (PCU)             management  and  administration  while several  difficulties  in  planning,
ensuring the effective implementation of the budgeting, monitoring and managing
project within MOE. The PSU was headed the Education Development Project I.
by the full-time Project Director from 1993
up to 1998, assisted by two Project Despite many positive achievement
Coordinators responsible for the IDA and under EDP, project implementation
ADB financed Projects. The PSU staffing has encountered numerous delays
was comprised of 1 Assistant Office resulting from a) early difficulties in
Manager, 2 UN volunteers assisting in implementing the school construction
procurement and disbursement respectively. component which put other project
The project Adviser was appointed to assist activities on hold while MOE brought
the project director as mentioned in Staff the provinces up to speed in ICB
Appraisal Report for long term. In 1996 the procedures; b) the East Asian
local consultant for finance was appointed to financial crisis which brought about a
assist the PSU in accounting, budgeting and rapid devaluation of the Kip. This
monitoring the expenditure incurred.  adversely affected the contractors,
and, in some cases, led to cancellation
In 1998 the executive officer was appointed of contracts and re-issuance of bids.
in PSU.                               These delay  prevented MOE from
The PSU was responsible for macroplanning fully implementing all activitites by
of the whole EDP project under the direction the current Closing date of 30 June,
of the Lao Government especially MOE, 2000. Therefore, the Lao Government
managing the technical assistance such as has requested and received a project
describing the Term of Reference of the extension up to December 3 1th, 2000.
consultant concerned of each IU, appointing
them, reviewing budgets in the context of the The remaining agreed activities of lUs
whole project rather than as a problem of have been planned to be implemented
each individual IU, speeding up and and were expected to be achieved by
monitoring the project implementation.  the December 30th, 2000. Due to the
The PSU had successfully encouraged the replacement of the deputy director of
IUs to implement their ongoing project DPC, who is responsible for the EDP
activities. Up to 1998 the main activities of Project, and also due to the regional
[Us have been accomplished ( see the inflation, the implementation has been
completion report by IU).             significantly delayed and could not
achieve on time. Those remaining
activities listed in the appendix 1 will
be finally transferred to EDP II.
-42 -



The Department of Planning and Cooperation
(DPC) was formally established in February
1998. The transition from the PSU to DPC
has been very smooth, owing primarily to
staff continuity. The role of DPC was to
develop the Strategic Plan for Education in
Lao  PDR.  One  of  the        primary
responsibilities of DPC is reinforcing intemal
and external cooperation to achieve a better
intergration of planning, financing, and
management of education programs, and to
continue to oversee preparation of the
follow-on project to EDP ( and EQIP ).
DPC (i) has provided English Training for
DPC and other MOE staff involved with
management  aand   administration   of
externally funded projects; (ii) has developed
Terms of Reference (TOR) for Technical
Assistance for Education Information System
(EMIS); (iii) TOR for Financial Management
Information System (MIS); (iv) TOR for
Construction   Management   iformation
System (CMIS);
(v) appointed consultant to carry out and
produce plans for MOE Strategy; (vi)
appointed the consultant for textbook
distribution's  evaluation  (action  taken
completed); (vii) appointed the consultant
for Professional Support for Teachers
(action taken completed); formed Project
Taskforce for Planning of EDP II/ EQIP II;
(viii) Draft Project document for EDP II.
DPC    has   promoted   relationships
donors/with NGO's by arranging the Round
Table Donor Meeting and the Coordination
Donor Meetings.
- 43 -



IV. FINAL REMARKS
A.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES.
>     Regional and in-country financial crisis
>     Weak management mechanism at all levels and shortage of staff with appropriate management
skills.
>     Lack of recurrent funding to support the Implementation Units.This had slow down the
enthousiasm of the professional staff in performing their duty, hence the work rate has been seriously
affected.
>     Inappropriate Project Design concept,for example the school construction design,the
implementation schedule of the curriculum and textbooks development program has been excessively
accelerated. The " World Around Us " for grades 1-2-3 have been inappropriately designed. ( The grades
1-2-3 texbooks have not been developed for the students ).
>     Low absorption capacity of National and Regional teams.
>     Poor coordination between different agencies ( IDA,SDC,NW,ADB,INGOs,NGOs)
>     Poor coordination between Irnplementation Units and Project Support Unit and different levels of
education or sub-sectors of education (Inappropriate implementation structure and limited implementation
capacity.)
>     Long procedure in seeking the World Bank's NOL in some case.
B.    LESSONS LEARNED.
*     Strengthening the Management Mechanism.
*     Striving to increase the share of the Government budget for Education ( so that the recurrent
funding is possible )
*     Unbalance share of Project Components funding ( too much money has gone to expensive and
inappropriate designed schools construction.
*     The Project Design must involve all stakeholders at all levels and support the development of
decentralization of management (to Provinces, Districts and Villages).
e     Strengthening the capacity building of the National and Regional Teams.
*     Closer coordination and cooperation between donors agencies could have ensured better linkages
between parallel,sequential and interdependent project activities.
-     Improving the coordination between lus and PSU.
*     Consolidating the ownership sense of the staff involved in the Project.
- 44 -



C.    RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS
1.    Policy Directions: Integrated and reflected to priorities of the government;
2.     Strengthen Integration and Coordination of Education Programs and Investments.
3.     Strengthen Educational Management Capacities at Central ,Provincial, District and Schools levels.
4.    The Project conceptualisation should reflect the Educational Policy of the Govermment,be
integrated and involve all sub-sectors.
5.    Give increased priority to funding education and produce a long term fiscally feasible plan for
funding the education sector for the next 10 or 20 years.
6.     Support the decentralization of responsabilities for planning,budgeting and implementation to
provincial and district levels.
7.     Review and revision of curriculum to be relevant to the prevailing condition and regional needs.
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
OUTPUT INDICATORS
|  Indicator/Matrix                | Projected in   Actual/Latest
Indicator/Matrix                 |T last PSR(1)       estimate
(1) Project Semester Report
(I). Number of instructional materials developed and
distributed on schedule
1. textbooks (primary)                                     3,419,825     3,354,272
|_2. teacher guides ( primary )                                           310,124
3- supplementary readers                                                   44,000
4.texbooks ( Lower Secondary )                                            1,114,200
5.teacher guides ( Lower Secondar )                                        45,000
(II). Three initiatives
1. Pedagogical Advisers - number recruit and trained                        596
2. School clusters - number successfully established under                   7
project pilot
3. Lao language and language of instruction - progress of studies
and pilot activities
Number of teachers of grade I to grade 4 trained in pilot phase             120
(HI). Number of teachers trained under orientation program;                35,851
Routine classroom visits by Secondary Pedagogical   Advisers
established.                                                             3 days/week
Routine classroom visits by Primary Pedagogical Advisers                3 days/week
(IV). Number of communities in project provinces involved in
school construction and maintenance.
(V). Number of construction contracts or activities ongoing
and completed by type of facility:
Primary
- 45 -



on going                                  .
completed                                                 277
Pilot phase                                           42
First stage                                          103
Second stage                                          98
Third stage                                           34
Lower secondary
on going
completed                                                31
refurbished
Administrative
Provincial Education Service                                                _
on going
comrleted                                                11
refurbished
District Education Bureau
on oing
completed                                  18            18
refurbished
(VI). Foflowing information systems established and in use:
1. School census (Primary schools)                           8,161         8,161
2. School maps (Districts)                                    141           141
3. Instructional materials
4. School facilities
5. Personnel
(VI). Assessment instruments developed, tests administered,
data analyzed, results used in management decisions.
(VIII). Number of staff trained in data collection and analysis
by level
1. SPU/National                                               81             81
2. Provincial                                                 203           203
3. District                                                  1,217          1,217
4. School
(IX). Information databases and administrative procedures
developed and in use for:
1. Classroom management
2. Long term education planning
3. Personnel management(DoPl MoE)                                           208
4. Financial and budget management (DoF/MoE)
- 46 -



5. Computer taining for general use, data input, and using  20            20
intranet
(X). Number of administrators and managers trained by
category and level
1. School Principal                                                      3504
2. District official
3. Provincial official          _______                                   98
4. MoE official                                                           40
Annex 2. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
OUTPUT INDICATORS
FUND SOURCE   | DISBURSEMENT    UNDISBURSEMENT                   TOTAL
(I) Project Semester Report
World Bank figures dated 29 September 2000
WB/IDA                 $14,989,074.66         $3,727,937.58          $8,717,012.24
SDC                     $7,671,236.97         $2,690,689.76         $10,361,926.73
NORWAY                  $2,286,785.80           $574,532.38          $2,861,318.18
T 0 TA L               $24,947,07.43          $66,93J19.72           3457.15
MOE figures dated 31 August 2000
WB/IDA                    $14,792,317            $4,207,683            $9,000,000
SDC                        $7,538,774            $2,261,226            $9,800,000
NORWAY                     $2,155,488             $844,512             $3,000,000
TOTAL                     2    57T               $!,313421            W1,0,80Q   '
-47 -



- 48 -



