Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11571-LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 26, 1993
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1993)
Currency Unit - Kip
US$1 - 715 Kip
1 Kip - US$0.0014
Currency Unit - Swiss Franc (SwF)
US$1  SwF 1.53
SwF 1 - US$o.654
Currency Unit - Norwegian Krone (NOK)
US$1 - NOK 7.00
NOK 1 - US$0.143
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
DGE       - Department of General Education
DOP       - Department of Organization and Personnel
DPF       - Department of Planning and Finance
GDP       - Gross Domestic Product
GDP p.c.  - GDP per capita
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA       - International Development Association
IMU       - Instructional Materials Unit
IUP       - Institute of Pedagogy
Lao PDR   - Lao People's Democratic Republic
LCB       - Local Competitive Bidding
MOES      - Ministry of Education and Sports
MOF       - Ministry of Finance
NPI       - National Polytechnic Institute
PCR       - Project Completion Report
PPAR      - Project Performance Audit Report
PSU       - Project Support Unit
PUCA      - Provincial Unit for Construction Assistance
RIES      - Research Institute for Educational Sciences
SAC2      - Second Structural Adjustment Credit
SCS       - School Construction Service Unit
SDC       - Swiss Development Cooperation
SOE       - Statement of Expenditure
UNESCO    - United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization
UNICEF    - United Nations Children's Fund
UNDP      - United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
October - September
SCHOOL YEAR
September - June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
I.  BACKGROUND. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
II.    THE  EDUCATION  SECTOR   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
A.  Organization and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
B.   Main   Issues    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  3
Poor Quality of Education . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
Institutional Weaknesses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
C.  Strategy for Sector Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Government Priorities and Strategies  . . . . . . . . . . .   8
IDA Experience and Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
III.   THE   PROJECT    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  11
A.   Objectives  and  Scope    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
B.  Description   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    i    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  12
Curriculum Development and Pedagogical Support  . . . . . .  12
School Infrastructure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Sector Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . .  20
Educational Administration and Management . . . . . . . . .  21
C.  Status of Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
IV.    COSTS  AND  FINANCING  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
A.  Cost   Estimates  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
B.   Financing    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  26
This report is based on the findings of the project appraisal mission to the
Lao People's Democratic Republic in November 1991, of technical discussions
conducted in March 1992, and of a post-appraisal/pre-negotiations mission
in December 1992. The appraisal mission was led by A. Salmon and included
M. Dalupan, consultants N. Baumgart, M. Botti and J. Waechter, French
Government representatives Y. Cottereau and J.L. P4rillier, and Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC) consultant U.P. Trier. The technical
discussions were conducted by M. Dalupan, B. Babson and D. Conrad. The
post-appraisal/pre-negotiations mission was led by M. Dalupan and included
A. Salmon and H. Go, SDC representatives J.R. Moret and L. Lavizzari, SDC
consultant U.P. Trier and Norwegian Government consultant T. Hernes. The
contributions of the following consultants funded under a Japanese Grant for
Project Preparation are also acknowledged: M. Botti, J. Carol, T. Chewprecha,
A. Claisse, S. Coussement, A. Meesing, G. Martel and J. de Spiegeleer. Peer
reviewers for the project were H. Martinez (ESP), E. Nkwanga (AF4PH) and
R. Cambridge (SA2PH). This report was cleared by J. Shivakumar (Chief, EA1PH)
and C. E. Madavo (Director, EA1).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
V.  MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
A.  Organization  .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .   .    .    .  27
B.  Procurement ....  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   27
C.  Disbursements ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   31
D.  Accounts and Audits ... .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   32
E.  Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND IMPACT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ...  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   35
TEXT TABLES
Table 4.1:  Summary of Project Costs by Component . . . . . . . .  24
Table 4.2:  Summary of Project costs by Category of Expenditure .  25
Table 4.3:  Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
Table 5.1:  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements . . . . . .  30
Table 5.2:  Disbursement Categories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Text of the Government's Letter of Education Policy       39
Annex  2:   Basic  Data  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  45
Annex 3:    Structure of the Education System . . . . . . . . . .  46
Annex 4:    Primary and Secondary Education Pyramid . . . . . . .  47
Annex 5:    Structure of the Ministry of Education and Sports . .  48
Annex 6:    Projections of Enrollments and Teacher Requirements .  49
Annex 7:    Education Recurrent Expenditures  . . . . . . . . . .  54
Annex 8:    Project Costs by Component, Category of Expenditure
and Project Year  ....  .      .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 58
Annex 9:    Disbursement Schedule and Profile . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Annex 10:   Curriculum Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . 65
Annex 11:   Instructional Materials Printing and Distribution   . .66
Annex 12:   Civil Works Implementation Schedule   . . . . . . . . . 71
Annex 13:   Technical Assistance Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  73
Annex 14:   Overseas Training Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  75
Annex 15:   Local Training Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  76
Annex 16:   Project Management and Implementation Chart . . . . .  77
Annex 17:   Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  78
Annex 18:   Selected Documents Available in the Project File  . .  80
MAP
IBRD No. 24632



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Lao People's Democratic Republic
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES)
Amount:                SDR 13.7 million (US$19.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA, with 40 years of maturity
Cofinancing:          Grant from the Government of the Swiss Confederation
through the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC)
of SwF 15.0 million (US$9.8 million equivalent)
Grant from the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs
of the Kingdom of Norway of NOK 21 million
(US$3.0 million equivalent)
Proiect Description:  The project would aim to address immediate needs for
quality improvement in basic education, and to establish
the policy and institutional frameworks for longer-term
sector development. Specifically, the project would:
(a) develop and implement new curricula, instructional
materials and pedagogical support systems in primary and
lower secondary education; (b) lay the foundation for a
sustainable construction program for primary and lower
secondary schools; (c) establish systems of data
collection and analysis to support sector management
and strategic planning; and (d) strengthen institutional
capacities in educational administration and management
at the central and local levels. To carry out these
activities, the project would finance civil works,
furniture, equipment, instructional materials, training,
technical assistance, and project management and
operations.
Benefits:             The project would help ensure that sector development is
grounded on a solid foundation of quality basic education,
and would realize long-term benefits by developing the
institutional capacities needed for greater self-reliance
in the design and management of educational development.
Quality improvements would result from better-trained and
more motivated teachers, new instructional materials and
teaching strategies, and upgraded school facilities.
Expanded access is expected as the system is able to
accommodate more students in places formerly occupied by
repeaters, accompanied by improved equity since problems
of repetition and dropout generally affect poorer children.
Equity would also be enhanced through a more balanced
distribution of resources among provinces and districts.



- ii -
Risks: Project implementation would involve a diverse set of activities in
provinces and districts throughout the country, and would require
extensive coordination by an executing agency that has limited management
capacities and experience with IDA procedures. The project would also be
implemented during a period of transition as the Government endeavors to
put in place major reforms in public financing and administration.
To reduce these risks, analysis of institutional development needs and
training of MOES staff were initiated during project preparation, and
would be continued under the project. The Government would assure
adequate staffing for project implementation, and technical assistance
to be provided would focus on the training of these staff. Project
activities would be closely monitored and considerable flexibility
built into project implementation and supervision. Review missions
would strive to identify and resolve implementation problems as they
arise, and semi-annual project performance reviews and a comprehensive
mid-term review would be conducted to adjust or modify the project design
as needed. The risk that the Government would not allocate sufficient
public resources to the sector would be addressed by requiring the
conduct of annual budget reviews.
Estimated Costs:                               Local   Foreign   Total
------US$ million------
Curriculum/Pedagogical Support
Curriculum Development             0.4       0.8      1.2
Instructional Materials            0.8       5.4      6.2
Teacher Training/Support           2.4       2.3      4.7
School Networks Pilot              0.1       0.1      0.2
Lao Language Study i/              0.0       0.0      0.0
*Sub-total                     3.7       8.6     1L3
School Infrastructure
School Reconstruction              4.3       6.7     11.0
Provincial Units                   0.6       1.1      1.7
Construction Service               0.2       0.5      0.7
Sub-total                      Li       la8.3    134
Sector Planning
Information Systems                0.4       0.7      1.1
Performance Assessment             0.1       0.1      0.2
Sub-total                      0.5       0.8      1.3
Administration/Management
Central Administration             0.3       0.6      0.9
Local Administrations              1.0       1.3      2.3
Project Support Unit               0.2       1.3      1.5
Sub-total                      1_2       3.2      4.7
Total Baseline Cost                  10.8      20.2     21.7
Physical Contingencies             0.5       1.0      1.5
Price Contingencies                2.2       2.1      4.3
Total Proiect Cost  /                13.5      2A.0      3z.5~
al Total cost of this sub-component is estimated at US$40,000.
b/ Includes US$1.0 million equivalent in identifiable duties and taxes.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local Foreign Total
-----US$ million-----
Government/Communities                 5.7      0.0       5.7
SDC                                    4.1      5.7      9.8
Norway                                 0.3      2.7       3.0
IDA                                    3.4    15.6    19.0
Total                                 13.5    24.0    37.5
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA fiscal year
1994      1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000
----------------------- US$ million ----------------------
Annual            2.0       2.0       2.4       3.1         3.2      3.4       2.9
Cumulative        2.0       4.0       6.4       9.5        12.7    16.1       19.0
Estimated SDC Disbursements:
IDA fiscal year
1994      1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000
---------------------- US$ million ---------------------
Annual            1.0       1.4       1.5       1.6        1.6       1.4       1.3
Cumulative        1.0       2.4       3.9       5.5        7.1       8.5       9.8
Estimated Norway Disbursements:
IDA fiscal year
1994      1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000
----------------------- US$ million ----------------------
Annual            0.6       0.5       0.5       0.5        0.4       0.4       0.1
Cumulative        0.6       1.1       1.6       2.1        2.5       2.9       3.0
Economic Rate of Return:  Not Applicable
MaR: IBRD No. 24632






LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.1      The Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) is a small, landlocked
country bordered by Vietnam in the east, Thailand in the west, Cambodia in the
south, and China and Myanmar in the north. The country covers a total land
area of nearly 237,000 square kilometers of mountainous terrain, and is
administratively divided into 18 provinces and 128 districts. Its population
was estimated in 1991 to be 4.2 million, and growing at an annual rate of 2.8%.
About 45% of the population are under 15 years of age, and women account for
slightly over half of the population. The vast majority of the country's
inhabitants is dispersed over some 12,000 rural villages, with only 15%
residing in the capital city of Vientiane and three other major towns.
1.2      With an estimated 1991 per capita income of US$230, the Lao PDR
ranks among the least developed countries in the world. Production is chiefly
agrarian in origin and oriented towards meeting subsistence requirements.
The country's most important natural resources remain largely unexploited:
valuable mineral deposits, including iron ore, gold, copper and lead; the
Mekong River and its tributaries, particularly their capacity to generate
hydroelectric power; and large areas of arable land. Transportation and
communications are difficult due to the country's geographical features and
lack of adequate infrastructure. Most villages have no access to major roads,
and about 40% of the road network is impassable during the rainy season which
ensues from May to September each year.
1.3      In 1985, following a decade of central planning, the Government
launched a reform program to support the transition to a market-oriented
economy and remove structural constraints to growth. The reforms initially
focussed on freeing prices, adopting a market-based exchange rate, eliminating
subsidies, extending autonomy to state enterprises, and authorizing private
sector activities. Since 1989, the Government has further accelerated the
reform process and reasserted macroeconomic control. A public enterprise
reform and privatization program has been initiated, and a series of tax,
tariff and interest rate reforms were put in place to improve public resource
mobilization. Despite some initial setbacks, the reform program has helped to
stimulate real GDP growth rates of, most recently, 6.6% in 1990 and 4% in 1991.
The potential for sustained growth exists, given the country's natural
resources, but is constrained by a poorly educated labor force and a shortage
of managerial and technical skills. To address these deficiencies, the
Government and IDA both recognize the need to strengthen the educational system
as the cornerstone of a comprehensive human resource development strategy.
1.4      Based on reviews conducted by UNDP, UNESCO and UNICEF since 1982, a
sector study completed in 1989 by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), and further
analytical work undertaken by IDA during project preparation, the Ministry of
Education and Sports has formulated an education sector strategy to the year
2000. Priority is being given to improving the quality and efficiency of
primary and lower secondary education, in view of the well-established social
and economic benefits to be obtained from investing in basic education, and the
fact that middle- and higher-level training are most effective when built on
broad competencies acquired through a solid foundation of general education.



-2-
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Organization and Financing
2.1      General education in the Lao PDR is provided in five years of primary,
and three years each of lower and upper secondary education. The system of
pre-service teacher training is highly diversified, consisting of schools and
colleges which offer pedagogical and disciplinary training following either
primary or secondary schooling, and a university-level Institute of Pedagogy
(IUP) which trains upper secondary teachers. The vocational-technical system
includes secondary vocational schools for semi-skilled and skilled workers,
technical colleges for middle-level technicians, higher technical colleges for
higher-level technicians, and a university-level National Polytechnic Institute
(NPI) which grants engineering degrees. Other higher education institutions
granting first-level degrees include a medical university and a school for
administration and management. Preschooling is available for children up to
five years of age, and nonformal education programs consist mainly of literacy
training and basic education equivalency courses.
2.2      In 1990, an estimated 560,000, 94,000 and 32,000 students were
respectively enrolled in some 6500 primary, 680 lower secondary and 120 upper
secondary schools, corresponding to gross enrollment rates of about 100%, 30%
and 12%. Enrollments in other sub-sectors were as follows: 35,000 in
preschools, 10,000 in teacher training schools and colleges, 9000 in vocational
schools and technical colleges, and about 4000 in higher education institutes.
Females account for a respectable 45% of total enrollments at the primary
level, 40% in lower secondary education, 38% in upper secondary education, and
38% in teacher training and higher education. Women also constitute about 40%
of the 20,000 primary and 7200 lower secondary school teachers, 35% of the 2700
upper secondary teachers, and 30% of the 1200 teacher trainers.
2.3      The structure of educational administration includes the Ministry of
Education and Sports (MOES) at the central level, and local education and
sports services at the provincial and district levels. The local services are
not hierarchically linked to the MOES, but are under provincial and district
administrative committees, whose chiefs are appointed by and report to the
Council of Ministers. Authority over schools and school personnel differs
according to the type and level of education. In general, village
administrative committees are responsible for primary, preschool and nonformal
education; district education services for lower secondary education and
primary teacher training; and provincial education services for upper secondary
education, lower secondary teacher training, and vocational and technical
education. The MOES has authority over the IUP and the NPI, and some upper
secondary schools, vocational schools and technical colleges. A number of
post-secondary educational institutions are under the authority of other
ministries such as Communication, Transport, Post and Construction, and Health.
2.4      The financing of education has primarily been the responsibility of
provinces and districts, which have had their own revenue base and negotiated
their budgets directly with the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Between 1985 and
1988, annual total public expenditures on education are estimated to have been
equivalent to about 2% of GDP, an order of magnitude for education spending
that is among the lowest in the world. Moreover, the share of recurrent
expenditures actually declined from 1.9% to 1.1% of GDP and, correspondingly,



-3-
from 15% to 8% of the total public recurrent budgets. In 1990, following a
series of salary increases for public sector employees, recurrent expenditures
on education are estimated to have increased to 2.5% of GDP or almost 19% of
total recurrent expenditures. The recurrent expenditure figures may be over-
estimated, especially for 1990, since they assume that salaries have been paid
at the official rates, while the reality is that salaries are often not fully
paid. Even then, these expenditure levels would be much less than in other
low-income Asian countries (i.e., with per capita incomes below US$500), where
recurrent spending on education averages about 3.3% of GDP. Expenditures on
primary and general secondary education represent about 65% of total recurrent
expenditures or 1.6% of GDP, compared to 2.2% in low-income Asian countries.
Spending on non-salary items averages about 5% of recurrent expenditures in
primary and 15% in lower secondary education.
2.5      Capital expenditures on education as a share of the total public
capital budgets increased from 2.6% in 1985 to 8.4% in 1987; in 1990, capital
expenditures amounted to about US$3.2 million equivalent or about 5% of the
total public capital budgets. As in other sectors, the Government has relied
heavily on external funding to cover development expenditures. From 1985 to
1990, external assistance to the sector amounted to about US$80 million
equivalent, of which 35% was provided by multilateral donors and 65% by
bilateral aid agencies and non-governmental organizations. The major
multilateral donors were the ADB, UNDP/UNESCO, IDA and UNICEF, while the major
bilateral donors included the former Soviet Union, Switzerland, Norway and
France. Although the substantial aid from the former eastern bloc countries
(about US$35 million equivalent between 1985 and 1991) will no longer be
forthcoming, future levels of assistance to the sector are not expected to
decline, with US$60 million of external funding already committed or proposed
for the period from 1991 to 1995.
B. Main Issues
2.6      Current gross enrollment rates in primary and secondary education
represent impressive gains since 1975, especially in view of the country's
economic position. However, the quality of education offered is poor and the
Government has been unable to improve the situation due to weaknesses in sector
management and financing. The result is an educational system characterized by
extremely high repetition and dropout rates, and other serious internal
inefficiencies. With repetition rates ranging from 40% in Grade 1 to 15% in
Grade 5, repeaters constitute 30% of total enrollments at the primary level.
Drop-out rates range from 25% in Grade 1 to 10% in Grade 5, and less than one-
third of first-grade entrants survive to the final grade of the cycle. At the
lower secondary level, repeaters occupy about 11% of school places and only 52%
of those beginning the cycle complete the three-year program.
Poor Quality of Education
2.7      The poor quality of educational inputs and processes in basic
education is evidenced by inappropriate curricula and teaching methods, the
scarcity of textbooks and other materials in schools, low levels of teacher
qualifications, the absence of systems for teacher upgrading and professional
support, and school facilities which do not provide the minimum physical
conditions required for teaching and learning.



2.8      Curricula and Teaching Methods.  Curricular programs are outdated,
poorly organized, and crowded with 12 subjects at the primary and 17 at the
lower secondary levels. The orientation is overly theoretical, of limited
relevance to the local social and natural environments, and based on rote
learning. As the teacher often has the only textbook in a class, most
instruction is confined to reproducing the book, by dictating the lessons or
writing them on the blackboard, and then having students recite the lessons
in unison or copy them into their notebooks. Starting in the first grade of
primary education, teaching and testing throughout the school year are geared
towards district or provincial year-end examinations, which determine
progression to the next grade. Cut-off scores are arbitrarily determined and
the only feedback provided to students on examination results is whether they
have passed or failed. There is no effort to chart growth in learning nor to
diagnose student needs for enrichment or remediation.
2.9      Textbooks and Other Instructional Materials.  It is estimated that
fewer than 5% of students have any textbook at all, and there are almost no
other instructional materials in schools. Up to 1987, textbooks were produced
and distributed by two state printing enterprises according to MOES
instructions. The printing enterprises still hold the copyrights for most
existing textbooks and, by all accounts, produce books of relatively good
quality at reasonable prices. Budget constraints prompted the 1987 Government
decision to discontinue the free supply of textbooks. Provincial education
services were then expected to order books directly from the printers and to
handle sales to students to recoup their initial outlay. Large book stocks
remained unsold, however, because the provinces were unable to underwrite
purchase orders. Families, which bear other costs of schooling (including
fees and donations, school supplies, uniforms and transportation) also could
not afford to purchase textbooks, especially the large numbers required by the
presently overloaded curricula. In addition to problems of financing, the lack
of instructional materials has been due to the absence of a reliable delivery
system to schools.
2.10     Teachers.  Most teachers are poorly and insufficiently trained, with
nearly one-third of the primary and lower secondary teaching force having less
than an upper secondary degree. Teacher training has been the responsibility
of provincial and district education services, which has led to numerous
variations on the structure and content of pre-service programs (para. 2.1).
Primary and lower secondary teachers are currently trained in about 60 teacher
training schools and colleges, which are themselves ill-equipped and staffed by
trainers with limited qualifications. The MOES has adopted a national policy
to standardize and strengthen pre-service teacher education, and has started to
implement this policy through the Education Quality Improvement Project
financed by the ADB and the Government of Norway. Under this project, the
facilities and staff of eleven selected teacher training schools and colleges
will be upgraded and, from 1995, these institutions will offer only programs
certified by the MOES. Primary school teachers will receive either three years
of training following completion of lower secondary education, or one year
following completion of upper secondary education. Lower secondary teachers
will receive three years of training following completion of upper secondary
education, while upper secondary teachers will continue to be trained at the
IUP. A Teacher Development Center being established at the Institute will be
responsible for developing curricula and instructional materials for pre-
service teacher training, as well as programs for in-service teacher training.



-5-
2.11     While the Government has begun to address the improvement of teacher
quality over the long-term, there are few opportunities for in-service
upgrading of the present teaching corps, and no systems of professional and
administrative support to provide guidance to teachers and principals in
schools. Teacher morale is low due to the lack of resources in schools and
difficult working conditions. Low teacher motivation, and the high rates of
absenteeism and abandonment of posts this engenders, have devastating effects
on the quantity and quality of instruction students receive.
2.12     Ethnic Minorities.  Issues of curricula, teaching methods,
instructional materials and teacher training obtain special significance for
ethnic minorities whose mother tongue is not Lao, the national language and
medium of instruction in schools. While some minority groups have been
acculturated with respect to the Lao language, most have not. Ethnic groups
in the Lao PDR are officially classified into three broad categories of ethnic
origin, named for the elevations at which they tend to live: Lao Loum (lowland
Laos), Lao Theung (upland Laos) and Lao Soung (highland Laos). The Lao Loum
are the major ethnic group and native speakers of Lao or its dialects.
Together, the Lao Theung and the Lao Soung represent 40% of the total
population, but only 27% of primary and 5% of lower secondary enrollments.
The limited participation of these groups in formal schooling results from
the remoteness and mobility of their settlements, as well as the cultural and
linguistic differences that need to be considered in the design of educational
programs. The 1992-96 UNICEF Country Programme for the Lao PDR is directly
addressing the educational situation of ethnic minorities through projects
that, among others, support community initiatives to build or repair schools,
provide instructional materials, train teachers and develop non-formal
approaches to basic education in about 40 rural districts of eight provinces
with high concentrations of minority populations.
2.13     School Facilities.  The majority of primary and lower secondary school
facilities do not provide an adequate physical environment for teaching and
learning. About 60% of primary and 40% of lower secondary schools are reported
to be severely dilapidated and in need of reconstruction or major
rehabilitation. Roofs and walls are frequently missing or badly degraded,
and offer no security nor protection from the elements. Classrooms lack basic
furniture, such as desks and chairs. Where present, such items are fragile and
of inappropriate dimensions for the children. Blackboards, the main teaching
tool, are often poorly finished and unusable.
2.14     Villages and districts are responsible for the construction of primary
and lower secondary schools, respectively, and the type of construction they
undertake ranges from provisional to permanent structures, depending on
available materials and resources. Most of the materials that are commonly
utilized degrade rapidly, are not easily maintained, and do not lend themselves
to simple rehabilitation. The extensive deterioration of the infrastructure
can also be attributed to weaknesses in initial design, poor preparation of the
underlying terrain, defective construction techniques, and a general absence of
maintenance of the buildings and their surroundings. Norms and standards for
school construction and maintenance have not been defined, and technical
capacities for supervision at the local levels are extremely limited.
2.15     Assistance for primary school construction has been provided to a
small number of communities by the central Government, official aid agencies



and non-governmental organizations, mainly in the form of donations of
construction materials. The results of such assistance has been variable,
with the more successful experiences dependent on whether the willingness and
capacity of local communities to provide counterpart labor and materials were
established beforehand, and whether technical assistance was provided
throughout the design and implementation stages.
Institutional Weaknesses
2.16     Weaknesses in the management, financing and administration of
education have inhibited the Government's ability to improve quality,
efficiency and equity in the educational system. Many of the issues derive
from problems in the overall structure of public finances and administration,
and will need to be addressed in the context of the institutional reforms that
the Government is presently undertaking in these areas.
2.17     Sector Planning.  Effective sector planning and management have been
hampered by the lack of accurate and relevant educational data, especially at
the central level, which is itself related to limited institutional and staff
capacities in data collection and utilization. In 1986, the MOES instituted
the regular collection of education statistics from provinces and districts
through school questionnaires prepared and distributed by the central office.
However, the MOES did not establish school-level databases, which are essential
to the proper analysis of educational questions, and maintained only summary
statistics by province and district. Data collected have tended to served
routine reporting requirements rather than planning and management purposes.
Data quality has also been compromised by an unduly complex school
questionnaire, which is difficult to complete and includes items for which no
clear purpose exists or which could be more reliably obtained through other
data-gathering mechanisms. These deficiencies can be traced to the fact that
data collection, processing and analysis have not been linked to immediately
identifiable needs in sector planning and management nor to a well-defined
conceptual framework for utilizing the information collected.
2.18     Financing.  The low levels of funding for education (para. 2.4)
constrain long-term prospects for the sector and its potential to contribute
to the country's development. While the GoverDnment has been able to rely on
external assistance for its investment requirements, difficulties have been
encountered in mobilizing domestic resources to finance budgetary expenditures.
Local governments have been increasingly unable to devote sufficient resources
to provide for basic social services. Recognizing that the decentralization of
fiscal administration has contributed to poor revenue performance and resulted
in inequities that could not be corrected by central authorities, the
GoverDnment has introduced a major reform of public finances.
2.19     Under regulations issued in 1991, all revenues must be reported to
the MOF where they will be integrated into a national budget plan. Revenue
collection is being unified under two national administrations for customs and
taxes, and these resources will be allocated according to the duties carried
out by the different levels of Government. Local administrations are to cease
operating independent budgets and will act under delegation of spending
authority from the central government. The budget will be executed by a
national treasury administration, using a clearly defined public accounting
framework, and prior control of all expenditures will be exercised at both the



-7-
commitment and disbursement stages. While these reforms promise to improve the
overall situation, adequate financing for the sector still needs to be assured,
particularly in light of initial indications that the share of education in the
1992/93 national budget is only 11%.
2.20     An important objective of the financing reforms is to generate the
resources needed to raise the salaries of government staff. Public sector
salaries are low, often subject to delays in payment, and sometimes not even
paid because of inadequate budgets. While salaries are set according to a
national scale, actual payments have varied among provinces and districts,
depending on local resources. Most state employees engage in subsistence
farming, hold second jobs or otherwise earn additional income to support their
families. This situation has demoralized the civil service corps and affected
the efficiency of public services. The Government has thus taken steps to
improve the salary system and rationalize employment in the civil service.
Since 1989, salaries have been paid entirely in cash, replacing a system under
which a major portion of salaries was paid through purchase book entries.
Between 1989 and 1991, the size of the civil service was reduced by 19% to a
current level of about 70,000 employees, the civil service grading system was
revised, and salaries were nominally increased to about 3.3 times their 1988
levels. However, the new salary scales represented little or no increase in
real incomes, and remain uncompetitive with the private sector.
2.21     In 1990, average teacher salaries expressed as a ratio to GDP per
capita (GDP p.c.) were equivalent to 1.8 and 2.0 at the primary and secondary
levels, respectively. In low-income Asian countries, salaries average 2.3
times GDP p.c. for primary and 3.4 times GDP p.c. for secondary school
teachers. The regular payment of adequate salaries is necessary to obtain the
effective cooperation of sector staff, particularly teachers, and to help
ensure the success of any effort to reform the educational system. However,
the resources required to increase salaries can only be mobilized and sustained
by improving efficiency in resource use within the educational system.
2.22     The greatest scope for efficiency gains lies in improving teacher
utilization, since teacher salaries constitute the bulk of education recurrent
expenditures and current student-teacher ratios at the primary and secondary
levels are low. The average ratio in primary education is 28:1, compared to
the Asia region average of 33:1, and ratios as low as 15:1 are common in the
country's many small rural schools. The average size of primary schools is
only 85 students, and traditional practice is to assign one teacher per grade
regardless of class size. As a result, teachers tend to be under-utilized and
more than 60% of schools do not provide the full five-year primary program.
At the secondary level, student-teacher ratios are 13:1 in lower secondary and
12:1 in upper secondary education, compared to an Asia region average of 22:1.
Since average class sizes are only 34 and 40 at the lower and upper secondary
levels, respectively, the low ratios suggest that teachers are teaching less
than 10 hours each week on average.
2.23     Administration.  Professional and operational linkages between the
MOES and the provincial and district education services have been precluded by
the authority of the political administrative committee chiefs over these local
services. The MOES has not been able to effectively enforce national education
policies or address inefficiencies and inequities in the provision and quality
of education. In conjunction with the reform of public finances, the



-8-
Government has initiated a major administrative reform that will establish the
vertical structures required to promote the attainment of national policies and
objectives. Local offices will be designated as ministry field services, and
the distribution of responsibilities and functions among the central,
provincial and district levels will be re-evaluated as part of a long-term
restructuring to improve the efficiency of public administration. Another
retrenchment of the civil service is underway while new regulations are being
prepared to improve incentives for Government employees, and administrative
structures and decision-making processes will be streamlined.
2.24     In line with the overall administrative reform of the Government,
the MOES has created an internal committee to develop a plan for the
restructuring of educational administration. This plan would address problems
in the functioning of existing central and local structures. Currently,
decision-making is centralized at the highest levels, even for minor matters,
resulting in cumbersome procedures and delays prejudicial to efficient
administration. The responsibilities of the different departments are not
clearly spelled out and has led to the duplication of some roles and functions,
while others are not performed. The departments have tended to work in
isolation from each other, and there has been no mechanism to coordinate their
activities. The majority of staff in the sector are former teachers who have
received little or no training in their administrative tasks, whether this be
in such specialized areas as financial and personnel management, or in basic
rules of administration. The physical facilities of the MOES and the local
education services are inadequate and in poor condition, and an acute lack of
material resources makes the execution of even the most rudimentary tasks, such
as communications and document reproduction, extremely difficult.
C. Strategy for Sector Development
Government Priorities and Strategies
2.25     The Lao PDR has made substantial progress in evolving a market economy
within a broadly stabilized macroeconomic environment, and GDP is expected to
continue growing in real terms at about 5% annually. To sustain and broaden
its economic achievements, the Government has shifted its investment strategy
away from direct investment in production-related activities to building the
physical and human capital that are essential for long-term growth. This shift
is reflected in the rolling five-year Public Investment Program which the
Government adopted in 1991 as its sole operational tool for allocating public
resources on a medium-term basis. Investment priority is being given to two
areas: (a) the development of key infrastructure in the energy, transportation
and communications sectors; and (b) the delivery of basic services in health
and education. In addition to increased allocations under the Public
Investment Program, the education sector would also receive a higher proportion
of budgetary resources, and administrative reforms would strengthen social
sector support at the local levels.
2.26     The main objectives of the Government's education sector strategy are
to improve the quality of education, and the efficiency of educational planning
and management. While the development of efficient administrative and
financing structures will involve and benefit the sector as a whole, specific
measures to improve quality would focus first on basic education. Emphasis is
being given to basic education since its products determine the quality of



-9-
entrants into subsequent educational levels and into the work force, and
because effective basic education enables the majority of the population to
participate more fully in the country's economic and social development.
Improvements in basic education quality would be achieved with the coordinated
assistance of the ADB and the Government of Norway, which are supporting
efforts to upgrade teacher training (para. 2.10); UNICEF, through its basic
education projects for ethnic minorities (para. 2.12); and IDA, the Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC) and the Government of Norway, through the
financing of the proposed project.
2.27     Quality improvement measures would be implemented in conjunction with
new policies on continuous progression in primary education and systems of
student assessment, all of which are expected to improve achievement, reduce
repetition and dropout, and raise survival and completion rates. The
Government's targets for the year 2000 would be to raise the cohort survival
rate in primary education from 30% to over 60%, and reduce the proportion of
repeaters in total enrollments from 30% to 14%. Targets at the lower secondary
level would be to raise completion rates from 52% to 70%, and reduce the
proportion of repeaters in total enrollments from 11% to 5%. Primary and lower
secondary enrollments in 2000 would reach about 715,000 and 120,000 students,
respectively, which would be equivalent to the current gross enrollment ratios.
If these targets are reached, substantial cost savings would result from the
reduction in the number of years required to produce a graduate from 14.5 to
7.2 in primary, and from 5.2 to 4.0 in lower secondary education.
2.28     The Government intends to improve the conditions of service for sector
staff, especially teachers, through appropriate career incentives, salary
increases, and the reform of administrative and financial structures as
required to ensure the regular payment of salaries. For its part, the sector
would undertake measures to improve efficiency in teacher utilization. At the
primary level, an average student-teacher ratio of 33:1 would be achieved
primarily through the systematic organization of multigrade classes. The
average ratio at the secondary level would be raised to 25:1 by increasing the
effective teaching hours of teachers. Higher ratios would also be fostered by
increasing the average size of schools on the basis of school mapping outcomes.
The Government recognizes that improvements in teacher utilization will
necessarily involve a reduction in the absolute numbers of teachers, notably
at the secondary level, and that the process will need to be properly managed
to minimize any negative impact on educational access and quality.
2.29     Beyond the immediate priorities in basic education, the Government
recognizes the importance of vocational-technical and higher education to
provide the middle- and higher-level technical skills required for enhanced
productivity and competitiveness. Pre-investment work in these areas is thus
underway. The UNDP has supported an employer survey and an inventory of
vocational and technical schools, while a study of the labor market and related
human resource development needs is being undertaken with technical assistance
funded by the ADB. Under the IDA- and SDC-financed NPI Project (para. 2.31),
a sector study will be conducted to develop an investment strategy for
vocational-technical education and training; this study would include an
overall assessment of upper secondary education to review the balance between
academic and vocational offerings at this level. The ADB has also proposed to
assist the Government in developing a master plan for higher education, within
which the strengthening of the IUP as a teacher training institution is seen as
the first phase in its transformation into a national university.



- 10 -
IDA Experience and Strategy
2.30     Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement.  IDA assistance to the Lao PDR
has consisted of sixteen credits totalling about US$316 million, including a
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC2) approved in September 1991 to
support continued reforms in economic management, public finances and
administration. The PCRs and PPAR of four completed agriculture and industry
projects- highlight the importance of good technical preparation and the
critical role of IDA supervision in countries such as the Lao PDR where project
skills are limited. Grant funding of V120 million (about US$900,000
equivalent) was thus obtained from the Japan Policy and Human Resources
Development Flnd administered by IDA to support detailed project
preparation,2 and intensive IDA supervision would be undertaken during
project implementation.
2.31     The first and only IDA operation in the education sector to date, the
NPI Project (Credit 2001-LA, 1989), aims to train engineers and technical
managers for the productive sectors of the economy. The NPI experience thus
far points to the need for incentives to contain the turnover of project staff,
and to streamline the decision-making and administrative procedures involved in
implementing the project. These issues would be addressed on a country level
through the reforms supported by SAC2, and by actions under the proposed
project to promote improved employment conditions for sector staff and to
clearly delineate lines of authority and responsibility in project management
and implementation arrangements. The NPI Project has also fostered positive
working relationships between the Government, IDA and the SDC, and the
increased familiarity with each other's procedures would be drawn upon in the
implementation of the proposed project.
2.32     IDA Assistance Strategy.  The objectives of IDA's country assistance
strategy are to: (a) support Government efforts to move to a market economy
while maintaining macroeconomic stability; (b) assist in the development of
the physical capital needed to expand production and exports; (c) promote the
sustainable use of the country's natural resources; and (d) support human
resource development, both for increasing labor productivity and for
alleviating poverty. In line with the human resource development objective,
IDA has established solid relationships in the education sector through its
policy dialogue, sector analysis and advice, and the technical assistance and
training provided during project preparation. IDA lending for education has
been limited, however, accounting for only 2% of total lending between fiscal
years 1986 and 1992. The proposed project would represent a substantial
increase in IDA assistance to the education sector, in view of the importance
of the sector for the country's social and economic development. IDA has also
mobilized substantial cofinancing for the proposed project, and has sought to
coordinate its activities with other donor agencies to help ensure a coherent
development effort in the sector.
For the First, Second and Third Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development
Projects, PCR Nos. 7250, 8084 and 9858, respectively, and PPAR No. 8884; PCR
No. 9857 for the Agricultural Production Support Project; and PCR No. 8374
for the Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Project.
2/ The Japanese Grant Agreement between the Lao PDR and IDA (as Administrator of
Grant Funds provided by the Government of Japan) was signed on February 11,
1991.



- 11 -
2.33     Rationale for IDA Involvement.  Following the approval of the NPI
Project in 1989, the Government requested IDA assistance to develop and
implement a program for overall sector reform. IDA's main contribution to
these discussions has been to help sharpen the definition of sector priorities,
and to underscore the need to balance desired objectives with proposals that
are pedagogically effective and financially viable. IDA has also encouraged
an approach that would promote sector-wide policies and planning, and thereby
strengthen the coordination of development activities in the sector. IDA
involvement in the sector would further complement the reforms in public
administration and resource management being supported by SAC2. In the coming
years, the Government aims to establish systems of financial control and
accounting, reduce the civil service while upgrading salaries and employment
conditions, and redefine local government authority, structures and financing
mechanisms. The proposed project would support implementation of these reforms
in the education sector, and would help ensure that sector requirements are
taken into account as these reforms are elaborated.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and ScoRe
3.1      The project would aim to address immediate needs for quality
improvements in basic education and to establish the policy and institutional
frameworks for longer-term sector development. The project's specific
objectives would be:
(a)  to improve student and teacher performance in primary and lower
secondary schools, by supplying instructional materials, introducing
new approaches to teaching and learning, and providing in-service
training and pedagogical support to teachers;
(b)  to develop viable mechanisms for assuring the provision of appropriate
educational facilities in primary and secondary education, by
supporting local communities in the construction and maintenance of
their primary schools, and developing capacities at the central and
provincial levels to plan, manage and implement school construction
programs;
(c)  to promote efficiency in the allocation and use of resources by
installing systems to collect and utilize management information,
and developing technical skills in educational planning, monitoring
and evaluation;
(d)  to enable more effective delivery of basic education services, by
strengthening management capacities at all administrative levels,
and developing the structures and processes required to respond to
clearly identified needs of the educational system.
3.2      To accomplish these objectives, the project would consist of the
following components and sub-components:
(a) Curriculum Development and Pedagogical Support, including (i)
curriculum and instructional materials development, (ii) instructional



- 12 -
materials provision, (iii) teacher training and support, (iv) a
primary schools networks pilot, and (v) a study on Lao language
teaching and the schooling of ethnic minorities.
(b) School Infrastructure, including (i) a limited school reconstruction
effort, (ii) creation of Provincial Units for Construction Assistance
in six provinces, and (iii) reinforcement of the School Construction
Service Unit of the MOES;
(c) Sector Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation, including (i)
establishment of systems of data collection, analysis and utilization,
and (ii) carrying out of studies to assess educational outcomes; and
(d) Educational Administration and Management, including (i) strengthening
of MOES capacities in financial and personnel management, and the
preparation of plans for revised administrative structures and a staff
development program for the MOES; (ii) institutional assessment of
local and school administrations, and training of staff at these
levels; and (iii) support to project management and implementation.
3.3      Through the implementation of the above components, the project would
initiate actions on key policy measures designed to increase completion rates
in basic education and improve efficiency in teacher utilization. These
actions would include: (a) introduction of continuous student progression and
evaluation in primary schools; (b) review of current practices in student
assessment and examinations; (c) organization of multigrade classes, which
would allow the full primary cycle to be offered in small schools as well as
promote efficient student-teacher ratios; (d) increasing the effective teaching
hours of secondary school teachers; and (e) school mapping to increase the
average school size.
3.4      The commitment of the Government to the objectives, strategy and
activities of the project was confirmed in a Letter of Education Policy that
was furnished to IDA and reviewed at negotiations (Annex 1). At negotiations,
the Government provided assurances that it would carry out the project in
accordance with work programs and timetables satisfactory to IDA, and for
this purpose, would furnish to IDA for its review by April 15 of each year,
beginning in 1994, a proposed annual work program and timetable for the
following Government fiscal year. Understandings were also reached that the
annual work program and timetable for Government fiscal year 1993/94, as well
as a work program and performance indicators for overall project
implementation, would be reviewed and agreed upon during the initial IDA
supervision mission scheduled for August 1993.
B. DescriRtion
Curriculum DeveloRment and Pedagogical Support
(Proposed outlay of US$14.2 million, including contingencies)
3.5      Curriculum and Instructional Materials DeveloRment.  The project would
support the development of curricula and instructional materials in primary and
lower secondary education that organize programs of study into key learning
areas, emphasize problem-solving and practical applications to the students'
natural and social environments through well-sequenced presentations of lessons



- 13 -
and exercises, and support continuous assessment of student growth in knowledge
and understanding. The primary education syllabus, which details the learning
objectives, content outlines and teaching strategies for each grade and subject
in the curriculum, has been completed and approved. On this basis, 12 textbook
titles in three core subjects, 13 teacher guide titles, and support materials
(learninp kits, charts and flash cards) would be developed for the five primary
grades.- The lower secondary syllabus is scheduled for completion by
September 1993; 15 textbook titles with corresponding teacher guides in five
core subjects, and support materials (learning kits and basic equipment), would
be developed for the three grades at this level.
3.6      Each set of curriculum materials for a particular grade would be
developed and tested over a two-year period by national teams, in conjunction
with pilot school teachers who would try out sections of the materials as they
are developed. Fifteen primary and nine secondary pilot schools in three
provinces have been selected to represent the range of schooling conditions
in the country. Nationwide, grade-by-grade introduction of the new materials
would begin in school year 1994/95 for primary education, and two years later
in 1996/97 for lower secondary education. Full implementation would be
achieved at both levels in school year 1998/99 (Annex 10).
3.7      In addition to the development of new instructional materials for
primary and lower secondary education, the project would support: (a) the
rewriting of selected Lao language and social science textbooks for upper
secondary education, as existing texts have been rendered obsolete by recent
country and world developments; and (b) the selection of existing manuscripts
for limited reprinting, in order to supply learning resources in primary and
lower secondary schools while the new curriculum materials are being developed,
and to provide supplementary materials, including readers and reference books.
3.8      The project would strengthen the Research Institute for Educational
Sciences (RIES), the MOES agency responsible for curriculum and instructional
materials development. The buildings which house the Institute would be
refurbished to improve space utilization and the physical work environment, and
other material inputs, including furniture and equipment, would be provided.
Institute staff would receive about 33 staff-months of overseas training, and
would be supported by 63 staff-months of foreign specialist services in
curriculum preparation and instructional materials development and publishing,
and 248 staff-months of local specialist services to assist with the
preparation and review of manuscripts. The project would also finance the
costs related to local training in word processing and desktop publishing,
testing of new curriculum materials (including production of trial editions and
training of staff in pilot schools), and management and operations.
3.9      Instructional Materials Provision.  The project would support the
printing and distribution of textbooks, teacher guides and supplementary
materials. New textbooks would be provided at a ratio of one book for every
student. Teachers would receive a teacher guide and a copy of the student text
for each grade and subject taught. Teacher training colleges would also be
provided with a supply of the new books. The production and quantity
specifications of these materials would be such as to extend expected book life
3/ Work is nearly complete on the materials for Grade 1 and the preparation of
Grade 2 materials is underway (para. 3.40).



- 14 -
to at least five years and eliminate the need for reprinting during the project
period. A total of about 1.7 million primary, 670,000 lower secondary and
176,000 upper secondary new textbooks, as well as 117,000 teacher guides, would
be produced for all grades. For the reprinting of existing book titles, about
935,000 copies would be scheduled for delivery in school years 1993/94 and
1994/95; thereafter, about 200,000 copies of supplementary materials would be
printed and distributed (Annex 11).
3.10     Book distribution would be undertaken once annually and completed
before the onset of the rainy season in May. Books would be delivered by the
printer to the MOES warehouse in Vientiane, where individual school lots would
be parcelled and gathered into district lots. The Vientiane warehouse, and the
MOES warehouses in the provinces of Luang Prabang and Savannakhet, would use
their existing vehicles to deliver district lots to about half of the districts
in the country. Deliveries to the remaining districts would be contracted to
the two private firms in the country offering full transport services and able
to guarantee delivery to the districts. District offices would provide
temporary dry storage and lockable wooden boxes in which books could be carried
to and stored in schools. As a rule, teachers would be requested to collect
the books from district offices, but allowances would be made for direct
delivery to schools where warranted. The project would finance equipment and
operating expenses for the MOES warehouses, contracts for transport services,
book boxes, and costs incurred by teachers for transporting books.
3.11     The Instructional Materials Unit (IMU) in the MOES Department of
Planning and Finance (DPF) would be responsible for planning and supervising
instructional materials production and distribution, and for ensuring strict
adherence to agreed upon timetables. Given the importance of these functions,
a full-time position for a Unit Chief would need to be created. The IMU would
coordinate closely with: (a) RIES, for the preparation of camera-ready
manuscripts; (b) the Statistics Unit in the DPF, for the installation and
maintenance of the required data systems (para. 3.32); (c) the Project Support
Unit, for the processing of printing and distribution contracts (para. 3.38);
and (d) the MOES warehouses and the district education services, for the
organization and management of the distribution network. The project would
finance equipment and management expenses for the IMU and the MOES warehouses,
local training for IMU, warehouse and local education services staff, and about
18 staff-months of overseas training in a publishing company with a substantial
distribution activity. About 18 and 14 staff-months of foreign and local
specialist services, respectively, would be provided to assist in setting up
the production and distribution systems and, subsequently, to help address
longer-term issues in developing a publishing program for the continued
provision of instructional materials. At negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that, by September 30, 1993, the IMU would be officially assigned
its responsibilities and authorities, and the Unit's Chief would be appointed.
3.12     The project would encourage students to use textbooks at home in
the belief that the benefits from such a policy would outweigh the risks of
additional loss or reduced book life. These benefits would include not only
increased student time-on-task, motivation and achievement, but also the
potential to create an environment in which parents and the community can
become more actively involved in their children's education. Government policy
on the provision of textbooks would be as follows: (i) at the primary level,
books would be loaned to students for a minimum deposit that would be



- 15 -
reimbursed upon return of the books at the end of the school year; (ii) at the
lower secondary level, books would be loaned to students for a fee; and (iii)
the selected upper secondary education textbooks would be produced for sale to
students. The Department of General Education (DGE) would be responsible for
developing implementing guidelines and monitoring arrangements to help ensure
compliance with the Government's policy. These guidelines would include
provision for books to be loaned free of charge to the poorest students and/or
in the poorest communities.
3.13     The project would also finance the production of curriculum support
materials for primary and lower secondary education (para. 3.5), and the
provision of basic school supplies to primary students. Production of support
materials would be undertaken both centrally for distribution to schools and
locally by teachers, as appropriate. Support materials that are centrally
produced would be distributed to schools with book deliveries. School supplies
would only be provided to students most in need, according to criteria set by
the DGE. As a longer-term measure, the project would support about 26 staff-
months of specialist services to assist the Government in developing a system,
involving parents, communities and the district education services, for
the cost-effective provision of school supplies to primary students.
3.14     Teacher Training and Pedagogical Support.  Teachers would be
introduced to the new curriculum materials and approaches through orientation
programs, and thereafter provided continuing support by a corps of advisers to
be established under the project. At the primary level, three pedagogical
advisers would be appointed and attached to each district education service.
At the lower secondary level, a Center for Pedagogical Support would be
established for each province and staffed with eight teacher advisers. These
384 pedagogical and 144 teacher advisers would have two major functions: (a)
to conduct the teacher orientation programs in their respective districts and
provinces; and (b) to provide professional guidance to teachers during the
school year. Core teams of primary and lower secondary advisers would be
formed by selecting two pedagogical and two teacher advisers from each
province, and providing them with about 58 staff-months of overseas training.
3.15     The teacher orientation programs would be run in two stages, each
lasting two weeks. In the first stage, the programs would be developed, tested
in the pilot schools (para. 3.6), and conducted by staff from RIES, the MOES
Department of Teacher Training, the IUP Teacher Development Center, the DGE and
selected faculty members from teacher training colleges. These staff, assisted
by the core teams of advisers, would train the pedagogical and teacher advisers
in four regional sessions, undertaken successively for groups of neighboring
provinces. In the second stage, the advisers would simultaneously organize and
conduct the orientation programs in their own districts for a total of about
20,000 primary teachers. The training for lower secondary teachers would be
conducted at the provincial level, and would reach about 5000 teachers. The
orientation programs would include overviews of curriculum content and modules
on teaching strategies, continuous assessment, multigrade teaching, local
production of teaching aids, and basic book care. Detailed training agendas
and written instructions would be provided to the advisers to assist them in
conducting the programs for teachers in their districts and provinces. Central
staff would monitor the local training programs and evaluate their impact to
determine the need for any adjustments or modification. The project would
finance all expenses related to conducting and evaluating the teacher
orientation programs.



- 16 -
3.16     During the school year, the pedagogical advisers in each district
would be responsible for supervising about 55 primary schools on average.
Informal groups of five to six schools would be formed, and the principal or a
senior teacher would be designated as the local pedagogical coordinator. The
pedagogical advisers would visit each school group for about three days each
month. For lower secondary schools, the teacher advisers would visit an
average of two schools per month, and teachers would also have the opportunity
to attend short-term training programs at the Pedagogical Support Centers. The
DGE and the core teams of advisers would prepare detailed plans of activities
for the school visits, as well as simple structured questionnaires to record
observations and feedback from teachers. The DGE would monitor the extent to
which the advisers are actually able to visit the schools, and evaluate the
effectiveness of the assistance provided to teachers during the visits. The
project would finance vehicles for the advisers and other expenses related to
school supervision.
3.17     As the MOES agency responsible for general education standards,
the DGE would define recruitment criteria and lines of authority for the
advisers, and would assist provincial and district education officials in their
selection from among experienced teachers or other sector staff with teaching
credentials. The DGE would also ensure that the role of the advisers is
integrated into the teacher in-service training structure being developed under
the Education Quality Improvement Project (para. 2.10). At negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that at least three pedagogical advisers would
be appointed for each administrative district by June 30, 1994, and that at
least eight teacher advisers would be appointed for each administrative
province by June 30, 1996. The DGE, in collaboration with RIES, would also be
responsible for monitoring and evaluating curriculum implementation in schools,
and for preparing longer-term plans to address issues related to examination
reform. To strengthen capacities in the DGE, the project would provide about
18 staff-months of overseas training and 40 staff-months of foreign specialist
services, and would finance equipment and other expenses related to management
and operations.
3.18     Primary School Networks Pilot.  The project would test a model whereby
teachers and principals of neighboring primary schools would form a network of
mutual support as they attempt to implement the new teaching and learning
approaches. The main objective of the pilot is to develop a complementary or
alternative strategy for pedagogical support, since any large-scale effort can
offer only limited assistance directly to schools, and assistance from the
advisers may be less frequent and effective than is desirable given the
difficulties of reaching many schools in the country. The pilot would involve
networks of schools in three districts of one province. The network schools
would receive additional training, advisory and material support, but with the
view that these resources could eventually be generalized to all schools. At
least half of the pilot schools would have enrollments for which multigrade
teaching would be appropriate, in order to demonstrate the effectiveness of
such techniques in improving achievement and expanding access to the full
primary cycle. The pilot would also test a mechanism that would enable
teachers to develop and reproduce supplementary teaching and learning materials
for use by themselves and their students. The project would support all costs
related to planning and implementing the pilot, including 25 staff-months of
study visits to countries where such networks have been successfully



- 17 -
implemented, and about 6 staff-months of services from foreign specialists
involved in these successful undertakings.
3.19     Study on Lao Language Teaching.  Recognizing the special situation of
ethnic minority students, the project would support a study to: (a) evaluate
classroom practices in schools catering to ethnic minorities with respect to
the use (or non-use) of textbooks written in Lao, and determine the need to
provide other instructional materials or supplies to these students if
warranted (which would require adjustments to the number of Lao books to be
printed and distributed); (b) develop appropriate strategies for teaching Lao
to students whose mother tongue is not Lao; and (c) identify other
interventions or policy options for the education of ethnic minorities. The
project would finance expenses for field research, and about 15 staff-months of
local and 3 staff-months of foreign specialist services required to carry out
the study.
School Infrastructure
(Proposed outlay of US$16.1 million, including contingencies)
3.20     School Reconstruction.  The project would aim to establish the
foundation for a systematic and sustainable construction program for primary
and lower secondary schools. School building designs and institutional
structures and processes would be developed, implemented and evaluated, with
a long-term view to ensuring that within 20 to 25 years, all schools would be
built to standards which provide a suitable environment for teaching and
learning. The scope of works under the project would be limited to that which
can be carefully supervised, but would represent the variety of conditions that
a national construction program should be prepared to address.
3.21     In keeping with its qualitative orientation, the project would
concentrate on the reconstruction of existing schools. The school buildings
to be provided would be durable structures, with concrete foundations, brick
walls and an overall expected life of at least 25 years. These structures
would involve a lower initial investment than wooden buildings, require less
maintenance, substantially reduce future needs for reconstruction, and help
safeguard school furniture and equipment. The project would also provide
durable furniture that are appropriately sized for Lao school children and
are able to support both traditional and alternative classroom practices.
3.22     At the primary level, the project would construct about 390 schools
through cooperative ventures between local communities and education
authorities in Vientiane Prefecture, and the provinces of Saravane,
Savannakhet, Vientiane, Xieng Khouang, Luang Prabang and Luang Namtha.
Communities selected to participate in the project would receive construction
materials which are not readily available in their localities, and technical
assistance to improve the quality of existing school facilities. This material
and technical support would be provided by the School Construction Service Unit
(SCS) of the MOES-DPF, and by Provincial Units for Construction Assistance
(PUCAs) to be created in the six aforementioned provinces.
3.23     The SCS would prepare construction manuals containing architectural
designs for four primary school models, and illustrated technical instructions
on site selection and preparation, storage and utilization of construction
materials, methods of construction, and building and site maintenance. The



- 18 -
school models would be designed for enrollment capacities ranging from 75 to
200 students, and would include two multigrade prototypes. The local
communities would be responsible for construction of the primary school
buildings. They would supply locally available materials and organize the
labor required for construction. The construction work would be undertaken
between November and March, a period when communities are generally free from
farming responsibilities and the dry weather facilitates the transport of
materials and supervision of works. The school principal or other local
authority would oversee the planning and execution of the construction, with
the assistance of PUCA or SCS technicians.
3.24     Project schools would be selected by the PUCA of the provincial
education service, in consultation with the district education service,
according to MOES guidelines and after the community's willingness to
participate in the project has been confirmed by a site visit. The PUCA would
prepare an agreement between the community and the provincial education service
to establish their respective responsibilities, the school model to be
utilized, and the types and quantities of construction materials and labor
required. The SCS would compile the list of construction materials to be
provided to the communities in each province, procure these materials, and
arrange for their distribution to the PUCAs. The PUCAs would arrange for these
materials to be delivered from the provincial warehouses to the project sites,
and would provide the technical supervision needed throughout all phases of
preparation and execution of the works. For primary school construction in
Vientiane Prefecture, the role of the PUCA would be assumed by the SCS.
3.25     For lower secondary schools, the SCS would prepare architectural
designs for single- and two-story versions of a one-stream model with an
enrollment capacity of 120 and a two-stream model for up to 240 students.
The SCS would contract construction enterprises to rebuild and rehabilitate
about 12 one-stream and 22 two-stream schools throughout the country, at sites
identified according to MOES guidelines. The provincial education services
would be responsible for site selection and surveys, for collecting other data
required for the preparation of bid documents, and for preparing evaluation
reports upon completion of a contract. Supervision of works would be
undertaken by supervisors of the SCS or by civil works technicians engaged by
the project for this purpose. Basic equipment would also be provided to all
secondary schools reconstructed under the project.
3.26     Provincial Units for Construction Assistance.  To develop
institutional arrangements that preserve the vital role of local communities
in primary school provision, the project would progressively establish PUCAs
within the education services of six selected provinces (para. 3.22). Each
PUCA would support the construction of 8 to 10 primary schools in its first
year of existence, and would increase this capacity to 14 to 18 schools by the
end of the project. The goal beyond the present project would be to establish
PUCAs in all provinces, each able to support an annual construction program of
20 to 25 schools. The project would build offices to accommodate PUCA
personnel and, where required, warehouses for the storage of construction
materials. Each PUCA, except in Savannakhet, would be staffed by two civil
works technicians, a warehouse supervisor and a watchman, and assisted by a
volunteer architect or technician; due to the size of the province, the
Savannakhet PUCA would be staffed by four technicians, a warehouse supervisor
and a watchman, and assisted by two volunteers. A total of 17.5 staff-years of



- 19 -
specialist services would be provided by seven volunteers over the course of
the project. To the extent possible, the Government would work with non-
governmental organizations experienced in community-based school construction
to recruit either local or foreign volunteers to provide the technical
assistance required for the PUCAs. At negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that PUCAs would be established and staffed, in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to IDA, in the six selected provinces. Understandings
were reached that the PUCAs would be established and staffed in Savannakhet by
November 1993, in Saravane and Vientiane Province by November 1994, and in
Xieng Khouang, Luang Prabang and Luang Namtha by November 1995.
3.27     In addition to their role in the construction of permanent primary
school facilities, the PUCAs would provide technical assistance to communities
continuing to build provisional and semi-permanent structures. They would also
assist in selecting and surveying the project sites for lower secondary schools
(para. 3.25), establishing the needs for rehabilitation of the offices of the
provincial and district education services (paras. 3.37), and undertaking
general supervision of these works where possible. The project would provide
the necessary resources for the establishment and functioning of the PUCAs,
including facilities, furniture, equipment, foreign specialist services,
expenses related to management of PUCA operations and supervision of works, and
staff compensation. In order to recruit and retain qualified technicians, the
project would finance professional premiums to bring civil service salaries
close to levels competitive with those in private enterprises; these payments
would be linked to staff performance and would be reduced as civil service
rates increase.
3.28     School Construction Service Unit.  The project would seek to develop
in the SCS the institutional capacities to plan and manage the investment
program for the construction of schools, as well as the provision of
administrative facilities for the central and local education services (paras.
3.36, 3.37). In addition to its responsibilities in school construction
(paras. 3.23 to 3.25), the SCS would prepare bidding documents for the
procurement of all civil works, construction materials and furniture under the
project, assure the management of construction contracts and general
supervision of works, and determine the need to adjust the designs, manuals,
implementation procedures or scope of construction under the project.
3.29     To enable the SCS to fulfill these responsibilities, the present staff
of two would be expanded to twelve. At negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that an additional architect or civil works technician, an engineer,
a draftsman, a procurement manager, an accountant and a construction supervisor
would be employed by September 30, 1993, and that four other construction
supervisors would subsequently be hired, two by July 31, 1994 and two by
October 31, 1995. Support staff would be engaged on a contractual basis in
view of the need for bilingual (Lao-English or Lao-French) secretarial skills.
The technical staff would be hired on regular civil service positions and would
receive professional premiums similar to those proposed for the PUCAs. SCS
staff would receive about 4 staff-months of overseas training, with further
training and technical assistance from consultant architects who would provide
about 26 staff-months of foreign specialist services. The project would also
provide furniture and equipment for the SCS offices, and would support expenses
related to SCS operations and supervision of works.



- 20 -
Sector Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation
(Proposed outlay of US$1.6 million, including contingencies)
3.30     Information Systems.  The project would develop systems of data
collection and utilization to support sector planning and management, to
monitor and analyze the extent to which objectives are being met, and to
identify measures to improve the implementation and outcomes of sector
activities. These systems would involve identifying the purposes for which
data need to be collected, specifying the data elements which respond to these
needs, designing appropriate instruments and methods of data-gathering, and
developing procedures to ensure the feedback of information to and from the
local and central levels. The strategy of the project would be to keep data
requirements to a minimum in order to focus on improving the quality and
timeliness of the data collected, and on analyzing and utilizing such
information. Once established and effectively functioning, the basic systems
could be gradually expanded in terms of scope and technical sophistication.
3.31     The project would develop basic information systems built on the
following central databases: (a) school database, covering data on
enrollments, student flow statistics and numbers of teachers, to be obtained
through an annual census of schools and published in an annual statistical
bulletin; (b) school maps, which would be published in an education atlas and
regularly updated, to provide the locational and basic demographic information
needed to monitor access to schools and improve efficiency in resource
allocation; (c) instructional materials database, to maintain the information
required for instructional materials to be packaged by school and by district,
and to monitor actual distribution to schools based on delivery receipts signed
by teachers to confirm quantities received; (d) school facilities and furniture
inventory, to support the programming of investments in school facilities,
furniture and equipment; and (e) personnel inventory, covering both teaching
and administrative staff, to support the implementation of the new payroll
system and other civil service reforms, measures to improve staff utilization,
and planning of staff development programs.
3.32     The Statistics and Planning Units in the DPF would establish and
maintain the above systems in coordination with user groups in the different
departments of the MOES. To develop the required technical skills in
educational planning, information systems design, data collection, database
creation and management, and data analysis and reporting, the project would
provide about 39 staff-months of overseas training, 18 staff-months of foreign
specialist services and 40 staff-months of local programming services. In
addition, local training would be organized for MOES, provincial and district
staff on the use of information for planning and management. The project would
also finance equipment and expenses related to management and operations.
3.33     Assessment of Educational Outcomes.  Given the importance of analyzing
educational quality issues in greater depth, the project would support sample-
based studies to: (a) provide data on rates and patterns of student attendance
and achievement; (b) examine school and non-school factors affecting
educational outcomes, including gender-specific issues; and (c) evaluate the
cost-effectiveness of specific educational policies and interventions. The
studies would be managed by the DPF Planning Unit and would serve as a
precursor to a system of periodic assessments that would allow monitoring of
sector performance over time. To ensure compatibility with curricular content,



- 21 -
the tests to be utilized as measures of student achievement would be developed
by a team of local specialists from RIES, the DGE, the Department of Teacher
Training and the IUP, with the assistance of foreign consultants. The project
would provide a total of about 6 staff-months of foreign specialist services
and about 6 staff-months of overseas training for the development of the
research design, survey and test instruments, data analysis, report-writing and
dissemination. The project would also support the costs related to survey and
test administration, and data processing.
Educational Administration and Management
(Proposed outlay of US$5.6 million, including contingencies)
3.34     Central Administration.  The project would strengthen institutional
capacities in educational administration and management while assisting the
sector to respond to the overall administrative and fiscal reforms of the
Government. In line with these reforms, and as conditions for more efficient
and effective delivery of education services, priority would be given to
improvements in financial and personnel management. This would require the
reinforcement of the Finance Unit of the DPF and the Department of Organization
and Personnel (DOP). The Finance Unit would assume primary responsibility for
expenditure programming and budgeting for the sector as a whole, and for
implementing centralized payroll and accounting systems that would help to
ensure the regular payment of salaries to sector staff. These activities would
be implemented in accordance with regulations to be developed by the Budget,
Public Accounting and Treasury Departments of the MOF. In the DOP, capacities
would be created to develop personnel policies and procedures for sector staff,
while adhering to guidelines on compensation, career progression and other
civil service regulations to be issued as part of the reform in public
administration. The DOP would also prepare and implement plans to improve
efficiency in the utilization of staff resources, especially teachers.
3.35     Because the provision of adequate financing for education and
incentives to retain qualified sector staff are crucial for successful project
implementation, the Government provided assurances at negotiations that, by
April 15 of each year, beginning in 1994, IDA would be furnished for its review
the proposed budgetary allocations to the education sector for the following
Government fiscal year. The budget reviews would specifically assess: (a)
allocations for salary and non-salary requirements relative to sector needs,
and the share of education in the total budget; and (b) efficiency improvements
within the educational system, particularly progress in reaching targeted
student-teacher ratios in primary and secondary education.
3.36     The project would also provide for institutional analyses to assist
the MOES in developing plans for revised administrative structures and
procedures consistent with the functional requirements of the sector. Such
analyses would address questions relating to the responsibilities and
relationships of the different levels of educational administration, and the
organizational and staffing patterns corresponding to these roles. To support
both immediate efforts to improve financial and personnel management, and
longer-term institutional development planning, the project would finance about
24 and 72 staff-months of foreign and local specialist services, respectively,
about 18 staff-months of overseas training, local training courses, and
management and operations expenses. The MOES buildings in Vientiane would also
be rehabilitated, and office furniture and equipment would be provided.



- 22 -
3.37     Local Administrations.  The project would complement the overall
administrative and financing reforms of the Government with a focussed effort
to elicit the participation of local education services and schools in defining
more efficient and effective structures and procedures for educational
administration and management. Institutional assessments would be undertaken
with the provincial education services of three provinces, and a sample of
district education services and schools within these provinces. The results
of these assessments would feed into the longer-term institutional development
plans for the sector. In addition, as these assessments would be conducted in
the early stages of project implementation, feedback would be obtained on
problems encountered as the inputs and activities of the different project
components reach the field. Basic management training would be designed and
provided to staff in accordance with needs identified during the assessments,
and within the context of developing an institutional framework to provide
continuing support to administrators following their training. The project
would finance about 12 and 72 staff-months of foreign and local specialist
services, respectively, the institutional assessments and the local training
programs. Administrative buildings of the local education services would also
be rehabilitated, and office furniture and equipment provided.
3.38     SuRRort to Project Management and ImRlementation.  A Project Support
Unit (PSU) has been established to provide essential services in project
management and administration while ensuring the effective implementation of
the project within the regular MOES structure. The PSU is also responsible for
managing the other major development project in the sector, the ADB-financed
Education Quality Improvement Project (para. 2.10). The functions of the PSU
would include the administration of technical assistance and overseas training
programs, procurement of goods (other than furniture) and services required
under the project, maintenance of project files, accounts and records,
supervision of contract payments and expenditures, preparation of withdrawal
applications, monitoring of project progress against agreed upon implementation
schedules and action plans, progress reporting, arrangement for timely audits
of project accounts, and liaison with IDA and SDC.
3.39     The PSU is headed by a full-time Project Director, assisted by two
Project Coordinators responsible for the IDA- and ADB-financed projects,
respectively. An office manager and assistant manager would be recruited and
trained in IDA procedures, including procurement and disbursements. Bilingual
secretaries and translators (French-Lao and English-Lao) would be engaged as
needed. A total of about 90 and 72 staff-months of foreign and local
specialist services, respectively, would be provided to advise and train PSU
staff in the various aspects of project management and administration. The
project would also finance about 12 staff-months of overseas training,
equipment, contract staff salaries, and management and operations expenses.
At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that, by September 30,
1993, the Project Director, two Project Coordinators, an office manager and an
assistant office manager would be appointed, and that a Project Adviser would
be employed and assigned to the PSU until the completion of the project.
Understandings were reached that, although the position of Project Adviser
would be established for the entire duration of the project, the initial
consultant contract would be for two years, automatically renewable for equal
periods of time, unless the Government and IDA, in coordination with SDC, would
agree to terminate the services of such consultant.



- 23 -
C. Status of Project Preparation
3.40     Project preparation is at an advanced stage as a result of the support
provided by the Japanese Grant for Project Preparation (para. 2.30). The Grant
has financed a total of 53 staff-months of specialist services in areas related
to all project components, and about 27 staff-months of overseas training in
curriculum and instructional materials development, educational planning and
information systems.  Other activities accomplished under the Grant include:
(a) completion of the primary education syllabus; (b) preparation and piloting
of textbooks, teacher guides and support materials for Grades 1 and 2; (c)
architectural studies for rehabilitation of the RIES buildings; (d) a study to
assess the capacities of the local construction industry in relation to the
requirements of the school construction program; (e) preparation of standard
designs for primary and secondary schools; (f) collection of baseline data for
the school facilities and furniture inventory; (g) local training for
provincial and district planning officers on school data-gathering instruments
and preparation of school maps; (h) collection and processing of basic school
data for school years 1990/91 and 1991/92; (i) publication of the first school
atlas; (j) local training for provincial finance officers on the new budget and
accounting systems; (k) preparation of sector budgets for Government fiscal
years 1992 and 1993; and (1) preparation of standard bidding documents for
works, goods and services. In addition to the activities financed by the
Japanese Grant, the Government of France has provided about 3 staff-months of
specialist services towards the analysis of the financial management system,
and 4 staff-months of overseas training for MOES finance officers. About 18
staff-months of specialist services in project management and 10 staff-months
of overseas training for PSU and other MOES staff have also been provided under
an ADB technical assistance grant for start-up operations for the Education
Quality Improvement Project.
IV. COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.1      Summary of Project Costs.  The total project cost is estimated at
Kip 26.8 billion or US$37.5 million equivalent, including contingencies and
taxes. A summary of costs by project component is given in Table 4.1 and by
category of expenditure in Table 4.2. Cost breakdowns by component, category
of expenditure and project year are provided in Annex 8.
4.2      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Base costs are expressed in March 1993
prices. Costs for civil works and construction materials are based on recent
tender prices given by the Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and
Construction, and quotations from construction enterprises operating in the
Lao PDR. Costs for furniture to be provided in association with project-
supported construction are estimated at between 8% and 15% of the cost of the
civil works. The costs of other furniture and equipment are based on recent
MOES purchases financed by the NPI Project, the Education Quality Improvement
Project, the Japanese Grant for Project Preparation, and other technical
assistance grants from ADB, UNDP and UNICEF. Implementation of these
activities has also provided cost estimates for instructional materials, local
and overseas training, specialist services, and management and operations. A
total of about 1100 staff-months of local and foreign specialist services would
be required under the project.



- 24 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
S     Total
Local    Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign  Base
Project Component            ---------Kip million---------  ------US$ million----   Exchange Cost
Curriculum/Pedagogical Support
Curriculum Development          260.3        587.5      847.8       0.4    0.8    1.2        69.3    3.7
Instructional Materials         590.9      3810.1    4401.0         0.8    5.4    6.2        86.6   19.5
Teacher Training/Support       1737.2       1616.8    3354.0        2.4    2.3    4.7        48.2   14.8
School Networks Pilot            47.2         70.8      118.0       0.1    0.1    0.2        60.0    0.5
Lao Language Study                11.6        17.4       29.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        60.0    0.1
Sub-total                      2647.2      6102.6    8749.8         3.7    8.6   12.3        69.7   38.7
School Infrastructure
School Reconstruction          3106.0    4805.0    7911.0           4.3    6.7   11.0        60.7   35.0
Provincial Units                400.0      792.1    1192.1          0.6    1.1    1.7        66.4    5.3
Construction Service            119.5      350.4       469.8        0.2    0.5    0.7        74.6    2.1
Sub-total                      3625.4    5947.4    9572.9           5.1    8.3   13.4        62.1   42.3
Sector Planning
Information Systems             300.2      532.4       832.6        0.4    0.7    1.1        63.9    3.7
Performance Assessment           37.5        56.2       93.7        0.1    0.1    0.2        60.0    0.4
Sub-total                       337.7      588.6       926.3        0.5    0.8    1.3        63.5    4.1
Administration/Management
Central Administration          196.1       465.1      661.2        0.3    0.6    0.9        70.3    2.9
Local Administrations           738.7      889.3    1628.0          1.0    1.3    2.3        54.6    7.2
Project Support Unit            189.8      887.1    1076.9          0.2    1.3    1.5        82.4    4.8
Sub-total                      1124.6    2241.6    3366.2           1.5    3.2    4.7        66.6   14.9
Total Baseline Cost              7734.9   14880.2   22615.2          10.8   20.9   31.7        65.8  100.0
Contingencies
Physical                       340.8      744.0    1084.8          0.5    1.0    1.5        68.6    4.8
Price                         1585.5    1507.4    3092.9           2.2    2.1    4.3        48.7   13.7
Total Project Cost a/            9661.2   17131.6   26792.8          13.5   24.0    37.5    63.9  118.5
Includes US$1.0 million equivalent in identifiable duties and taxes.  The totals in this
and subsequent tables may not exactly add up due to rounding.
4.3         Taxes  and Duties.   Project costs  include  an estimated US$1.0 million
equivalent in construction-related duties and taxes, calculated as follows:
10% on works undertaken by construction enterprises and locally-procured
furniture, and 5% on locally-procured construction materials. All goods
imported under the project would be exempt from duties and taxes.
4.4         Contingency Allowances.   Project  costs  include  a contingency allowance
for unforeseen physical additions (US$1.5 million equivalent) and for inflation



- 25 -
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
2 Total
Local   Foreign   Total      Local Foreign Total      Base
Expenditure Category     ---------Rip million---------  -------US$ million -----    Cost
Civil Works               1095.7   1643.6   2739.3       1.5   2.3    3.8        12.1
Construction Materials    2051.6   3087.7   5139.2      2.9   4.4    7.3         22.8
Furniture                  113.2   1018.8   1132.0      0.2   1.4    1.6          5.0
Equipment/Vehicles         136.9   1232.2   1369.1       0.2   1.7    1.9         6.1
Instructional Materials    342.9   3086.0   3428.9      0.5   4.3    4.8         15.2
Local Training            1672.2    716.6   2388.8       2.3   1.0    3.3         10.6
Foreign Training            49.3    444.0    493.3       0.1   0.6    0.7         2.2
Local Specialists          278.4    119.3    397.7       0.4   0.2    0.6         1.8
Foreign Specialists        276.8   2491.0   2767.8      0.4   3.5    3.9          12.2
Studies                     96.2    144.4    240.6      0.1   0.2    0.3          1.1
Management/Operations a/   597.8    896.6   1494.4       0.8   1.3    2.1         6.6
Incremental Recurrent     1023.9      0.0   1023.9      1.4   0.0    1.4          4.5
Total Baseline Cost       7734.9  14880.2  22615.2      10.8  20.9   31.7        100.0
Contingencies
Physical                 340.8    744.0   1084.8       0.5   1.0    1.5         4.8
Price                   1585.5   1507.4   3092.9       2.2   2.1    4.3         13.7
Total Prolect Cost        9661.2  17131.6  26792.8      13.5  24.0   37.5       118.5
!I Expenditures directly related to project management and operations such as office
supplies, gasoline, contract staff salaries, etc.
(US$4.3 million equivalent). Physical contingencies are estimated at 5% of
base costs. Following IDA country guidelines, price contingencies are based
on the following inflation factors: for foreign costs, 3.1% throughout the
project period; and for local costs, 6.5% and 5.5% for the first and second
project years, respectively, and 5.0% thereafter. Price contingencies are
equivalent to 13% of base costs plus physical contingencies.
4.5       Foreign Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
are estimated at US$24.0 million equivalent, or about 64% of total project
cost, including contingencies. The estimated foreign exchange component for
the various expenditure categories are as follows: 90% for construction
materials, furniture, equipment, vehicles, instructional materials, foreign
specialists and overseas training; 60% for civil works, studies, and project
management and operations; and 30% for local training and local specialists.
4.6       Incremental Recurrent Costs.  Project cost estimates include the
following incremental recurrent costs: (a) salaries of additional regular
personnel to be appointed to the SCS and the PUCAs, based on current civil
service rates; and (b) maintenance of buildings and equipment procured under
the project, respectively estimated at 3% of construction cost and 10% of
initial purchase prices. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances
that the facilities constructed and equipment procured under the project would
be adequately maintained.



- 26 -
B. Financing
4.7       The total project cost of US$37.5 million equivalent would be
financed by: (a) an IDA Credit of SDR 13.7 million or US$19.0 million
equivalent, representing 51% of total project cost (52% net of taxes and
duties); (b) a grant of SwF 15.0 million or US$9.8 million equivalent from the
Government of the Swiss Confederation through the SDC (the Swiss Contribution),
representing 26% of total project cost (27% net of taxes and duties); (c) a
grant of NOK 21.0 million or US$3.0 million equivalent from the Royal Ministry
of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway (the Norwegian Grant), representing
8% of total project cost; and (d) local financing of US$5.5 million equivalent,
representing 15% of total project cost, and including US$1.0 equivalent of
estimated taxes and duties, as well as community contributions of US$2.9
million equivalent towards the construction of primary schools. Project
financing would be in accordance with Table 4.3 below.
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
(Amounts in US$ million equivalent, including contingencies)
Estimated
-------------------- US$ million --------------------   Share of
Expenditure Category       Local a/    SDC    Norway _/   IDA      Total   IDA Financing
Civil Works                  0.5        -        -        4.1       4.6         90%
Construction Materials       3.2        -        -        5.4       8.6         63S
Furniture                    0.2        -        -        1.7       1.9         90%
Equipment/Vehicles            -         -        -        2.1       2.1         100%
Instructional Materials       -         -       2.4       3.2       5.6         57X
Training/Specialists/Studies  -        9.8      0.6        -       10.4          0%
Management/Operations         -         -        -        2.5       2.5         100%
Incremental Recurrent        1.8        -        -         -        1.8          0%
Total Project Cost           5.7       9.8      3.0      19.0      37.5         51%
a/ Government financing and local community contributions.
b/ Under Instructional Materials, the printing of new primary and lower secondary education
textbooks. Under Training/Specialists/Studies, overseas training and technical assistance
for instructional materials publishing and distribution, and the development of a system
for the cost-effective provision of school supplies.
4.8       The Swiss Contribution would be provided in the context of the
Procedural Arrangements between the Government of Switzerland and IDA for
cooperation in the cofinancing of specific projects within the framework of the
Ninth IDA Replenishment, dated May 9, 1990. IDA would administer the Swiss
Contribution in accordance with the provisions of these Arrangements. The
Governments of Switzerland and the Lao PDR would enter into an agreement (the
Swiss Contribution Agreement), cross-referencing the Development Credit
Agreement with respect to the allocation and withdrawal of funds, and
conditions of execution of the project. The fulfillment of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Swiss Contribution Agreement would be a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit.



- 27 -
4.9      The Norwegian Grant would be provided in the context of the Agreement
dated October 2, 1986, among Norway, IBRD and IDA, providing the framework for
cooperation in the financing of development projects. IDA would administer the
Norwegian Grant in accordance with the provisions of an agreement to be entered
into between Norway and IDA (the Administration Agreement). IDA, as
Administrator of the funds provided by the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
the Kingdom of Norway, and the Government of the Lao PDR would enter into an
agreement (the Norwegian Grant Agreement) setting forth the terms and
conditions of the Grant, including the allocation and withdrawal of funds, and
conditions of execution of the project. The fulfillment of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Norwegian Grant Agreement would be a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
V. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization
5.1      The MOES would be the executing agency for the project, which would be
implemented over a six-year period beginning July 1, 1993 and ending June 30,
1999. Project implementation would involve the whole administrative structure
of the educational system, represented by the different MOES departments,
provincial and district education services, and schools. Within the MOES,
responsibility for operational management and day-to-day implementation would
be attributed to the departments which are charged to carry out the different
project activities within the regular line structure of the MOES.
5.2      Working groups have been formed of key staff from the departments
involved in a particular project component. These working groups would ensure
coordination of activities within each component. Overall project coordination
and policy matters would be the responsibility of a Project Supervision and
Coordination Committee, which comprises the MOES Vice-Ministers and the
Department Directors, and is chaired by the First Vice-Minister. The PSU
(para. 3.38) would report directly to the Committee and serve as its
secretariat. The relationship between the PSU and the other MOES departments
would be functional in nature, with the PSU providing essential support to
facilitate project implementation.
B. Procurement
5.3      Procurement of works, goods and services required by the project would
be undertaken in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992) and Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
As provided by the Procedural Arrangements between the World Bank and the
Government of Switzerland (para. 4.8), and as to be provided by the Norwegian
Grant Agreement (para. 4.9), IDA guidelines and procedures would apply to
procurement financed by the Swiss Contribution and the Norwegian Grant.
5.4      The preparation and issuance of invitations to bid and bidding
documents would be the responsibility of: (a) the SCS, with respect to the
procurement of civil works, construction materials and furniture; and (b) the
PSU for the procurement of all other goods, including equipment and
instructional materials. The PSU would also be responsible for preparing and



- 28 -
issuing terms of reference, short lists and letters of invitation for technical
assistance and training contracts. The PSU and SCS would undertake their
procurement responsibilities in consultation with concerned MOES departments.
Bid openings, evaluations and recommendations to award contracts would be the
responsibility of an MOES bid evaluation committee, in which both the SCS and
PSU are represented. Approval by IDA of the contract award, if required, would
be secured by the PSU.
5.5      Procurement arrangements under the project would be as follows:
(a) Civil Works. Construction and rehabilitation of secondary schools,
accounting for about 65% of the total value of works contracts under
the project, would be procured on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Although contract values would
be small (about US$70,000 equivalent on average) and the works
geographically dispersed, procurement through ICB would be attempted
because foreign bidders from countries bordering the Lao PDR have bid
for such contracts in the past and the capacities of local
construction enterprises in a number of provinces are limited. To
further increase interest on the part of foreign bidders, the initial
ICB advertisement would indicate the total number and cost of schools
to be constructed under the project so that prospective bidders are
aware that similar works contracts would be open to bids over a four-
to five-year period. Contracts of less than US$70,000 equivalent for
the construction and rehabilitation of administrative facilities would
be awarded on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to IDA. The total value of works procured through LCB
would not exceed US$1.6 million equivalent. The qualification of the
lowest evaluated responsive bidder to perform a contract awarded
through either ICB or LCB would be ascertained by postqualification.
(b) Construction Materials. Materials for the construction of primary
schools would be grouped into bid packages of at least US$100,000
equivalent for procurement under ICB procedures. Contracts estimated
to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, not to exceed an aggregate
total of US$1.5 million equivalent, would be procured through shopping
procedures based on written quotations from at least three local or
foreign suppliers.
(c) Furniture. In view of the quantities involved and limited local
production capacities, contracts for school and office furniture
costing at least US$80,000 equivalent would be procured through ICB
procedures, and would account for about 75% of the total value of
furniture contracts under the project. Contracts for school and
office furniture costing less than US$80,000 equivalent would be
awarded on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to IDA, and would
not exceed US$200,000 equivalent in the aggregate. Furniture packages
of less than US$1500 equivalent each would be procured through
shopping procedures based on written quotations from at least three
local or foreign suppliers, and would not exceed an aggregate total of
US$500,000 equivalent.
(d) Eauipment/Vehicles. Equipment, including about 430 motorcycles, would
be grouped into bid packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent for



- 29 -
procurement under ICB procedures. Contracts below this amount, not to
exceed an aggregate total of US$400,000, would be procured through
shopping procedures based on written quotations from at least three
local or foreign suppliers. Since full factory guarantees,
maintenance service and the availability of spare parts for four-wheel
motor vehicles in the Lao PDR are limited to a few models only, four-
wheel motor vehicles estimated at a total cost of US$450,000 would be
procured through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO)
of the UNDP.
(e) Instructional Materials. Contracts for instructional materials would
be grouped into bid packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent for
procurement under ICB procedures. Contracts below this amount would
be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers and would not
exceed US$3.2 million in the aggregate. The nature and scope of the
instructional materials to be procured through negotiated contracts
would include the following items which are unlikely to be of interest
to foreign suppliers: (i) printing of trial editions for the new
curriculum materials and about 60 titles of teacher guides, textbooks
and reference books, for which the average print run would be less
than 25,000 copies; (ii) production of charts, posters and learning
kits, estimated at US$20 per primary school and grade, and US$70 per
lower secondary school and grade; (iii) school supplies such as
notebooks and pencils, for distribution to primary students on the
basis of need, and estimated at US$25 per school and grade; (iv) local
transport of instructional materials from MOES warehouses to 128
education districts; and (v) proprietary instructional materials
estimated at a total cost of US$400,000 to be procured directly from
publishers according to IDA guidelines.
(f) Consultancies/Services/Miscellaneous. Specialist services would be
procured in accordance with IDA policies and procedures on the
selection and employment of consultants. To the extent possible,
linkages would be established with institutions able to provide
integrated technical assistance and training services. Local training
and project management/operations would be undertaken by the
implementing agencies according to local regulations.
5.6      Estimated project costs by expenditure category and procurement method
are summarized in Table 5.1 below. In accordance with IDA guidelines: (a)
eligible domestic contractors would be allowed a margin of preference of 7.5%
for works contracts to be awarded through ICB; and (b) in the comparison of
bids for goods to be procured through ICB, domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15% or the existing customs duty, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing imports.
5.7      The following would be subject to prior review by IDA:  (a) all
contracts with an estimated value of at least US$100,000 equivalent, including
consultant contracts; (b) the first five civil works contracts awarded on the
basis of ICB procedures, regardless of value; and (c) terms of reference for
all technical assistance and training, all single-source consultant contracts,
consultant contracts for assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA,
and amendments to consultant contracts valued at more than US$100,000
equivalent or those that raise the total contract value above US$100,000.



- 30 -
Table 5.1: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                       Total Cost
Expenditure Category               -----------------------------                  (including
ICB       LCB       Other       N.I.F.      contingencies)
1.  Works                                3.0        1.6                                    4.6
(2.7)     (1.4)                                   (4.1)
2. Goods
2.1  Construction materials          4.2                  1.5 a/       2.9 b/          8.6
(4.1)                (1.3)         (-)            (5.4)
2.2  Furniture                       1.2        0.2       0.5 a/                       1.9
(1.1)     (0.2)      (0.4)                        (1.7)
2.3  Equipment/vehicles              1.1                  1.0 c/                       2.1
(1.1)                (1.0)                        (2.1)
2.4  Instructional materials                              3.2 d/       2.4 e/          5.6
(3.2)        (-)            (3.2)
3.  Consultancies/Services
3.1 Design/supervision                                                 0.2 f/          0.2
(-)             (-)
3.2  Technical assistance                                              4.9 S/          4.9
(-_)           (-)
3.3  Training                                                          4.9 h/          4.9
(-)             (-)
3.4  Studies                                               -           0.4 f/          0.4
(-)             (-)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Management/operations                                 2.5 i/        -              2.5
(2.5)         -             (2.5)
4.2  Incremental recurrent                                             1.8             1.8
(-)             (-)
Total                           9.5       1.8        8.7         17.5            37.5
(9.0)     (1.6)      (8.4)         (-)           (19.0)
Note: N.I.F.: Not IDA-Financed.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.
a/ Shopping based on written quotations from at least three local or foreign suppliers.
b/ Materials to be provided by local coammunities for the construction of primary schools.
c/ Shopping, except for four-wheel motor vehicles which vould be procured through the
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) of the UNDP.
d/ Negotiated contracts with local printers and transporters, and direct purchases from
suppliers.
e/ To be financed by the Norwegian Grant and procured under ICB procedures in accordance with
IDA guidelines.
f/ To be financed by the Swiss Contribution (US$4.4 million equivalent) and the Norwegian Grant
(US$0.5 million equivalent) and procured in accordance with IDA guidelines.
A/ To be financed by the Swiss Contribution (US$4.8 million) and the Norwegian Grant
(US$0.1 million equivalent) and procured in accordance with IDA guidelines.
h/ To be financed by the Swiss Development Cooperation in accordance with IDA procurement
guidelines.
i/ To be procured according to local regulations satisfactory to IDA.



- 31 -
All other contracts and expenditures not covered by contract would be subject
to selective post-review. Prior review would cover about 80% of the total
value of contracts to be awarded under the project.
C. Disbursements
5.8      The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed over seven years, with
disbursements to be completed by the Closing Date of June 30, 2000. The
disbursement forecast is one semester shorter than the disbursement profile for
education projects in the East Asia and Pacific Region (Annex 9). Disbursement
estimates for the first three years of the project are higher than would be
predicted by the profile, but are considered feasible in view of the advanced
state of project preparation (para. 3.40).
5.9      Disbursements would be made against:  (a) 90% of total expenditures on
civil works; (b) for furniture, construction materials, equipment, vehicles and
instructional materials, 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
goods, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally-manufactured
goods, and 85% of local expenditures for other goods procured locally; (c) 100%
of total expenditures for consultancies and services, including design and
supervision, technical assistance, training and studies; and (d) 100% of total
expenditures for management and operations. Disbursements to be made against
the IDA Credit, the Swiss Contribution and the Norwegian Grant are susmmarized
in Table 5.2 below.
Table 5.2: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Amount in US$ million     Financing
Expenditure Category        IDA    SDC    Norway       Percentage
(1) Works                      3.9      -       -        90S of total expenditures
(2) Goods
(a) Construction materials  5.1      -       -        1002 of foreign expenditures;
(b) Furniture               1.6      -       -     I  1002 of local expenditures
(c) Equipment/vehicles      2.0      -       -     >  (ex-factory cost);
(d) Instructional materials  3.0     -      2.3    I  852 of local expenditures for
|   other locally-procured items
(3) Consultancies/Services
(a) Design/supervision       -      0.2      -     l
(b) Technical assistance     -      4.2    0.5     > 1002 of total expenditures
(c) Training                 -      4.5    0.1
(d) Studies                  -      0.4      -    1
(4) Miscellaneous
(a) Management/operations   2.4      -       -        1002 of total expenditure.
(5) Unallocated                1.0    0.5    0.1
Total                   19.0    9.8    3.0
5.10     Disbursements for all contracts with a value of at least US$100,000
equivalent would be supported by full documentation. Disbursements against
contracts of less than US$100,000 and for management/operations would be made



- 32 -
on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements for local
training expenses would also be made against SOEs, subject to prior review by
IDA of training agendas and budgets. Supporting documentation for all
disbursements against SOEs would be held by the PSU and made available upon
request for examination by IDA review missions. To the extent possible,
withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of at least US$100,000
prior to submission to IDA.
5.11     To facilitate timely project implementation and disbursements, the
Government would establish and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA, three Special Accounts in the Banque pour le Commerce Exteri6ur Lao.
These Accounts would cover, respectively, IDA's, SDC's and Norway's shares of
eligible project expenditures in all disbursement categories. The Account for
IDA-financed expenditures would be denominated in US Dollars, with an
authorized allocation of US$1.0 million. The Account for SDC-financed
expenditures would be maintained in Swiss Francs, with an authorized allocation
of SwF 1 million (US$650,000 equivalent). The Account for Norway-financed
expenditures would also be maintained in US Dollars, with an authorized
allocation of US$150,000. Applications for replenishment of these Accounts,
supported by appropriate documentation, would be submitted regularly
(preferably monthly) or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50% of the initial
deposit.
5.12     The Government would also establish a project account denominated in
Kip to cover the Government's share of project expenditures. To ensure the
flow of funds for project activities at the provincial, district and school
levels, working accounts would be established for the MOES in provincial banks.
The Government would make an initial, one-time deposit of a minimum of
US$10,000 equivalent for each province. District and school expenditures
eligible for reimbursement under the project would be paid from these working
accounts. As these expenses are incurred and after receipt of satisfactory
documentation, replenishment would be made from the Special Accounts or the
Government's project account, as appropriate. These working accounts would be
of an interim nature, and would be phased out as the Government's overall
financing structures are put in place. When the accounts are closed, the
amounts remaining in the accounts would be reimbursed to the Government. At
negotiations, understandings were reached with the Government on establishing
by December 31, 1993 and operating provincial working accounts as described
above, and on phasing out these accounts as soon as an effective Treasury
system has been established at the provincial level, with the objective of
eliminating these accounts by the end of Government fiscal year 1994/95.
D. Accounts and Audits
5.13     The PSU would maintain separate accounts to reflect expenditures under
the project in accordance with sound accounting practices. Project accounts,
including the Special Accounts, would be audited by the Enterprises Accounting
Department of the MOF in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (The World Bank,
March 1982). At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that IDA
would be provided within nine months of the end of each Government fiscal year
with an audit report, including separate opinions by the auditor on the
operation of the Special Accounts and on disbursements against certified SOEs.



- 33 -
E. Monitoring. Reporting and Supervision
5.14     All MOES units with project implementation responsibilities would
prepare their respective work programs for each Government fiscal year. The
individual units' work plans would be reviewed by the appropriate working
group, consolidated into annual work programs for each project component, and
submitted to the PSU. The plans for each component would be reviewed by the
PSU, integrated into an annual work program for the project as a whole, and
submitted to the Project Supervision and Coordination Committee for approval.
The PSU would be responsible for monitoring and reporting project
implementation progress in accordance with the approved annual work programs.
5.15     The PSU would prepare semi-annual reports on progress in project
implementation, utilizing a simple, tabular format to compare actual
accomplishments against agreed upon work programs, and including a concise,
narrative section describing major project achievements and problems
encountered. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that progress
reports would be furnished to IDA by April 15 and November 15 of each year,
beginning in 1994. These reports would constitute the basis for semi-annual
project performance reviews to be conducted jointly by the Government, IDA and
SDC (para. 5.16). Assurances were also received that the Government's
contribution to the Project Completion Report would be submitted to IDA within
six months of the Closing Date.
5.16     Following an initial supervision mission to be held in August 1993,
IDA and SDC would jointly conduct review missions every six months during
project implementation (Annex 17). Each review mission would be prepared to
identify emerging issues in project implementation, and to assist the MOES in
responding promptly to these issues before they develop into major problems.
During the first two years of project implementation, specific attention would
be given to evaluating the effectiveness of: (a) the teacher orientation
programs (para. 3.15); (b) the assistance provided to teachers by advisers
(para. 3.16); (c) the instructional materials supplied to students who do not
speak Lao as a first language (para. 3.19); and (d) the institutional
arrangements for primary school construction (paras. 3.22 to 3.24). A
comprehensive mid-term project review would also be held to determine the need
for modifications to the design and implementation targets of these and all
other project activities. At negotiations, assurances were provided that the
Government would, in consultation with IDA, carry out a mid-term of project
implementation by April 1996.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS. RISKS AND IMPACT
6.1      Benefits.  The project would improve the quality of basic education,
which leads to increased overall productivity and growth, and raises the
welfare of the poor directly through the income gains and greater opportunities
afforded by a better education. The project would help ensure that the sector
is built on a solid foundation of quality basic education, and would develop
the institutional capacities needed for greater self-reliance in the design and
management of educational development. By the end of the project in 1999, an
estimated 26,000 primary and lower secondary teachers remaining in the system
would stand to benefit from higher salaries and improved working conditions.
About 785,000 students projected to be enrolled at these levels would benefit



- 34 -
from the qualitative improvements resulting from better-trained and more
motivated teachers, new instructional materials and teaching strategies, and
upgraded school facilities. Expanded access is expected as the system is able
to accommodate more students in places formerly occupied by repeaters, along
with improved equity since problems of repetition and dropout generally affect
poorer children. Equity would also be enhanced through a more balanced
redistribution of resources among provinces and districts.
6.2      Risks.  The project would represent the first Government effort to
undertake a major national reform in the education sector, and would face
important risks. Project implementation would involve a diverse set of
activities in provinces and districts throughout the country, and would require
extensive coordination by an executing agency that has limited management
capacities and experience with IDA procedures. The project would also be
implemented, at least initially, during a period of transition and uncertainty
concerning Government efforts to recentralize revenue collection and
expenditure control, redefine central-local authorities and relationships,
and create a professional and more efficient civil service. Progress in these
overall fiscal and administrative reforms would drive much of the project's own
actions to improve educational administration and management. The risk also
exists that insufficient budgetary resources would be allocated to education,
despite the stated priority given to the sector in the country's development
agenda, and that the MOES would not implement the efficiency measures required
to assure the financial sustainability of its sector programs.
6.3      Actions to address the above risks have been taken on several fronts.
Detailed preparation has been undertaken and a substantial number of start-up
activities has been accomplished (para. 3.40). The MOES has involved
provincial and district staff in project preparation to generate the local
commitment and sense of ownership that are critical for implementation success.
Extensive internal discussions were also held to develop project management
arrangements that the MOES believes would most effectively facilitate
implementation and coordination of project activities. Analysis of
institutional development needs and training of MOES staff were initiated
during project preparation, and would be continued under the project. The
local staff required for project implementation would be assured by the
Government, and the technical assistance to be provided by the project would
focus on the training of these staff. The extended project preparation process
has led to a more focussed project design, while recognizing the need for close
monitoring of project activities and considerable flexibility during project
implementation and supervision. IDA review missions would assist the MOES in
identifying and resolving implementation problems as they arise, and semi-
annual project performance reviews and a comprehensive mid-term review would be
conducted to adjust or modify the project design as needed. To help assure the
provision and sustainability of the public resources required by the sector,
annual budget reviews would be required and linked to efficiency improvements
within the educational system. Conditionalities under SAC2 would reduce the
risk of delays in implementing the Government's overall financing and
administrative reforms.
6.4      Environmental Impact.  The project is not expected to have any
negative environmental impact. In the new primary school curriculum to be
developed, an integrated sciences subject called The World Around Us would
encourage understanding of the environment and a commitment to its



- 35 -
preservation; environmental education would also be integrated into the lower
secondary science curriculum. Standard school designs to be utilized under the
project would minimize requirements for increasingly scarce timber and utilize
appropriate technologies to provide durable facilities while protecting the
environment. Technical specifications in civil works bidding documents would
prohibit the use of building materials containing asbestos fibers in the
construction of project schools and other facilities.
6.5      Impact on Women.  Raising the overall quality of basic education would
benefit all students in the system, including females who presently constitute
over 40% of current enrollments. Since no reliable data exist on factors
affecting the participation and performance of girls in schools, more detailed
analysis of gender issues in education would be undertaken under the project in
order to identify appropriate strategies for ensuring equal access to
educational opportunities for women. With respect to staff development
activities for educational administrators, efforts would be made to identify
qualified women who could be trained to assume positions of responsibility.
6.6      Sustainability.  The project has been designed with explicit attention
to issues of institutional and financial sustainability. The project would
support a wide range of activities aimed at building local technical and
managerial skills at all levels of the educational administration. These
activities, including organization and management analysis, extensive staff
training, and systematic monitoring and evaluation, would help develop the
institutional capacities required to sustain the expected improvements in the
educational system. The project would generate estimated annual incremental
recurrent costs of Kip 511 million (US$730,000 equivalent) in 1990 prices,
representing 2.6% of the education recurrent budget in 1998/99, the last year
of the project. The estimated education recurrent budget for that year of
about Kip 19.4 billion (US$27.7 million equivalent) would represent 2.8% of GDP
(compared to a 1980s average of 3.3% for low-income countries in Asia) and 21%
of the total Government recurrent budget (for a sector that employs over 50% of
civil servants). These estimates demonstrate that increasing the salaries of
sector staff and providing adequate non-salary expenditu--es for the quality
improvements proposed by the project could be sustained by the Government
budget. Financial sustainability would be dependent, however, on the
assumptions that projected growth rates in GDP are achieved, budget allocations
required to implement sector programs are assured, and targeted increases in
student-teacher ratios are realized.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1      The commitment of the Government to the objectives, strategy and
activities of the project was confirmed in a Letter of Education Policy that
was furnished to IDA and reviewed at negotiations (para. 3.4).
7.2      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would:
(a) carry out the project in accordance with work programs and timetables
satisfactory to IDA and, for this purpose, furnish to IDA for its
review by April 15 of each year, beginning in 1994, a proposed annual
work program and timetable for the following Government fiscal year
(para. 3.4);



- 36 -
(b) by April 15 of each year, beginning in 1994, furnish to IDA for its
review the proposed budgetary allocations to the education sector for
the following Government fiscal year (para. 3.35);
(c) by September 30, 1993, employ and assign to the PSU a Project
Director, two Project Coordinators, an office manager and an assistant
office manager; and, in addition, employ and assign to the PSU a
Project Adviser until the completion of the project (para. 3.39);
(d) employ and assign to the SCS: by September 30, 1993, an architect or
civil works technician, an engineer, a draftsman, a procurement
manager, an accountant and a construction supervisor; by July 31,
1994, two additional construction supervisors; and by October 31,
1995, two additional construction supervisors (para. 3.29);
(e) by September 30, 1993, assign to the IMU its responsibilities and
authorities and appoint a Unit Chief (para. 3.11);
(f) establish and staff PUCAs, pursuant to a timetable satisfactory to
IDA, in the provinces of Savannakhet, Saravane, Vientiane, Xieng
Khouang, Luang Prabang and Luang Namtha (para. 3.26);
(g) by June 30, 1994, appoint at least three pedagogical advisers for each
administrative district, and by June 30, 1996, appoint at least eight
teacher advisers for each administrative province (para. 3.17);
(h) on April 15 and November 15 of each year, beginning in 1994, furnish
to IDA semi-annual reports on progress in project implementation; and,
in consultation with IDA, carry out a mid-term of project
implementation by April 1996 (para. 5.15, 5.16); and
(i)  furnish to IDA within nine months of the end of each Government fiscal
year an audit report, including separate opinions by the auditor on
the operation of the Special Accounts and on disbursements against
certified SOEs (para. 5.13).
7.3      During negotiations, the following understandings were reached with
the Government:
(a) the annual work program and timetable for Government fiscal year
1993/94, and a work program and performance indicators for overall
project implementation, would be reviewed and agreed upon during the
initial IDA supervision mission scheduled for August 1993 (para. 3.4);
(b) the position of Project Adviser would be established for the entire
duration of the project, however, the initial consultant contract
would be for two years, automatically renewable for equal periods of
time, unless the Government and IDA, in coordination with SDC, would
agree to terminate the services of such consultant (para. 3.39);
(c) the PUCAs would be established and staffed in six provinces as
follows: by November 1993 in Savannakhet, with four civil works
technicians, a warehouse supervisor and a watchman; by November 1994
in Saravane and Vientiane Province, each with two civil works



- 37 -
technicians, a warehouse supervisor and a watchman; and by November
1994 in Xieng Khouang, Luang Prabang and Luang Namtha, each with two
civil works technicians, a warehouse supervisor and a watchman
(para. 3.26); and
(d) by December 31, 1993, working accounts with initial deposits of at
least US$10,000 would be established in provincial banks for each
administrative province; however, these working accounts would be
phased out as soon as an effective Treasury system has been
established at the provincial level, with the objective of
eliminating these accounts by the end of Government fiscal year
1994/95 (para. 5.12).
7.4      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a) the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Swiss Contribution Agreement (para. 4.8); and
(b) the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Norwegian Grant Agreement (para. 4.9).
7.5      Subject to the provisions in paras. 7.2 to 7.4 above, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 13.7 million
(US$19.0 million equivalent) to the Lao People's Democratic Republic, on
standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years and 10 years of grace.






- 38 -
ANNEXES






- 39 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 6
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Text of the Government's Letter of Education Policy
(Unofficial translation of the original French)
[Addressed to the President of the
International Development Association]
1.       I have the honor to communicate to you the principal orientations of
the education policy of the Government of the Lao PDR, which constitutes an
important basis for the preparation and approval of the Education Development
Project.
2.       The Lao Government is firmly committed to strengthening the
educational system as the cornerstone of a human resource development strategy
focussed on poverty alleviation and increased labor productivity. In August
1990, a National Conference of educational administration officials endorsed
the recommendations of the World Conference of Education for All held in
Jomtien, and affirmed the right of all citizens to quality basic education.
3.       The Constitution of the Lao PDR promulgated in August 1991 recognized
the right of all citizens to education, and instituted the principle of
compulsory primary education. It authorizes the operation of private schools
within the context of national education programs and anticipates the
development of education at all levels, with particular attention to ethnic
minority areas. The Government has reaffirmed the general objectives of its
"Education Sector Strategy to Year 2000," which also aims to stimulate the
development of preschool education, to develop a technical and intellectual
base, to reorganize upper secondary, vocational-technical and higher education
as a function of available school places and the socio-economic needs of the
country, and to reduce illiteracy. Emphasis is placed on the improvement of
the quality of education with a view to progressively upgrading Lao education
to international standards, on the complementarity of education within and
outside the country, and the relevance of education to family, social and
economic life.
4.       To implement this policy, it will be necessary to increase the
efficiency of educational management, improve the quality of education, and
expand access to the improved system. Immediate priority is given to primary
education. However, taking into account the needs for social and economic
development, it is equally necessary to improve and develop secondary
education, in a well-planned manner, especially the lower secondary cycle.
5.       These objectives will be incorporated into a draft Education Act on
the organization of education which will eventually be submitted by the
Government for approval by the National Assembly.



- 40 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 6
Increasing the Efficiency of Educational Management
6.       The Government aims to restructure the administration and management
of the system, with a view to reconcentrating the mobilization of public
resources for education and redistributing these equitably among provinces and
districts. To this effect, statutory measures will be taken to define the
hierarchical and functional articulation of powers and functions, and to
establish responsibilities in decision-making and management at the central,
provincial, district and school levels. Administrators at all levels will be
trained to perform their new functions according to precise ministerial
instructions, with the long-term objective of building sufficient capacities
in the analysis, planning and management of education policy.
7.       An educational management information system will be built around an
annual census of schools, supplemented by periodic inventories, surveys and
research studies, each providing data to manage, monitor and evaluate
educational inputs, processes and outcomes. School mapping and micro-planning
will be undertaken on a continuing basis to provide the geographical,
demographic and more detailed school data necessary to improve efficiency in
the utilization of educational resources and to ensure equity in access to
schools.  School principals and staff of the Ministry of Education and Sports,
its provincial and district services will be trained in procedures and
techniques related to the use of information for planning, management,
monitoring and evaluation.
8.       With regard to internal efficiency, measures will be taken to reduce
unit costs per student and per graduate, and thereby free resources which can
be directed to raising quality and expanding access. To improve internal
efficiency at the primary level, the Government aims to reduce dropout and
thereby increase the proportion of first-grade entrants reaching the final
grade of the cycle, and to reduce repetition rates. This will be achieved by
implementing a policy on continuous progression, supported by student
assessment and remedial instruction in the basic subjects, throughout the
cycle to assist students diagnosed to be in need of such assistance.
Complementary measures aimed at improving quality and, consequently, student
achievement, will also contribute to reducing repetition and improving student
progression.
9.       The normalization of student-teach ratios in secondary education will
result in expanded access to the lower secondary level, which would permit the
absorption of an increased number of primary school graduates. In view of the
anticipated increase in the demand for admission to each of the secondary
cycles, a merit-based selection policy will be established in conjunction with
a system of national public examinations.
10.      Improved efficiency in the utilization of teachers will be reflected
in higher student-teacher ratios. At the primary level, this objective will
be achieved mainly by the systematic organization of multigrade classes,
principally in small rural schools. Teachers will be suitably trained in this
regard. At the secondary level, the student-teacher ratios will be raised by
training teachers to teach in more than one curricular area and increasing



- 41 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
effective teaching hours to statutory levels. The utilization of teachers in
both primary and secondary education will also be improved by increasing the
size of schools.
11.      The outcomes of school mapping will help determine appropriate
locations where schools of an optimal size can be established, and may also
lead to the consolidation of small schools where this would not have
detrimental effects on access. Standard school and classroom designs, of more
durable structures, will be elaborated to assure greater efficiency in
investment expenditures. They will favor to the extent possible local
construction materials and techniques, so that communities can continue to
actively participate in the construction of their schools.
12.      Student scholarships at the secondary level will be allocated on a
more selective basis to academically qualified students whose financial
resources are insufficient to allow them to continue their studies and giving
priority to study options which will be necessary for the socio-economic
development of the country.
13.      With regard to pre-service teacher education, this will be
concentrated in 11 sites including five combined teacher training colleges for
primary and lower secondary teachers, five colleges for lower secondary
teaches and one Institute of Pedagogy for the training of upper secondary
teachers. Within the framework of a national teacher training plan, policies
on admissions to teacher training institutions and subsequent teacher
assignments will be elaborated, with a view to ensuring that the number of
teacher training graduates coincides with national needs.
Improving the Quality of Education
14.      New curricula, textbooks, teacher guides and other corresponding
instructional materials will be centered around a limited number of integrated
basic subjects, emphasizing problem-solving, learning-to-learn and creative
skills, as well as the role of schools in society and the preservation of the
environment. Towards the end of the upper secondary cycle, options for
advanced studies in the basic disciplines will be created. The grade-to-grade
promotion examinations will be replaced by school-based assessment aimed at
continuously identifying the adjustments required to improve student mastery
of knowledge and skills defined by the new curriculum. National examinations,
while serving mainly as selection mechanisms between cycles, will also be
designed to provide schools with systematic feedback on teaching effectiveness
and student performance.
15.      The policy of the Government will be to provide, as far as possible,
each student with one copy of the required textbooks to be produced in
conjunction with the development of the new curricula. In order to meet these
targets, the Government will develop local publishing capabilities, and
utilize the most cost-efficient means to print, distribute and utilize
textbooks and other instructional materials. Provincial and district
education services will have final responsibility for the distribution of
books and other materials within their respective constituencies.



- 42 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
16.      The policy of the Government is that communities participate in the
construction of primary schools, while the construction of secondary schools
will become the main responsibility of the provinces. The Government plans to
provide to local communities the advice and technical and material support
needed to rehabilitate and construct school facilities of good quality. This
support will be provided through decentralized construction support units,
which will be established in provinces and staffed with civil works
technicians who would guide and supervise the construction executed by the
communities. The communities and the school administration will assure the
maintenance of the school infrastructure.
17.      The Government intends to improve the quality of teachers by
standardizing and strengthening pre-service education in teacher training
colleges, institutionalizing in-service training, and establishing a
pedagogical support system. The Government will upgrade the facilities and
quality of the teaching staff of the selected teacher training institutions
which will offer pre-service teacher education programs certified by the
Ministry of Education for primary and lower secondary teachers. Upper
secondary teachers will continue to be trained at the Institute of Pedagogy
which the Government will strengthen as a teacher training institution, and
will convert into a national university after appropriate study. The teacher
training programs will be revised in accordance with the new standards and
with the new general education curricula. The objective will be to balance
theory and practice, and to develop pedagogical skills, including multigrade
teaching and student assessment, while strengthening the academic knowledge
of future teachers.
18.      A system of in-service upgrading is under the responsibility of the
Department of Teacher Training, while the development of the programs under
this system will be the responsibility of the Teacher Development Center to be
established at the Institute of Pedagogy, in collaboration with the concerned
departments of the Ministry of Education. The first in-service training
priority will be given to the orientation of teachers to the new school
curricula. This training will utilize for its basic training package the
newly-developed textbooks and teacher guides. School principals will also be
trained to better perform both their educational and administrative functions.
A system of pedagogical assistance and control will be created to provide an
institutional support system to teachers and principals in their place of
work, as well as to evaluate the adequacy of school resources and outcomes.
For the primary level, a certain number of teachers will be selected from
among the most experienced and effective to be trained in the functions of
Pedagogical Advisers. In-service training will be offered at the Teacher
Development Center for upper secondary teachers, and in teacher training
colleges for primary and lower secondary teachers.
19.      To improve efficiency and the quality of education in schools in
ethnic minority areas, functional networks of neighboring schools would be
established around a central guide-school to coordinate the activities and
promote continuous material and pedagogical support among the schools.



- 43 -
Annex l
Page 5 of 6
20.      Quality improvements in the training and supervision of teachers will
be accompanied by measures to recruit qualified teachers and retain them in
the system. The Government will continue to explore the possibility of
establishing appropriate incentives through a more flexible salary structure.
The Government also intends to reform the administrative and financial
structures as required for the regular payment of teachers' salaries, and to
further improve conditions for teachers by ensuring adequate salaries and
career patterns that take into account their qualifications and increase the
competitiveness of the teaching profession. With the agreement of the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education will organize the payment of
teacher salaries through its deconcentrated services. Improved teaching
conditions are expected to attract more qualified applicants for admission to
teacher training institutions. The system of provincial quotas, currently
used for selection into teacher training programs, will be reconsidered as a
consequence.
Expanding Access to Improved Education
21.      The objective of the Government is to universalize primary education
and to revitalize secondary education. Every effort will be made to raise the
share of female enrollments. At the primary level, particularly in rural
areas, the systematic organization of multigrade classes will improve not only
the efficiency of teacher utilization but will also help provide all students
with the possibility of access to the full primary cycle. In the medium-term,
boarding facilities will continue to be provided for rural and other
disadvantaged students to promote educational opportunities. In urban areas,
the double-shifting will continue to be practiced on the condition that this
does not involve a reduction of the study program nor affect the quality of
teaching. To meet the recurrent costs corresponding to the projected
expansion and improvements, the annual budget allocated to education will be
gradually increased as a function of sector needs and the priority given to
the sector, and taking into account the economic growth of the country.
22.      The Government will establish nonformal education programs directed
towards seven main target groups: (i) children estimated to have never
attended school; (ii) children who have prematurely dropped out of school;
(iii) children who have completed primary school but do not have access to
secondary schooling; (iv) the population between 15 and 40 years of age that
are estimated to be illiterate; (v) civil servants and cadres who have less
than a lower secondary school degree; (vi) ethnic minorities who remain out of
the mainstream of education and training because of their geographic and
cultural isolation; and (vii) women, particularly those in rural areas, who
are insufficiently educated concerning family health and safe motherhood. To
address the education and training needs of these groups, and to implement a
coherent nonformal education policy and strategies, concerned institutions and
staff will be strengthened, and collaboration with nongovernmental
organizations will be sought. Literacy programs linked to skills training
will be offered to illiterate adults and out-of-school youth; the academic
level of all cadres and civil servants will be raised to completion of lower
secondary education through equivalency programs; and literacy programs
oriented specifically oriented towards income-generating activities will be



- 44 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 6
offered to ethnic minorities after a self-assessment of needs. All these
nonformal education programs will aim to improve living and working conditions
of the participants in their natural and cultural environments, and to develop
activities oriented towards self-sufficiency and employment, in order that
they can contribute to, and benefit from, the social and economic development
of the nation.
23.      To improve the efficiency of post-secondary education, the Government
also aims to reform vocational-technical and higher education. Conceptual and
feasibility studies will be undertaken to serve as the basis for establishing
plans, programs and development projects as a function of the labor market
needs in the service of the socio-economic development of the country.
Vientiane, 8 January 1993
(Signed by the Minister of Education and Sports]



- 45 -
Annex 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Data
Country Data (1991)
Area                             237,000 sq. km.
Population                       4.2 million
Population density               17 per sq. km.
Annual population growth         2.8%
GNP per capita                   US$230
Adult literacy (1985)            44%
Sector Data (1990)
Percent    Gross enrollment
Education Level      Age Group    Enrollments    female            rate (%)
Pre-school               3-5          35,000       n.a.             2
Primary                  6-10        560,000        45            100
General secondary
Lower                 11-13         94,000        40             30
Upper                 14-16         32,000        38             12
Vocational-technical   11-16            9,000      n.a.             2
Teacher training        11-16         10,000        38              2
Higher                  17-22          4,000        37              1
Students/ Students/
Education Level   Schools  Enrollments  Classes  Teachers    class    teacher
Primary             6,500     560,000    23,900    19,970        23      28
Lower secondary       680      94,000      2,800     7,400       34      13
Upper secondary       120      32,000        800     2,600       40      12
n.a. - not available



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Structure of the Education System
12   13   14   15   16   17   Nedicine
Higher               13   14   15                Pharmacy and Engineering
L14                    Upper Secondary Teacher Training
Technical Training
Post Secondary                         Lower Secondary Teacher Training
Past Secondary
Primary Teacher Training
Vocational-Technical Training  Ch
Upper-Secondary                                           Lower Secondary Teacher Training
Upper-Secondary
Primary Teacher Training
General Upper Secondary
Vocational Education
Lower Secondary            6    7    8                                                           Primary Teacher Training
L                                                                             General Lower Secondary
Primary        1                     5
Pre -
school    1
1    2    3    4    5          6    7    8        9   t0   11       12   13   14   15   16   17   Years of Schooling
1   2   3    4    5         6    7    8    9   10         11    12  13        14   11   16       17   18   19   20   21   22   Aze



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Primary and Secondary Education Pyramid
(General Education Enrollments, 1990)
Ate  Grade                                                                                                                                                    Total
16   11                                                            5,600                             3,700                                                   9,300
15   10                                                            6,200                             4,000                                                  10,200
14   9                                                             7,800                             4,600                                                  12,400
Upper Secondary                                             (622)  19,600                            12,300  (382)                                           31,900
13   8                                                            15,700                            10,300                                                  26,000     .
12   7                                                            17,300                            11,900                                                  29,200
11   6                                                            23.000                            15,600                                                  38,600
Lower Secondary                                             (602)  56,000                            37,800  (402)                                           93,800
10   5             31,900                                                                                                                23,600             55,500
9   4            37,100                                                                                                                 29,400             66,500
.................
8   3    48,200   __   :r.r.r  ..................... E - r :: r ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ r:~~.38,   ooo  . .........    86,200..
8   3       ~~48,200                                                                                                               38,000             86,200
7   2             68,800                                                                                 ..........                     53,100            121,900
132,800  _                                                                                                            100.900            233,700
Primary   (552)  318,700                                                         Male      Female                                        245,000  (452)   563,700



- 48 -
Annex 5
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Structure of the Ministry of Education and Sports
Minister
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
First
Vice-Minister         Vice-Minister         Vice-Minister         Vice-Minister
Cabinet and           Preschool             Sports and            Higher,
Research              Education             Physical              Technical and
Education             Vocational
Education
Organization          General
and Personnel         Education             Literacy
and Adult             External
Education             Relations
Planning and          Teacher
Finance               Training
Student
Selection
Information         j Institute
of Pedagogy
National
Research                                                        X Polytechnic
Institute for                                                   j Institute
Educational
Sciences
Warehouse
Instructional
Materials
Factory
I     
Note:
Chalk Factory
--------------                                                     Ministry
Department
I Educational
I Printing                                                        I Attached
Enterprise                                                      I Agency



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION
ENROLLMERT PROJECTIONS, 1990-2000
------------------------------------------------------__---------------------__-----------------------------------------------------__-----
SCHOOL YEAR      1990/91    1991/92    1992/93    1993/94    1994/95    1995/96    1996/97    1997/98    1998/99    99/2000
TOTAL NEW ENTRANTS              143,400    144,300    146,100    148,800    152,500    157,200    162,100    167,100    172,300    177,700
Population age 6               118,800    122,500    126,300    130,200    134,200    138,400    142,700    147,100    151,700    156,400
Total intake rate                 1.21       1.18       1.16        1.14       1.14       1.14       1.14        1.14       1.14       1.14
ENROLLMENT Grade 1              236,900    239,100    241,700    245,500    250,700    247,500    241,300    234,700    228,600    223,400
Repetition rate                   0.40       0.40       0.40       0.40        0.36       0.32       0.28       0.24        0.20       0.16
Dropout rate                      0.25       0.25       0.25       0.25        0.23       0.22       0.20       0.18        0.17       0.15
Promotion rate                    0.35       0.35       0.35       0.35        0.41       0.46       0.52       0.58        0.63       0.69
ENROLLMENT Grade 2              118,400    118,400    119,200    120,400    122,000    134,900    147,000    156,400    163,500    169,300
Repetition rate                   0.30       0.30       0.30       0.30        0.27       0.24       0.21       0.18        0.15       0.12
Dropout rate                      0.20       0.20       0.20       0.20        0.18       0.17       0.15       0.13        0.12       0.10
Promotion rate                    0.50       0.50       0.50       0.50        0.55       0.59       0.64       0.69        0.73       0.78
ENROLLMENT Grade 3               78,200     74,800     74,200     74,400      75,100     80,200     92,900    107,100    120,200    131,900
Repetition rate                   0.20       0.20       0.20       0.20        0.18       0.16       0.14       0.12        0.10       0.08
Dropout rate                      0.15       0.15       0.15       0.15        0.14       0.12       0.11       0.10        0.09       0.08   .
Promotion rate                    0.65       0.65       0.65       0.65        0.68       0.72       0.75       0.78        0.81       0.85   '
ENROLLMENT Grade 4               69,300     64,700     61,600     60,500      60,500     62,100     67,300     78,800      93,000    107,000
Repetition rate                   0.20       0.20       0.20       0.20        0.18       0.16       0.14       0.12        0.10       0.08
Dropout rate                      0.10       0.10       0.10       0.10        0.09       0.08       0.08       0.07        0.06       0.05
Promotion rate                    0.70       0.70       0.70       0.70        0.73       0.76       0.79       0.81       0.84        0.87
ENROLLMENT Grade 5               54,900     56,700     53,800     51,200      50,000     50,800     53,100     58,400      69,400     83,500
Repetition rate                   0.15       0.15       0.15       0.15        0.14       0.12       0.11       0.09        0.08       0.06
Dropout rate                      0.10       0.10       0.10       0.10        0.09       0.08       0.08       0.07        0.06       0.05
Promotion rate                    0.75       0.75       0.75       0.75        0.77       0.80       0.82       0.84       0.87        0.89
TOTAL                  557,600    553,700    550,400    552,000    558,300    575,500    601,600    635,400    674,700    715,100
Repeaters as proportion
of total enrollments               0.30       0.30       0.30       0.30        0.30       0.27       0.23       0.20        0.17       0.14
Population age 6-10             553,700    570,300    587,400    605,000    623,200    641,900    661,100    681,000    701,400    722,400
Gross enrollment rate              1.01       0.97       0.94        0.91       0.90       0.90       0.91       0.93        0.96       0.99
mb 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0
__4q 



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOWER SECONDARY EDUCATION
ENROLMUENT PROJECTIONS, 1990-2000
------------------------------------------------------__---------------------__-----------------------------------------------------__-----
SCHOOL YEAR      1990/91    1991/92    1992/93    1993/94    1994195    19959/6    1996/97    1997/98    1996/99    99/2000
TOTAL HE  ENTRAJTS               34,900      35,500     36,200     36,100      36,100     36,400     37,600      39,800     42,600     46,000
Primry school graduates         41,600     41,100      42,600     40,300      36,400     36,700     40,500      43,500     49,300     60,100
Transition rate                   0.84        0.66       0.65       0.90        0.94       0.94       0.93        0.92       0.87        0.77
ENROLLMENT Grade 6               39,100      39,800     40,600     40,600      40,500     40,500     41,400      43,300     45,600     46,900
Repetition rate                   0.11        0.11       0.11       0.11        0.10       0.09       0.08        0.07       0.06       0.05
Dropout rate                      0.19        0.19       0.19       0.19        0.18       0.16       0.15        0.14       0.13        0.11
Promotion rate                    0.70        0.70       0.70       0.70        0.72       0.74       0.77        0.79       0.81       0.63
ENROLLMENT Grade 7               29,400      29,700     30,300     30,800      30,900     31,500     32,200      33,600     35,800     38,700
Repetition rate                   0.08        0.06       0.06       0.08        0.07       0.07       0.06        0.05       0.05        0.04
Dropout rate                      0.14        0.14       0.14       0.14        0.13       0.12       0.11        0.10       0.09        0.08
Promotion rate                    0.78        0.78       0.78       0.78        0.80       0.81       0.83        0.84       0.86        0.88
ENROLLMENT Grade S               25,300      25,500     25,700     26,200      26,600     27,000     27,800      28,700     30,300      32,600
Repetition rate                   0.10        0.10       0.10       0.10        0.09       0.08       0.08        0.07       0.06        0.05
Dropout rate                      0.20        0.20       0.20       0.20        0.19       0.17       0.16        0.15       0.13        0.12
Promotion rate                    0.70        0.70       0.70       0.70        0.72       0.74       0.77        0.79       0.81        0.83
TOTAL                    93,900     95,000      96,600     97,600     98,100      99,000    101,400    105,600    111,900    120,200
Repeater. as proportion
of total enrollments              0.10        0.10       0.10       0.10        0.10       0.09       0.08        0.07       0.06        0.05
Population age 11-13           294,700    303,300    312,100    321,100    330,400    340,000    349,900    360,000    370,500    381,200
Gross enrollment rate             0.32        0.31       0.31       0.30        0.30       0.29        0.29       0.29       0.30        0.32
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__------------------------------------------------------------
0
U'Y



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMET PROJECT
UPPER SECONDARY EDUCATION
ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS, 1990-2000
SCHOOL YEAR      1990|91    1991/92    1992/93    1993/94    1994/95    1995/96    1996/97    1997/98    1998/99    99/2000
TOTAL NEWI ENTRARTS            11,300     11,300     11,500     11,700     12,000     12,400     13,000    13,600     14,500     15,400
Lover secondary graduates     18,200     17,700     17,800     18,000     18,300     19,200    20,100     21,300     22,600     24,500
Transition rate                 0.62       0.64       0.65       0.65       0.66       0.65      0.65       0.64       0.64       0.63
ENROLLMENT Grade 9              12,400    12,500     12,600     12,900     13,200     13,500     14,000    14,600     15,300     16,200
Repetition rate                 0.09       0.09       0.09       0.09       0.08       0.08      0.07       0.06       0.05       0.05
Dropout rate                    0.16       0.16       0.16       0.16       0.15       0.14      0.13       0.12       0.11       0.10
Promotion rate                  0.75       0.75       0.75       0.75       0.77       0.79      0.80       0.82       0.84       0.86
ENROLLMENT Grade 10             9,900      9,900      9,900     10,100     10,200     10,700     11,100    11,700     12,500     13,300
Repetition rate                 0.06       0.06       0.06       0.06       0.06       0.05      0.05       0.04       0.04       0.03
Dropout rate                    0.07       0.07       0.07       0.07       0.07       0.06      0.06       0.05       0.05       0.04
Promotion rate                  0.87       0.87       0.87       0.87       0.88       0.89      0.90       0.91       0.92       0.93
k.,,
ENROLLMENT Grade 11             9,800      9,600      9,600      9,600      9,700      9,900     10,300    10,800     11,400     12,100   ,
Repetition rate                 0.10       0.10       0.10       0.10       0.09       0.08      0.08       0.07       0.06       0.05
Dropout rate                    0.10       0.10       0.10       0.10       0.09       0.09      0.08       0.07       0.07       0.06
Promotion rate                  0.80       0.80       0.80       0.80       0.82       0.83      0.85       0.86       0.88       0.89
TOTAL                  32,100     31,900     32,100     32,500     33,100     34,100    35,400     37,100     39,200     41,700
Repeaters as proportion
of total enrollments            0.08       0.08       0.08       0.08       0.08       0.07       0.07      0.06       0.05       0.05
Population age 14-16         269,000    276,500    284,200    292,200    300,400    308,800    317,400    326,300    335,400    344,800
Gross enrollment rate           0.12       0.12       0.11       0.11       0.11       0.11       0.11      0.11       0.12       0.12
0q
w 
0
e.n



- 52 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 5
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expected Students' Flow through the Education System (1990-2000)
PRIMARY            ~LOWER                     UPPER
PRIMARY         J       SECONDARY                 SECONDARY
100 
6 \   >    63% Survival
60    801 M   Completion
48 i77 e Traniton
80% Survival
32 1  70% Completlon
63% Transiton
30 - :   30% Survival
26 1   26% Completion
22 z    85% Transition                             17   86% Survival
16   81% Completion
67% Survival
12    52% Completion
7    65% Transit,on__ 
6   76% Surval
5 1 t  68% Completion
19W90                                                                   ,
- - - -    199g000



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
TEACHER PROJECTIONS, 1990-2000
------------------------------------------------------__---------------------__--___-----------__________----------_---_------------__-----
SCHOOL YEAR      1990/91    1991/92    1992/93    1993/94    1994/95    1995/96    1996/97    1997/98    1998/99    99/2000
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__------------------------------------------------------------
PRIMARY EDUCATION
Total enrollments             557,600    553,700    550,400    552,000    558,300    575,500    601,600    635,400    674,700    715,100
Student-teacher ratio            28.0       28.0       28.0        28.0       28.8       29.7       30.5       31.3       32.2       33.0
Total teacher requirement.     19,900     19,800     19,700      19,700     19,400     19,400     19,700     20,300     21,000     21,700
Grade 1                       8,500      8,500      8,600      8,800       8,700      8,300      7,900      7,500      7,100      6,800
Grade 2                       4,200      4,200      4,300      4,300       4,200      4,500      4,800      5,000      5,100      5,100
Grade 3                       2,800      2,700      2,600      2,700       2,600      2,700      3,000      3,400      3,700      4,000
Grade 4                       2,500      2,300      2,200      2,200       2,100      2,100      2,200      2,500      2,900      3,200
Grade 5                       2,000      2,000      1,900       1,800      1,700      1,700      1,700      1,900      2,200      2,500
LOWER SECONDARY EDUCATION
Total enrollment               93,900     95,000     96,600     97,600      98,100     99,000    101,400    105,600    111,900    120,200
Student-teacher ratio            13.0       13.0       13.0        13.0       15.0       17.0       19.0       21.0       23.0       25.0
Total teacher requirements      7,200      7,300      7,400      7,500       6,500      5,800      5,300      5,000      4,900      4,800
Grade 6                       3,000      3,100      3,100      3,100       2,700      2,400      2,200      2,100      2,000      2,000
Grade 7                       2,300      2,300      2,300      2,400       2,100      1,900      1,700      1,600      1,600      1,500    -
Grade 8                       1,900      2,000      2,000      2,000       1,800      1,600      1,500      1,400      1,300      1,300   L.
UPPER SECONDARY EDUCATION
Total enrollment               32,100     31,900     32,100     32,500      33,100     34,100     35,400     37,100     39,200     41,700
Student-teacher ratio            12.0       12.0       12.0        12.0       14.2       16.3       18.5       20.7       22.8       25.0
Total teacher requirements      2,700      2,700      2,700      2,700       2,300      2,100      1,900      1,800      1,700      1,700
Grade 9                       1,000      1,000      1,100       1,100        900        800        800        700        700        600
Grade 10                        600        800        800        800         700        700        600        600        500        500
Grad  11                        800        800        800        800         700        600        600        500        5oo        500
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__------------------------------------------------------------
0
LR>



- 54 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 4
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Public Recurrent Expenditures for Education: Past Trends and Proiections a/
Table 1: Estimated Public Recurrent Expenditures for Education, 1988-90
Expenditures in current Kip million
Level of education                           1988         1989         1990
General education
Primary                                 1,020        1,694        4,596
Lower secondary                           430          740        2,030
Upper secondary                            276         442        1,370
Total, primary and secondary education   1,726           2,876        7,996
Total, preschool, teacher training,
vocational-technical, higher
education, and administration              545       1,544        4,389
Total, all levels                           2,271        4,420      12,385
Total public recurrent expenditures        28,038       39,936      65,877
Gross Domestic Product                    192,700     333,670      490,750
Share of primary and secondary
expenditures in:
Total public recurrent expenditures    6.2%           7.2%        12.3%
Gross Domestic Product                   0.9%         0.9%         1.6%
Share of total education expenditures in:
Total public recurrent expenditures    8.1%          11.0%        18.8%
Gross Domestic Product                    1.1%        1.3%         2.5%
A/ Details are in the following documents available in the project file (see
Annex 18 for full references): Mingat (September 1989, February 1990,
April 1990, March 1991); Magnen (April 1991); and Botti (December 1991).



- 55 -
Page 2 of 4
Table 2: Estimated Public Recurrent Expenditures for Education
by Level of Education, 1990
Share in
Level of education/                      Amount in current         total
Type of expenditure                         Kip million       expenditures
Primary education
Salaries (95%)                              4,377
Operating costs (5%)                          219
Sub-total, primary                          4,596              37%
Lower secondary education
Salaries (85%)                              1,725
Operating costs (5%)                          305
Sub-total, lower secondary                  2,030              17%
Upper secondary education
Salaries (50%)                                685
Operating Costs (50%)                         685
Sub-total, upper secondary                  1,370              11%
Total, primary and secondary education         7,996               65%
Preschool education                              314               2%
Teacher training                                  838               7%
Vocational-technical education                    965               8%
Higher education                                  772               6%
Administration                                  1,500              12%
Total, all levels                             12,385              100%



- 56 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
Table 3:  Estimated Public Recurrent Expenditures for Education, 1990-2000
Annual
rate of
1990         1995         2000   increase
Primary education
Enrollments (in thousands)               558          576          715        2.8%
Population age 6-10
(in thousands)                       554          642          722        3.0%
Gross enrollment ratio                  100%          90%          99%
Number of teachers                    19,910       19,400       21,670        1.0%
Student-teacher ratio                     28           30           33
Average annual salary a/
(in 1990 Kip thousand)              217.2        344.4        384.8        5.9%
Annual unit cost per student
(in 1990 Kip thousand)                8.1         12.5         13.7        5.4%
Total expenditures
(in 1990 Kip billion)                4.6          7.8         10.3        8.4%
Lower secondary education
Enrollments (in thousands)                94           99          120        2.8%
Population age 11-13
(in thousands)                       295          340          381        2.9%
Gross enrollment ratio                   32%          29%          32%
Number of teachers                     7,220        5,820        4,810       -4.6%
Student-teacher ratio                     13           17           25
Average annual salary g/
(in 1990 Kip thousand)              238.6        387.2        434.5        6.2%
Annual unit cost per student
(in 1990 Kip thousand)               21.6         24.2         21.7          0%
Total expenditures
(in 1990 Kip billion)                2.0          2.6          2.8        3.4%



- 57 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
Table 3 (continued)
Annual
rate of
1990        1995         2000   increase
Upper secondary education
Enrollments (in thousands)               32           34          42        3.1%
Population age 14-16
(in thousands)                       269         309          345        2.8%
Gross enrollment ratio                  12%          11%          12%
Number of teachers                    2,670        2,080       1,670       -5.4%
Student-teacher ratio                    12           16          25
Average annual salary -/
(in 1990 Kip thousand)             265.4        440.8        496.6        6.5%
Annual unit cost per student
(in 1990 Kip thousand)              41.5         44.1         39.7       -0.4%
Total expenditures
(in 1990 Kip billion)                1.4         1.7          1.9        3.1%
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)            490.8        626.2        799.9       5.0%
Total expenditures, primary and
secondary education
Amount (in 1990 Kip billion)            8.0         12.1        15.0        6.5%
Share of GDP                           1.6%         1.9%        1.9%
Total education recurrent
expenditures h/
Amount (in 1990 Kip billion)           12.3         18.6         23.1       6.5%
Share of GDP                           2.5%         3.0%        2.9%
a/ Assumes 1990 salaries are doubled by 1995 and increased by 3% per year
thereafter.
k/ Including preschool, teacher training, vocational-technical, higher
education and administration.



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Surary Account by Project Component
Kip
CURRICUL  INSTRUCT                                                                           PERFORMA
UN       IONAL    TEACHER   SCHOOL       LAO      SCHOOL              CONSTRUC  INFORMAT      NCE     CENTRAL    LOCAL    PROJECT
DEVELOPH  MATERIAL  TRAINING  NETUORKS  LANGUWAGE  RECONSTR  PROVINCI    TION         ION    ASSESSME  ADMINIST  ADMINIST   SUPPORT
ENT        S     /SUPPORT    PILOT      STUDY    UCTION   AL UNITS   SERVICE   SYSTEMS       NT       RATION    RATIONS    UNIT
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civit Works                          131.9       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0    1599.5       99.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      87.2     821.7        0.0
B. Construction Materials                 0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0    3430.7        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
C. Community Labor/MateriaLs              0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0    1708.5        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
D. Furniture                             16.3     250.2        0.0       0.0       0.0      807.9       10.9       2.9       0.0        0.0       7.5      36.2        0.0
E. Equipment/Vehicles                    72.2     114.4     639.9        0.0       0.0       15.2     205.3       24.4      32.2       0.0      100.1     124.7      40.8
F. Instructional Materials              30.7    3398.2        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
G. Local Training                       23.2       50.4    1793.2        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0     160.9       0.0       21.4     339.6        0.0
H. Foreign Training                     77.2       38.6     169.5        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       8.6      115.8       0.0       57.9       0.0      25.7
1. Local Speciatists                    97.2       18.6       0.0        0.0       0.0       56.0       5.9       0.0       28.6       0.0       51.5      88.5      51.5
J. Foreign Specialists                 293.1      280.3     282.4        0.0       0.0        0.0     300.3     247.4      180.2       0.0      240.2     120.1     823.7
K. Studies                                0.0       0.0        0.0     118.0      29.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      93.7        0.0       0.0        0.0
L. Management/Operations                52.7      193.0      160.4       0.0       0.0        0.0     443.5      159.0     300.3       0.0       42.9      25.0      117.5
LI'
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  794.7    4343.8    3045.4      118.0      29.0    7617.9    1064.9    442.3        818.0      93.7      608.8    1555.7    1059.2 co
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Incremental Recurrent                 53.2      57.2      308.6       0.0       0.0      293.1      127.2      27.6      14.7        0.0      52.4      72.3       17.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                   847.8    4401.0    3354.0       118.0      29.0    7911.0    1192.1       469.8     832.6       93.7     661.2    1628.0    1076.9
Physical Contingencies                39.7      217.5      153.4       5.9       1.4      380.9      55.1       22.9      40.9       4.7       30.4      79.0       53.0
Price Contingencies                    72.3     450.0     463.9       11.5       4.3    1277.4      161.1       45.8     106.8       14.8      67.7     292.4      124.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                    959.8    5068.5    3971.3       135.3      34.7    9569.3    1408.3       538.6     980.3      113.1     759.4    1999.3    1254.8
Taxes                                  15.9      28.4        0.0       0.0       0.0      557.7      18.1        0.3       0.0       0.0       10.2     104.8        0.0
Foreign Exchange                     654.5    4351.6    1814.7        79.4      20.2    5645.0      910.2     392.9      607.3      65.6      524.2    1046.0    1020.0
Vatues Scaled by 1000000.0 3/19/1993 11:04
0
t-tX



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumary Account by Project Component
Kip
Physical          Price
Contingencies     Contingencies
Total        X     Amount       X   Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                        2739.3        5.0     137.0    15.5      425.0
B. Construction Haterials             3430.7        5.0     171.5    12.3      422.4
C. Community Labor/Materials          1708.5        5.0      85.4    21.9      373.5
D. Furniture                           1132.0       5.0      56.6    12.8      145.0
E. Equipment/VehicLes                 1369.1        5.0      68.5      3.9      53.2
F. Instructional Materials            3428.9        5.0     171.4    10.5      359.0
6. Local Training                     2388.8        5.0     119.4    18.1      431.8
H. Foreign Training                    493.3        5.0      24.7      6.9      34.1
I. Local Specialists                   397.7        5.0      19.9    15.7       62.6
J. Foreign Specialists                2767.8        5.0     138.4    10.5      292.0
K. Studies                             240.6        5.0      12.0    12.7       30.6
L. Management/Operations              1494.4        5.0      74.7    14.6      218.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               21591.3        5.0    1079.6    13.2    2847.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Incremental Recurrent              1023.9        0.5       5.2    23.9      245.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                 22615.2        4.8    1084.8    13.7    3092.9
Physical Contingencies              1084.8
Price Contingencies                 3092.9        4.4     136.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                  26792.8        4.6    1221.6    11.5    3092.9
Taxes                                735.4        4.8      35.0
Foreign Exchange                   17131.6        4.8     815.8
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3/19/1993 11:04
0
0 D



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Kip
Suary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                        Foreign Exchange
93/94     94/95     95/96      96/97     97/98      98/99     Total          X    Anut
*---=-=-===fl=s=.====s=====s======r=fl=s==s-=sss..=zc:===L======:===s===: ============u===S=
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civit Vorks                        219.1     244.5     475.8      604.8     677.5      517.5    2739.3         60.0   1643.6
B.  Construction Materials            171.5     411.7     686.1      823.4     823.4      514.6    3430.7         90.0   3087.7
C.  Coeu.nity Labor/Haterials         85.4      205.0     341.7      410.0     410.0      256.3    1708.5          0.0      0.0
0.  Furniture                          84.1      79.8      179.1     227.4     271.1      290.4    1132.0         90.0   1018.8
E.  Equlpm_nt/Vehicles               900.5      286.4     120.9       19.1      22.0       20.3    1369.1         90.0   1232.2
F.  Instructional Materials          528.1      614.6     719.1      642.2     602.5      322.5    3428.9        90.0   3086.0
G.  Local Training                    67.9      607.0     331.0      582.0     325.3      475.5    2388.8         30.0    716.6
H.  Foreign Training                  190.9      89.0     123.3       38.6      25.7       25.7     493.3         90.0    444.0
1.  Local Specialists                 67.9       66.1      74.1       74.6      68.4       46.6     397.7        30.0    119.3
J.  Foreign Specialists              534.1      455.5     481.9      479.8     440.4      376.1    2767.8        90.0   2491.0
K. Studies                             9.7       93.7      38.3       47.5      24.3       27.2     240.6         60.0    144.4
L. Nanageiment/Operations            186.4      233.3     259.0      273.6     271.1      270.9    1494.4        60.0    896.6
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS              3045.8    3386.6    3830.4    4223.1    3961.8    3143.5   21591.3            68.9  14880.2
11. RECLURRENT COSTS
a- -
M.  Increeental Recurrent               4.0     107.7     158.6      205.6     250.3      297.5    1023.9          0.0      0.0                                            0
Total BASELINE COSTS                3049.9    3494.3    3989.0    4428.7    4212.1    3441.1   22615.2            65.8  14880.2
Physical Contingencies            152.5      169.8     192.5      212.4     199.3      158.4    1084.8        68.6    744.0
Price Contingencies                59.6      229.6     425.7      681.6     832.8      863.6    3092.9        48.7   1507.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                 3262.0    3893.7    4607.2    5322.7    5244.2    4463.0   26792.8            63.9  17131.6
SXSSSSSWSSSSSSSSSSSSSSZCSS===SSSSZZS                        ===  =Z.-z=
Taxes                              44.4       68.2     130.1      163.2     183.5      146.0     735.4         0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                 2621.2    2515.3    3020.4    3225.2    3214.9    2534.7   17131.6          100.0  17131.6
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3/19/1993 11:04
oq
0
0%



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMCXRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATIOH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suomary Accounts by Year
Totals IncLuding Contingencies                                       Totals Including Contingencies
Kip                                                                     USS
93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    Total         93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                       235.0    272.7    551.2    727.2    845.2    670.0   3301.3            0.3       0.4      0.8       1.0      1.2      0.9       4.6
B. Construction Materials            183.1    453.7    780.4    966.5    997.5    643.5   4024.7            0.3       0.6      1.1       1.4      1.4      0.9       5.6
C. Comumity Labor/Materials           92.6    235.6    413.2    520.6    546.7    358.8   2167.5            0.1       0.3      0.6       0.7      0.8      0.5       3.0
D. Furniture                          89.7      87.7    203.0    265.8    326.6    360.7   1333.5           0.1       0.1      0.3       0.4      0.5      0.5       1.9
E. Equipment/VehicIes                961.8    316.3    137.9      22.5      26.7     25.5   1490.8          1.3       0.4      0.2      0.0       0.0      0.0       2.1
F. Instructional Materials           564.0    678.7    820.5    757.0    733.6    405.6   3959.4            0.8      0.9       1.1       1.1      1.0      0.6      5.5
G. LocaL Training                     73.3    688.4    392.8    721.3    421.2    643.1   2940.1            0.1       1.0      0.5       1.0      0.6      0.9      4.1
H. Foreign Training                  203.9      98.3    140.7     45.5      31.3     32.4    552.2          0.3       0.1      0.2      0.1       0.0      0.0      0.8
1. Local Specialists                  73.3      75.0     87.9     92.4      88.6     63.1    480.2          0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.7
J. Foreign SpeciaLists               570.5    503.0    549.9   565.5    536.3    473.1  3198.1              0.8      0.7       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.7      4.5
K. Studies                            10.4    104.8      44.5     57.5      30.5     35.5    283.2          0.0       0.1      0.1      0.1       0.0      0.0       0.4
L. Management/Operations             200.1    261.1    301.5    330.8    340.5    353.6   1787.6            0.3       0.4      0.4      0.5       0.5      0.5       2.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              3257.6   3775.2   4423.5   5072.6   4924.8   4064.7  25518.5            4.6       5.3      6.2       7.1      6.9      5.7      35.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Incremental Recurrent               4.4    118.5    183.7   250.1    319.4    398.3   1274.3             0.0       0.2      0.3       0.3      0.4      0.6       1.8
Zs2z                  3S.==3 = =-  nSSSSSl S=.        3S ====l .= ;===== 7=.=S                                    ss.ss...s
Total PROJECT COSTS                 3262.0   3893.7   4607.2   5322.7   5244.2   4463.0  26792.8            4.6       5.4      6.4       7.4      7.3      6.2      37.5
Szss=-==t=mfl==zSS===..S==:==S.=s===t=sS.S=S=SSSSS===3.3zs===3S.S    z== _===SS====S-=====3z======z=s=S==-=.,,,,=Sfl==,=S=,.S=S===S==
Value  Scaled by 1000000.0  3/19/1993  11:04
o
o04



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Kip
Project Cocponents by Year
Base Costs                                 Total
93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    Kip      USS
ER =============S  ========S=:==z=K===_=======.==
A. CURRICULUM/PEDAGOGICAL
1. CURRICJLUM DEVELOPMENT          343.0    148.7    123.6    114.0      85.2    33.3    847.8        1.2
2. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS         873.1    775.8   864.8    750.7    719.0   417.6  4401.0           6.2
3. TEACHER TRAINING/SUPPORT        720.0    683.0    544.2    539.6    450.2    417.1   3354.0        4.7
4. SCHOOL NETWORKS PILOT             9.7    61.1      22.2      17.9      3.6      3.6    118.0       0.2
5. LAO LANGUAGE STLDY                0.0      6.1      6.1       9.7      3.6      3.6      29.0      0.0
Sub-total                           1945.8   1674.6   1560.8   1431.8   1261.6    875.2   8749.8       12.2
B. SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE
1. SCHOOL RECONSTRUCTION           262.8    7T7.7  1467.3   1887.7   2018.4   1497.0   7911.0        11.1
2. PROVINCIAL UNITS                 81.4    243.8   294.1    222.4    205.2    145.2   1192.1         1.7
3. CONSTRUCTION SERVICE            168.0     77.8     70.9      51.0     51.0     51.0    469.8       0.7
Sub-total                            512.2   1099.4   1832.3   2161.1   2274.7   1693.2  9572.9    13.4
C. SECTOR PLANNING, M&E
1. INFORMATION SYSTEMS             144.1    188.8    129.4    140.1      93.7    136.6    832.6       1.2
2. PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT            0.0     26.5      10.0     20.0     17.2     20.0     93.7       0.1
Sub-totaL                            144.1    215.2    139.4    160.2    110.8    156.6    926.3        1.3                                                             cA
D. ADMINISTRATION/MANAGEMENT
1. CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION          228.1    112.4     80.2      80.2     80.2     80.2    661.2       0.9
2. LOCAL ADMINISTRATIONS            35.7    195.1    202.5    421.6    311.0    462.0   1628.0        2.3
3. PROJECT SUPPORT UNIT            184.0    197.6    173.8    173.8    173.8    173.8   1076.9        1.5
Sub-totaL                            447.9    505.1    456.5    675.6    565.1    716.1   3366.2        4.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                3049.9   3494.3   3989.0   4428.7   4212.1   3441.1  22615.2       31.6
Physical Contingencies            152.5    169.8    192.5    212.4    199.3    158.4   1084.8        1.5
Price Contingencies                59.6   229.6   425.7    681.6    832.8   863.6   3092.9           4.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                 3262.0  3893.7  4607.2   5322.7  5244.2  4463.0  26792.8    37.5
Taxes                              44.4     68.2    130.1    163.2   183.5    146.0    735.4         1.0
Foreign Exchange                 2621.2   2515.3   3020.4   3225.2   3214.9   2534.7  17131.6       24.0
VaLues Scaled by 1000000.0 3/19/1993 11:04
P 3
a'



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projects Cowponents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                       Totals Including Contingencies
Kip                                                                     USS
93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    Total         93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    Total
A. CURRICULUM/PEDAGOGICAL
1. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT          367.3    165.0    142.5    136.5    105.3       43.2    959.8          0.5      0.2       0.2      0.2      0.1       0.1      1.3
2. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS         933.2    857.0    987.4    885.9    877.0    528.0   5068.5            1.3       1.2      1.4      1.2       1.2      0.7      7.1
3. TEACHER TRAINING/SUPPORT        769.1    769.8    636.2    661.8    577.3    557.1   3971.3            1.1       1.1      0.9      0.9       0.8      0.8      5.6
4. SCHOOL NETWORKS PILOT            10.4      68.4     25.8     21.6       4.5      4.7    135.3          0.0       0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.2
5. LAO LANGUAGE STLDY                0.0       6.8      7.1     11.7       4.5      4.7     34.7          0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Sub-Total                            2079.9   1867.1   1799.0  1717.5   1568.6   1137.6  10169.7             2.9       2.6      2.5      2.4       2.2      1.6      14.2
B. SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE
1. SCHOOL RECONSTRUCTION           281.9    868.5   1699.9  2268.9   2517.1   1933.0   9569.3             0.4      1.2       2.4      3.2      3.5       2.7     13.4
2. PROVINCIAL UNITS                 87.1    270.9    339.2    266.2    255.4    189.6   1408.3            0.1      0.4       0.5      0.4       0.4      0.3      2.0
3. CONSTRUCTION SERVICE            179.6      86.3     81.7     61.3      63.6     66.0    538.6          0.3       0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.8
Sub-Total                             548.6   1225.7   2120.8   2596.3   2836.0   2188.6  11516.1            0.8       1.7      3.0      3.6       4.0      3.1      16.1
C. SECTOR PLANNING, M&E
1. INFORMATION SYSTEMS             154.3    210.9    149.3    170.0    116.7    179.1    980.3            0.2      0.3       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.3      1.4
2. PERFORKANCE ASSESSMENT            0.0     29.6      11.6     24.2      21.6     26.1    113.1          0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.2
Sub-Total                             154.3    240.5    161.0    194.3    138.2    205.3   1093.5            0.2       0.3      0.2      0.3       0.2      0.3       1.5    t
D. ADMINISTRATION/MANAGEMENT
1. CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION          244.1    124.5      92.3     95.8      99.4    103.2    759.4          0.3      0.2       0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      1.1
2. LOCAL ADMINISTRATIONS            38.3    217.2    234.8    512.7    388.7   607.7   1999.3             0.1       0.3      0.3      0.7       0.5      0.8      2.8
3. PROJECT SUPPORT UNIT            196.8    218.8    199.2   206.1    213.3    220.7   1254.8             0.3       0.3      0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       1.8
Sub-Total                             479.2    560.5    526.4    814.6    701.4    931.6   4013.5            0.7       0.8      0.7       1.1      1.0      1.3       5.6
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 3262.0   3893.7   4607.2   5322.7   5244.2   4463.0  26792.8            4.6       5.4      6.4       7.4      7.3      6.2     37.5
2              ============ ============5==========:    ========= ===========~========S=Zz= 
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3/19/1993 11:04
0



-64  -                                           Annex  9
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA Disbursement Schedule and Profile
Estimated IDA Disbursements                           Disbursement Profile a/
IDA Fiscal      By Semester   Cumulative   Cumulative            Cumulative    Semesters from
Year/Semester   ---- in US$ million ----  as S of total   as S of total   Approval Date
1993  1st
2nd           0.0           0.0              0                  0             0
1994  1st            1.0           1.0             5                   0             1
2nd           1.0           2.0             11                  3             2
1995  1st            1.0           3.0             16                  6            3
2nd           1.0           4.0             21                 10             4
1996  1st            1.1           5.1            27                  18             5
2nd           1.3           6.4             34                 30             6
1997  1st            1.5           7.9            42                  38             7
2nd           1.6           9.5             50                 54             8
1998  1st            1.6         11.1             58                  66            9
2nd           1.6          12.7             67                 74            10
1999  1st            1.7          14.4            76                  82           11
2nd           1.7          16.1             85                 86            12
2000  1st            1.5          17.6             93                 94            13
2nd           1.4          19.0            100                 98            14
2001  1st                                                            100            15
a/  Education Sector, East Asia and Pacific (EAP) Region.
Disbursement Graph
100 
__90-
c 80 
D 70-
b60-                              
0250-
40
20-
10   .
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  200 1
IDA Fiscal Year
-   Appraisal EstinkLate         EAP Educ. Profile



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Curriculum Implementation Schedule
CAIENDAR YEAR       J    1991   T    1992          1993         1994         1995   |    1996          1997         1998         1999
LEVEL  |   GRADE    |J   H   S           HI   m   S   J   M  S    J   M  S    Ji   M   S      M   S   J   M   S   J   M   S   Ji   M  S
Gradel  ~~~~~E~~2L.. ~     .......-----     ------.'-*J
K    |  Grade 3I l:::i  :::
1      I              1            t
H   Grade 3                                             -------              :.-.'-...-:,,,-'.  .-  
R        Grade42
L S | Grade 65'                                                        --. ~ ' ... ".'~'~'~'~'--~'~'~'~-'-~*"|_ ...................... |
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
L  D       Grade 3m.inl.
R    Y      Grade   84l  l ll ........ i ...........-......................... , 1.---------.- ,,---,-.---*_#_ ~ ..
W  N        Grade 7                                                           -    - . 
~R  Y        Grade    8                                                                  ......... _ _ _   _ _..._ __..._    _ .__.
LEGEND: J=January, M=May, S=September
Syllabus preparation and modification
Instructional materials development, testing and revision; * - submission of camera-ready manuscripts to printers
Printing and distribution of textbooks and teacher guides; I = distribution completed
Teacher orientation program
Implementation



- 66 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 5
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Instructional Materials Printing and Distribution
A. New Curriculum Materials
Grade                 Textbooks                Teacher Guides           Print Year
Grade 1               Lao Language             Lao Language             1993/94
Mathematics              Mathematics
Other Subjects
Grade 2               Lao Language             Lao Language             1994/95
Mathematics              Mathematics
Other Subjects
Grade 3               Lao Language             Lao Language             1995/96
Mathematics              Mathematics
Other Subjects
Grade 4               Lao Language             Lao/Mathematics          1996/97
Mathematics              Other Subjects
The World Around Us
Grade 5               Lao Language             Lao/Mathematics          1997/98
Mathematics              Other Subjects
The World Around Us
Number of
Primary Titles             12                        13
Grade 6               Lao Language             Lao Language             1995/96
Mathematics              Mathematics
Natural Science          Natural Science
Social Science           Social Science
Technology               Technology
Grade 7               Lao Language             Lao Language             1996/97
Mathematics              Mathematics
Natural Science          Natural Science
Social Science           Social Science
Technology               Technology
Grade 8               Lao Language             Lao Language             1997/98
Mathematics              Mathematics
Natural Science          Natural Science
Social Science           Social Science
Technology               Technology
Number of Lower
Secondary Titles           15                        15



- 67 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 5
B. Reprinting Program
Grade                 Textbooks                Teacher Guides          Print Year
Grade 3               Lao Language                                     1993/94
Mathematics
Science
Grade 4               Lao Language                                     1993/94
Mathematics
Science
Grade 5               Lao Language                                     1993/94
Mathematics
Science
Number of
Primary Titles             9
Grade 6               Lao Literature           Lao Composition         1994/95
Algebra
Arithmetic
Hygiene
Biology
Grade 7               Lao Literature           Lao Composition         1994/95
Algebra
Geometry
Biology
Grade 8               Lao Literature           Lao Composition         1994/95
Algebra
Geometry
Biology
Number of Lower
Secondary Titles           13                       3



- 68 -
Annex 1 1
Page 3 of 5
C. Revised Materials (Selected URper Secondary Textbooks)
Gradei8                  Textbooks                      Print Yeal
Grade 9                  Lao Language                   1995/96
History
Geography
Population Education
Grade 10                 Lao Language                   1995/96
History
Geography
Population Education
Grade 11                 Lao Language                   1995/96
History
Geography
Population Education
Number of Upper
Secondary Titles              1Z
D. Supplementary Readers and Reference Books
Number of CoRies               Print Year
50,000                     1995/96
(Titles to be                50,000                     1996/97
determined)                 50,000                     1997/98
50,000                     1998/99
Total                   200.000



- 69 -
Annex 11
Page 4 of 5
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS PRINTING AND DISTRIBUTION
Number of TitLes and Copies
Number of   ---------Number of Copies for--------   Print Run          Total
Titles    Students a/  Teachers b/  Trainees c/   Per Title d/       Print
A.  New Curriculum Materials
Grade 1    Textbooks             2        250,700         8,700           770        312,000       624,000
Teacher Guides       3                        8,700           770          11,000       33,000
Grade 2    Textbooks             2         134,900        4,500           770        168,000       336,000
Teacher Guides       3                        4,500           770           6,000       186000
Grade 3    Textbooks             2         92,900         3,000           770        116,000       232,000
Teacher Guides       3                        3,000           770           5,000       15,000
Grade 4    Textbooks             3         78,800         2,500           770         986000       294,000
Teacher Guides       2                        2,500           770           4,000        8,000
Grade 5    Textbooks             3         69,400         2,200           770         87,000       261,000
Teacher Guides        2                        2,200          770           4,000        8,000
Sub-totat, Primary                                                                               1,829,000
Grade 6    Textbooks             5         41,400         2,200           310         53,000       265,000
Teacher Guides       5                        2,200           310           3,000       15,000
Grade 7    Textbooks             5         33,600         1,600           310         43.000       215,000
Teacher Guides        5                        1,600          310           2,000       10,000
Grade 8    Textbooks             5         30,300         1,300           310         38,000       190,000
Teacher Guides       5                         1,300          310           2,000       10,000
Sub-total, Lower Secondary                                                                         705,000
B.  Reprinting Program
Grade 3    Textbooks             3         37,200         2,700           770         49,000       147,000
Grade 4    Textbooks             3         30,250         2,200           770         40,000       120,000
Grade 5    Textbooks             3         25,600         1,800           770         34,000       102,000
Sub-total, Primary                                                                                 369,000
Grade 6    Textbooks             5         40,500         2.700           310         52,000       260,000
Teacher Guides        1                        2,700          310           4,000        4,000
Grade 7    Textbooks             4         30,900         2,100           310         40,000       160,000
Teacher Guides        1                       2,100           310           3,000        3,000
Grade 8    Textbooks             4         26,600         1,800           310         34,000       136,000
Teacher Guides        1                        1,800          310           3,000        3,000
Sub-total, Lower Secondary                                                                         566,000
C.  Revised Upper Secondary
Grade 7    Textbooks             4          13,500          800           100         17,000        68,000
Grade 8    Textbooks             4          10,700          700           100         14,000        56,000
Grade 9    Textbooks             4          9.900           600           100         13,000        52,000
Sub-total, Upper Secondary                                                                         176,000
D.  SuppLementary Readers/
Reference Books                 20                                                    10,000       200,000
Grand Total                                                                                      3,845,000
.... ... ... ... ... ................ ... ... .... ... ............ ... ...............................
a/  Based on enrollments projected for year of distribution.  Ratio of one textbook per student,
except for primary reprints which are estimated at 1 textbook for every two students.
b/ Based on teacher requirements projected for year of distribution. Ratio of one textbook/
teacher guide per teacher.
c/  Based on average total enrollments in teacher training colleges projected for 1996-2000 by the
Asian Development Bank. Ratio of one textbook/teacher guide for every four teacher trainee.
d/  Includes an allowance of 20X for textbooks and teacher guides; rounded to the ne rast thousand.



- 70 -
Annex 11
Page 5 of 5
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS PRINTING AND DISTRIBUTION
Number of Copies by Project Year
1993/94    1994/95    1995/96    1996/97    1997/98    1998/99        Total
A. New Curricutum HateriaLs
Grade 1 Textbooks             624,000
Teacher Guides        33,000
Grade 2  Textbooks                        336,000
Teacher Guides                    18,000
Grade 3  Textbooks                                   232,000
Teacher Guides                               15,000
Grade 4  Textbooks                                              294,000
Teacher Guides                                           8,000
Grade 5  Textbooks                                                          261,000
Teacher Guides                                                      8,000
Sub-total, Primary                                                                                1,829,000
Grade 6  Textbooks                                   265,000
Teacher Guides                               15,000
Grade 7  Textbooks                                              215,000
Teacher Guides                                          10,000
Grade 8  Textbooks                                                          190,000
Teacher Guides                                                      10,000
Sub-total, Lower Secondary                                                                         705,000
B. Reprinting Program
Grade 3  Textbooks             147,000
Grade 4  Textbooks             120,000
Grade 5  Textbooks             102,000
Sub-total, Prifmry                                                                                 369,000
Grade 6  Textbooks                        260,000
Teacher Guides                    4,000
Grade 7  Textbooks                        160,000
Teacher Guides                    3,000
Grade 8  Textbooks                        136,000
Teacher Guides                    3,000
Sub-total, Lower Secondary                                                                         566,000
C. Revised Upper Secondary
Grade 7  Textbooks                                    68,000
Grade 8  Textbooks                                    56,000
Grade 9  Textbooks                                    52,000
Sub-total, Upper Secondary                                                                          176,000
0.  Supptementary Readers/
Reference Books                                       50,000     50,000      50,000     50,000     200,000
Total                       1,026,000    920,000    753,000    577,000    519,000       50,000   3,845,000



LAD PEGPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJIECT
CIVIL WORKS IMPLEMENfTATION SCMEDULE
S-it. i.tifcetio..                                                                                                      Eu.1s11----* EUE--I
:idd=~itq ocoen
Z,.Iu.ti / ..td~EumE                                                                                         IEEEEE                      .uuu*
Bidi,vtr.tioae*h**b                                                                                                                             **lit**               *tion**
Delivery to ..er.bo.wea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FT                                                                                 II      III  I II   
PDeloieyto ..    oo.  st.
.iddi.9 d. . se.  n*                                                   u              Eu ...
ai it-tioAreie
:iddi.9 d-u-.t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.



LAO PEOPLE'S DEhOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS INPLtEERTATION SChEDULe
IMlnin..d)
IDA l- car Year*                           rY93 _F   r9    Y94                                 FY95        cFYsi-6                                FY97         CY7FY98                   CY9           I99     s
HotT;  R -  -Dr -.I -
r   D
I"X
D.:lq-/.ps.ifi--tio.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~t -LL1t_  
D.Ii,ery~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ toshol 



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Plan
A. Curriculum Development and Pedagogical Support
--------------------- Staff-Months ------------------------
Area/Specialization                                Type        Unit            93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    Total
Curriculum and instructional materials              R          RIES              2         2         2        2         2        -        10.0
development and evaluation
Subject specialists                                 R          RIES
- Languages, primary                                                             1         1        1         1         1        -         5.0
- Mathematics, primary                                                           1         1        1         1         1        -         5.0
- Languages, lower secondary                                                     1         1         1        1         1        -         5.0
- Mathematics, lower secondary                                                   1         1        1         1         1        -         5.0
- Natural sciences, lower secondary                                              2         2        2         2         2        -        10.0
- Social sciences, lower secondary                                               2         2        2         2         2        -        10.0
Text writers and external readers
- Primary and lower secondary                       L          RIES             50        50       50        50       25         -      225.0
- Upper secondary                                   L          RIES             12         6        -         -         -        -        18.0
- Supplementary materials                           L          RIES              -         1        1         1         1        1         5.0
Content analysis/quality of texts                   I          RIES              -         -         1        1         1        1         4.0
Textbook publishing                                 R          RIES-PU           3         3        3         -         -        -         9.0
Pedagogical supervision                             R          DGE               3         3         2        3         2        2        15.0
I         DGE                2        3         2        3         1        2        13.0
Examinations                                         I         DGE               2         2         2        2         2        2        12.0
School networks                                     I          DGE                -        1         1        1         -        -         3.0
R         DGE                -        1         1        1         -        -         3.0
Lao language teaching                               R          RIES               -        1         1        1         -        -         3.0
L         RIES               -        5         5        5         -        -        15.0
Instructional materials printing and                I          IMU               6         3        3         2         2        2        18.0   >  D
distribution                                        L          IMU               4         2         2        2         2        2        14.0    m X
System for provision of school supplies             I          IMU/DGE           2         2         1        -         -        2         7.0       F
R          IMU/DGE           2        2         1        -         -        2         7.0    e  w
L          IMU/DGE           2        2         2        2         2        2        12.0



Technical Assistance Plan (cont.)
B. School Infrastructure
--------------------- Staff-Months ------------------------
Area/Specialization                                 Type        Unit            93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    Total
School construction/procurement of civil             I          SCS                12        4         4         2        2         2      26.0
works and furniture
Civil works technicians                              V          PUCAs               6       12        42        72       60        18     210.0
C. Sector Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Educational planning and information systems         I          DPF-SPUs             3        3         3         3        3         3      18.0
Computer program development and maintenance         L          DPF-SPUs            10       10        10         5        5         -     40.0
Sector performance assessment                        I          DPF-SPUs             -        2         1         1        1         1       6.0       -
D.  Educational Administration and Management
Financial management/accounting                      I          DPF-FU              2        2         2         2        2         2       12.0
L          DPF-FU             6         6        6         6         6        6       36.0
Personnel management                                 I          DOP                 2        2         2         2        2         2       12.0
L          DOP                6         6        6         6         6        6       36.0
Staff development/training                           I          DOP                 2        2         2         2        2         2       12.0
L          DOP               12        12       12        12        12       12       72.0
Project management                                   I          PSU                12       12        12        12       12        12       72.0
Procurement of goods and                             I          PSU                 3        3         3         3        3         3       18.0
technical assistance/project accounts                L          PSU                12       12        12        12       12        12       72.0
It >
Legend                                                                                                                                              a
Type:  R - Regional; I - International; L - Local; V - Volunteer (foreign or local)
Unit:  RIES - Research Institute for Educational Sciences; RIES-PU - RIES Publishing Unit; IMU - Instructional Materials Unit;                    0  w
DGE - Department of General Education; SCS - School Construction Service; PUCAs - Provincial Units for Construction                       *
Assistance; DPF-SPUs - Department of Planning and Finance, Statistics and Planning Units; DPF-FU - Department of Planning
and Finance, Finance Unit; DOP - Department of Organization and Personnel; PSU - Project Support Unit



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overseas Training Plan
A. Curriculum Development and PedagoAical Support
-S_-__--------------- Staff-Months ------------------------
Area/Specialization                                Type     Unit               93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    Total
Curriculum and instructional materials              R       RIES                   8       3.5        2       3.5        2        2       21.0
development                                         I       RIES                   6        -         -        -         -         -       6.0
Textbook publishing                                 R       RIES-PU                3        3         -        -         -         -       6.0
Textbook printing and distribution                  R       IMU/Warehouses         6        6         6        -         -         -      18.0
Pedagogical supervision                             R       DGE/PES/DES          40         2        22        2         2        2       70.0
Testing and examinations                            I       DGE                    -        -         3        3         -         -       6.0
School networks                                     I       DGE/PES/DES            3        -         -        -         _         _       3.0
R       DGE/PES/DES/PS         -       20         2        -         -        -       22.0
B.  School Infrastructure                                                                 9
Lu
School construction                                 R       SCS                    -        4         -        -         -        -        4.0
C.  Sector Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation
Educational planning and information systems        I       DPF-SPUs               9        9         9        1         1         1      30.0
Computer program development and maintenance        R       DPF-SPUs               3        3         3        -         -         -       9.0
Sector performance assessment                       I       DPF-SPUs               -        2         -        2         -        2        6.0
D.  Educational Administration and Management
Financial and personnel management                  I       DOP, DPF-FU            3        3         3        3         3        3       18.0
Project management                                  R       PSU                    2        2         2        2         2        2       12.0
Le,eend
Type:  R - Regional; I - International
Unit: RIES - Research Institute for Educational Sciences; RIES-PU - RIES Publishing Unit; IMU - Instructional Materials Unit;
DGE - Department of General Education; PES - Provincial Education Service; DES - District Education Service; PS - Pilot
School; SCS - School Construction Service; DPF-SPUs - Department of Planning and Finance, Statistics and Planning Units;
DPF-FU - Department of Planning and Finance, Finance Unit; DOP - Department of Organization and Personnel; PSU = Project
Support Unit



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Training Plan
Estimated Number    ------------------------- Staff-Weeks ---------------------------
Subject of Training/Staff Units                     of Participants       93/94      94/95    95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99     Total
Textbook publishing
RIES Publishing Unit                                      5              30         -         -          -         -          -           30
Instructional materials
printing/distribution/management
IMU                                                       4              80         -         -         -          -          -           80
Warehouses                                                6              30         -         -          -         -          -           30
Provincial education services                            36             100         -         -         -          -          -          100
District education services                             128             320         -         -         -          -          -          320
Curriculum trials
Primary pilot teachers/principals                        40              80         80        80        80         -          -          320
Lower secondary pilot teachers/principals                54              -         110       110       110         -          -          330
Teacher orientation program
Primary trainers/pedagogical advisers                   384              -         770       770       770        770        770        3850
Primary teachers                                      20700              -       17400     9000       6000       5000       4000       41400
Lower secondary trainers/teacher advisers               144              -          -         -        290        290        290         870
Lower secondary teachers                               5100              -          -         -       4400       3200       2600       10200
Pedagogical support
Primary core team                                        38             190         -         -          -         -          -          190
Lower secondary core team                                20              -          -        100         -         -          -          100
School network pilot teachers/principals                 20              -          60        -          -         -          -           60
Sector planning/information systems/
data collection, analysis and utilization
MOES                                                     10             100        100       100        100       100        100         600
Provincial education services                            36              -         100        -        100         -         100         300
District education services                             128              -         320        -        320         -         320         960
Educational administration and management
HOES                                                     10             100        100       100        100       100        100         600
Provincial education services                            90              -          -         90         -         90         -          180
District education services                             384              -          -         -        390         -         390         780
School administrators                                  2000              -          -         -       2000         -        2000        4000
M
LeRend
Unit:  RIES - Research Institute for Educational Sciences;                                                                                        L
IMU - Instructional Materials Unit
HOES - Hinistry of Education and Sports



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management and Implementation Chart
Project Supervision and Coordination Committee
Project Support Unit
[             I                 -                         1    F         !                       1--
Working Group           Working Group           Working Group            Working Group           Working Group
Teacher               Curriculum                  School                  Sector      |        Educational
Training              Development            Infrastructure              Planning,    |    | Administration
(for ADB-                  and                                           Monitoring                 and
supported             Pedagogical                                           and                 Management
project)    J           Support                               j         Evaluation
Implementing            Implementing            Implementing          [ Implementing              Implementing
Units                   Units                    Units                   Units                    Units
(DTT, IP, TDC)            (RIES, IMU,              (SCS, DGE,             (PU, SU, DGE)           (FU, DOP, PSU)
DGE, DTT)                DTT)
Note:    DTT - Department of Teacher Training; IP - Institute of Pedagogy; TDC - Teacher Development Center;                                      T
RIES - Research Institute for Educational Sciences; IMU - Instructional Materials Unit, Department of
Planning and Finance (DPF); DGE - Department of General Education; SCS - School Construction Service,
DPY; PU - Planning Unit, DPF; SU - Statistics Unit, DPF; DU - Finance Unit, DPF; DOP - Department of
Organization and Personnel; PSU - Project Support Unit; ADB - Asian Development Bank



- 78 -
Annex 17
Page 1 of 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA Supervision Plan
1.       IDA Supervision Input.  The staff input indicated in the table
below is in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of progress
reports, procurement actions, supervision report preparation and
correspondence (estimated for this project to require six staff-weeks per
year throughout project implementation).
2.       Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.
(a)  Annual work programs and timetables for each Government fiscal year,
to be prepared by each implementing unit, would be reviewed by the
appropriate working groups, consolidated into work programs for each
project component, and submitted to the Project Support Unit (PSU).
On this basis, the PSU would prepare an integrated annual work
program for the project for approval by the Project Supervision and
Coordination Committee (PSCC).
(b) The PSU would be responsible for ensuring that the following would be
submitted to IDA for its review by April 15 of each year, beginning
in 1994: (i) proposed annual work programs and timetables; and (ii)
proposed budgetary allocations to the education sector for the
following Government fiscal year.
(c) Semi-annual reports on progress in project implementation, to be
prepared by the PSU, would utilize a simple, tabular format to
compare actual accomplishments against agreed upon work programs,
and include a concise, narrative section describing major project
achievements and problems encountered. Semi-annual reports would be
furnished to IDA by April 15 and November 15 of each year, beginning
in 1994. These reports would constitute the basis for semi-annual
project performance reviews to be conducted jointly by the
Government, IDA and the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC).
(d) Project monitoring and reporting of implementation progress in
accordance with the approved annual work programs would be the
responsibility of the PSU, with inputs from the implementing units.
(e) The PSU would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank
and other donor supervision missions, and for providing information
required by missions. Mission briefings upon arrival and wrap-up
meetings would be presided by the PSCC Chair or a designated
representative.
(f)  The Government's contribution to a Project Completion Report would be
prepared by the PSU and submitted to IDA within six months of the
Closing Date.



- 79 -
Annex 17
Page 1 of 2
3. Field Supervision Plan
Approximate                                           Staff Input
Dates                  Activity                   (staff-weeks)
08/93          Initial supervision mission              6
11/93          Semi-annual review mission               4
04/94          Semi-annual review mission                6
11/94          Semi-annual review mission               4
04/94          Semi-annual review mission                6
11/95          Semi-annual review mission               4
04/96          Mid-term review                          8
11/96          Semi-annual review mission               4
04/97          Semi-annual review mission               6
11/97          Semi-annual review mission               4
04/98          Semi-annual review mission               6
11/98          Semi-annual review mission               4
04/99          Semi-annual review mission               6
11/99          Final supervision/PCR mission            8
(a) Semi-annual reviews of project performance would be held in April
and November of each year, starting in 1994, to assess progress in
project implementation. The supervision missions scheduled for
April each year would also specifically review: (i) the proposed
annual work programs and timetables; and (ii) the proposed budgetary
allocations to the education sector for the following Government
fiscal year.
(b) A comprehensive mid-term review would be held in April 1996 to
determine the need for modifications to the design and implementation
targets of all project components.
(c) Each IDA supervision mission would: (i) require at least two weeks
in the field; (ii) require the services of a General Educator and an
Architect/Implementation Specialist; and (iii) review progress of
procurement and civil works, financial statements and disbursements,
credit covenants, and the implementation of technical assistance and
training programs components. Specialized skill requirements would
be added to the missions according to needs identified by previous
supervision missions and would include among others, the following
areas: instructional materials production and distribution, teacher
training, pedagogical supervision, second-language teaching,
educational planning, educational information systems, sector
performance assessments, financial and personnel management, and
educational administration and management.
(d) All supervision missions would be conducted jointly with the SDC,
which would provide both general supervision and, in coordination
with IDA resources, additional specialized skills.



- 80 -
Annex 18
Page 1 of 3
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Prolect File
1.    Lao People's Democratic Republic, Ministry of Education and Sports.
Projet de d6veloRpement du secteur de l'6ducation: Politigue de
l'6ducation (signed Letter of Education Policy in the original French).
January 8, 1993.
2.    Lao People's Democratic Republic.  Political ReRort of the Executive
Committee of the Central Committee of the Lao People's Revolutionary
Party Presented at the Vth Party Congress. 1991.
3.    Lao People's Democratic Republic.  Strategy of Education to Year 2000.
June 10, 1987.
4.    Botti, M.  RaRport d'4valuation [Aspects financiers et 6conomiques].
Mission d'6valuation, d6cembre 1991.
5.    Mingat, A.  Aspects financiers associ6s & la r6forme de l'6ducation en
RDP Lao. ler mars 1991.
6.    Mingat, A.  Analyse financi6re de l'6ducation en R.D.P. Lao: Exercice
de Rlanification A 1'horizon de lann6e 2000. Avril 1990.
7.    Mingat, A.  Cadre de politique sectorielle.  9 f6vrier 1990.
8.    Mingat, A.  Aspects financiers de l'education en R.D.P. Lao.
Septembre 1989.
9.    Baumgart, N.  Consultant's Report: Curriculum Development.
Appraisal mission, November-December 1991.
10.   Baumgart, N.  Consultant's ReRort:  Curriculum Development.
Pre-appraisal mission, February-March 1991.
11.   Baumgart, N.  Consultant's Report: Curriculum Development.
Preparation mission, August 1990.
12.   Moll-Druecker, B.  Documents de travail [Aspects p6dagogiques].
Rapport de mission de preparation, 30 aoQt 1990.
13.   Chewprecha, T. and A. Meesing.  Consultants' Report on Lao PDR
Curriculum Materials Development and Evaluation Consultancy.
4-24 November 1991.



- 81 -
Annex 18
Page 2 of 3
14.   Chewprecha, T. and A. Meesing.  Consultants' Report on Lao PDR
Curriculum Development and Evaluation Consultancy. 19 April -
4 May 1992.
15.   Chewprecha, T. and A. Meesing.  Consultants' Report on Curriculum
Materials Development and Evaluation. 4 August - 9 September 1992.
16.   Chewprecha, T.  Consultant Report on Curriculum Materials Development
and Evaluation. 4 August - 21 November 1992.
17.   Denning, C.  Textbook Printing and Distribution Component: Appraisal
Report. 14 September - 2 October 1992.
18.   Kingham, D.  Instructional Materials Production and Distribution.
Report submitted to the Asian Development Bank, March 1991.
19.   Waechter, J.A.  Projet de d6veloppement du secteur de l'education
[Genie civil]. Rapport de mission d'6valuation, novembre/d6cembre 1991.
20.   De Spiegeleer, J.  Document de projet: GCnie civil.  May 1992 (costs
updated December 1992).
21.   De Spiegeleer, J.  Esquisses pour les 6coles primaires en R.D.P. Lao.
Juillet 1992.
22.   Botti, M.  R6flexions sur le systAme d'information et l'Unite de
Planification de l'Education. Septembre 1992.
23.   Coussement, S.  Rapport final [Systgme d'information et carte scolaire].
26 juillet 1991-25 juillet 1992.
24.   Coussement, S.  Rapport d'activit6 [Systdme d'information et carte
scolaire]. 26 juillet 1991-25 janvier 1992.
25.   Botti, M.  Renforcement institutionnel du svst6me d'6ducation.
Septembre 1992.
26.   Botti, M.  Examen des aspects budgetaires et financiers du systame
d'6ducation (2). Juillet 1992.
27.   Botti, M  Examen des aspects budgetaires et financiers du svst6me
d'6ducation. Avril 1992.
28.   Cottereau, Y. et J.L. P6rillier.  Composante restructuration
administrative et Loi cadre de l'Education. Rapport de
mission d'6valuation, 4 d6cembre 1991.
29.   Carol, J.  Audit organisationnel du Ministere de l'Education et des
Sports: Analyse et r6commandations. D6cembre 1991.



- 82 -
Annex 18
Page 3 of 3
30.   Claisse, A.  Mission d'6tude sur la restructuration de l'administration
et de la gestion de l'6ducation: RaRRort sur la formation et le
perfectionnement administratif des cadres de l'6ducation.
23 novembre-14 d6cembre 1991.
31.   Martel, G.  Analyse des oroblAmes budg6taires et financi6rs du Minist6re
de l'Education et des SRorts du Laos: Elaboration d'une r6organisation
des services et d6finition d'un syst6me de gestion informatis6e des
salaires. Octobre 1991.
32.   Spratt, J.E.  Needs Assessment Report: Program Planning and Coordination
in the Education Sector. Report submitted to the United Nations
Development Programme, 26 December 1991.
33.  Magnen, A.  Projet de Plan d'Action du Secteur de l'Education 1991-1995.
Pr6par& pour le Gouvernment et le Programmes des Nations Unies pour le
d6veloppement (PNUD). R6vis6 avril 1991.
34.   George, R.  Framework for Development of Education in Lao People's
Democratic Republic. Submitted to the Ministry of Education and Sports
and the United Nations Development Programme, July 1990.
35.   Asian Development Bank.  Appraisal of the Education Quality Improvement
Project in Lao People's Democratic Republic. September 1991.
36.   Asian Development Bank.  Proiect Preparation Study for an Education
Sector Project in the Lao People's Democratic Republic. Report
submitted by the Queensland Education Consortium, January 1991.
37.   Asian Development Bank.  Lao People's Democratic Republic: Education
Sector Study (in 8 volumes). Advisory Technical Assistance Project,
September 1989.
38.   United Nation's Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the Government of the Lao
People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR). Draft Country Programme
Recommendation for Cooperation during 1992-96: Extract of Information
Related to the Education Sector. 25 November 1991.
39.   United Nation's Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the Government of the Lao
People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR). Draft Plan of Operations for
Basic Education. August 1991.
40.   United Nation's Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the Government of the
Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR). Draft Project Plan of
Action for Basic Education for Rural Ethnic Minority Children.
August 1991.



IBRD 24632
CH V C H N A       - ^ 1 |  MSM CHINA
The. -np hos bse   ppn e
CHINA                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~by Th. 1WoId, B-oo' sff  MYANMA
of =,.r  nd  s for the
VIET NAMA  intenal  svof Th.WofddBonok
5 A A Porf 0, rh.^OOOB * oh r > A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M EEP                                           Thfno , 
t~~~~~~~~~~. y. bwnd-e s lNfr
o this 'r do nt    - the onSEr
Wot of . Word B.. Go
LAO~~~~~~~m PEOPLE'              .. th.9                              <
DEMOCRATIC~~~~~~~~wH., REULC, Ca
EDUCATION~~~~~) DVLOMN  PROJECT                                  e  (e f                    - 
-PRIMoAY UNOAVED2f0-50 ;, 
-MYA - SECONMARY                                                     PAVED 500 -  1000  (~ h bo.nssA
SECONDARY  UNPAVED 1000 2000 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOTHN >,
_    2000 ond Above    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~)%               }          \CIN
K_RESt      Fe SEAOG
t AIRPORT5 o PROVINCE HEADQUARrESam>C ,-  
-''                             2                           CAMBODIA                    -    v                         %   ,,._~OLIKAMSA
lolr I ,,1. * C <I 
PRIMARY~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBUR PAED2093dBeo



