Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2488 LA
(Education Development Project)
between
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 24, 1993
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 2488 LA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1993, between LAO PEOPLE'S 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS: (B) The Borrower intends to contract from the 
Government of the Swiss Confederation ("Switzerland"), acting 
through the Swiss Development Cooperation (the "SDC"), a 
non-reimbursable contribution (the "Swiss Contribution") in the 
amount of fifteen million Swiss Francs (SwF 15,000,000) to assist 
in financing the technical assistance and training provided under 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the "Swiss Contribution Agreement") to be entered into between the 
Borrower and Switzerland;
WHEREAS: (C) Switzerland intends to appoint the Association 
to administer the Swiss Contribution in accordance with the 
agreement entered into between Switzerland and the Association for 
cooperation in the cofinancing of specific projects or programs 
within the framework of the Ninth IDA Replenishment, dated May 9, 
1990 (the "Procedural Arrangements");
WHEREAS: (D) The Borrower intends to contract from the 
Kingdom of Norway ("Norway"), a non-reimbursable contribution (the 
"Norwegian Grant") in the amount of twenty-one million Norwegian 
Kroner (NOK 21,000,000) to assist in financing the printing of new 
primary and lower secondary education textbooks, training and 
technical assistance for publishing and distribution of 
instructional materials, and development of a system for the 
provision of school supplies under Part A.1 of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the "Norwegian 
Grant Agreement") to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Norway;
WHEREAS: (E) Norway intends to appoint the Association to 
administer the Norway Grant in accordance with an agreement to be 
entered into between Norway and the Association (the 
"Administration Agreement") pursuant to the provisions of the 
Agreement dated October 2, 1986, among Norway, the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Association 
providing the framework for cooperation in the financing of 
development projects by the parties thereto; and
WHEREAS: (F) The Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter 
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the "General 
Page  3
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a) "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
(b) "Association Special Account" and "Swiss Special 
Account" mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement, "Special Accounts" means collectively the Association 
Special Account and the Swiss Special Account, and "Special 
Account" means any one of the Special Accounts; and
(c) "Swiss Contribution Account" means the account 
established by Switzerland for the purpose of the Swiss 
Contribution.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the 
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirteen million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the amount of 
the Swiss Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
the Swiss Contribution Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, 
open and maintain two (2) special deposit accounts in dollars and 
in Swiss Francs, respectively, in the Banque pour le Commerce 
Extérieur Lao (the "BCEL") on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set off, 
seizure or attachment, such special deposit accounts to be known as 
the Association Special Account and the Swiss Special Account, 
respectively. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Except as the Association and Switzerland shall 
otherwise agree, the allocation and withdrawal of the Swiss 
Contribution shall be governed mutatis mutandis by the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or 
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association 
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association 
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association 
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date 
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to 
Page  4
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the 
Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate 
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places 
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without 
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall 
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15,  
commencing September 15, 2003 and ending March 15, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per 
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the 
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the 
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the 
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of 
some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, 
the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant 
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the 
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify 
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments 
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  5
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to 
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, educational, engineering and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) 
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit and the Swiss Contribution shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section including those 
for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
     (ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than nine 
(9) months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Association such other 
information concerning said records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account were made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
      (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in 
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the 
Association has received the audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
Page  6
from the Credit Account or the Swiss 
Contribution Account or payment out of the 
Special Accounts was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to 
examine such records; and
      (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the 
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified, 
namely, that subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of 
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, 
that the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as  
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development 
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
(a) That all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of 
the Swiss Contribution Agreement have been fulfilled, other than 
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(b) That all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of 
the Norwegian Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those 
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Page  7
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. In the event that Switzerland or the 
Association terminate the functions of the Association pursuant to 
paragraph 9 of the Procedural Arrangements, the Association shall 
notify the Borrower promptly of the date on which Switzerland shall 
assume its rights and obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 46
Vientiane
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFINANCE
4353 MEPF VTE LS
VIENTIANE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, 
United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By /s/ Hiem Phommachanh
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Swiss Contribution
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Swiss 
Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the 
Swiss Contribution to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
             Amount of
the Swiss
             the Credit
Contribution
             Allocated
 Allocated 
            (Expressed
(Expressed in
      % of
              in SDR
Swiss Francs
Expenditures
Category            Equivalent)
Equivalent)
to 
be Financed
(1)
Civil works   2,820,000           -----       90%
(2)
Goods:
            100% of foreign
            expenditures,
(a) Construction
            100% of local
    materials  3,680,000
-----       expenditures
            (ex-factory
(b) Furniture  1,150,000
-----       cost) and 85%
            of local expen-
(c) Equipment and
            ditures for
    vehicles   1,440,000
-----       other items
            procured
(d) Instructional
            locally
    materials  2,160,000
-----
(3)
Technical
Assistance and
training          ------        14,250,000     100%
(4)
Project 
Management     1,730,000
-----        100%
(5)
Unallocated      720,000
750,000
              __________        __________
TOTAL         13,700,000        15,000,000
              ==========        ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other 
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower.
Page  9
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: 
(a) improve student and teacher performance in primary and lower 
secondary education; (b) develop mechanisms for the provision of 
educational facilities for primary and lower secondary education; 
(c) promote efficiency in the allocation and use of resources in 
the education sector; and (d) provide effective delivery of basic 
education services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree 
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Curriculum Development and Pedagogical Support
1.
(a) Curriculum development, and development of instructional 
materials, including the provision of MOE staff training and 
technical assistance therefor.
(b) Publishing, printing and distribution of instructional 
materials, and development of a system for the provision of school 
supplies, including the provision of MOE staff training and 
technical assistance therefor.
2.
Provision of school teacher training for implementation of 
the curriculum developed under Part A.1 of the Project.
3.
Establishment of a corps of pedagogical advisers for primary 
education, and of teacher advisers for lower secondary education.
4.
Provision of training and educational materials to support 
the establishment of professional networks of teachers and 
principals of neighboring primary schools.
5.
Carrying out of a study on Lao language teaching and 
schooling needs for ethnic minority children.
6.
Introduction of continuous student progression and 
evaluation systems in primary schools; review of student assessment 
and examination systems in primary and secondary education; and 
organization of multi-grade classes at the primary level.
Page  11
Part B: School Infrastructure
1.
Reconstruction of about three hundred ninety (390) primary 
schools in Vientiane Prefecture and in the provinces of Saravane, 
Savannakhet, Vientiane, Xieng Khouang, Luang Prabang and Luang 
Namtha, and of about thirty-four (34) lower secondary schools 
country-wide.
2.
Strengthening the Borrower's educational administration 
capacity for construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of 
education facilities through, inter alia, the: (a) enhancement of 
the School Construction Service Unit; (b) establishment of 
Provincial Units for Construction Assistance; and (c) provision of 
facilities, equipment and technical assistance therefor.
Part C: Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Development of a data collection and analysis system to 
enhance planning and management of the education sector, including 
school database, instructional materials database, school maps, 
inventory of school facilities, furniture and equipment, and 
personnel inventory of teaching and administrative staff.
2.
Carrying out of studies to assess: (a) educational outcomes, 
including rates and patterns of student attendance and achievement; 
(b) factors affecting school and student performance; and (c) 
cost-effectiveness of specific educational policies.
Part D: Educational Administration and Management
1.
Strengthening of MOE capacities in financial and personnel 
management through provision of staff training and technical 
assistance.
2.
Development of plans to improve the structures and 
procedures of the Borrower's educational administration, including 
provision of technical assistance.
3.
Carrying out of an institutional assessment of local and 
school administrations, including staff training and provision of 
technical assistance.
4.
Rehabilitation and construction of about 130 administrative 
facilities of MOE at the central, provincial and district levels, 
including provision of furniture and equipment. 
5.
Development and implementation of a policy for establishing 
efficient student-teacher ratios in primary and secondary 
education.
*  *  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures 
Page  12
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the "Guidelines"). For 
fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in 
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract 
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the 
successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of 
delay by two pre-disclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components 
and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. 
Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation.
2. 
To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment, 
vehicles, construction materials and instructional materials shall 
be grouped into bid packages each estimated to cost the equivalent 
of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the 
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the 
Lao People's Democratic Republic may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 
4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the 
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a 
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, 
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  13
Part D: Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of seventy 
thousand dollars ($70,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed one million six hundred thousand dollars 
($1,600,000) equivalent, and furniture estimated to cost the 
equivalent of eighty thousand dollars ($80,000) or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed two hundred 
thousand dollars ($200,000) equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association; provided, however, that contracts for furniture 
estimated to cost the equivalent of one thousand five hundred 
dollars ($1,500) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison 
of price quotations obtained from at least three (3) suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
2. 
Construction materials estimated to cost the equivalent of 
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed one million five hundred thousand 
dollars ($1,500,000) equivalent, and equipment and vehicles 
estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000) equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three (3) suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association; provided, however, that four-wheel 
motor vehicles estimated to cost in the aggregate four hundred and 
fifty thousand dollars ($450,000) equivalent, may be procured 
through the Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office of the United 
Nations Development Programme, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
3. 
School supplies, and printing and distribution of 
instructional materials, including proprietary instructional 
material, estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand 
dollars ($100,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed three million two hundred thousand dollars 
($3,200,000) equivalent may be awarded after direct negotiations 
with suppliers and publishers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and 
final contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the 
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more, and 
the first five civil works contracts awarded in accordance with the 
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the 
Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
(b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the 
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
Page  14
such contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two (2) conformed 
copies of the contract together with the other information required 
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall 
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure. 
2. 
The figure of ten percent (10%) is hereby specified for 
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, 
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected 
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association on 
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published 
by the Bank in August 1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines").
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring 
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation, 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to 
cost less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Association review shall not 
apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the 
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to 
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the 
Association and to the amendments of contracts raising the contract 
value to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent or 
above.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
work programs and time-tables satisfactory to the Association. For 
such purposes, on April 15 of each year, commencing on April 15, 
1994, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association, 
for its approval, a proposed annual work program and time-table for 
Project implementation during the Borrower's following fiscal year, 
and thereafter adopt and implement such work program and time-table 
as so approved.
2.
On April 15 of each year, commencing on April 15, 1994, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its review and 
comments, its proposed budgetary allocations for the education 
sector in the Borrower's following fiscal year, and thereafter, 
taking into account the Association's comments, make the required 
budgetary allocations.
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain within MOE the Project Support 
Unit (the "PSU") headed by an experienced and qualified officer, 
and vest it with such responsibilities, funds and staff as shall be 
required to enable the PSU to undertake the overall coordination of 
the Project. For such purposes, the Borrower shall, by December 31, 
1993, employ and thereafter assign to the PSU, as a minimum, the 
following staff: a Project Director, two Project Coordinators, an 
Office Manager and an Assistant Manager. In addition and pursuant 
to Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, 
by December 31, 1993 and until the completion of the Project, 
employ and assign to the PSU a Project Adviser.
4. 
The Borrower shall maintain within MOE the School 
Construction Service Unit (the "SCS") headed by an experienced and 
qualified officer, and vest it with such responsibilities, funds 
and staff as shall be required to enable the SCS to plan and manage 
the investment program for the construction of schools and 
administrative facilities under the Project. For such purposes, the 
Borrower shall employ and thereafter assign to the SCS, as a 
minimum, the following staff: (a) by December 31, 1993, an 
architect or civil works technician, an engineer, a draftsman, a 
procurement manager, an accountant and a construction supervisor; 
(b) by October 31, 1995, four additional construction supervisors 
of whom two shall be employed by July 31, 1994.
5. 
By December 31, 1993, the Borrower shall vest the 
Instructional Materials Unit (the "IMU") within MOE with the 
responsibility for planning and supervision of the production and 
distribution of the instructional materials provided under the 
Project. For such purposes, the Borrower shall maintain the IMU 
headed by an experienced and qualified officer, and provide it with 
such funds and staff as shall be required to enable the IMU to 
adequately undertake its aforesaid responsibilities.
6.
The Borrower shall, pursuant to a time-table satisfactory to 
the Association, establish and, thereafter, maintain a Provincial 
Unit for Construction Assistance (the "PUCA") in each of its 
administrative provinces of Saravane, Savannakhet, Vientiane, Xieng 
Khouang, Luang Prabang and Luang Namtha, headed by an experienced 
and qualified officer, and vest each PUCA with such 
responsibilities, funds and staff as shall be required to enable 
each of them to preserve community-based primary school 
rehabilitation and construction.
7.
The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1994, assign three 
pedagogical advisers to each of the Borrower's District Education 
Page  16
and Sports Service and, by June 30, 1996, assign eight teacher 
advisers to each of the Borrower's Provincial Education and Sports 
Service.
8.
On April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing on April 
15, 1994, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association 
semi-annual reports on progress in Project implementation. In 
addition, on April 15, 1996, the Borrower shall, in consultation 
with the Association, carry out a mid-term review of Project 
implementation.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories 1 
through 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement;
(b) The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or 
the Swiss Contribution allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c) The term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount 
equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000) to be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account and deposited in the Association Special Account 
and (ii) an amount equivalent to one million Swiss francs (SwF 
1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Swiss Contribution Account and 
deposited in the Swiss Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) 
of this Schedule.
2.
 Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to 
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of 
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for 
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account 
and deposit in the respective Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Accounts at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Association shall, on 
Page  17
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution 
Account and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of such Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special 
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this 
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further 
deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined 
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower 
directly from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the 
Swiss Contribution allocated to the Eligible Categories, less the 
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation in respect of the respective 
Special Account.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Swiss 
Contribution Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or the Swiss Contribution allocated to the Eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a) If the Association shall have determined at any time 
that any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an 
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Accounts 
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Accounts shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time 
that any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be 
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the 
Page  18
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund 
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund 
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in 
the Special Accounts.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit 
Account or the Swiss Contribution Account, as the case may be, for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
