Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6785-CD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 20.20 MILLION (US$ 30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
January 22, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
The CFA franc (CFAF) is pegged to the French Franc at the rate of FF1 = 100 CFAF
Year                            US$ I = CFAF
199c"                              272.26
1991                               282.11
1992                               264.69
1993                               283.16
1994                               555.20
1995                               506.50
METRIC SYSTEM WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                           US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                  2.47 acres (a)
1 kilogram (kg)                 2.21 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BCC                Banque Commerciale du Chari (commercial bank)
BDT                Banque de Developpement du Tchad (development bank)
BEAC               Banque Centrale de l'Afrique Centrale (central bank)
BICIT              Banque Internationale de Commerce et de l'Industrie (commercial
bank)
BIEP               Bureau Interministeriel d'Etudes et de la Planification (public
consulting Firm)
BMBT               Banque Meridien BIAO du Tchad (commercial bank)
BTCD               Banque Tchadienne de Credit et des Dep6ts (commercial bank)
CAA                Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (debt management agency)
CAEMC              Central Africa Economic and Monetary Community
CFAF               Currency of the CFA Zone
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
COBAC              Commission Bancaire de l'Afrique Centrale (CAEMC Bank
Regulation/Supervisory Agency)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COTONTCHAD         Societe Cotoniere du Tchad (Cotton Processing and Marketing
Company )
CNPS               Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance Sociale (Social Security Agency)
CNRT               Caisse Nationale de Retraite du Tchad (Retirement/Pension Fund)
ERC                Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FIP                Fonds d'Intervention Petrolier (Petroleum Fund)
IDA                International Development Association
IMF                International Monetary Fund
INT                Imprimerie Nationale du Tchad (publishing company)
MCT                Manufacture des Cigarettes du Tchad (cigarette company)
OFCA               Office des Carrieres (quarries)
OFNAR              Office Nationale des Routes (Road Agency)
OHADA              Organisation pour l'Harmonisation des Droits en Afrique
(Organization to Harmonize Laws)
OMVSD              Office de Mise en Valeur de Sategui Deressia (Irrigation Office)
ONHPV              Office National de l'Hydraulique Pastorale et Villageoise (Rural Water
Supply Agency)
ONPT               Office National des Postes et des Telecommunications
(posts and telecommunications company)
OPIT               Office de Promotion Industrielle du Tchad (Industrial Promotion
Agency)
PHARMAT            Centrale Phamarceutique du Tchad (phamarceuticals company)
PFP                Policy Framework Paper
SAC                Structural Adjustment Credit
SAPROVET           Societe Anonyme de Produits Veterinaires (State Veterinary Products
Company)
SOE                Statement of Expenditures
SONACOT            Societe Nationale de Commercialisation du Tchad (trading company)
SONAPA             Societe Nationale de Produits Animaux (livestock products company)
SONASUT            Societe Nationale Sucriere du Tchad (sugar company)
SSA                sub-Saharan Africa
SOTEC              Societe d'Exploitation des Carrieres (quarries)
SOTERA             Societe d'Exploitation des Ressources Animales (livestock products
company)
STAR NATIONALE National Insurance Company
STEE               Societe Tchadienne d'Eau et d'Electricite (water and electricity
company)
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Credit and  Program   Summary ........................................................i
Part I. Political and  Economic Background .........................................................                             1
A. Political Background ...................................................1
B. Economic and  Social Background  ....................                            ..............................2
C. Past Experience with Adjustment ....................................................4
D. Country Potential, Vision and  Strategy ....................................................                       5
Part II. The Proposed Reform Program .........................................................6
A. Restoring Critical Public Sector Capacity and Improving its Finances .........                                 ..... 6
a. Civil Service Reformn ........................................................7
b. Rehabilitation of Public Finances .............................                     ............................7
B. Increasing the Poverty Alleviation Impact of Public Expenditures ...........                                 ......... 8
a. Demobilization ....................................................8
b. Improved Public Expenditure Management ....................................................9
c. Increasing Resources Allocated to Priority Sectors ......................... .............. 10
C. Creating a Favorable Environment for Private Sector Growth ......... .                              ............. 10
a. Judicial and Regulatory environment .......................................                        ............ 10
b. Restructuring the Financial System ................................................... 10
c. State Enterprise Divestiture ...................................................                                 11
d. Cotton Sector Reform ...................................................                                         11
D. Client Consultation and Participation ................................................... 13
E. Medium-term  Prospects and Financing Requirements  ....................                              .............. 14
Part IIL The Proposed Credit .....................................                                                             15
A. The Credit ..................................... 15
B. Rationale of the Proposed  Approach .....................................                                         18
C. Financing and Management of the Program  ..................                                ................... 18
D. Agreements Reached and  Conditionality .....................................                                     20
E. Benefits and Risks ..................................... 21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.



Part IV. Bank Operations .......................... ................. ...........  22
A. Bank Assistance and Portfolio ...................................... 22
B. IFC and MIGA  Activities ................................... ... 23
Part V. Collaboration with IMIF and Other Donors ..                        .................................... 23
Part VL Recommendation ...................................... 23
TE.XT TABLES...............................................................................................................
Table 1: Chad - Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1991-98 ......................................                    3
Table 2: Chad - External Financing Plan ...................................... 15
ANNEXES
I. Economic Indicators
II. Status of Bank Operations
111. Supplementary Credit Dat3 Sheet
I `. Matrix of Actions
V. Letter of Development Policy



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Chad
Amount:           IDA Credit: SDR 20.20 million (US$ 30 million)
Tenns:            Standard IDA terms with 40-year maturity
Progra= Description: The program aims to restore the state's capacity to govern (including
creating an environment of security and enforceable contracts); enable
the administraticn to function (provide essential public services and pay
for them); and facilitate the operation of the private sector. The latter
include pursuit of the on-going program of state enterprise divestiture
and financial system reform, as well as the initiation of the reform of the
cotton sector. Specific objectives include keeping the civil service
working while it is reformed to make it more effective; demobilizing a
significant number of soldiers who would settle in active, civilian
economic life; restructure expenditures and increasing the share
allocated to essential development services such as primary education,
health and basic public support to private sector activities.
Benefits:         This operation would support the first phase of a multi-year program
conceived by Chad to help it: (i) focus the public sector on its core
functions and improve the capacity to finance them, while making
greater use of community provision of public services; and (ii) create a
business environment free of arbitrariness, in which more areas are
open to the private sector than before, and where support systems such
as a healthy financial system enable it to respond to new opportunities.
The benefits include more reliable public services (including health and
education) and stronger growth performance, both with direct impact
on poverty reduction.



- 11 -
RiAkh:             The operation is subject to two risks. The first is a risk that political
unrest could resume and halt the implementation of the program,
and/or a new government assuming power after the mid- 1996 elections
could disown the program and end it. The second relates to the
possibility that the country's institutional capacity could be
overwhelmed, causing program implementation to stall. Given Chad's
history, a return to general unrest cannot be totally ruled out.
Nevertheless, this risk has been considerably reduced by the
government's reconciliation efforts which have brought most of the
representatives of previously warring groups  into  the  transition
government. Similarly, the chances of a new government disowning
the program have been minimized through the involvement of
Parliamentarians and representatives of private sector and the unions in
the preparation of the program. The risk from weak institutional
capacity has also been reduced to manageable proportions by focusing
the SAC exclusively on key policy actions and putting in place a
Capacity Building project to help implement the 1996-98 phases of the
program and build local capacity.
Poverty Category:   Poverty-focused operation, supports measures which would: (i) sustain
and expand the coverage of public services (health and education, in
particular) which are of great importance to the poor; (ii) reduce the
size of the army by at least 30 percent and strengthen the judicial
system, thereby increasing the sense of security in the private sector,
which is important for the poor, most of whom operate in the small-
scale informal sector; (iii) and improve cotton producer pricing and the
operations of the social security and retirement funds, which all would
have a positive impact on the incomes of the poor.
Apraisal Report:   No separate Staff Appraisal Report.
Estimated
Disbursements:     The credit will be disbursed in one tranche following credit
effectiveness.
Product Il        ITD-35605 -- SAC



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Chad for SDR 20.20 million, the equivalent of US$30
million. The credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years. It would
support Chad's structural adjustment program, described in the third Policy Framework Paper
(1995-98) and the Letter of Development Policy, and provide critical financing to the
economy and enable the public sector to sustain a core set of essential development-oriented
services, improve the efficiency of their delivery and expand their coverage. In parallel, the
government is expected to continue to take action towards establishing an institutional
environment and policy framework to spur the development of the private sector.
2.    The proposed SAC is a key element in the implementation of the country assistance
strategy (CAS) which aims to help Chad emerge from three decades of socio-economic
stagnation. The CAS has four objectives: (i) restore critical public sector capacity; (ii) focus
public expenditures on poverty reduction; (iii) create a favorable environment for private
sector development; and (iv) promote sustainable use of natural resources. The proposed
SAC is the first of a series of quick-disbursing operations to suppoit the strategy and effect
the resource transfers needed by the economy to facilitate the implementation of the program.
It is complemented by the Capacity Building Project, which would both provide the assistance
to carry out the activities required by the policy changes (including improved resource
mobilization, civil service reform, restructuring of the public enterprise sector) and build up
national competence in a variety of areas.
L. POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
A. Political Background
3.    Background  Chad has had a troubled political history, based in a large part on long-
standing differences between the north and the south of the country, which became
accentuated after independence in 1960. The two geographical regions differ culturally -- the
south being made up mostly of settled cultivators and the north comprising mainly nomadic
and semi-nomadic herders. The cultural differences between the two blocks deepened over
the years following the formal annexation of the territory by France, which contributed to the
relatively faster economic and social progress of the south in comparison to the north. The
differences developed into open conflict in the early 1960s, when the post-independence



- 2 -
administration (manned mainly by southerners) began to levy high taxes on livestock (main
vocation of the north). This was followed in the ensuing twenty-five years by repeated
episodes of civil war, sometimes with the opposing sides being from the same region.
4.    Recent Developments.   With the accession to power in December 1990 of the
government of President Idriss Deby began a period which could end Chad's chronic political
instability. Since then, the government has pursued a program of national reconciliation, and
followed a timetable to return the country to pluralistic rule. In 1993, a National Conference
drafted a new multiparty constitution, established an interim legislature, the Higher Council of
Transition, and appointed a Prime Minister to lead an interim government. The constitution
will be submitted to a referendum in early 1996. Presidential and legislative elections are
scheduled for mid-1996.
B. Economic and Social Background
5.    Background. Chad's turbulent political life has prevented the country from evolving
and implementing a coherent develoment strategy. The country is now at the ',ery initial
stages of development. With a per capita income US$190 in 1994 -- barely above what it was
at independence in 1960 -- Chad is among the ten poorest countries in the world. Its
economic and social infrastructure is poorly developed. About 90 percent of the population
lives and works in rural areas, but productivity in agriculture (42 percent of GDP) is low,
transport costs are high, and cash crops account for only a small proportion agricultural
output. Industry (18 percent of GDP), which besides utilities and construction ( 2 percent),
consists mainly of a few agroindustrial plants, generates little employment. The export base is
narrow, made up of essentially three items: cotton (50-60 percent of total), livestock (20
percent) and arabic gum (9 percent). Chad ranks 168th out of 173 countries on the UNDP's
Human Development Index. This is borne out by its poor social indicators: life expectancy is
48 years (52 years sub-Saharan Africa --SSA--average); the infant mortality rate is 120 per
thousand (93 per thousand average for SSA); the primary school enrollment rate is 65 percent
(SSA average of 67 percent); and less than 30 percent of children have been immunized
against the deadly childhood diseases (55 percent average for SSA). Chad is a member of the
Central Africa Economic and Monetary Community (CAEMC) and shares a common
currency, the CFA franc, with the other members.
6.    Recent Developments. Notwithstanding gains in political stability since 1990, Chad's
poor growth performance has persisted and GDP growth has not kept up with population
growth -- real GDP per capita in 1994 was 8 percent below the 1992 level. This growth
performance was the result of adverse external shocks and delayed adjustment in domestic
policies, which reduced the competitiveness of the economy. During 1990-93, the world
market price for cotton fell by 30 percent and the CFA franc depreciated by 20 percent in real
effective terms only because of the sharp deflation suffered by the economy. As a member of
the CFA zone, Chad had to wait till January 1994 to devalue the CFA franc in concert with
other members of the zone. Compounded by management and liquidity problems in the
cotton processing and marketing parastatal, COTONTCHAD, the falling world market prices
led the authorities to cut producer prices. This, in turn, led to reduced production and further



-3 -
financial losses for COTONTCHAD.   The loss of competitiveness resulting from  the
appreciation of the exchange rate also weakened the performance of livestock, other
agricultural exports and local manufactures.
Table 1: Chad - Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1991-98
.l99~~                        19~,Z..1...... .... . . ......
Real growth rate (% p.a.)
.GDP                                  8.3      6.2    -15.9    5.2       5.5      4.9
GDP per capita                        5.6      35      -18.0    2.5      2.9      2.3
Exports (G2TS)                            5,   -3.8     6.9    i-13.Z    26.2      5.7
..Irnports (GNFS)                      7 1     -1.5    -4.3    -28.6    25.5       5.4
Ratios (% of GDP):.
FixedInvestment                       7.3    :8.3       11.0    15.1    15.4    17.8
,:'Public                              6.9     7.9      10.2    14.0    14.0      13.2
Private                              0.4      0.5.     0.8     1.1  .   1.4      4.5
Gbross Domestic Savings              -10.3   -11.1.   -11.8    -5.5    -3.4       -1.4
Gross National Savings                -7.5    -6.2    -10.4    -3.7    -1.4       1.0
Government Revenue::                  8.7      11.3    12.0     7.4      9.0      11.5
i,tGovernment Expenditure.-           21.5    27.4    28.8    29.1    27.0        26.9,
Trimaxy Balance                       -5.0    -2.8    -4.5    -6.3    -2.4         1.0
ODverall Budget Balance '.           -12.9   -16.1   -16.8   -21.8   -18.1    -14.9
External Current Account:            -14-9   -14.5   -21.3   -18.8   -16.8    -16.6
DebtServiceratio                      4.7      5.1      6.0     13.5    12.0      12.4
GDP Deflator                          3.7    -11,4    -1.3    38.2       6.6'  3.3
7.     Chad's overall financial situation deteriorated over the period 1990-93 (Table 1). The
main difficulty was with public finance. During the period, government revenues averaged
barely 11 percent of GDP while current expenditure rose from 15 percent of GDP in 1990 to
18 percent in 1993.  Private (including parastatal) savings averaged 0.4 percent, making
domestic savings average negative 11 percent over the period. As Chad did not have a reform
program under implementation during this period, aid flows were substantially reduced. Thus,
while investment averaged only of 9 percent of GDP, transfers from abroad did not cover the
full resource gap. Partly as a result, external arrears accumulated (US$49 million at end-
1993); international reserves fell from the equivalent of 2.9 months of imports in 1990 to 1.2
months in 1993 (2.7 months in 1995); and Chad exceeded its credit position at the common
central bank of Central Afiican States, BEAC. Nevertheless, a significant share of investment
financing available continued to be on grant basis, and Chad remains not heavily indebted.
While the external debt stands at 93 percent of GDP in 1995, it is on highly concessional
terms (average maturity of 40 years and average interest of 1 percent) and the debt service-
exports ratio is modest, amounting to 14 percent in 1995. However, owing to low revenue



- 4 -
mobilization, the debt service burden (principal and interest) amounts to 44 percent of
government revenues.
C. Past Experience with Adjustment
8.    The devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 presented the Chadian authorities
an opportunity to reinvigorate the economy and lay the basis for accelerating growth. The
authorities prepared a new reform program comprising principally: (i) prudent demand
management, through measures to reduce absorption by the public sector, so as to secure a
lasting improvement in the economy's competitiveness; (ii) increase in the producer price of
cotton to elicit higher supply response from this key activity; and (iii) measures to attenuate
the negative effects of the parity change on the vulnerable population. The program was
supported by a Stand-by arrangement with the IMF and an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
from IDA, the first macroeconomic adjustment operation in Chad. Program implementation
suffered, however, from capacity weaknesses, which were themselves accentuated by civil
service strikes triggered by the irregularity of salary payments. As a consequence, the results
were mixed.
9.    The production of traded goods responded favorably, aided in part by an increase in
world cotton prices and satisfactory rainfalls Real GDP growth was 5.2 percent in 1994 and
the inflation rate was 41 percent, a shade below the target of 43 percent. In contrast, fiscal
performance was below expectations. Revenues were only 7.4 percent of GDP as against 9.5
percent in the program, leading to a weaker public savings performance than expected and the
inability to meet targets on payments of arrears to suppliers. The program was essentially off-
track by end-June 1994.
10.   In order to turn the situation around and establish a more positive record of policy
reform, the Chadian authorities canceled the Stand-by arrangement and replaced it with a
staff-monitored program  covering the period October 1994-June 1995.  IDA provided
support to the implementation of both the staff-monitored program and the ERC through the
restructuring of the Economic and Financial Management Project (FY88). In particular, the
project helped finance capacity building at the two customs posts, which handle 90 percent of
the country's trade, and the privatization of the collection of petroleum import taxes.
Following these actions, customs receipts increased from a monthly average of US$1 million
in mid-1994 (at the beginning of the assistance) to a monthly average of US$2.4 million in
1995, in spite of a 45 percent average reduction in import taxes as part of the CAEMC zone-
wide tariff reforms.
11.   This stronger commitment on the part of the authorities and the IDA-financed
technical assistance project helped achieve the desired turnaround in performance under the
revised program. A strong improvement in revenue collection reversed the deterioration in
the primary deficit, which would have reached 9 percent of GDP, on the basis of performance
in the first half of 1994, instead of the 6 percent ultimately achieved.  The increase in
revenues also allowed for the resumption of critical government spending and permitted the
partial settlement of payments arrears to suppliers and civil servants.   Similarly, full



implementation of the structural measures advanced fiscal reform, supported competitiveness
and reduced the need for subsidies to certain public enterprises. In recognition of the progress
made since mid-1994, Chad's Paris Club creditors granted it in February 1995 a rescheduling
of the eligible stock of debt service arrears at end-March 1994 and debt service payments for
the period April 1994-March 1995 (total of US$30 million equivalent).
12.   The government has taken a number of important measures since March 1994. In the
area of tax and budget policy, the authorities replaced five indirect taxes (single tax, domestic
production tax, domestic turnover tax, import turnover tax and complementary tax) with
varying rates by a single turnover tax with only two rates; introduced excise taxes on a limited
number of luxuries and "harmful goods" (alcohol and tobacco); introduced a single taxpayer
code and file for all revenue departments; removed paramilitary forces from Customs;
privatized the collection of petroleum import taxes through hiring a preshipment inspection
agency while making monitoring improvements including computerizing records; and
integrated the debt management office (CAA) into the Ministry of Finance.
13.   In the area of trade and competition policy, the government simplified and reduced
tariffs to a common external tariff with 4 rates ranging from 5 to 30 percent, in line with
general CAEMC reforms; eliminated export taxes on agricultural goods and livestock;
eliminated export and import licensing; liberalized all prices except for electricity, gasoline and
selected medicines; increased the producer price for first grade cotton from CFAF 80 per kilo
to CFAF 120 per kilo for the 1994/95 season; increased prices for petroleum products (by an
average of 30 percent); and electricity (by an average of 20 percent). In addition, in order to
end the economic losses imposed by parastatals, the government liquidated 7 public
1                 ~~~~~~~~~2
enterprises; and privatized of 5 others.
D. Country Potential, Vision and Strategy
14.   Potential.  In spite of its slow progress to date, Chad's long-term  development
prospects are promising. The territory is vast, with adequate rainfall in normal years, which
makes for a high agricultural potential.  There is a possibility that oil deposits in the
southwestern portion of the country may attract significant amounts of private investment for
their development for export. In November 1995, the government organized in N'Djamena
broad discussions on the mineral sector. Private sector mining companies in attendance
indicated their strong interest in prospecting and exploring Chad's mineral resources, with a
view to assisting in the development of commercially viable projects. In addition, there are
positive legacies from Chad's turbulent past which are favorable for future development: the
OMVSD (Sategui-Deressia Development Project -- irrigation), CSPC (cotton stabilization fund), and
SOTERA (livestock), OFCA (quarries), SHT (hotels), OPIT (industrial promotion), OFNAR (road
maintenance).
2
SAPROVET (veterinary products), MCT (cigarettes), SIMAT (agricultural tools), PHARMAT
(phamarceuticals); STAR Nationale (insurance).



public sector is small; the economy is relatively unregulated; and the Chadian people have
developed a capacity for self reliance and the community organization for the provision of
public services.
15.   Vision for Growth and Poverty Reduction. The Chadian authorities' vision is to
implement policy reforms that would kindle and sustain rapid growth in the economy; ensure
the equitable distribution of the benefits of growth; and improve public services so as to
achieve a stronger poverty reduction impact over and above what growth delivers. Their goal
is to sustain real per capita GDP growth averaging at least 2 percent annually over the
medium-to-long term. This would allow Chad to double its real per capita income within the
next generation, or even do better still if its oil resources are developed as envisaged. The
authorities' poverty reduction strategy includes reinforcing the effect of growing incomes with
expanded and better quality public services to achieve rapid improvement in social indicators.
16.   Key Constraints. Chad's policy framework is relatively free of the deep distortions
characteristic of most other developing economies at the inception of reforms. With its
unsettled history, Chad was not able to formulate and implement a clear-cut development
strategy.  One consequence of this is that the country has escaped the public sector-led
strategy with inward-looking import-substitution policies which were popular in other sub-
Saharan African countries during the 1 960-70s. No extensive tax-cum-subsidy schemes have
been put in place, nor are there significant price distortions. The key constraints to growth
and social progress have been political instability; the disadvantages of being landlocked --
1800 km from the nearest port -- with a vast (and, paradoxically, seasonally flooded) territory,
both of which make for high transport costs; highly variable weather with frequent droughts;
and inadequate levels and quality of essential public goods and services.
11. THE PROPOSED REFORM PROGRAM
17.    The Reform Agenda. The process of reconciliation and restoration of political
pluralism (para. 4)  have begun to address the issue of instability.  The effect of the
disadvantages of physical location will be progressively attenuated as the economy
strengthens. What is critical now is the need to restore the state's capacity to govern
(including creating an environment of security and enforceable contracts); enable the
administration to function (provide the minimum essential services and pay for them); and
facilitate the operation of the private sector. In view of these, the proposed reform program
aims at: (i) restoring the government's capacity to provide essential public goods and services,
and improving its finances; (ii) focusing public expenditure on development activities and
poverty alleviation; and (iii) creating a favorable environment for private sector growth.
A. Restoring Critical Public Sector Capacity and Improving its Finances
18.   Background. As a result of its past political instability, Chad does not have the critical
minimum capacity required for the delivery of essential public goods and services, and the
ability to finance it.  The civil service (about 27,000 people) is not yet an established



- 7 -
institution with a clear code of conduct; it is unable to function properly owing to lack of
resources; and it is often on strikes because of the irregularity of salary payments. The
government would like to overcome these impediments to growth and development by: (i)
rehabilitating the civil service and clarifying its functions; and (ii) rehabilitating the public
finances.
19.   a Civil Service Reform. The government intends to rehabilitate its administration
around a civil service of modest size with a clear focus on core public sector functions and in
which recruitment, career progress, training and management and incentives elicit dedication
and efficiency from its staff. To achieve this, a census has been conducted to establish e new
information base for managing and controlling the size of the new civil service. New
standards for recruitment, career planning, training and career management will be established
with support from the proposed Capacity Building Project.
20.   b. Rehabilitatict of Public Finances. The low capacity to mobilize revenues remains
a major handicap. In 1995 for instance, the government's own revenues barely covered 80
percent of non-debt recurrent (non-military) expenditures. Thus, even with external sources
covering all investment expenditures, many current needs go unfinanced and payments to
domestic suppliers are irregular. The inability to pay civil servant wages regularly led to
strikes and a disruption of the administration, including revenue collection agencies. While
the civil service reform and the military demobilization are expected to lead to fiscal savings,
the authorities propose to tackle the structural fiscal weakness more directly by: (i) reducing,
over time, the scope of public sector activities to the provision of minimum essential public
goods and services; and (ii) rehabilitating and strengthening the tax administration, while
extending the tax base.
21.   Further Reforms.  The government has prepared the policy changes required to
achieve the above goals, with the implementation of change taken up by various instruments.
In civil service reform, the decision has been made to maintain a cap on total personnel; the
wage bill will be limited to CFAF 28.6 billion in 1996, CFAF 29.9 billion in 1997 and CFAF
31.1 billion in 1998; work is under way towards the adoption (end-1996) of new
organizational charts, including a civil service census (of which the first phase was concluded
in November 1995) to prepare a reliable personnel database; and automatic wage increases
will be abolished and replaced with a system of selective increases based on performance once
the new organigrams are in place.
22.    In terms of additional action to deal with the structural fiscal imbalance, the
government will make a push during 1996-98 towards greater use of burden-sharing with
local communities in the funding of public services, and the reinforcement of revenue
mobilization. In preparation for progressive reduction of the budgetary burden, a study will
be carried out in 1996 on ways to extend community finance efficiently to some public
services still covered by the budget.  The implementation of the recommendations would
begin in 1997. In the area of revenue mobilization, the authorities' focus is on improved
administration through the inter-agency coordination of efforts and the elimination of
loopholes. This began in September 1995 with the centralization at the Customs Department



of the collection of international trade taxes formerly handled by four separate agencies.
Future plans include effective use of the single taxpayer code and file to enhance tax payer
identification, assessment and enforcement. In addition, loopholes created by para-fiscal
provisions are being eliminated. The special enterprise regimes of businesses are being
renegotiated, and those that lapse will not be renewed; the special tax and customs treatment
accorded public enterprises (COTONTCHAD-cotton, MCT-cigarettes, and SONASUT-
sugar) have been renegotiated to reduce the privileges; and, in order to limit abuse, quotas
have been established on imports undertaken by diplomats with duty exoneration under the
Vienna Convention.
23.   To support these efforts, the proposed credit would also transfer balance of payments
resources, whose CFAF counterparts -- together with input from other donors -- would help
close th? fiscal gap during the interim period. The overall strategy is to help Chad to finance
its essential public goods and services during the period it needs to achieve public finance
viability (possibly throtugh 1998-99) through building up its revenue capacity and also cutting
back on the scope of public sector activity to the essential minimum. Continuing support
under subsequent single-tranche operations would be based on overall satisfactory
performance under the preceding operations, including progress acceptable to IDA on
eliminating the structural fiscal imbalances.
B. Increasing the Poverty Alleviation Impact of Public Expenditures
24.   Background. One result of the past turbulence is that the composition of public
expenditures has been biased against critical development expenditures (defense and internal
security share of current expenditure, average of 30 percent during 1992-94, as compared
with education, health and social affairs combined, at 22 percent). The Chadian army had
47,000 people in 1990, when all combatants in previous conflicts were enumerated. As
reconciliation proceeded, the army was reduced to some 32,000 people through a first phase
of demobilization, which was assisted by France. The government considers the current size
of the army still too large, for both budgetary reasons as well as from the standpoint of the
threat to stability from having a large armed force that is not paid regularly. Chad's public
expenditures also suffer from shortcomings of their management. The budget has generally
been formulated without reference to expenditure ceilings derived from a sound
macroeconomic framework; the current/capital budget relation is distorted, with many current
items covered by the capital budget; and some items (such as utilities) are chronically
underbudgeted.
25.   Further Reforms. The authorities' reform plans include the internal restructuring of
the budget to privilege development expenditures (including poverty reduction) over non-
development expenditures; the creation of a stronger link between the budget and the
macroeconomic framework (basing each year's budget circular, hearings and final decisions
on explicit fiscal elements of a macroeconomic framework); and the institution of improved
budget management procedures including the realistic budgeting of items hitherto
underbudgeted.



- 9 -
26.   a. Demobilization. In order to reduce the weight of the military in the economy, the
authorities plan to demobilize a further 7,000 people in 1996, and progressively integrate them
into active civilian economic life. Working in close consultation with all concerned, the
Ministry of the Army has prepared a first proposal (September 1995) for a demobilization
program that would cover the critical phases of identification of eligible candidates, arms
retrieval, facilitation of settlement and successful reintegration. The government is seeking
external assistance to refine the proposal and fund its implementation. The intention is to
demobilize and settle upwards of 11,000 people over 1996-98, assuming sufficient donor
support would be forthcoming. The program is scheduled to begin implementation in early
1996. The government will use part of the CFAF counterpart of IDA's financing to support
the early but critical 1996 phase of this exercise (7,000 departures). The authorities plan to
finalize the demobilization plan and submit it to a Donors' Round Table envisaged for mid-
1996.
27.   b. Improved Fxpenditure Management. The government intends to use regular
consultations with the Bank on public expenditures, along with the assistance being provided
to it under the Capacity Building project, to improve the efficiency with which it mobilizes and
allocates public resources. Each year, the government and IDA will agree on the draft budget
for the next year before it is presented to Parliament. As a beginning, and as a condition of
Board presentation of the SAC, IDA and the government have agreed on the 1996 budget in
which wages and salaries are the equivalent of 5.7 percent of GDP; goods and services are 2.6
percent of GDP; within goods and services, the allocations for education, health and women
and social affairs are 26 percent higher than in 1995 (21 percent increase in real terms); overall
current expenditure stands at 13.5 percent of GDP; and capital expenditure equals 14 percent
of GDP. These targets were agreed earlier with the Bank and the IMF in the 1995-98 PFP.
Further targeting of critical development expenditures, within a severely constrained overall
envelope, will continue under the second and third SACs in this series.
28.   Chad's PIP needs continuing work to reduce the number of projects (now almost
300), identify and move current expenditures into the current budget, and make the PIP less
donor-driven. As a first step towards these goals, the government and IDA have agreed on
the size and composition of the 1996 tranche of the 1996-98 PIP and exchanged preliminary
views on the remainder. During the remainder of the program period, the government will
agree with IDA on the rolling three-year PIP. With the drive to improve the realism of the
PIP and the efficiency of its implementation, in each year overall programmed expenditures
would not exceed the level judged consistent with the capacity to finance and implement by
about 10 percent. Further, in order to ensure that the PIP fully supports the development
impact and poverty reduction objectives of the program, each project would be reviewed for
consistency with sector strategies and economic and financial viability. In terms of economic
viability, projects amenable to quantitative analysis would be expected to meet a minimum
acceptance criterion of 10 percent rate of return.  Others would be subjected to least cost
criterion.



- 10-
29.   c. Increasing Resources Allocated to Priority Sectors. In line with the poverty
alleviation strategy, the authorities are increasing resource availability to priority activities of
health and nutrition, education, agricultural extension, and infrastructure maintenance. Thus
in 1994, additional recruitment was allowed for the social sectors (280 teachers and 90 health
workers) when a general freeze was in effect. The budgets for health and education were
increased by 10 percent in 1995 and again by 26 percent in 1996. Similar attention is being
paid to road maintenance, for which budget outlays are increased annually in line with a
medium-term schedule agreed with IDA. They were raised by 16 percent in 1995 and by 40
percent in 1996. Throughout the program, the needs and allocations of the priority sectors
will be a key area of focus during the regular consultations between the government and IDA
on pubiic expenditure management.
C. Creating a Favorable Environment for Private Sector Growth
30.   Background.  he Chadian authorities believe that the private sector should be the
driving force in the economy, generating growing incomes and providing employment. They
see the public sector's role as creating the conditions permitting the emergence of new formal
small and medium-scale enterprises while those in existence expand and diversify their
activities. The government realizes this will require public sector withdrawal from activities
that can be handled by the private sector; the provision of supportive infrastructure; and the
removal of obstacles to the creation of an open and competitive business environment. To
this end, the authorities propose to: (i) create a business-friendly judicial and regulatory
system; (ii) restructure the financial system to make it more supportive of private sector
investment and trade; (iii) accelerate the divestiture process through which the remaining
commercial/productive state enterprises are transferred to the private sector; (iv) undertake
market and institutional reforms in the cotton sector so as to spur production.
31.   a. Improving the Judicial and Regulatory Environment. As part of creating a
minimum, dependable government capacity, Chad needs to generally rehabilitate the judicial
system and courts, and update legal texts where they already exist. From the standpoint of
encouraging private sector growth, this includes renovating the apparatus in charge of
business law, helping instill flexibility in factor markets, and facilitating the entry and exit of
business firms into activities.
32.   b. Restructuring the Financial System.  Chad's financial system comprises four
commercial banks; one development bank; one insurance company; two social security
institutions; a postal savings bank; and a number of savings and loans cooperatives. Three of
the commercial banks (Banque Tchadienne de Credit et des Dep6ts -- BTCD, Financial Bank
of Tchad -- FBT, and Banque Commerciale du Chari -- BCC) are in relatively good shape,
with low ratios of expenses to net banking product, and registering profits. The fourth
commercial bank, Banque Meridien du Chad -- BMBT, is suffering from an important non-
performing portfolio and from loss of deposits with the parent company in Luxembourg,
Frankfurt and the Bahamas. The development bank, Banque du Developpement du Chad
(BDT), which was restructured in 1992, could face some difficulty in the near future when the
moratorium on the withdrawal of deposits expires in 1996. Bank regulation and supervision



- 11 -
are handled by the regional supervisory agency, COBAC, which has ensured the observance
of zone-wide prudential ratios.
33.   The private sector worker insurance and retirement fund, CNPS, has an outstanding
loan to the government, and its Board and management are dominated by the public sector.
The former condition threatens the viability of the CNPS and the latter limits its independence.
The public sector retirement fund, CNRT, started off with obligations but no assets. Worker
contributions still go to the Treasury and retirement benefits are paid through advances made
to it by the Treasury. At end-1994, the CNRT had a claim of some CFAF 3.5 billion on the
government, representing mainly benefit arrears. Keeping the CNPS and CNRT solvent and
improving their management would enable them to play their social insurance roles which are
essential for the success of the civil service reform, demobilization and parastatal restructuring
efforts.
34.   c State Enterp-ise Divestiture. In 1990, Chad's state enterprises (including mixed
public-private entities and autonomous, commercially-oriented agencies) numbered about
forty. The twenty-eight largest together had assets totaling CFAF 180 billion (equivalent to
56 percent of GDP) and employed some 8,000 people (about 25 percent of modern sector
employment). In 1992, the decision was taken to divest the state of most of these enterprises
in order to reduce the scope of public sector activity and create room for private sector
growth. In that year, a Presidential Ordinance established a list of enterprises to be liquidated
or privatized, and spelled out the procedure for doing so. Considerable progress has been
achieved in the first phase of implementation. By end- 1994, seven enterprises were liquidated
and five were privatized (para. 13).
35.   d Colton Sector Reform. The organization of the cotton sector follows the model of
an integrated vertical structure led by a public monopoly, which has been used in most
francophone African cotton producing countries. COTONTCHAD is an integrated operation
(input supply, purchase of grain cotton, ginning and marketing), with considerable financial
and economic clout vis-a-vis the cotton farmers grouped in some 4,000 small village
associations. COTONTCHAD is also highly centralized, while its ginneries are scattered
over a large area. This makes it impossible to achieve efficiency by focusing on sources
improvements at the plant level.  The absence of local qualified personnel is another
shortcoming. One consequence is high reliance on expensive foreign expertise contracted on
a cost-plus, not results-based terms, at all technical and managerial levels, and lack of capacity
to elaborate and implement a nationally-conceived development program for the sector.
36.   Producer pricing follows world market prices, subject to the profitability of
COTONTCHAD. Over the last four crop years (1989/90-1992/93), COTONTCHAD made a
net loss of CFAF 9.8 billion. A profit of CFAF 5 billion was realized in 1993/94, aided largely
by the devaluation of the CFA franc. The preliminary results for 1994/95 show a continuation
of the improving trend. One result of inefficiencies in the sector is that Chad's cotton
producers generally receive a low but variable share of world market prices. During the five-
year period 1989/90-1993/94, the share of the fob export price received by the cotton
producer varied between 32 and 68 percent. A permanent improvement in the financial



- 12 -
performance of the sector and the adoption of a pricing scheme more favorable to the farmers
could lead to stronger supply response.
37.   Further Reforms. In the area of judicial and regulatory framework, during 1994-
95, the authorities strengthened the staffing and technical of the Ministry of Justice, and
created a liberal trade environment by suppressing export and import licenses and abolishing
price controls and most state monopolies. As further deepening of the process, they propose
to amend the Labor Code (to free wage determination and encourage consultation among
economic partners); revise the Investment Code (for simplicity and neutrality in the treatment
of investors); and ratify the treaty creating the Organization for the Harmonization of Business
Law in Africa (OHADA), including the provision for standardized company and bankruptcy
laws.
38.   While mindful of the fact that the valuable role played by current organization of the
cotton sector in keepirg cotton going even in the most troubled times, the authorities would
like to address some of the sector's shortcomings. In order to avoid disruptive action and still
achieve the goal of increasing the contribution of the cotton sector to the growth objectives,
the authorities have decided on a phased reform program, beginning with the organizational
structure, personnel and producer incentives. A program of gradual decentralization will be
introduced in 1996. Its ultimate goal is to put decision-making close to the ginneries and
establish accounts by plant so as to arrive at a better gauge of performance by entity. In the
meantime, since the 230,000 tons of ginning capacity suffices for the needs of the immediate
future, all new investment will be on hold. A human resource development program to fast-
track the development of senior Chadian managers will also be initiated on the basis of a study
by industry specialists in 1996. Finally, a new producer-pricing mechanism will be introduced
with effect from 1996/97 crop season. Under it, producers will receive an initial payment
linked to projected world prices, at the time of sale of field (unginned) cotton, with an
additional payment after the export sales have been made. The producer price announced for
field cotton in the 1995/96 crop year (CFAF 140 per kilo) would be equivalent, in terns of
ginned cotton, to about 46 percent of the projected fob export price. When they switch to a
two-part pricing system in the 1996/97 crop year, the authorities intend to start paying the
producer at least 50 percent of the fob export price, and to increase this share progressively as
the overall sector operations become more efficient.
39.   While the situation of the banks is not alarming, there is a need for greater private
sector presence to soften the public sector's hand and improve the responsiveness of the banks
to the market (case of BTCD); fill a void left by a previous private sector partner (as with
BM[BT); or strengthen the balance sheet (case of BDT). In parallel, there is need to
rehabilitate the CNPS and CNRT, both of which are critical for the financial integrity of the
economy and the success of the reform efforts. In recognition of this, the government's near-
term objectives are to: (i) introduce private partners into the BTCD and the BDT; (ii) find a
replacement for the Meridien in the BMBT; and (iii) initiate action towards restructuring the
CNPS and CNRT. An additional objective with slightly longer-term perspective is to spur
the development of cooperative finance.



- 13 -
40.   The BTCD and the BMBT each have received proposals of entry from prospective
new partners. While resolved to reduce the public sector share of the capital in each bank
below 25 percent, the authorities will remain pragmatic and only conclude deals with partners
of the highest integrity and who would bring additional professional competence to the
management of the banks. This consideration may mean an interim position where the public
sector share does not go all the way below 25 percent. In the case of the BMBT, the
discussions with the prospective partner center on the restoration of the capital base which has
been weakened by an estimated CFAF 2 billion in losses. The authorities propose to handle
this through the revaluation of assets. No such issue applies to the rest. The government
intends to conclude the transactions for all the three banks by June 1996. In addition to these,
studies will be carried out on how to restructure the CNRT and further develop cooperative
finance. The studies will be launched in February 1996.
41.   In 1995, in continuation of the parastatal sector reforms, the government liquidated
an additional 4 enterpri-es (SONACOT-trading), BICIT-commercial bank, Caisse Sucre-sugar
stabilization fund, and FIP-petroleum products price equalization fund); and brought another 4
to the point of sale (Air Chad, INT-printing and publishing, SONAPA-animal products,
SOTEC-quarries). The authorities also initiated the design of a divestiture program for the
five largest enterprises -- STEE (water and electricity), ONPT (posts), TIT
(telecommunications), COTONTCHAD (cotton processing and marketing), and SONASUT
(sugar). During 1992-94, the financial losses of these five enterprises amounted to CFAF 7
billion, or about 2 percent of GDP, the bulk of the losses of the public enterprises sector. The
diagnostic phases of the necessary studies were concluded in December 1995 for SONASUT,
TIT and ONPT and the follow-up analysis of options will be launched by February 1996.
Terms of reference have been agreed for the others, and their studies will get under way by
end-January 1996. The divestiture strategies agreed for these enterprises will be implemented
over 1996-98.
D. National Consultation and Participation
42.   The economic reform program to be supported by the proposed credit was elaborated
on the basis of wide-ranging discussions with various segments of the society.  These
consultations took place in seminars and workshops held in N'Djamena and provincial
capitals. Given their strong belief in inclusiveness as the way to break with their country's
history of instability based on sectionalisrn, the authorities worked closely with the business
community, unions, community leaders, the army as well as legislators on the design of the
policy measures as well as the timetable for their implementation. A standing private sector
group which advises the government on policy actively participated in the preparation of the
reforms. In view of the general elections in mid-1996, the meetings with legislators were
considered particularly important in order to ensure that the program would be seen as a
national endeavor to be carried through regardless of which party comes to power.  This
process has created a strong sense of broad-based local ownership of the reform program.



-14-
E. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements
43.   The medium-term objectives of the reform process include sustaining the improved
GDP growth performance initiated in 1994 (at just above 5 percent) and extending it through
the period 1995-98 and beyond.  These objectives are reflected in the macroeconomic
framework of the 1995-98 PFP concluded in August 1995. Following the variable sectoral
performance in 1994, it is expected that all sectors will settle into a rhythm of solid growth,
assisted by the increased overall competitiveness of the economy, improved delivery of public
services and the reinforcement of the environment for private initiative. The agricultural
sector is expected to go from a 1994 recovery of 14 percent (attained mainly by recovering
ground lost in 1993) to an average of some 4.7 percent over 1995-98; industry would recover
from its decline in 1994 (when it regressed by 5 percent owing to adjustment to higher input
costs following the devaluation), to attain an average growth of 4.9 percent; and the tertiary
sector would go from the stagnation in 1994 (0.8 percent) to an annual average growth of 5.1
percent.
44.   The above outlook is expected to be supported by investment averaging about 17
percent of GDP. The bulk of the financing will be from external sources, as domestic savings
will likely remain negative through 1998. Nevertheless, with tax policy reform and improved
administration as well as budgetary austerity, public finances are expected to begin their
recovery, with revenues increasing from 7.4 percent of GDP in 1994 to 11.5 percent by 1998;
the share of personnel expenditures would decline from 6.1 percent of GDP in 1994 to 5.1
percent in 1998; and security-related expenditures would fall from 3.2 percent of GDP in 1994
to 1.7 percent in 1998. Under these influences, the current fiscal deficit would be expected to
decline from 7.8 percent in 1994 to less than 1 percent in 1998, setting the stage for the
emergence and growth of local contribution to the financing investment expenditure from
1999 onwards.  Supported by prudent monetary policies pursued in collaboration with the
regional monetary authorities (BEAC), these trends should minimize inflationary pressures
and enable the inflation rate to fall from 41 percent in 1994 to 4.5 percent in 1996 and
stabilize at about 3 percent thereafter.
45.   Under these conditions, the external current account deficit should decline from 18.8
percent of GDP in 1994 to 16 percent in 1998. Taking into account the need for additions to
reserves, external financing requirements (excluding debt relief) are projected at some
US$926 million over the period 1995-98. This amount also is the financing requirement of
the budget (of which US$690 million during 1996-98, Table 2).  Loan and grant
disbursements for projects would amount to US$576 million, and other (private) capital flows
are projected at US$14 million. Out of the residual gap of US$336 million, disbursements
under the IMF's ESAF arrangement would cover an amount of US$75 million over the
period; three successive IDA SACs would provide another US$70 million (21 percent); and
bilateral donors (notably France), the European Union and debt relief would cover the
remainder (57 percent).



- 15 -
Table 2: Chad - External Financing Plan, 1995-98
, : ,: ~~~~~~. -. .....               .K*
(USS million):
External Financing Requirements        233  -     245        233        227        690
:current Account Deficit                158        170        181.    :196          547
-Amortization1(incL lIM  Repurchases)   19         25        29: -      29:         83
:-PRed6ction n Extemnal Arrears:        42         15         0            .0    -
creasein:-.--n:serves                  14         35.        25 -       .3         63
Sources of Financing:-                233         245       233        227        690
-Offcial&Grants                         89         73        92- 96                261
--Project-related Disbursements         40         66        58         64         187
: -;Debt Relief                         36          0
-OtherCavital                          -8          1          7         11          19
-Adjustment Financing                   76        :105        77         56        219
IDA                                     0         30         20         20         70
:F                  .                 -         -13                ..25  25  13    - 63
Other                               63         50         32         23         86
II. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. The Credit
46.   The proposed credit is a single tranche operation, with the proceeds to be disbursed
against reform measures taken up-front.  Its counterpart funds would provide budgetary
support (in concert with other donors) to assist in funding essential public services, paying off
the government's debt to local businesses, meeting payment arrears to external creditors and
paying severance to soldiers scheduled to depart in 1996. This would help the authorities
avoid civil service strikes, inject some needed liquidity into the business community, normalize
Chad's felations with foreign creditors and kick-off the second phase of the military
demobilization.
47.   In parallel, the government would continue the implementation of its reform program
summarized in the reform policy agenda for 1995-98. Continuing support under an FY97
SAC will be conditional upon satisfactory progress on the overall reform program, including
the implementation of the measures for outline for 1996 and the maintenance of the agreed
macroeconomic framework, as well as the preparation of the detailed 1997 program in line
with the three-year policy framework.



I                                                                   I~~~~~~~~L
X.- ~ ~              ~                                                                                   .
l-
..... ::::::: .........     i    :x::: ::       :::::::::i:f:::if::::   ::fi::::: :::  S :: ::::      :::  ::   ::: :::: ::.: 
- .::  :
wd"'ti'''.0t'''"Xtit."'        'X'''                   .                                                                                                               00
,., ...'' ..'  ,'... . '.. ' . ..                                                                                             X :    -   - i '      i   ..-..,
...   .....  th...........  
A 7~ ~~~~~ 
'';'.''.'.'.''.',.''''..'-''t....'''W':'g''.WEg'"''~ ~ ~ ~      ~          ~         ~ ~               ~ ~~...                                        . . .. .
.'.,.,'','...,,'    '.'".,,'..       ''          '''"''""    ' '                        "        ''''
. E E --.  ...  .  iR -- .:  E - - ...  :  ..  ..  ..   ...    .. . .E...   E-  -- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     .....   ..
.E   .       S.   i      MS-te  .  .t-m  .      oi    E......................................-  .- T 7--. ....... Sg-CD 
i:::::i.EE:  .   :    :  M:S:i:   ::  ::::::   .............: ..:: ::::::s .:::::.:::::::E:::::::.i::::::: :F:r:: :g::R:t
::: : :.:.:-:: ::::EE:-::.:s.   : tZ::.:::.:.:::    :       ::.:  : ..: . -.:: ::::  : :::::::: .:   :: - ::::3



0% ~     ~~~~ 00
.....  .....~
0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
4.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .. . :..:..::::  ::  
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .  .  ;.:.... ..... ;   ..  
.... . .                                               ....   ... . .  .    g  ---.  .   .. . .
4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
40
* ~~~~~~ 
'   |  <        S     i 4 to  >  .        g 0' S S pt t;   X   50t | E | t . ...... 4...........  0aa      
@4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14
4-;   sx.Q                                       0 4 45  ;                - P
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
4.- ~ ~~
g ;- a > > -~~~~~~~~71  . s+ +: -.  .;    ~a  . .   .  ;         .  - 
4  -0   -O ".  -W,
iu~~~~~~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~0
.    .. .......



- 18 -
disbursing resources to support macroeconomic frameworks that already incorporate the
impact of up-front actions, thereby removing the element of negotiations over multiple
tranches from what should be sustained, non-contentious and predictable support to the
government's reform efforts. The measures taken so far by the government are considered
equivalent to those that would normally be required for the second tranche in a two-tranche
adjustment operation. Similar subsequent single tranche operations are envisaged, each to be
justified on the progress achieved in the previous year on growth and on poverty reduction
indicators. In the case of the latter, a system for monitoring progress on poverty reduction
indicators is being developed jointly with the government and the communities for use in
assessing progress (para. 56).
B. Rationale of the Proposed Approach
49.   The idea behind the proposed approach is to finance on a temporary basis a coherent
set of reforms that will ultimately promote improved economic performance. The credit
would help Chad finance adjustments (such as demobilization, civil service reform) that are
initially costly to carry out, but over time would lead to reduced expenditure, improved civil
service performance and fiscal sustainability. Along with the support from other donors, it
would help make the payment of civil service salaries regular and keep public services
working (including the revenue agencies), while the authorities establish a more effective civil
service. It is part of a realistic effort to achieve public finance viability in Chad, including tax
system and administration reform towards a stronger capacity to mobilize revenues,  Finally,
it is underpinned by a scenario under which Chad's need for budgetary transfers decreases
over time.
50.   The fiscal viability of the approach may be illustrated with the impact of
demobilization for which reasonably firm numbers are available for 1996. In 1994, the current
budget deficit was 7.8 percent of GDP. With the departure of 7,000 soldiers in 1996, the
current budget deficit would rise temporarily by 0.2 percent. The ultimate effect, however,
would be a current budget deficit of 0.8 percent in 1998 instead of 1.5 percent without
demobilization. The planned demobilization of at least a further 4,000 men during 1997-98
(for which details are now being worked out) would result in a faster elimination of the
current budget deficit.
C. Financing and Management of the Program
51.   Borrower and Credit Amount. The borrower will be the government of Chad. An
IDA credit in the amount of US$30 million is proposed, which is commnensurate with the
balance of payments needs and the expected burden sharing among Chad's major donors.
The proposed SAC is complemented by a three-year (1995-97) ESAF arrangement with the
IMF, for an amount of SDR 49.56 million. Additional financial support for the program is
has been extended by France and the European Union.
52.   Disbursements. The proceeds of the credit would be released upon effectiveness (no
special effectiveness conditions are foreseen beyond those described in section 12.01 of the



- 19 -
close Chad's external financing gap, while the counterpart CFAF equivalent would go to
support the budget. The credit would reimburse 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of
eligible imports subject to a negative list. Goods financed under other development assistance
programs or imported goods purchased locally will not be eligible for financing. Retroactive
financing of up to 20 percent of the credit would be made available for payments made for
eligible imports no more than four months prior to credit signing. Imports will be subject to
pre-shipment inspection.
53.   Disbursement of the credit would be made in the form of reimbursement upon receipt
of relevant application and documentation.  On an exceptional basis, to allow for timely
disbursements, no limitation is placed on petroleum  or food imports.  The minimum
application size would be US$0.5 million. Contracts valued less than US$2,000 would not be
eligible for financing under the credit. Disbursements would be made against Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) for eligible contracts valued at less than US$1 million equivalent. The
Borrower would retain all supporting documents, which would be made available for scrutiny
by Bank staff and external auditors. All other disbursements would be made against full
documentation submitted to IDA. An audit report, conforming to internationally accepted
standards and prepared by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, will be submitted within
six months after the end of the fiscal year of the borrower.
54.   Procurement. Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of the
funds while ensuring efficiency and accountability in the process. It is proposed that eligible
imports by public agencies and by the private sector costing the equivalent of US$ 2 million or
more would be subject to simplified international competitive bidding. Procurement by public
agencies for items below the threshold would follow standard government practices found to
be acceptable in the past. Eligible imports below the threshold by private entities would be
procured in accordance with normal commercial practices, and wherever possible, quotations
would be sought from at least two countries. Single source purchasing would be permitted
for proprietary equipment or where compatibility with existing equipment requires
standardization. Contracts for US$10 million and above would be subject to prior review.
For all others, procurement documentation would be retained for ex-post review by the
Association. The documentation may consist of: (i) a brief description of procurement
procedures; (ii) evaluation summary giving numbers of bids received; (iii) a comparative
statement of prices received; (iv) dates of contracts and payments; (v) a copy of the invoice;
and (vi) any other documentation required by disbursements.
55.   Management and Monitoring of the Program. The program will be implemented
under the supervision of a High Intermninisterial Committee, composed of 10 ministers,
established in June 1994 and charged with the responsibility of overseeing the design and
implementation of reform programs over the medium term. It will be assisted by a Technical
Committee responsible for the day-to-day implementation and monitoring.  This Technical
Committee will be supported in terms of technical expertise and logistics by the proposed
Capacity Building Project. Supervision of the credit will be carried out by regular missions in
close coordination with the IMF.  The Resident Mission in N'Djamena will assist the
government with the implementation of the program on a continuing basis.



- 20 -
56.   Monitoring of Results.  In order to continuously evaluate the effectiveness of the
policy changes and the use of resources, a monitoring system will be introduced to track
results beyond those normally available in macroeconomic statistics.   Both the Chadian
authorities and IDA have agreed that the system should emphasize human resource
development and poverty alleviation. The system envisages that: (i) the focus will be on
health, nutrition and education; (ii) the conditions of the centers providing services will be
monitored in repeated surveys, as will the client assessment of the quality and coverage of
service received; (iii) a survey frame will be established, covering all of Chad's accessible
provinces; (iv) the service centers will be grouped in clusters, and centers will be randomly
selected at each round of the survey; and (v) there will be no prior announcements before the
visits of the survey teams.
57.   For education, the surveys will focus on the following variables: (i) condition of
classrooms; (ii) number of students per classroom; (iii) number of girls in school; (iv) number
of girls per grade; (v) percentage of enrolled students actually present in class; (vi) pupil-
teacher ratios; (vii) nui.1bers of government-supplied versus community-supported teachers;
and (viii) supply of school materials (chalkboard, teaching aids, schoolbooks). In the case of
health and family welfare institutions, the variables of interest will be: (i) conditions of health
post/clinic/welfare post; (ii) number of clients served per month; (iii) number and qualification
of attendants; (iv) range of services provided; and (v) level of supplies. The system will be in
operation by mid-1996. The results of these surveys of real outcomes will be used together
with the record on policy reform and the attainment of macroeconomic objectives, in
determining whether or not there is a basis for the continuation of IDA support to the reform
program.
D. Agreements Reached and Conditionality
58.   On January 17, 1996, the government transmitted to IDA copies of laws adopted and
executive administrative instruments (ministerial circulars, calls for bids, notices of
adjudication) put in place to implement the measures agreed as conditions for Board
presentation of the SAC. In the area of tax and budget policy, these measures include:
restructuring of special enterprise regimes, to reduce their tax exemptions in line with regional
(CAEMC) agreements; (ii) renegotiation of special customs treatment (special conventions)
for private companies and public enterprises (COTONTCHAD, MCT, SONASUT); (iii)
centralization of collection of international trade taxes at Customs Department; (iv)
establishment of exoneration quotas for imports by diplomats; (v) abolition of off-budget
operations; and (vi) the 1996 budget and 1996-98 PIP, as agreed with IDA.
59.   In parastatal sector reform and private sector promotion, the following have been
accomplished: (i) adoption of the law on a new membership structure for the Board of the
private sector worker insurance and social security institution, CNPS, leading to a reduction in
public sector presence; (ii) preparation of an action plan to settle government's debt to CNPS
and CNRT; (iii) launching a study on the further development of cooperative finance; (iv)
initiation of disengagement strategy study for ONPT (posts), TIT (telecommunications); (v)
launching of cotton sector human resource development strategy study; (vi) liquidation of 4
enterprises: SONACOT (trading), BICIT (commercial bank), Caisse Sucre (sugar stabilization



- 21 -
fund); and FIP (petroleum price equalization fund); and (vii) increase in the producer price for
first grade cotton from CFAF 120 per kilo to CFAF 140 per kilo.
E. Benefits and Risks
60.   Benefits. The main justification of this operation is that it would support the first
phase of a multi-year program conceived by Chad to help it: (i) focus the public sector on its
core functions and improving the capacity to finance them, while making greater use of
community provision of public services; and (ii) create a business environment free of
arbitrariness in which more areas are open to the private sector than before and where support
systems such as a healthy financial system enable it to respond to new opportunities. The
benefits include more reliable public services (including health and education) and stronger
growth performance, both with direct impact on rapid poverty reduction.
61.   Risks: The operation is subject to two risks. The first is political -- a risk that political
unrest could resume and halt the implementation of the program, and/or that a new
government assuming power after the mid-1996 elections could disown the program and end
it. The second relates to the weak institutional capacity, which could be overwhelmed and
cause program implementation to stall. With regard to the political instability, given Chad's
history, a return to general unrest cannot be totally ruled out. Nevertheless, the risk of this
happening has been considerably reduced by the government's successful reconciliation efforts
which have brought most of the representatives of previously warring groups into the
transition government. As to the possibility of a new government disowning the program, the
chances of this happening have been minimized through the direct association of the
Parliamentarians as well as representatives of the private sector and the unions with the
preparation of the program.
62.   The risk from weak institutional capacity has also been reduced to manageable
proportions in two ways. First, by focusing the SAC exclusively on key policy actions, the
operation economnizes on the government's implementation capacity. Second, a Capacity
Building project is being put in place in parallel with the SAC to help implement the remainder
(1996-98 tranches) of the program while building local capacity. The experience of the
successful use of the Economic and Financial Management Technical Assistance Project to
support the Economnic Recovery Program shows that this is a viable approach to managing the
capacity risk.
IV. BANK OPERATIONS
A. Bank Assistance and Portfolio
63.   Past IDA Lending. Since joining the World Bank Group in 1963, Chad has received
37 IDA credits totaling US$540 mnillion. The credits are distributed as follows: 25 percent for
education, health and population; 25 percent for infrastructure and energy; 34 percent for
agriculture and rural development; and 16 percent for economic reform and capacity building.



- 22 -
The currently active portfolio consists of 11 projects. An Agricultural Services Project and a
Population and AIDS Prevention Project were approved in FY95.
64.   Portfolio Management. Chad has managed very well its portfolio of Bank-assisted
projects, despite severe fiscal and capacity constraints. In FY93, the portfolio had three
problem projects out of a total of eight projects. Measures taken to deal with the problems
noted were successful. A CPPR organized in May 1995 noted that there were no problem
projects. Two of the projects (Health and Transport) were singled out as particularly well-
managed. These results place Chad among the best performers in the region. To maintain this
performance, there is need to pay attention to careful management of counterpart funds in an
environment of general scarcity of resources, and the husbanding of the limited experience of
project managers, particularly in the fields of procurement, accounting and auditing.
65.   Proposed Strategy and Assistance Program.  As described in the Country
Assistance Strategy which accompanies this report, the main objective of the Bank Group
over the medium-to-long term is to assist Chad in overcoming its key development constraint
-- the chronic insufficiency of essential public services needed to sustain rapid growth and
poverty reduction.  Given its limited resources, Chad needs to mobilize a steady level of
external financial support to supplement its own resources.  In order to maximize their
development impact, such resources would be best pooled and used to finance well-conceived
programs. This approach would explicitly recognize the fungibility of resources and spotlight
the need for continuing judicious choices among activities, and also save on the authorities'
limited implementation capacity.  In parallel, Chad would strengthen its own resource
mobilization capacity in order to progressively reduce dependence on external assistance.
66.   The proposed strategy covers an interim period during which the grounds are prepared
for the switch to financing country programs focused on clear and attainable social and
economic objectives. This interim strategy has as its specific objectives: (i) restore critical
public sector capacity; (ii) focus public expenditures on key social services in conjunction with
community resources; (iii) create an environment favorable to private sector development; and
(iv) protect the environment.  In non-lending support, it would provide ESW  to prepare
country expenditure programs. In terms of lending, it would combine a series of single
tranche, quick-disbursing operations (possibly three) to initiate program-oriented budgetary
support with selected traditional projects aimed at specific near-term goals.
B. IFC and MIGA Activities
67.   Chad has just applied for membership in IFC and MIGA, both of which have
expressed interest in participating in the financing plan of the proposed Doba Oil Project. IFC
envisages a lead role in coordinating financing from commercial banks and export credit
agencies. IDA, IFC and MIGA are closely coordinating their activities on this proposed
project.



- 23 -
V. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
68.   The Bank has worked closely with the IMF and other donors (mainly France and the
European Union) in helping Chad design and prepare its program as well as in mobilizing
quick-disbursing assistance and debt relief to finance it. The Bank and the IMF collaborated
with the Chadian authorities on the preparation of the PFP, and the IMF approved an ESAF
to support a three-year program based on it. A UNDP-sponsored Round Table scheduled for
mid-1996 is expected to secure financial support for other components of Chad's medium-
term reform program, including the demobilization of the military.
VL RECOMMENDATION
69.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D.C.
January 22, 1996






Annex I
Chad                                                   Page 1 of 6
Maest 5rpe/liHeeuew gru           NIV&
Lnt singkyaw              rce s5-                          higher
Unr of                                    sau       S             Low       iwoms
Infdicaor                               m--flWWK            1970.75      1980i.      19U.f3       Afrca    incomw        group
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                        locw c.                  ..         ..cuff
He-count index                           % of pop.               ..          ..          ..         ..         19
Lower poverty line                        local cur.              ..          ..
Headcount index                           % of pop.               ..         ..
GNPpercapita                                 USS                 160         120         210        520        380        1.590
SHORT TERM lNCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wage                      local cwr.              ..          ..          ..          _
Unskilled nral wages
Runl tms of tadc
Consumer pnceindex                         19S7=100               ..         122         110
Lower income
Fooda
Urban
Runrl
SOCAL INDICATORS
Public expenadiuw On basic socdl serviCe  * of GDP                 ..          .         5.5          _          _
GM"i eruoim~anoem
Priary                                 * school a  pop.           35          43          65         67        108         104
Male                                                             5t          63          39         74        116
Feal"e                                       *                   I8          24          41         60        101
Inft mortaLity                        per t    live birds     166.0        143.0       120.0       93.1       63.1        39.0
Undc 5 moortity                                                  ..           ..      206.0       172.3      101.4        61.5
Imm~unzton
Measles                                 *a  goup                 ..          8.0       28.0        49.9       87.3       77.6
DP*                                                               ..         1.0       1I.0        51.9       89.9        82.2
Child manunuiion (under-5)                                         ..        35.0          _          ..       403
Lif expectncy
Total                                      yes                   39          43          48         52         62          67
Female advantage                                                3.1          3.2         3.2        3.3        2.1         5.9
Total ferdlity nta                      births per  n            6.0          5.9         5.S        6.2        3.6         2.9
Maternal mortaity raw                per 100.000 live birdn      858         700           -          _                      .
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Exparditas on social secunty          % of vtoa  Ov't sxp.         ..          _  
Social se=ty coverm                    * scorn. ave pop.           ..          ..
Acos to safe wauw tot                       . of pop.           26.0        29.4           _          _        67.0
Urban                                                        43.0         27.0          _          ..       78.7
Runl                                       *                 23.0        30.0           _          _        62.0
Access to health cam                                               ..       30.0        2.0.
Populaion growth rate                 GNP per capita growth rate   | Deropmnt diamond b
6:      (annual av*g. psetw               10r    (aul avop pet| s)
4S
0                              -5~~~~~~~~~~~
I~ 1C                      I  r,  ,I I                                             'I                              - 
.21                                       .10
1970-75     19808       1938-93             1970-75    1980t85     19811-9
CaChd                                                  'h_
-    Low-inome                                                                            -    LOW-inom
a. See the technical lo . p387. b. Th dedlopmda   bsed on four kay b_       s   owd       - t  lvd otVefh            d.W counry
compared with its knome gnup. Sae to incoductoe.



Annex I
Chad                                                 Page 2 of 6
bJost 5e a   e /*  rreB          NCO
Latest single year        recent           -               llicim 
Unit of                                 tsimae      Sahw          Lho igher
Indicaor                                    Measrw           1970.75     198085       1988-93      Afrik    &aome        gmup
Resources and Expenditures
HUMAN RESOURCES
Population (mrnel993)                      ihousnds            4,030        5.01S        6,010    558.978   3.09.764   1.096,665
Age dependency ratio                           a.o 0.83                      0.85         0.89       0.94       0.67       0.69
Urban                                       % o(pop.             15.6        19.6         21.0       29.8       27.6       54.7
Populanon gowth rae                         annual %              2.0         2.3          2.5        2.9        1.9        1.6
Urban                                         '                 7.0          3.2          3.3        5.0        3.9        2.9
Labor force (15-64)                         thousans            1.496       1.790        2.096    229,480   1.442.452    459.196
AgncuInue                                 % of lao force          17           83           ..
Induscy                                                            4            5           ..3
Female                                                            23           22          21          36        33          31
Females per 100 maba
Urban                                       aumbee                ..          ..           ..
Rural
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                       thou. sq. in      1.2B4.00    1,284.00     1,2U.00   24273.63   39,091.96   40.682,67
Density                                   pop. persq.kz         3.14         3.91         4.57      22.37      77.60      2652
Agicultunl land                            *of lind as         38.12        38.24       38.32       52.4       5212       39.61
Changepn ag2Gcialand                        annuais             0.17         0.01         0.11       0.06.      0.03.      -0.13
Ag.culolul land te iudmp                                        0.01         0.02        0.03        0.83      1S.02      12.66
Fomut andwoodland                          thou.sq.kza             ..        0.12        0.11        5.32       1.15       5.95
Deforestaton (et)                           annual                 ..          ..         0.74          .
INCOME
Household income
Sham of top 20% of households                 ofine               ..          ..           ....                 -
Shame of borcei 40% of household              *.
Sha  of bottom 20* of hosbokls ' . .s
Share of bonoin 20% of households                                 ..          ..           ..,
EXPENDrJRX
Food                                         of CDP               .. ..                  55.I
csples                                        *.                               ..       21.5
Mem, fish milk, cheese.                       '                   ..          ..         22.6          .
Ceral impors                            thou. mesic corn.         10          101          59      13.157     34.420     66.21'
Food aid in cals                                                  20          163           3       5.079      S334       5,477
Foodproducuonpercapita                     1987-100              107          98          105         101       113         101
Ferulizer consumption                       kla                  0.1          0.2         0.2         4.6       59.9       41.0
ShameofagnculWruinGDP                          of GDP           43.1         43.2        41.3        16.3       263        15.7
Housing                                       ofGDP                ..          ..         7.8
Averge household size                  pesons per household       ..           ..
Urban                                                            ..           ..
Fixedinvesonenthousing                      *ofGDP                 ..          ..         2.1          ..
Ful andpower                                *ofGDP                 ..          ..         6.0          ..         -
Ener  coanswnpoo pr capta                 kgofoihqa*v.            20           19          16         2S7       364       1395
Households wuh Hdycusaty
Urban                                   So(bouaoll               ..           ..          ..          ..         _
Rura*                                                             ..          ..           ..          _         _
Trnsport an  comnimt                          of GDP               ..          ..         9.8          ..         _
Fixed in sm ur spw    u eqipm                                       _                      1.2          _ 
Towlrmad tengc                               h d bou.             31          27           27                     _
r VESTMO4T IN HUMAN CAPTAL
HealIk
Populaton  r physician                       p                6189S             ..     29.412        3- _         _        ."
Populadon per nuns                             *.021                            ..
Populadon per hopital bed                                        763            -       1.345       1.269      1.016        60
Oral rhydyrmcon thrp (undep(3)                ofcases              -                       15          37        38
Educadon
Gross enroileat rado
Secodary                               % of sduo.  pq              3           6            7          18        41 3M
Female                                                            0           2            3           -34
Pupil-chr d: pn                          pupils perw              SO          71           64         40         39
Pupil-ehecr rdo: seco5dwy                                         35           _           35          _         20
Pupihszaclsing rad4                        * of oht       _           _                    71    _       _
Repeater rwpmy                  .          of tlso  mol           37           ..          33
iti y                                   *of pp(APl5+)              .          77           70         50         41          19
Femle                                  * of fL  (ASP )            *-         88           82         62         53
Newsp ciuLan:on                           per .ou. p.              0           0            0          12         _'
World klanji LnWaaCOn Xcnif0MS D     _ePsu un APn IY



Chad - Key Economic Indicators                                              Annex I
Page 3 of 6
|Estimate                  Projections
t991     1992    1993     1994    19951    1996       1997   1998    1999   2000
Real growth rates (%)
Gross domestic product (GDPmp)                         8.3      6.2   -15.9      5.2      5.5      5.3      5.1    4.9       5.0    5.1
Gross domestic income (GDY)                            8.5      5.1   -17.6      5.5      6.6      5.1      4.2    5.1       6.0    5.2
Real per capita growth rates (%)
Gross domestic product                                 5.6      3.5  -18.0       2.5      2.9      2.7       2.5    2.3      2.4    2.5
Gross domestic income                                  3.3      2.0   -6.8       2.1      2.6      2.0       1.6    2.0      2.3    2.0
Total consumption                                     12.5      2.3  -19.5      -5.7      3.4      2.1       1.2    1.7      2.1    2.2
Private consumption                                   13.4      2.6   -22.9      0.5      5.4      2.2       1.4    1.9      2.3    2.4
Debt and debt servicine (MT & LT)
Total DOD (US$ million)                               610      710     757      '97       875     939       983   1014    1005   1005
DOD/GDP (%)                                          46.1      53.6    73.7    104.7    93.2    90.9       89.3   85.7    79.2   73.8
Debt service (USS million)                             I1       12      12        26       32      34        39      42      48       51
Debt service/Exports GNFS (%)                         4.9       5.5     6.2     14.1    12.4    11.6        12.7   12.6    12.8    12.2
Debt service/GDP (%)                                  0.8       0.9     1.2      3.4      3.4      3.3      3.5    3.6       3.8    3.7
Domestic savings/GDP (%/6)                           -10.3    -11.1   -1 1.8     -5.5    -3.4    -2.7       -2.2   -1.4       0.5    0.8
National savings/GDP (%)                               -7.5     -6.2   -10.4     -3.7    -1.4    -0.4        0.7    1.0       4.8    5.5
Marginal national savings rate 1/                              388.3  -233.8    105.9  -453.0   687.4   3431.8  774.9  5253.4  279.2
Govemment investment/GDP (%)                           6.9       7.9    10.2     14.0    14.0    13.4        13.5   13.2    13.0   12.6
Govemment savings/GDP (%)                              -6.0     -3.7    -5.8     -7.8    -4.1    -3.4       -2.6   -0.9       0.0    0.6
Private investment/GDP (%)                             0.4       0.5    0.8       1.1      1.4      2.6      3.6    4.5       4.5    4.3
Private savings/GDP (%)                                4.4      -7.4    -6.0      2.3      0.9      0.9      0.4   -0.5       0.5    0.2
Ratio of public to private investment                  18.2     15.3    12.9     13.2      9.9      5.1      3.8    2.9       2.9    2.9
(On commitment basis)
Govemment revenues (excl. grantsyGDP('/6)               8.7     11.3    12.0      7.4      9.0      9.7      10.4   11.5     11.9   12.2
Govemment expenditures (inc. net lending)/GDP(%)      21.6      27.4    28.8     29.1     27.0    26.9      27.0   26.4    25.0   24.2
Budget balance/GDP (%)                                -12.9    -16.1   -16.8    -21.8   -18.0   -17.2    -16.6  -14.9   -13.1   -12.0
GDP deflator, p.a. (%)                                 3.7    -11.4   -1.3       38.2      6.6      4.3      2.5    3.3       3.0    3.0
Exports of GNFS volume (% change)                     -3.5      -3.8     6.9    -13.5    26.2    13.3        5.9    5.7       6.0    6.8
Export of GNFS/GDP (%)                                 17.0     15.8    19.0     24.3    27.7    28.7       27.6   28.3    29.9   30.5
Exports of GNFS/Imports of GNFS (%/6)                 49.0      44.7    45.5     54.2    59.6    60.5       58.9   59.8    63.7   65.5
Import of GNFS Volume (% change)                      -7.1      -1.5    -4.3    -28.6    25.5      11.5      3.9    5.4       4.6    4.5
Imports of GNFS/GDP (%/6)                             34.7      35.3   41.8      44.8    46.4    47.4       46.9   47.2      46.9   46.6
BOP current balance (incl. curr. grants, USS millions)  -196    -192    -219     -143    -158    -170       -181   -196    -161    -155
BOP current balance (incl. curr. grants)/GDP(%)       -14.9    -14.5   -21.3    -18.8    -16.8    -16.5    -16.4   -16.6   -12.7   -11.4
Sources: Govemment of CHAD, IMF, and World Bank staff estimates.
Notes: 1/ Annual change in GNS relative to annual change in GNP.
c:\chad\rmsm\sacI295.xls                                                                                                1/19/96 3:24 PM



Chad - Balance of Payments (US$ million)                                         Annex I
Page 4 of 6
Estimate                    Projections
1991     1992      1993     19941    19951    1996        1997     1998     1999      2000
Exnorts of GNFS                                     224      209       195       185      260       296       304      334       379      416
Merchandise (FOB)                                  194      182       152       148      205       234       235      259       296      323
Non-factor services                                 31       27        43        37        55       62        69       76        83       93
Im Lorts of GNFS                                    458      467       429       341       436      490       517      559       595      635
Merchandise (FOB)                                  250      243       205       189      228       259       272      300       323      349
Non-factor services                                208      224       224       152       208      231       244      259       272      286
Resource balance                                   -234      -258     -234      -157      -176      -194     -212      -225     -216      -219
Net factor income                                    -2         3      -12        -8       -13       -19      -17       -25      -13        -6
Factor receipts                                      9        17        4         7         7         6        8        8         7        8
Factor payments                                     11        15       16        15        21       26        25       32        21        15
LT interest                                        11       12        13        12        16       21        21       22        23       24
Net private current transfers                       -19       -34      -35        -8        -9        -7        0        5         7         9
Current receipts                                    20        13       13        19        18        9        15       20        21       23
Current payments                                    40       48        48        27       27         16       15       15        14       14
Net official current transfers                       59       97        62        30        41        50       49       49        62        61
Current account balance                            -196      -192     -219      -143      -158      -170     -181      -196     -161      -155
L4.ne-term capital                                  165      216       164       129       116       123      140      154       170      166
Direct investment                                    6        3        21         7         1        2         6       10        14       15
Capital grants                                      77       76        95        80        89       73        92       96        99       99
Net LT borrowing                                    82      137        48        43        27       48        42       49        57       52
Disbursements                                      92      148        58        57       40        66        58       64        71       67
Repayments                                         10       12        10        14        13       18        16       16        14       15
Principal on arears rescheduled
Other LT inflows (net)                               0        0         0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0
QObritems                                           -41       -93        1        14        19        0         1        1         0        0
Net short-term capital                             -52       -38      -83         0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Capital flows, n.e.i. I/                            11       -56       83        14        19        0         1        1         0        0
Overall balance                                     -73       -70      -55         1       -23      -47       -40       -41        9       11
Financine                                            73       70        55        -1       23        22        13       17        -9      -11
Change in net reserves                               8       27        32       -72        -7       -16      -12        -3       -9       -11
Net credit from IMF                                 0        0        -2        13         7       19        13        0        -5        -1
Reserve changes, n.e.i.                             8       27        34       -85      -14       -35       -25       -3        -4      -10
Change in arrears                                   11       10        10        12      -42       -15         0        0         0        0
Debt relief                                          0        0         0         8       36         0         0        0         0        0
Exceptional financing                               54       34        13        52       36        54        25       20         0        0
Residual financing gap                               0        0         0         0         0       25        27       24         0        0
1                                                  1/19196 3:25 PM



Chad - Balance of Payments (US$ million)                                           Annex I
Page 5 of 6
Estimate                     Projections
1991     1992      1993      19941    19951       1996     1997      1998      1999      2000
Memorandum items
(as percent of GDP)
Resource balance                                    -17.7    -19.5    -22.8       -20.6     -18.8     -18.8    -19.3    -19.0    -17.0    -16.1
Interest payments (LT+IMF+ST)                         0.9       1.1       1.5       2.0       2.2       2.5       2.3       2.7       1.6       1.1
Current account balance (incl. official transfers)  -14.9    -14.5    -21.3       -18.8    -16.8      -16.5    -16.4    -16.6    -12.7    -11.4
LT Capital inflows                                   12.5      16.3      15.9      17.0      12.4      11.9      12.7      13.0      13.4     12.2
Net credit from the IMF                               0.0       0.0      -0.2       1.7       0.8       1.8       1.1       0.0      -0.4     -0.1
Foreign exchange reserves (US$ million)
Gross reserves minus gold                            120       80        39         85        99       135       159      162       166       152
Gross reserves incl. gold                            124       84        43         89       103       139       163      166       170       180
Gross reserves incl. gold, months of imports (G&S)   3.2       2.1       1.2       3.0       2.7       3.2       3.6       3.4      3.3       3.3
Nominal Exchange Rate (CFAF/USS)                    282.1    264.7    283.2    555.2    506.5    505.6    510.7    515.1    519.5    523.9
Real effective exchange rate (1987=100)                92       86        72         51
Gross domestic product (US$ million)                 1321     1325      1027       762        939      1033      1102     1183      1269      1362
Sources: Govemment of CHAD, IMF, and World Bank staff estimates.
Notes: 1/ Includes errors and omissions.
2                                                    1/19/96 3:25 PM



Chad - External Financing Requirements (US$ million)                                        Annex I
Page 6 of 6
Estimate                     Projections
1991      1992      1993      19941     19951      1996      1997     1998      1999      2000
fLternal financing requirements                        198       177       197       244       236        245       233       227       185       181
Currentaccountdeficit                                  196       192       219       143        158       170       181       196       161       155
Amortization                                            10        12        10        14         13        18        16        16        14        15
of which IDA                                            i         1         I         I          I         1         2         3         5         5
of which principal on arrears rescheduled
Changes in reserves (+ increase)                        -8       -27       -34        85         14        35        25         3         4        10
IMF repurchases                                          0         0         2         2          6         7        13        13         5         1
Reduction in extemal arrears                             0         0         0         0        46         15         0         0         0         0
Sources.of financing                                   198       177       197       245       236        z45       233      227        185       181
Disbursements                                          133       134       175       158        149       141       157       170       184       182
Loan disbursements                                    92        148        58        57        40        66         58       64        71        67
Existing commitnents (pipeline)
of which IDA                                       46        33        25         19        23        17        12        14         8        11
Expected commitments
Other capital flows 1/                               -36        -90        22        21        20          2         7        11       15         15
Official Capital grants                               77         76        95        80        89        73        92        96        99        99
Addition to extemal arrears                            11         10        10        12         4          0         0        0         0          0
Debt relief                                              0         0         0         8        36          0         0        0         0          0
Adjustment financing                                    54        34        13        68        49        79        50        33         0          0
IMF                                                    0          0         0        15        13        25        25        13
IDA                                                    2          8         0        20         0        30        20        20
Other                                                 52        26         13        33        36        24          5        0         0         0
Residual gap                                            0          0         0         0         0        25        27        24         0         0
Sources: Govcrnmcnt of Cl-AD, IMF, and World Bank staff estimates.
Notes: 1/ Includes direct investment, trade-related credits, short term capital, and errors and omissions.
1/19/96 3:26 PM



Annex II
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Status of Bank Group Operations
Statement of IBRD Loans and Credits
Amount in USS miLLion
(Less canceLLations)
Loan or         Fiscal                                                                                          Undis-  Closing
Credit No.        Year   Borrower                           Purpose                        Bank          IDA     bursed   Date
Credits
25 Credits(s) closed                                                                                   280.39
C18720-TD        1988    CHAD                               T.A. FOR ECON.&FINAN                       12.80         .31  06/30/96(R)
C19120-TD        1988    CHAD                               LIVESTOCK                                  18.60       4.85  12/31/96(R)
C21560-TD        1990    CHAD                               SOCIAL DEV PRG                             13.40         .47  06/30/96
C21840-TD        1991    CHAD                               ENGINEERING                                11.00       5.84  12/31/96(R)
C25010-TD        1993    CHAD                               BASIC EDUCATION                            19.30       19.37  06/30/99
C25200-TD        1993    CHAD                               TRANSPORT SECT li                          37.00       15.52  12131/98
C26140-TD        1994    CHAD                               PUBLIC WORKS AND CAP                       17.40      16.22  06/30/99
C26260-TD        1994    CHAD                               HEALTH & SAFE MOTHER                       18.50       14.87  06/30/00
C21561-TD        1995    CHAD                               SOCIAL DEV PRG                              9.80       9.71  06/30/96
C25201-TD        1995    CHAD                               TRANSPORT SECT II                          12.70       13.08  12/31/98
C26850-TD        1995    CHAD                               AG SERVICES                                24.53      25.05  03/31/02
C26920-TD        1995    CHAD                               POP. & AIDS CO                             20.40      20.03  06/3C/01
TOTAL number Credits =   12                                                                             215.43      145.32
TOTAL***                                                                             495.82
of which repaid                                                                     14.53
TOTAL heLd by Bank & IDA                                                             481.29
Amount soLd                 6.00
of which repaid          6.00
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                               145.32
Notes:
*   Not yet;effective
*   Not yet signed
TotaL Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formally revised CLosing Date.
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and CLosing dates are based upon the Loan Department officaL data and are not taken
from the Task Budget fiLe.



Annex III
Republic of Chad
Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
A. Timetable of Key Processing Events
a) Time taken to prepare:                     7 months
b) Prepared by:                               Government and IDA
c) First Preparation Mission:                 May 1995
d) Appraisal Mission:                         December 1995
e) Negotiations:                              January 1996
f) Board Presentation:                        February 1996
g) Planned Date of Effectiveness:             February 1996
Expected Project Completion:                  December 1996
The program was. appraised by a team comprisig Mr. Amadou B. Cisse (AF3C, Principai
countryOfficer),: Mr. Emmanuel Akpa (Principal Economist), Mr. Peter Harrold (AFTPS,
Fconomic and Financial Advisor) j    and Mr. Pierre N   (AF3CJ, Economist). AMessrs.
Philipped&e Naurois (AF3IN), Alassane; Sow (AF3AE), Michel Layec and Andni- Rba
(AF F   E)contributed to sectoral issues. T.he team worked closely with the IME team for
Chad Mr. Andrew Rogerson is the Department Director, and Mr.f Jrdme Chevallier is the
managing Division Chief



ANNEX IV
Page I of 5
CHAD - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
A. R&.storing Critical Putblic Sector Capacity and Improving its Finances
I   Poliv Area and Objctiv        1               Meusnres AlreaLfaLken          _____                          Proposed AddizioueI Measures                          [    Timetable
i  ___              -,             ____ _  _  .     __   =_  ___ _ _ __ _         _   _    =___.___. _5.                                              __. _  __................
L    Civii Service Reform                     -
$ Rehabilitate the administration     Conclusion ci,i! 5_1i  ,cen Cs cuv     peil t1iauoiCi  nf  hi ..Lzion ofv  ob-n necw oc,a ai chart.                              1996
airound a civil service of modest   resuhlts
size with clear focus on a set of                                                         Abohtimon oi autinil vvagt g  ,icrc..!,es  Snod adopt(ion oi seleciive    j 19')6
esseniial puiblic sector fulictions.                                                          . incrc.tcs li,L.d 0' !ncrit
Reduce wage bill from 5.8 % o.f
G3DP in 1995 to 5.1 % in 1998.
b. Rehabilitationi of Public
Finances
Elimination of structujral weakness   Replacement ot i-ve indIireci t?a:cssi with varying rates t1erpainuino of diJect tax reflour,                                    199h
of the public finarices through     by a sing!e tamiovor tax  *ith  onl[  two  rties |
strengthening revenue collectioit    iotroduction of excis! taxes o3 l cmiAt; nl'iiber eli  11111nsplita-tio13; of d.:(:i ae-                                           199_S9
and sharpening the fious of pnbhic   h,xuries and "Larmti1i  goods"
sector activities and, h3ence,
financial obligatiouis. Increasc    Introductioi of single taxpayer code an d file for ali
reveDne!GDP ratio froii 9% in       ieveiiuc depautments
1995 to 11.5% in 1998.
Reibrm  of special eiiteiprisn re-inies in 1itie Ul wh   Continucd eliininaoicn of taui% lcopholb: through ph'ise olut 0   si-mcial  19'96-98
regional cu stoms union ("AE.j agreeents              Iaterpnise cginats
i  Renegotiaiion of speciail cttoois treC3tfmernt si crial
c conveio1t,ns) tfr prnvate  cronpanies anil p;.bhit
enterprises (C(UT'i-.3C'HA), MC.I,S     ASUII).
(='en;:.llizati:inofc31i]e tlar ".-all Intc.rnatio>ial trad-
taxes (previouisly io1lcs0ted b-y 4 sc; ,)raic eatities4) ra i 1
Establishmrent Df cxoflra,   qlrl   fo, i -rts bJ
diploiiaits                                                                                                                                          4



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 5
I                  -
B. Increasing Development and Poverty Alleviation Impact of Public Expenditures
PolicyArea and Objectives   |               Previous Measures                                    Proposed Additional Measures                    ]    Timetable
a. Demobilization
Reduction of the army from      Reduction of the army by 15,000 people.          Departure of an additional 7,000 soldiers from the army.             1996
47,000 men to 21,000 and
assisting those demobilized to                                                   Departure of at least an additional 4,000 men                        1997-98
resettle in civilian, economic life.
Resettlement of the demobilized soldiers.                           1996-98
b. Public Expenditure
Management
Improvement of management of    Integration of Debt Management Office (CAA) into    Elimination of arrears to domestic suppliers.                     1996
public expenditures with a view to  the Ministry of Finance.
restoring macroeconomic stability,
promoting private-sector led    Consolidation of separate accounts held by ministries
growth and ameliorating health,    in banks.
education and nutrition standards
of the population.              Abolition of off-budget operations.
c. Public Expenditure Programs
for 1996, and Capital
Expenditure Plans for 1996-98
Adoption of rolling PIP. adoption    Adoption of three-year rolling investment   Adoption of PIP criteria: size of PIP not to exceed reasonably expected  1996-98
of expenditure programs to       programming, starting with 1994-97 PIP.         financing by more than 10%. minimvim rate of return of 10% for
achieve specific goals set as year-                                              projects amenable to quantitative analysis. least cost criterion
by-year benchmarks.             Agreement with IDA on 1996 budget and 1996-98    elsewhere.
PIP.
In particular, in the 1996 budgct, limiting wagcs and
salaries budget to at most 5.7% of GDP. goods and
services to at least 2.6 percent of GDP. overall
current expenditure at no more than 13.5 percent of
GDP. and capital expenditure at no more than 14
percent of GDP.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 5
B. Increasing Development and Poverty Alleviation Impact of Public Expenditures (Continued)
Policy Area andObjectives_                  Previous Measures                J                   Proposed Additional Measures                    I    Timetable
d. Improved Resource
Allocation to Social Sectors.
Increase of resources allocated to   Increase in budgetary allocation in 1995 for primary    Continued switch in public expenditure priorities to bring share of
primary health, primary education   health; primary education; and recruitment of  priority secors (education, health and maintenance) to 62% of total by
and social welfare of women and    additional staff in 1994 for social sectors (280  1998.                                                            1997-98
children. and for road          teachers and 90 health workers); and for road
maintenance.                    maintenance from CFAF 2.4 billion in 1994 to CFAF
2.8 billion in 1995.
In the 1996 budget, within goods and services,
increasing allocations to education, health and
women and social affairs by 26 percent over 1995
level (real increase of 20 percent); and for road
maintenance from CFAF 2.8 billion in 1995 to CFAIl
4 billion in 1996.                             1                                                                                       l
C. Creating a Favorable Environment for Private Sector Growth
Policy Area and Objectives                Previous Measures              !                     Proposed Additional MeasurLs                       [    Timetable
a. Judicial and Regulatory
Environment
Creation of a flexible business  Re-enforcement of the Ministry of Justice with   Strengthening the judicial system in charge of business law.        1996
environment with clear and      mandate to rapidly re-establish basic judicial  Simplification of procedures for licensing of businesses.             1996
simplified rules to permit      processes, including contracts and case      Amendment of Articles 116 and 142 of the Labor Code to grant employers   1996
unimpeded entry, operation and  resolution.                                  and employees the right to freely detenmine salaries, including the
exit of businesses into various                                               minimum wage, at the national or sectoral level.
activities.                                                                   Simplilication of thie Investment Code to instill automaticity in its   1996
operation and neutrality in the treatment of investors.
Ratification and initiation of the implementation of treaty on regional  1996
hannonization of business law, OHADA
(Continued)



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 5
C. Creating a Favorab!e Environrment for Private Sector Growlh (Continued)
Poiyraand Obecies jPrevious Mesures                                    7Proposed Additional NMeasures                                        1     TimetAble
b. T'rade liberalization
Facilitate trade, including flow of   Elimination of export taxes on agricultural
goods, services and factors among   goods and livestock. elimination of import.
CAEMC mnember states.            licensing.
liberalization of domestic trade
and harmonization of local       Adoption of CAL MC comrmon external tariff,
I busines laws witl thiose of the  comrprising 5 rates ranging from 5 to 30%S, with
CA1EMC.                          a trade-weighted average of 15%. 
Liberalization of all prices except for cotton,
gasoline, essential medicines.
c. Restructuring Financial
Systemr
Increase of private sector piesence   Offer for sale to the private sector of public
Iin banks to soflen public sector's   sector shares in BTCD and
hand and improve market          BDT, with a view to concluding transaction by
lresponsivencss. and rehabilitation   June 1996.
of social security institutions.
Offer for sale to new private partners of the
i  Meidien's share in BMBT, with a view to
concludinig the transaction bv June 1996                                                                                                l
Adoption of law on new membership structure   'Inploincritation ol action plan to repay government debt to CNPS and  1 1996 98
for the Board of the private sector worker   CNRI.
insurance and social security instituition, CNPS,
leadiig to a reduction in public sector presence.                                                                      1997-98
Restruction of CNPTI
Preparation of an action plan to settle                                                                                                 l
government's debt to CNPS and the public
workers retirement fuind. CNRT,
Launching a study on the tfirther development of
cooperative finance.
('Continued)



ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 5
F~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C. Creating a Favorablc Environment for Privatc Sector Growth (Continued)
Policy Area and Objectives               Previous Measures                                             Measures                                l    Timetable
d. State Enterprise Divestiture
Reduction of the size of the    Liquidation of 11 enterprises: OMVSD        Implementation of divestiture program for SONASUT, OPT, TIT, STEE       1997-98
parastatal portfolio by liquidating   irrigation), SOTERA (livestock), CSPC (cotton    and COTONTCHAD.
uneconomic enterprises.         fund), OFCA (quarries), SHT (hotels), OPIT
privatizing others of interest to  (industrial promotion), OFNAR (road
private investors. and injecting  maintenance), SONACOT (trading), BICIT
private capital, management and    (commercial bank), Caisse Sucre (sugar
know-how into the large         stabilization fund), and FIP (petroleum
"strategic" ones.               equalization fund). and privatization of 5 others:
MCT (cigarettes), SIMAT (agricultural tools),
SAPROVET (veterinary products), PHARMAT
(pharmaceuticals), STAR Nationale (insurance).
Privatization (preparation to point-of-sale) of 4
enterprises: Air Chad, INT (printing), SONAPA
(animal products) and SOTEC (quarries).
Initiation of disengagement strategy study for 5:
STEE (water and electricity), ONPT (posts), TIT
(telecommunications), COTONTCLIAD (cotton
processing and marketing), and SONASUT
(sugar).
e. Cotton Sector Reform
Gradual decentralization of     Freeze of investment in ginuing capacity at  Adoption of two-part cotton producer pricing mechanism: first part payable
COlTON ICCHAD, human resource   230,000 tons, pending reforms.              at the sale of grain cotton and in relation to world market trends, with the
development, and improved                                                   second part payable on the basis of the outcome of export sales, with effect  1996
producer pricing.               Increase in producer price for first grade cotton    from 1996/97 cro0) season.
from CFAF 80 per kilo in 1992/93 season to
CFAF 120 per kilo in 1994/95. Increase in
producer price for first grade cotton from CFAF
120 per kilo to CFAF 140 per kilo.          Implementation of COTONTCHAD human resource development strategy       1997-98
Launching COTONTCHAD human resource
development study.






Annex V
Page 1 of 11
ENGLISH TRANSLATION OF ORIGINAL FRENCH TEXT
Embassy of the Republic of Chad
2002 R Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20009
Washington, DC
January 17, 1996
Ref. No. 006/ARTW/96
Mr. Edward V. K. Jaycox
Vice President
Africa Region
World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washigton, DC 20043
Mr. Vice President
Subject: Letter of Development Policy
On behalf of the Government of Chad, I have the honor to address to you the attached
Letter of Economic and Social Development Policy which sets forth the economic and social
objectives of the Government for the period 1996-98 and the macroeconomic and structural
policies required to attain them. These objectives reflect the determination of the Government of
Chad to reinforce the reform process towards reestablishing a competitive economy.
The Government of Chad requests a Structural Adjustment Credit in the amount of twenty
million two hundred Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,200,000) to support these reinforced
policies and objectives.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd) MAHAMAT SALEH AHMAT
Ambassador of Chad
for the Minister of Plan and Cooperation



Annex V
Page 2ofll
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Chad has under way a process of national reconciliation and
democratization. A new Constitution, based on the recommendations of the 1993 National
Conference, will be submitted to a referendum in early 1996. This will be followed by legislative
and presidential elections in 1996 that would determine the political future of the country. In
parallel to these political and institutional changes, the government has initiated a series of
economic and social reforms that would lay the basis for sustainable growth whose benefits accrue
equitably to all the regions and social categories of the country.
2.     Notwithstanding gains in political stability and economic reforms during 1990-93, Chad's
economic and financial performance remained below expectations as a result of adverse external
shocks and reduced competitiveness of the economy. At end-1993, real GDP was below the 1990
level and major public finance difficulties had emerged. External arrears accumulated (US$49
million at end-1993); international reserves fell from the equivalent of 2.9 months of imports in
1990 to 1.2 months in 1993; and Chad exceeded its credit position at the common central bank of
Central African States, BEAC.
II. PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE WITH ADJUSTMENT
3.     The devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 presented an opportunity to respond to
this situation by implementing a vigorous and comprehensive reform program. The new program
was supported by a Stand-by arrangement with the IMF and an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
from IDA. Program implementation suffered initially from capacity weaknesses, which were
themselves accentuated by civil service strikes triggered by the irregularity of salary payments.
For all 1994, although real GDP growth (at 5.2 percent) and inflation (at 41 percent) were better
than expected, revenues were only 7.4 percent of GDP as against 9.5 percent in the program,
leading to a weak public savings performance and inability to meet targets on payments of arrears
to suppliers.
4.    In order to turn the situation around, the government reinforced the program yet again for
the period October 1994-June 1995. The strengthened commitment was translated into firm action
on both macroeconomic and structural measures. This included vigorous action to improve tax
administration at the Customs Department, with the support of the World Bank. As a result, the
revenue from trade taxes increased sharply in spite of a 45 percent average reduction in import
taxes as part of the CAEMC zone-wide tariff reforms. This allowed for the resumption of critical
government spending and permitted the partial settlement of payments arrears to suppliers and civil
servants. These encouraging results are the springboard for the continuation of the reform effort as
described below.
III. CHAD'S POTENTIAL, NATIONAL VISION AND STRATEGY
5.     Potential. In spite of its slow progress to date, Chad's long-term development prospects
are promising. The territory is vast, with adequate rainfall in normal years, which makes for a



Annex V
Page 3 of 11
high agricultural potential. There is a possibility that oil deposits in the southwestern portion of
the country may attract significant amounts of private investment for their development for export.
Following broad mining sector consultations held in N'Djamena during November 26-30, 1995,
several private mining companies indicated their interest in prospecting and exploration for mineral
resources in Chad. In addition, there are positive legacies from Chad's turbulent past which are
favorable for future development: the public sector is small; the economy is relatively unregulated;
and the Chadian people have developed a capacity for self reliance and the community organization
for the provision of public services.
6.     Vision for Growth and Poverty Reduction. The government's vision is to implement
policy reforms that would kindle and sustain rapid growth in the economy; ensure the equitable
distribution of the benefits of growth; and improve public services so as to achieve a stronger
poverty reduction impact over and above what growth delivers. Their goal is to sustain real per
capita GDP growth averaging at least 2 percent annually over the medium-to-long term. This
would allow Chad to double its real per capita income within the next generation, or do much
better still if its oil losources are developed as envisaged. The authorities' povertv reduction
strategy includes reinforcing the effect of growing incomes with expanded and better quality public
services to achieve rapid improvement in social indicators.
7.     Quantitative Objectives for the Medium  Term.   To achieve the above goals, the
government's medium-term objectives include sustaining the irnproved GDP growth performance
initiated in 1994 (at just above 5 percent) and extending it through the period 1995-98 and beyond.
These objectives are reflected in the macroeconomic framework of the 1995-98 PFP concluded in
August 1995. Following the variable sectoral performance in 1994, it is expected that all the
sectors will settle into a rhythm of strong growth, assisted by the increased overall competitiveness
of the economy, improved delivery of public services and the reinforcement of the environment for
private initiative. The agricultural sector is expected to go from a 1994 recovery of 14 percent
(attained mainly by recovering ground lost in 1993) to an average of some 4.7 percent over 1995-
98; industry would recover from its decline in 1994 (when it regressed by 5 percent owing to
adjustment to higher input costs following the devaluation); to attain an average growsth of 4.9
percent; and the tertiary sector would go from the stagnation in 1994 (0.8 percent) to an annual
average growth of 5.1 percent.
8.     Constraints to be Overcome. Chad's policy framework is relatively free of the deep
distortions characteristic of most other developing economies at the inception of reforms. With its
unsettled history, Chad was not able to formulate and implement a clear-cut development strategy.
One consequence of this is that the country has escaped the public sector-led strategy wNith inward-
looking import-substitution policies which were popular in other sub-Saharan African countries
during the 1960-70s. No extensive tax-cum-subsidy schemes have been put in place, nor are there
significant price distortions. The key constraints to growth and social progress have been political
instability; the disadvantages of being landlocked --1800 km from the nearest port - with a vast
(and, paradoxically, seasonally flooded) territory, both of which make for high transport costs;
highly variable weather with frequent droughts; and inadequate levels and quality of essential
public goods and services.  The authorities seek to respond to this challenge through the
implementation of a reinforced reform program.



Annex V
Page 4 of 11
IV. THE PROPOSED REFORM PROGRAM
9.      The Reform Agenda. The priority agenda consists of restoring the state's capacity to
govern (including creating an environment of security and enforceable contracts); enabling the
administration to function (provide the minimnum essential services and pay for them); and
facilitating the operation of the private sector. In view of these, the proposed reform program aims
at: (i) restoring the government's capacity to provide essential public goods and services, and
improving its finances; (ii) focusing public expenditure on development activities and poverty
alleviation; and (iii) creating a favorable environment for private sector growth.
A. Restoring Critical Public Sector Capacity and Improving its Finances
10.    Background. As a result of its past political instability, Chad does not have the critical
minimum capacity required for the delivery of essential public goods and services, and the ability
to finance it. The civil service (about 27,000 people) is not yet an established institution with a
clear code of conduct; it is unable to function properly owing to lack of resources; and it is often
on strikes because of the irregularity of salary payments. The governnent would like to overcome
these impediments to growth and development by: (i) restructuring the civil service and clarifying
its functions; and (ii) rehabilitating the public finances.
11.    Civil Service. The government intends to rehabilitate its administration around a civil
service of modest size with a clear focus on core public sector functions and in which recruitment,
career progress, training and management and incentives elicit dedication and efficiency from its
staff. To achieve this, a census -- of which the first phase was concluded in November 1995 - will
be used to establish a new database for managing and controlling the size of the new civil service.
New standards for recruitment, career planning, training and career management will be
established with support from the proposed Capacity Building Project.
12.    Rehabilitation of Public Finances. In 1995, the government's own revenues barely cover
80 percent of non-debt recurrent (non-military) expenditures because of its low capacity to
mobilize revenues. Thus, even with external sources covering all investment expenditures, many
current needs go unfinanced and payments to domestic suppliers are irregular. Until recently, the
inability to pay civil servant wages regularly led to strikes and a disruption of the administration,
including revenue collection agencies.  While the civil service reform  and the military
demobilization are expected to lead to fiscal savings, the authorities propose to tackle the structural
fiscal weakness more directly by: (i) reducing, over tirne, the scope of public sector activities to the
provision of minimum essential public goods and services; and (ii) rehabilitating and strengthening
the tax administration, while extending the tax base.
13.    Additional Reforms. The government has prepared the policy changes required to achieve
the above goals, with the implementation of change taken up by other instruments. In civil service
reform, the plans include institutional decisions of maintaining a cap on total personnel; limiting
the wage bill to levels agreed in the program; abolition of automatic wage increases and adoption
of selective increase based on performance; and the adoption of new organizational charts.
14.    In terms of additional action to deal with the structural fiscal imbalance, the government
will make a push during 1996-98 towards greater use of burden-sharing with local communities in
the funding of public services, and the reinforcement of revenue mobilization. In preparation for
progressive reduction of the budgetary burden, a study will be carried out in 1996 on ways to



Annex V
Page 5 of 11
extend community finance efficiently to some public services still covered by the budget.  The
implementation of the recommendations would begin in 1997. In the area of revenue mobilization,
the authorities' plans include improved coordination among revenue departments; effective use of
the single taxpayer code and file (introduced in September 1995) to enhance tax payer
identification, assessment and enforcement; and the elimination of loopholes created by para-fiscal
provisions (modifications to exonerations, special enterprise rcgimes etc.). The reform of the
special enterprise regimes has begun, in conformity with the common agreements reached in this
respect arnong the CAEMC countries.
B. Increasing the Poverty Alleviation Impact of Public Expenditures
15.   Background. The Government of Chad is aware of the low level of basic social services.
The decay of existing structures, shortage of medicines and teaching material, delays in meeting the
salaries of teachers and medical personnel and the prolonged strikes are some of the factors behind
the recent decline in social indicators.
16.    One result of the past turbulence is that the composition of public expenditures has been
biased against critical development expenditures (the share of defense and intemal security share in
current expenditure averaged 30 percent during 1992-94, as compared with education, health and
social affairs combined, at 22 percent). The Chadian army had 47,000 people in 1990, when all
combatants in previous conflicts were enunerated. As reconciliation proceeded, the army was
reduced to some 32,000 people through a first phase of demobilization, which was assisted by
France. The government considers the current size of the army still too large, for both budgetary
reasons as well as from the standpoint of the threat to stability from having a large armed force
that is not paid regularly.
17.    Chad's public expenditures also suffer from shortcomings of their management. Past
budgets have generally been formulated without adequate reference to expenditure ceilings derived
from a sound macroeconomic framework; the current/capital budget relation is distorted, with
many current items covered by the capital budget; and some items (such as utilities) are chronically
underbudgeted.
18.   Additional Reforms.  The authorities' reform plans include the internal restructuring of
the budget to privilege development expenditures over non-development expenditures; the creation
of a stronger link between the budget and the macroeconomic framework (basing each year's
budget circular, hearings and final decisions on explicit fiscal elements of a macroeconomic
framework); and the institution of improved budget management procedures including the realistic
budgeting of items hitherto underbudgeted.
19.    To reduce the weight of the military in the economy, the authorities plan to demobilize a
further 7,000 people in 1996, and progressively integrate them into active civilian economic life.
Working in close consultation with all concerned, the Ministry of the Army has prepared a first
proposal (September 1995) for a demobilization program that would cover the critical phases of
identification of eligible candidates, arms retrieval, facilitation of settlement and successful
reintegration. The government is seeking external assistance to refine the proposal and fund its
implementation. The intention is to demobilize and settle upwards of 11,000 people over 1996-98,
assuming sufficient donor support would be forthcoming. The program is scheduled to begin
implementation in early 1996. The government counts on support from the World Bank for the
early but critical 1996 phase of this exercise (departure of 7,000 men), including technical support
for finalization of the proposal to submit to a Donors' Round Table envisaged for mid- 1996.



Annex V
Page 6 of 11
20.    The government intends to use regular consultations with the Bank on public expenditures,
along with the assistance being provided to it under the Capacity Building project, to improve the
efficiency with which it mobilizes and allocates public resources. Each year, the government and
IDA will agree on the draft budget for the next year before it is presented to Parliament. As a
beginning, in December 1995, in consultation with the World Bank the government prepared a
draft 1996 budget in which wages and salaries are no more than 5.7 percent of GDP; goods and
services are at least 2.6 percent of GDP; within goods and services, the allocations for education,
health and women and social affairs increase by 26 percent over the 1995 level (21 percent
increase in real terms); overall current expenditure is at most 13.5 percent of GDP; capital
expenditure is no higher than 14 percent of GDP. These targets were agreed with the Bank and the
IMEF during the preparation of the 1995-98 PFP. Further targeting of critical development
expenditures will continue, within severely a constrained overall envelope.
21.    Chad's PIP needs continuing work to reduce the number of projects (now almost 300),
identify and move cuirent expenditures into the current budget, and make the PIP less donor-
driven.  In line with these objectives, annual consultations will take place and agreement to
reached between the government and IDA on the size and composition of the rolling three-year PIP;
in December 1995, the first of these consultations took place and an agreement was reached on the
1996-98 PIP. With the drive to improve the realism of the PIP and the efficiency of its
implementation, overall programmed expenditures would not exceed the level judged consistent
with the capacity to finance and implement by about 10 percent. Further, in order to ensure that
the PIP fully supports the development impact and poverty reduction objectives of the program,
each project would be reviewed for consistency with sector strategies and economic and financial
viability. In terms of economic viability, projects amenable to quantitative analysis would be
expected to meet a minimum acceptance criterion of 10 percent rate of return. Others would be
subjected to least cost criterion.
C. Creating a Favorable Environment for Private Sector Growth
22.    Background. The modern private sector has been profoundly affected by the political and
economic crises of the past twenty years, and recently by the accumulation of public sector arrears.
On the other hand, the informal sector has done much better in withstanding the difficulties and
now constitute the more dynamic part of the private sector. The Chadian authorities believe that
the private sector should be the driving force in the economy, generating growing incomes and
providing employment. They see the public sector's role as creating the conditions permitting the
emergence of new formal small and medium-scale enterprises while those in existence expand and
diversify their activities.
23.    The government realizes this will require public sector withdrawal from activities that can
be handled by the private sector; the provision of supportive infrastructure; and the removal of
obstacles to the creation of an open and competitive business environment.  To this end, the
authorities propose to: (i) create a judicial and regulatory system in which businessmen have the
confidence to invest and produce; (ii) restructure the financial system to make it more supportive of
private sector investment and trade; (iii) accelerate the divestiture process through which the
remaining commercial/productive state enterprises are transferred to the private sector; (iv)
undertake market and institutional reforms in the cotton sector so as to spur production.
24.    Judicial and Regulatory Environment. As part of creating a minimum, dependable
government capacity, Chad needs to generally to rehabilitate the judicial system and courts, and



Annex V
Page 7 of 11
update legal texts where they already exist. From the standpoint of encouraging private sector
growth, this includes renovating the apparatus in charge of business law, helping instill flexibility
in factor markets, and facilitating the entry and exit of business firms into activities.
25.    The Financial System. Chad's financial system comprises four commercial banks; one
development bank; one insurance company; two social securitv institutions; a postal savings bank;
and a number of savings and loans cooperatives. Three of the commercial banks (Banque
Tchadienne de Credit et de Dep6ts -- BTCD, Financial Bank of Tchad -- FBT, and Banque
Commerciale du Chari-- BCC) are in relatively good shape, with low ratios of expenses to net
banking product and registering profits. The fourth commercial bank, Banque Meridien BIAO du
Chad -- BMBT, is suffering from an important non-performing portfolio and from loss of deposits
with the parent company in Luxembourg, Frankfurt and the Bahamas. The development bank,
Banque du Developpement du Chad (BDT), which was restructured in 1992, could face some
difficulty m the near future when the moratorium on the withdrawal of deposits expires in 1996.
Bank regulation and supervision are handled by the regional supervisory agency, COBAC, which
has ensured the observance of zone-wide prudential ratios.
26.    The private sector worker insurance and retirement fund, CNPS, has an outstanding loan
to the government. In line with its strategy of reducing its role in the economy to the essential
minimum, the government intends to permit the CNPS freer rein in its management. As such, the
authorities will restructure the Board of Directors of the CNPS by reducing the number of
government representatives from the current five to two. In addition, a plan has been prepared
(December 1995) to repay the government's debt to the CNPS. The public sector retirement fund,
CNRT was created in 1992. Worker contributions still go to the Treasury and retirement benefits
are paid through advances made to it by the Treasury.  Owing to the lack of resources, the
government has not met its obligations to the CNRT, which stood at some CFAF 3.5 billion
(December 1995). An amount of CFAF 700 million was provided in the 1995 budget to begin
repaying this debt. A similar amount plus additional resources equivalent to 8 percent of annual
receipts from taxes on petroleum products will be used to settle this debt to the CNRT. This
would help improve the management of the CNRT which, in turn, will permit the successful
implementation of the civil service reform, the military demobilization and the restructuring of the
public enterprise sector. The medium-term restructuring of the CNRT is taken up in para. 34.
27.    State Enterprise Sector. In 1990, Chad's state enterprises (including mixed public-
private entities and autonomous, commercially-oriented agencies) numbered about forty. The
twenty-eight largest together had assets totaling CFAF 180 billion (equivalent to 56 percent of
GDP) and employed some 8,000 people (about 25 percent of modem sector employment). In
1992, the decision was taken to divest the state of most of these enterprises in order to reduce the
scope of public sector activity and create room for private sector growth. In that year, a
Presidential Ordinance established a list of enterprises to be liquidated or privatized, and spelled
out the procedure for doing so. Considerable progress has been achieved since.
28.   In 1994, seven enterprises were liquidated and five were privatized. By December 1995,
an additional four enterprises were liquidated (Petroleum Fund, FIP, Sugar Stabilization Fund,
Caisse Sucre, a commercial bank, BICIT, and a trading company, SONACOT); four others were
prepared for privatization and brought to the point of sale (Air Tchad, INT-printing and publishing
company, SOTEC-quarries company, and SONAPA-animal products company); and studies were
launched to design the divestiture/restructuring programs for the five largest enterprises -- STEE
(water and electricity), ONPT (posts), TIT (telecommunications), COTONTCHAD (cotton
processing and marketing), and SONASUT (sugar). During 1992-94, the financial losses of these



Annex V
Page 8 of 11
five enterprises (CFAF 7 billion, or about 2 percent of GDP) accounted for the bulk of the losses
of the public enterprises sector. The actions proposed for the large enterprises will be implemented
over 1996-98.
29.    Cotton Sector. COTONTCHAD is an integrated operation (input supply, purchase of
grain cotton, ginning and marketing), while the cotton farmers are grouped in some 4,000 small
village associations. COTONTCHAD is also highly centralized while its ginneries are scattered
over a large area. It has been difficult to achieve efficiency by focusing on improvements at the
plant level. The absence of local qualified personnel is another drawback. There is high reliance
on expensive foreign expertise contracted on a cost-plus, not results-based terns, at technical and
managerial levels. There is lack of capacity to elaborate and implement a nationally-conceived
development program for the sector. Producer pricing follows world market prices, subject to the
profitability of COTONTCHAD.   Over the last four crop years (1989/90-1992/93),
COTONTCHAD made a net loss of CFAF 9.8 billion. A profit of CFAF 5 billion was realized in
1993/94, aided largely by the devaluation of the CFA franc. The prelimninary results for 1994/95
show a continuation of the improving trend. One result of inefficiencies in the sector is that cotton
producers generally receive a low but highly variable share of world market prices. During the
five-year period 1989/90-1993/94, the share of the fob export price received by the cotton
producer varied between 32 and 68 percent.
30.   Additional Reforms. In the area of judicial and regulatory framework, during 1994-95,
the authorities re-established the Ministry of Justice, created a liberal trade environment by
suppressing export and import licenses and abolishing price controls and state monopolies. As
further deepening of the process, they propose to amend the Labor Code (to free wage
determination and encourage consultation among economic partners); revise the Investmnent Code
(for simplicity and neutralitv in the treatment of investors); and ratify the treaty creating the
Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa (OHADA).
31.    To increase the future growth impact of cotton, the authorities have decided to implement
a reform program dealing *with the sector's organization, personnel and price incentives. To
improve the organizational structure, a program of gradual decentralization will be introduced in
1996. Its goal is to put decision-making close to the ginneries and establish accounts bv plant so
as to arrive at a better gauge of perfornance by entity. In the meantime, since the 230,000 tons
of ginning capacity suffices for the needs of the immediate future, all new investment Will be on
hold. Towards relieving the human resource constraint, a human resource development program
will be adopted to fast-track the development of senior Chadian managers. The appropriate
strategy will be based on the results of a study by industry specialists in 1996. Finally, in order to
improve producer incentives, a new producer-pricing mechanism will be introduced with effect
from 1996/97 crop season. Under it, producers will receive an initial payment linked to projected
world prices, at the time of sale of unginned cotton, with an additional payment after the export
sales have been made. The objective is to start paying the producer at least 50 percent of the fob
export price as from the 1996/97 crop year (with the producer continuing to pay for inputs), and
increase the share progressively as the overall sector operations become more efficient.
32.   In the case of the SONASUT, the government is fully committed to its divestiture, and will
begin by suppressing its import monopoly as from January 1, 1997.
33.    Even though the situation of the banks is not alarming, the government recognizes a need
for greater private sector presence to soften the public sector's hand and improve the
responsiveness of the banks to the market (case of BTCD); fill a void left by a previous private



Annex V
Page 9 of 11
sector partner (as with BMBT); or strengthen the balance sheet (case of BDT). In parallel, there
is need to rehabilitate the CNPS and CNRT, both of which are critical for the financial integrity
of the economy and the success of the reform efforts. In recognition of this, the government's
near-term objectives are to: (i) introduce private partners into the BTCD and the BDT; (ii) find a
replacement for the Meridien in the BMBT; and (iii) initiate action towards restructuring the
CNPS and CNRT. An additional objective with slightly longer-term perspective is to spur the
development of cooperative finance.
34.   The BTCD and the BMBT each have received proposals of entry from prospective new
partners. Firm decisions -- including minority shares in public sector hands -- were made in
December 1995. In the case of the BMBT, the discussions have been concluded w,ith the
prospective partner on the restoration of the capital base which has been weakened by an
estimated CFAF 2 billion in losses. This will be done through the revaluation of assets. The
decision on the capital base and the share ownership of the BDT has also been made (December
1995). The authorities intend to conclude the transactions by June 1996. In addition to these,
studies will be carried out on how to restructure the CNRT and further develop cooperative
finance. The studies will be launched in early February 1996.
D. Internal Consultation and Participation
35.    The economic reform progran described above was elaborated on the basis wide-ranging
discussions with various segments of the society. These consultations took place in seminars and
workshops held in N'Djamena and provincial capitals. Given the government's strong belief in
inclusiveness as the way to break with their country's history of sectionalism, the authorities
worked closely with the business community, unions, conmnunity leaders, the army as wvell as
legislators on the design of the policy measures as well as the timetable for their implementation.
A standing private sector group which advises the government on policy actively participated in
the preparation of the reforms. In view of the general elections in mid-1996, the meetings with
legislators were considered particularly important in order to ensure that the program would be
seen as a national endeavor to be carried through regardless of which party comes to power. This
process has created a strong sense of broad-based local ownership of the reform program.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS AND MANAGEMENT OF THE PROGRAM
A. Financial Policies and Framework
36.    With tax policy reform and improved administration as well as budgetary austerity,
public finances are expected to begin their recovery, with revenues increasing from 7.4 percent of
GDP in 1994 to 11.5 percent by 1998; the share of personnel expenditures would decline from 6.1
percent of GDP in 1994 to 5.1 percent in 1998; and security-related expenditures would fall from
3.2 percent of GDP in 1994 to 1.7 percent in 1998. Under these influences, the current fiscal
deficit would be expected to decline from 7.8 percent in 1994 to less than 1 percent in 1998,
setting the stage for the emergence and growth of local contribution to the financing investment
expenditure from  1999 onwards.  Supported by prudent monetary policies pursued in
collaboration with the regional monetary authorities (BEAC), these trends should minimize
inflationary pressures and enable the inflation rate to fall from 41 percent in 1994 to 4.5 percent
in 1996 and stabilize at about 3 percent thereafter.



Annex V
Page 10 of I
B. Financing Needs
37.    The growth objectives in para. 7 would require gross investment averaging about 17
percent of GDP over the medium term. Even with the macroeconomic progress expected from the
policy reforms as indicated above, domestic savings will likely remain negative through 1998. As
such, the bulk of the financing for investment will have to come from external sources. With the
improving financial framework as indicated in para. 36, the external current account deficit
should decline from 18.8 percent of GDP in 1994 to 16 percent in 1998. Taking into account the
need for additions to reserves, external financing requirements (excluding debt relief) are projected
at some US$926 million over the period 1995-98. This amount also is the financing requirement
of the budget. Loan and grant disbursements for projects would amount to US$576 million, and
other (private) capital flows are projected at US$14 million.
C. Management of the Reform Program
38.   The program will be implemented under the supervision of the High Interministerial
Committee, composed of 10 ministers, established in June 1994 and charged with the
responsibility of overseeing the design and implementation of reform programs over the medium
term. It will be assisted by a Technical Comrnmittee responsible for the day-to-day implementation
and monitoring.  This Technical Commrittee will be supported in terms of technical expertise and
logistics by the IDA-assisted Capacity Building Project.
D. Monitoring of Results of the Reform Program
39.   In order to continuously evaluate the effectiveness of the policy changes and the use of
resources, a monitoring system will be introduced to track results beyond those nornally available
in macroeconomic statistics. The government believes that the system should emphasize human
resource development and poverty alleviation. As such, its essential features are: (i) the focus
will be on health, nutrition and education; (ii) the conditions of the centers providing services will
be monitored in repeated surveys, as will the client assessment of the quality and coverage of
service received; (iii) a survey frame will be established, covering all accessible provinces; (iv) the
service centers will be grouped in clusters, and centers will be randomly selected at each round of
the survey; and (v) there will be no prior announcements before the visits of the survey teams.
The system will be in operation by mid-1996.
VI. OTHER MAJOR OBJECTIVES
Preparing Chad for its Future with Oil
40.    Chad has petroleum reserves which remain undeveloped even though they were discovered
some twenty years earlier. The recoverable reserves, which are substantial in the south (some 700
million barrels) but less so in the north (12-15 million barrels), could be developed in two ways: the
Doba project (in the south) would produce for exports, while the Sedigi project (in the north) would
supply the local market.
41.    The government recognizes that it would take much effort on its part to make these two
projects a reality. Its first priority is to conclude the negotiations with the petroleum consortium
and the other financiers in order to accelerate the initiation of the two projects. In the case of



Annex V
Page 11 of 11
Sedigi in particular, the government is ready to undertake additional studies on how to reduce the
cost and optimize the project structure in order to improve its economic and financial justification.
The project itself will be sponsored by private investors.
42.   The Doba project would procure for Chad additional revenues that would radically
transform its public finances. The government is aware of the effects -- both positive and negative
- that the development of the petroleum resources could have on inflation and the international
competitiveness of the Chadian economy.  It will analyze both the positive and negative
experiences of other countries with oil and other mineral wealth. It will collaborate with the World
Bank on a long-term development strategy which would cover ways to extend into the future the
resources of the oilfields and ensure that the additional public revenues are used to promote
sustainable development, including the development of the cotntry's human resources.















' .  ':         4 
,e:         '1                              4 I   D                     '         - -     -                                         '



