Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2817 CD
Development Credit Agreement
Structural Adjustment Credit
between the
Republic of Chad
and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 16, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2817 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 1996, between the REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS:  (A) the Association has received a letter dated January 17, 1996, from 
the Borrower (the Policy Letter) describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently needed imports 
required during such execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Asso\1fciation has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
Page  2
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
“'Project' means the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(c)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read: \0c
“Except as the Association 
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be 
made in the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”;
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these 
General Conditions.  Except as the Association 
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which 
is not a member of 
the Bank or for goods produced in, or services provided from, any such 
territory; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or any import 
of goods, 
if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”;
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted, and Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 are 
renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07; and
(g)
Section 9.05 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and "SITC" means the Standard International Trade 
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights \0b(SDR 
20,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.  All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Page  3
Association into such deposit account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure excluded pursuant 
to the provisions of said Schedule 1, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, (i) deposit into the deposit account referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association 
shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2006, and ending February 1, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2016 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
Page  4
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the request of the Association, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the deposit account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement 
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as possible but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said deposit 
account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices, the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than 
four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  5
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and 
other documents, or customs certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the proce\1fdures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension; Termination
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
Section 4.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Planning is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
B.P 286
N’Djaména
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex:
MINPLAN
53 29 KD
N’Djaména
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Mahamat Saleh Ahmat
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured,  tobacco 
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing 
tobacco 
substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and 
semi-precious stones, 
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof, fuel 
elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated for 
nuclear reactors
728.43
   -
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group 
metals 
(except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares 
(including set gems)
Page  7
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and 
concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also that 
of another country, expenditures in such currency for goods supplied from the 
territory of such other country;
(c)
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement for expenditures, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of \0bSDR 
4,100,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that 
date, but after October 31, 1995;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $2,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance; or
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption.
2.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $1,000,000 may be permitted by the 
Association upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify.
