Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC3546 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/30/2008 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Sudan 
Project ID: P102319 
Project Name: MDTF South Sudan Private Sector Development 
Task Team Leader: Alwaleed Fareed Alatabani 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 16, 2007 
Estimated Board Date: May 10, 2007 
Managing Unit: AFTFP 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: General industry and trade sector (80%);Micro- and SME finance (20%) 
Theme: Small and medium enterprise support (P);Other financial and private sector 
development (P);Legal institutions for a market economy (S);Infrastructure services for 
private sector development (S) 
SPF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
4.28 
 
Multi-donor Trust Fund for South Sudan 
6.78
11.06 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The higher level objective is to enable the private sector to maximize its contribution to the 
recovery of South Sudan and the sustainability of peace. The development objective is to 
increase investment and job creation through increasing the predictability and efficiency of the 
legal and regulatory environment, facilitating access of enterprises to finance and skills, and 
through development of specialized infrastructure for private investment.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The proposed project seeks to stimulate private investment and job creation by alleviating four 
key obstacles:  
 
•
Supporting establishment of policy and legal framework (role of the state, finance law, 
insurance, contract law, property law, and business registration process)  
 
•
Increasing access to microfinance  
 
•
Building the capacity of the private sector through establishment of businessdevelopment 
and training services  
Page  2
•
Establishing Public-Private Partnerships (targeted investments in market-supporting 
infrastructure, leveraging private management) to reduce risks.  Two specific projects, an 
investment processing zone and an urban wholesale market, and a capacity building fund in 
support of future public-private partnerships in telecommunications will be developed.  
 
Project design and supervision will be supported by a consortium of donors including USAID, 
FAO, UNIDO, UNOPS and the World Bank.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
The main wholesale market will be based in Juba, Central Equatoria State (CES). The location of 
the satellite assembly markets is yet to be determined   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
Capacity is weak and an ESMF will be deployed to guide the Environment Specialist to be 
appointed to the Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Supply and the Ministry of Environment in 
achieving compliance with Bank safeguards requirements.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Colin P. Rees (AFTTR) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be developed covering drainage of runoff, 
dust suppression, and a waste management plan for the handling and disposal of food and other 
products.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  04/16/2007 
 
Page  3
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
Activities under the marketing system development include improving physical 
infrastructure, particularly that of assembly and wholesale markets; the former will support 
the establishment of three assembly markets providing inputs to the wholesale market from 
three Southern Sudanese states, and the  latter will finance the investment costs of a 10,000 
m2 terminal wholesale food market on five hectares of land, enabling the throughput of up to 
37,000 tons of fresh produce per year to increase the quality and reduce the price of food in 
Juba. Positioning of new facilities should be checked for potential impacts on drainage, and 
contamination of water sources induced by ineffective waste management (instances of 
cholera have been observed over the last few years). Accordingly, an Environmental 
Management Plan (EMP) will be developed covering drainage of runoff, dust suppression, 
and a waste management plan for the handling and disposal of food and other products; 
sanitation will also be provided. A Safeguards Officer in the Sudan Microfinance 
Development Facility will oversee the implementation of these mitigation measures and help 
assure compliance with environmental safeguards. The ESMF for MDTF funded project in 
South Sudan will guide overall environmental planning and management requirements.  
 
While the project will acquire land for the construction of the market, no displacement of 
people or assets will occur. The land identified for the market is on the outskirts of Juba city. 
This is a community owned land and was not occupied, cultivated or used for any other 
social or economic activity. The process of land negotiation and acquisition has already 
taken. Consultations for the negotiation were directly between the project and the 
communities.
 The project should document the process and request for a “no-objection” note 
from the communities.Same process must be applied to acquisition of land for other new 
markets the project aims to construct. The guidelines for the consultative process are 
provided in the draft ESMF.  
 
Disclosure of (1) the umbrella ESMF for Southern Sudan, (2) the documentation of the 
consultative process for land acquisition and (3) the hand over note between the community 
and government of Central Equatoria State will be completed prior to implementation of the 
wholesale market component.  
 
the ESMF and the EMP will be prepared, approved and disclosed prior to Appraisal, in the 
country and at the Bank’s InfoShop.  
 
The SMU has agreed to accept transfer of the safeguard responsibilities."   
 
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Alwaleed Fareed Alatabani 
07/30/2008 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
07/30/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Gerardo M. Corrochano 
07/30/2008 
Comments:   
