The World Bank                                            1818 H Street N.W.                (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT     Washington, D.C. 20433            Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                     U.S.A.                            Cable Address: INDEVAS
                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                                                              April 22, 2011

        H. E. David Deng Athorbei
        Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
        Government of Southern Sudan
        Juba
        Southern Sudan

                      Sudan: Multi-Donor Trust Fund for the Gender Action Plan Project
                            (Southern Sudan Private Sector Development Project)
                                          (Grant No. TF099027)

        Excellency:

                In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of Government of
        Southern Sudan (“Recipient?), I am pleased to inform you that the International Bank for
        Reconstruction and Development/International Development Association (“World Bank?),
        acting as administrator of grant funds provided by various donors (“Donors?) under the Multi-
        Donor Trust Fund for the Gender Action Plan (MDTF – TF070751), proposes to extend to the
        Recipient, a grant in an amount not to exceed one hundred thousand United States Dollars
        (“Grant?) on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this letter agreement
        (“Agreement?), which includes the attached Annex, to assist in the financing of the project
        described in the Annex (“Project?). This Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for
        which the World Bank receives periodic contributions. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the
        Standard Conditions (as defined in the Annex to this Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the
        Grant proceeds subject to the availability of such funds.

                 The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to enter
        into this Agreement and to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set
        forth or referred to in this Agreement.
         Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized
official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and returning it to
the World Bank. Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Agreement
shall become effective as of the date of the countersignature.

                            Very truly yours,
                      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT/INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                            ASSOCIATION



                                       By /s/ Ian Bannon
                                Acting Country Director for Sudan
                                         Africa Region


AGREED:

GOVERNMENT OF SOUTHERN SUDAN



By /s/ Stephen Dhieu Dau
      Authorized Representative
Name: /s/ Stephen Dhieu Dau
Title: Acting Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
Date: Aparil 27, 2011


Enclosures:

    (1)       Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds,
              dated July 31, 2010
    (2)       Disbursement Letter of the same date as this Agreement, together with World Bank
              Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006




                                               2
                                                                              Grant No. TF099027
                                                                                         ANNEX



Article I

Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. Standard Conditions. The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out
of Various Funds dated July 31, 2010 (“Standard Conditions?), with the modifications set forth in
the Appendix to this Agreement, constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Definitions. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this Agreement,
and the following additional terms have the following meaning: “Southern Sudan Women
Entrepreneurs Association? and “SSWEA? means the association established under the New
Southern Sudan NGO’s Act of 2003 for the development of women entrepreneurs to improve
their business competitiveness and productivity.

                                             Article II
                                         Project Execution

2.01. Project Objectives and Description. The objective of this Project is to empower SSWEA
with skills and knowledge required to improve its productivity and competitiveness.

The Project consists of the following parts:

        (a)      Establishment and equipping of an office at SSWEA through the provision of
                 goods.

        (b)      Carrying out capacity building activities for the SSWEA staff to help develop
                 business and advocacy skills.

        (b)      Carrying out knowledge sharing activities through carrying out workshops.

2.02. Project Execution Generally. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project. To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry in accordance with the provisions of: (a) Article II of the Standard
Conditions; (b) the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects
Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants?, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in
January 2011 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines?); and (c) this Article II.

2.03. Donor Visibility and Visit. (a) The Recipient shall take or cause to be taken all such
measures as the World Bank may reasonably request to identify publicly the Donors’ support for
the Project.




                                                 3
        (b)       For the purposes of Section 2.09 of the Standard Conditions, the Recipient shall,
 upon the World Bank’s request, enable the representatives of the Donors to visit any part of the
 Recipient’s territory for purposes related to the Project.

 2.04. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation. (a)           The Recipient shall monitor and
 evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions
 of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the
 World Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
 furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such
 report.

         (b)     The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
 provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report shall be furnished
 to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date.

 2.05. Financial Management. (a) The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management
 system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard
 Conditions.

         (b)     The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
 are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of each
 calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.

          (c)     The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months
after the end of such period.

 2.07.   Procurement

         (a)     General. All goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
 of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
 referred to in:

         (i)     Section I (excluding paragraph 1.18) of the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods,
         Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
         World Bank Borrowers? published by the World Bank in January 2011 (“Procurement
         Guidelines?), in the case of goods and non-consulting services; and

         (ii)    Sections I (excluding paragraph 1.25) and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and
         Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World
         Bank Borrowers? published by the World Bank in January 2011 (“Consultant
         Guidelines?) in the case of consultants’ services.

         (b)      Definitions. The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of this
 Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
 particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines,
 or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.


                                                 4
5
        (c)     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services

        Goods and Non-consulting Services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
        basis of Shopping.

        (d)     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

        (i)    Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants’ services shall be
        procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

        (ii)    The following methods may be used for the procurement of consultants’ services
        for those assignments which the Bank agrees meet the requirements set forth in the
        Consultant Guidelines for their use: (A) Quality-based Selection; (B) Selection based on
        Consultants’ Qualifications; (C) Single-source Selection; (D) Established Private or
        Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable to the World Bank;
        (E) Selection of Individual Consultants; and (F) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection
        of Individual Consultants.

        (e)     Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions. Except as the World
Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the following contracts shall be
subject to Prior Review by the World Bank: (a) each contract for goods or non-consulting
services estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more; and (b) each contract for consultant
services estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more. All other contracts shall be subject
to Post Review by the World Bank.

                                        Article III
                                Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds

3.01. Eligible Expenditures. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in
accordance with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions),
to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the following table. The table specifies the
categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
(“Category?), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:




                                               6
           Category                   Amount of the Grant                 Percentage of
                                            Allocated                  Expenditures to be
                                       (expressed in USD)                   Financed
                                                                       (inclusive of Taxes)
  (1) Goods, Consultants’                      100,000              100%
 Services, Operating Costs
 and Training and Workshops


 TOTAL AMOUNT                                  100,000



For the purpose of this paragraph, the term:

      (a)     “Operating Costs? means the incremental operating expenses incurred for
management and coordination of the Project activities, including car rental, printing,
communications, consumables, and utility expenses; and

        (b)      “Training and Workshops? means the reasonable cost of: (i) training materials
and rental of training facilities and equipment; and (ii) tuition fees, travel, accommodation and
per diem of trainers and trainees under the Project.

3.02. Withdrawal Conditions. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature
of this Agreement by the Recipient.
3.03. Withdrawal Period. The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard
Conditions is October 31, 2011

                                           Article IV
                             Recipient’s Representative; Addresses

5.01. Recipient’s Representative. The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02
of the Standard Conditions is the minister at the time responsible for finance.

5.02. Recipient’s Address. The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:

        Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
        Government of Southern Sudan
        Juba
        Southern Sudan




                                                  7
5.03. World Bank’s Address. The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the
Standard Conditions is:

       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/International Development
       Association
       1818 H Street, N.W.
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       United States of America

       Cable:               Telex:                Facsimile:

       INTBAFRAD
       INDEVAS              248423 (MCI) or       1-202-477-6391
       Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)




                                          8
                                        APPENDIX
                          Modifications to the Standard Conditions


The Standard Conditions are modified as follows:

1.     The provisions of Section 4.02 (d) of the Standard Conditions are deleted in their entirety.




                                               9
