Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Reped No. P-3631
S
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$34 MILLION
TO TEF
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
FOR A
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
February 21, 1985
This dmneNst bss a netiekd diatnbefie  _d may be use by rex**ns ody in the peofonsuxe io {
tlir offWdaichl Its bmm   a  ols odli be disoe withu Weld BRk wtorizon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1983       December 1984
Currency Unit  -    Naira (N)            N
US$1           -    N 0.72                N 0.81
Ni             -    US$1.38               US$1.24
ABBREVIAIIONS
BESS      Basic Health Services Scheme
FMG       Federal Military Government
FMOE      Federal Ministry of Health
LGA       Local Government Area
MCH       Maternal and Child Health
PEC       Project Executive Committee
FEC       Primary Health Care
PMU       Project Management Unit
Sr-OH     Sokoto State Ministry of Health
SSG       Sokoto State Government
UNDP      United Nations Development Progranme
WHO       World Health Organization
ZHO       Zonal Health Office
FISCAL YEAR
Ja:uary 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
LOAN MAD PROJECT SUMARY
Borror:              Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:         Federal Republic of Nigeria
Sokoto State of Nigeria
Amount:              US$34.0 million.
Terms:               Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:    US$31.0 million of the loan would be onlent to the
Sokoto State Government on the same terms as the Bank
loan. The Borrower and the Sokoto State Government
would share the foreign exchange risk on a pro rata
basis.
Project
Description:         The project would help expand and improve the delivery
of 2rinary health and family planning services as well
as immunization coverage in Sokoto State. It would
also strengthen the technical advisory capacity of the
federal health authorities. At the state level, it
would include: the construction, equipping, and
staffing of about 60 health clinics; the upgrading of
120 dispensaries; the provision of vaccines and
equipment for the immunizition program; and the
establishment of an adequate training and supervision
program. At the federal level, it would provide for
equipment, technical assistance, and training. Project
implementation could be affected by inadenuate
counterpart funding and a shortage of qualified female
health workers. To minimize the funding -isk, the
scope of the project has been scale down, and stringent
funding arrangements have been agreed uLoDn. The second
risk is being reduced through the training of female
workers under the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may FJe used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Biank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local  Foreign      Total
- US;f  l1ion-
A. Sokoto State Activities
Primary Health Services Development         10.2      5.6        15.8
Expanded Iamunization Program                1.7      2.7        4.4
Training and Supervision                    4.0       1.2        5.2
Institutional Support, Monitoring,
and Evaluation                            5.3       5.1       10.4
Sub-Total                                21.2      14.6       35.8
B. Federal Support Activities                   1.3       2.3       3.6
Total Base Costs                           22.5       16.9      39.4
Physical Contingencies                       1.0       0.6       1.6
Price Contingencies                         8.8        3.2      12.0
Total Project Costs (including taxes
aqd duties of US$1.6 Million)           32.3       20.7      53.0
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign     Total
-        $US$ Million-
BRBD                                     13.3       20.7      34.0
Federal Military Government              10.9        -        10.9
Sokoto State Government                   4.4        -         4.4
Local Governments                         3.7                  3.7
Total                                    32.3       20.7      53.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year          1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Annual                     1.2    3.9    5.1    7.5    9.5    6.8
Cumulative                 1.2    5.1   10.2   17.7   27.2   34.0
Rate of Return: not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  4599-UNI, Dated February 21, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$34.0
g        million to help finance a project to expand and improve the delivery of
primary health and family planning services as well as immunization
coverage in Sokoto State and to strengthen the technical advisory capacity
of the federal health authorities. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
US$31.0 million of the loan would be onlent to the Sokoto State Government
on the same terms as the Bank loan. The Borrower and the Sokoto State
Government would share the foreign exchange risk on a pro rata basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The assessment of the Nigerian economic situation in this report
is based largely on the work of an economic updating mission of November
1984 supplemented by further analysis undertaken by Bank staff on the basis
of the 1985 budget speech. The findings of a 1982 economic mission were
more fully reflected in a Country Economic Report (No. 4506-UNI) which was
distributed to the Executive Directors on August 15, 1983. Annex 1
presents selected social and economic indicators for Nigeria.
Background
3.        Nigeria, with a population of about 94 million in 1984, is the
most populous country in Africa. Among sub-Saharan Bank members, in 1980
Nigeria accounted for about 45 percent of gross output and more than 60
percent of regional investment. Its GNP per capita is estimated at about
US$760 in 1983, which is twice the average for sub-Saharan Africa. While
Nigeria as a major oil exporter since the early seventies enjoyed a sub-
stantially improved resource base from increased oil revenues, it still
remains at a very early stage of development in terms of socio-economic
indicators, in which it compares with other sub-Saharan countries.
4.        Following a civil war and 13 years of military rule, a new
federal constitution was adopted, and an elected civilian government came
1/  Except for minor changes to reflect the 1985 Federal Budget, this
section is substantially unaltered from Part I of the President's
Report for the Technical Assistance Project (P-3648-UNI), approved by
the Executive Directors on December 20, 1984.



into power in 1979. This Government was reelected in September 1983.
However, a military government (FHG) led by Major-General Mohammadu Buhari,
took power in December of the same year.
Macro-economic Developments
5.        Nigeria has been undergoing a rapid socio-economic transformation
since the upsurge of oil prices in 1973-74  which dramatically altered the
country's resource position. Between then and the late seventies,
Nigeria's development strategy was based on sustaining a high rate of
growth and diversifying the economy through the resources generated by the
oil sector. The principal objective of the policies pursued by the
Nigerian decision-makers was to translate the large oil revenues
accrued--about US$100 billion in current prices during the 1973-81
period--into investments in economic, social, and physical infrastructure.
While there have been some "non-economic" investments and waste,
significant development gains were made in both economic and social
infrastructure. Transport infrastructure, particularlv roads and ports,
expanded considerably. Power generating capacity tripled, and refining
capacity has more than quadrupled since 1973. Manufacturing grew at an
average annual rate of 10 percent during the 1973-82 period, although there
was a highly distorted investment structure due to large variations in the
rates of effective protection provided to various industrial sub-sectors.
There also has been a rapid spread of educatior at all levels; in
particular, the primary enrollment ratio which was about 35 percent in the
early seventies has more than doubled.
6.        Developments were not as positive in some other areas.  According
to official statistics, overall output in agriculture remained virtually
stagnant during the 1973-83 period, with the prcduction of grains increas-
ing probably at the same rate as the population growth rate, but the
production of root and export crops declining substantially. Within a
decade, Nigeria became a major food importer (US$2.7 billion of imports in
1982) as domestic terms of trade moved against agriculture. Inflation,
coupled with an appreciating domestic currency, pushed up domestic costs of
production, thus putting the commodity-producing sectors at a disadvantage
vis-a-vis imports and non-traded goods. This encouraged diversion of
resources from commodity production to services (including trade and
construction). Both agriculture and industry became "high-cost" activi-
ties. Trade and exchange rate policies, which were formulated in response
to frequent swings in oil export earnings, were largely used to dampen
inflationary pressures or ration imports rather than to provide appropriate
incentives to domestic production. This was partly due to the fact that,
as a result of the fluctuations in the world oil markets and their impact
on the balance of payments and government revenues, Nigerian policy-makers
were preoccupied with short-term crisis management. This diverted atten-
tion from the formulation of longer-term policies to reduce the country's
dependence on cil and to strengthen the domestic productive sectors.
7.        The Fourth Development Plan (1981-85) was prepared in 1980 when
the world oil markets presented a favorable outlook. Nigeria's oil exports
for the year amounted to US$25 billion and foreign exchange reserves stood
at US$10 billion. The Plan, accordingly, reflected an ambitious investment



-3-
program. It envisaged a total capital investment of N80 billion (about
US$145 billion at the 1980 rate of exchange) over the period 1981-85, half
of which was to be invested directly by the Federal Goverment and a
quarter directly by the states-with the remaining quarter to be invested
by the private sector.  Emphasis was placed on the development of
agriculture (through statewide agricultural suppoft programs and massive
irrigation schemes) and on heavy industry based on cheap energy (steel,
petrochemicals, fertilizers, etc.), both supported by substantial
investments in infrastructure.
8.        Nigeria's development plans, however, were overtaken by the sharp
decline in oil export revenues since 1981.  Its economic problems during
1981-83 were exacerbated by the inabili:y of Nigerian decision-makers to
cut back the public investment program sufficiently, partly because of a
continuing belief that oil markeL.i would soon recover. Nigeria's imports
reached US$24.2 billion in 1981, while oil production fell by one-third
from its 1980 level of 2.06 mbd to 1.44 mbd. Although the oil price peaked
at US$39 per barrel, oil export revenues declined from US$23.4 billion in
1980 to US$17.4 in 1981, resulting in a current account deficit of US$6.5
billion, which was financed largely through the drawing down of foreign
exchange reserves and external borrowing.
9.        Confronted by a worsening balance of payments situation, the
Government reacted in April 1982 by introducing a number of austerity
measures aimed at stabilizing the domestic and external financial
situation. However, these measures failed to achieve their stabilization
objective: oil production declined further and, coupled with a decline in
the oil price to US$34.4, oil export reve.-ues fell to US$12.8 billion.
Imports of goods for the year declined crly imarginally to US$17 billion
(from the 1981 level of US$19.1 billion), resulting in a wider current
account deficit of US$7.7 billion. Reserves declined further to onlv
US$1.4 billion by the end of 1982, whilst trade payment arrears of US$4
billion were accumulated.
10.       By 1983, previous measures in the form of quantitative restric-
tions together with a growing reluctance of the trading partners to extend
further trade credits to Nigeria led to a reduced import level of US$12.2
billion. Oil export revenues continued to fall, however, reaching US$10.1
billion in 1983. The trade deficit was largely financed by further
accumulation of trade payment arrears (US$3.8 billion), a process which had
already begun during 1982. Discussions with major overseas creditor banks
resulted in the rescheduling of the arrears owed to these institutions (for
confirmation of letters of credit) of about US$2.1 billion accumulated
prior to August 31, 1983, with repayments to be made over a period of 31
months starting January 1984. In April 1984, the Government completed
negotiations to reschedule US$4-5 billion of the remaining arrears incurred
throug1, "open-account" intvr--ompany import financing.  This agreement
includea -ily those arrears not covered by export credit insurance and
rescheduled the payments over a period of six years including a grace
period of two and half years at an interest rate of 1 percent over LIBOR.
Outstanding arrears at this point are US$2 billion insured by export credit
agencies (ECAs). The terms under negotiation for these remaining arrears
are similar although formal agreement to reschedule has been made



conditional by the ECAs on Nigeria reaching an agreement with the IMF. The
mllitary go-vernment (FMG) has so far been regular in making repayments due
on earlier medium- and long-term debt, as well as on the 1983
reschedulings.
11.       The deterioration in the external financial situation had a
severe impact on the fiscal position of the Federal and State Governments
as well as on growth. Federally collected revenues fell from N15.2 billion
in 1980 to N12.0 billion in 1983, because oil revenues account for such a
large percentage of total revenues (about 80 percent in 1980 and almost
60 percent in 1983). Until 1984, the Federal Government did not reduce
expenditures in line with the reduced revenues, thus large budget deficits
emerged over the period 1981-83, with the deficit/GDP ratio in excess of
8 percent. In order to finance these deficits, the Government borrowed
from the Central Bank. This, coupled with the physical shortages of many
imported commodities, led to an acceleration in the inflation rate which
rose to about 23 percent in 1983. As a result of a decline in imports of
about 30 percent in real terms, domestic output contracted by 6.0 percent
in 1983 following declines of 5.9 percent in 1931 and 2.3 percent in 1982;
as a consequence, most manufacturing industries, starved of imported raw
materials and spare parts, are now operating at very low capacity levels.
In addition to the decline in manufacturing output, the construction sector
suffered from an almost one-third decline in gross output in 1983.
12.       In order to get the balance of payments situation under control,
and accommodate the increase in debt service to about US$4.2 billion in
1984, the FMGN imposed in early 1984 very strict limitations on imports
through the use of an import licencing/foreign exchange allocation scheme.
As a result there was a sharp curtailment of imports which is estimated to
have amounted to only about $10 billion in 1984. Since oil export revenues
increased by about US$1.3 billion over the 1983 level to US$11.4 billion,
due to an increase in oil exports that more than offset the US$2 per barrel
reduction in price in October 1984, there was also a drastic improvement in
the external balance. The current account deficit is estimated to have
amounted to only about $150 million in 1984. The improvement of the
external balance through measures to constrain imports carried with it,
however, very high costs for the economy in the form of further decreases
in industrial production, construction and investment, accelerated
inflation (officially estimated at 37 percent in 1984) as well as increased
unemployment. The manufacturing sector as a whole is estima-_ed to have
operated at only about one-third of capacLty i.: 1984. However, due to the
increased oil revenues as well as good perform-nce in the agricultural
sector - in part explained by a return of workers to farming fcllowing
recent years increases in agricultural prices - Nigeria was able to break
three consecutive years of declines in overall production, and held
production about constant in 1984.
Adjustment Policy Issues
13.       At present, the Nigerian economy faces two critical issues:
first, the management of the short-run financial crisis ard stabilization
of the economy; and second, the longer-term structural adjustment of the
economy by stimulating productive sectors, lessening dependence on oil, and



-5-
developing a wider resource base. With regard to the short term, the
measures that the FMG has taken since Ja.nuary 1984 to rescheildle trade
arrears, control imports and restrain domestic expenditures which were
reconfirmed in the 1985 budget released in January, may help to arrest a
further deterioration of the external and internmal financial situation.
However, the remaining external arrears need to be rescheduled,
particularly in view of the need for substantial external borrowing in the
near future.
14.       While a rebound in oil revenues would help Nigeria to overcome
the current crisis, it will not resolve the structural issues facing the
economy. More vigorous and consistent policies, beyond the measures taken
to restore financial stability, will be needed to bring about structural
change. The chief requirements comprise: (i) further incentives for
efficient export promotion and import substitution, including appropriate
exchange rate, tariff, and credit policies; (ii) complementary steps to
strengthen the balance of payments through judicious management of foreign
borrowing and external reserves; (iii) continued control of aggregate
demand through prudence in monetary, fiscal, and wage policies; (iv)
improvements in the composition and implementation of public investment to
increase its efficiency; and (v) steps, such as raising interest rates and
improving tax collection, to increase private and public savings and
investment.
Prospects and Financing of Development
15.       Although Nigeria's exportable crude oil surpluses are expected to
be significantly reduced well before the turn of the century, the bulk of
its foreign exchange resources will continue to come from the hydrocarbon
sectors during the next twenty years.  In additior to oil exports, this
could include exports of liquefied natural gas (LNG)--although the market
prospects for LNG during the 1990s are more uncertain than before--and some
exports of petrochemicals. To maintain economic growth, major structural
changes are needed in order to adapt the economy to lower levels of oil
export earnings.  In the short-run, the volume of Nigeria's oil exports is
likely to be determined by the uncertain conditions of the world oil
markets rather than by the deliberate extraction policies of the Govern-
ment. It is projected that oil production would rise gradually, possibly
attaining a level of 1.6 mbd in 1987, from its estimated level of 1.3 mbd
in 1984.
16.       The prospects for the Nigerian economy over the medium term are
closely related to the kind of economic policies the Government pursues
over the next few years. One option open to the Government is to pursue a
"high growth/economic reform" strategy comprising policy measures which
have bean discussed in the context of a possible Extended Fund Facility
(EFF, with the IMF and a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) from the Bank.
Such a strategy would also give Nigeria renewed access to international
borrowing from commercial banks, although the amounts that would be
available are difficult to quantify. On the estimation that about US$2-3
billion per year of international lending would be available from all
different sources, this would permit a moderately high growth rate of about
4 percent per annum over the period 1984-1992.  It would prevent a further



- 6 -
deterioration in the average standard of living and allow employment to
expand broadly at the same pace as population growth. In addition, it
would, over time, stimulate non-oil exports, which, in the longer run will
need Lo replace oil as the engine of import growth. In the "low" case, on
the other hand, assuming no agreement is reached on an EFF/SAL package, and
the only "reform" is in maintaining enough macro-economic discipline to
avoid the reemergence of trade arrears as a maior problem, the possibility
of foreign borrowing would be very limited and balance of payments
constraints would necessitate the continuation of restrictive policies.
The result would be lower growth rates for the rest of the decade leading
to a further deterioration of the average standard of living, low capacity
utilization rates in many sectors and increasingly severe unemplovment
problems.
17.       At present the Government is pursuing an intermediate strategy.
In addition to the adjustments in the investment program mentioned above
(para. 12), the Government has recently introduced new schedules of customs
and excise duties that move in the direction of equalizing effective
protection across industries. In the 1984 budgets dhe Government made
reductions in public expenditures in line with Bank recommendations and, to
help rationalize future investments. instituted a Project Review Committee
which has reviewed projects funded under the capital budqet. The Committee
has proposed that all projects be categorized as "core" cr "non-core" with
the former to receive full funding and the latter being shelved pending
availability of funds or abandoned. The recommendations of the Review
Committee are currently being reviewed by the Government. Measures to
streamline public sector employment have resulted in a reduction of some
55,000 employees; and a freeze on public sector salaries and wages has also
been introduced. Together these measures are estimated to have resulted in
a reduction of the Federal budget deficit from about 23 percent of GDP in
1981 to about 5 percent in 1984. The 1985 budget continues with the policy
of stabilization and the sectoral allocation of public expenditures is once
again in line with the Bank's recommendations. The new Government has also
enforced much greater financial discipline on State Governments which has
resulted in greater revenue raising efforts by the states together with
improved focus on development priorities. Tighter monetary policies
including increases of 1.; to 2 percent in interest rates have also been
introduced.  With this progress on fiscal reform, but little progress on
incentive reform, growth would be higher than in the low case, but would
result at best in a stagnation of per capita incomes.
18.       The three policy scenarios differ more from each other in their
impact on growth than in their impact on Nigeria's ability to service
external debt. This is because in the low and intermediate cases, lack of
confidence on the part of commercial lenders would mean severely limited
access to international borrowing. Of course, if the moderate fiscal
discipline assumed even in the low case is not maintained, there would be
pressure on imports and an eventual risk of a build-up of trade arrears
with a resultant further decline in access to external credits. At the
present time, though, this does not appear likely, given the Government's
firm commitment to austerity. Under all these scenarios there will be
severe liquidity problems over the next few years with the debt service
ratio likely to range from 39 to 45 percent between 1985 and 1987. Under



- 7 -
all the sconariom also, the debt service ratio begins to decline after
1987. The decline is somewhat slower--although still marked--in the high
came, becaue with better growth policies, access to international
borrowing is higher. Tn the high came, the debt service ratio in 1992
would be 22 percent, while in the intermediate and low case. it would be
about 10 percent. The volume and composition of Bank lending would be
determined by the polinies pursued by the Government--ranging from an
expanded lending program including a Structural Adjustment Loan in the high
case to a limited program focumsina primarily on social and physical
infrastructure in the low case.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS lId NIGERIA 2/
19.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of September 30, 1984,
amounted to US$2,514.4 million (net of cancellations). The amount of loans
and credits disbursed as of September 30, 1984 was US$1,338.5 million,
leaving an undisbursed balance of US$1,175.9 mil'lion. Agriculture accounts
for about 50 percent of total commitments; transport, power, and water
supply together for about 34 percent; and education, industry, urban, and
the post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining 16 percent. There have
been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are fully
disbursed. IFC has made six loans to borrowers totalling US$24.7 million,
and six equity investruents totalling US$4.6 million. Of these amounts,
US$7.5 million have been repaid, terminated, cancelled, or sold. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments.
20.       As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil, publ'c
revenues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing projects to run
into serious counterpart funding problems. The Bank, the Federal
Government, and the relevant state governments are making concerted efforts
to alleviate the situation. The Bank, under the Special Action Program,
has agreed to the reallocation of loan proceeds and the upward revision of
disbursement percentages to speed up disbursements. Working within the
resource constraints (which are like]y to continue in the near future), the
Federal Government is supplementing the funding for selected projects for
1984 and has agreed to ensure that adequate funding will be provided for
projects for 1985 on the basis of updated estimates of funding
requirements. The state governments are instilling a greater degree of
discipline in their budgeting processes and cutting back on new capital
expenditures in order to fund existing obligations. As a result, the
prospects for counterpart funding for Bank-assisted pro.ects are expected
to improve.
2/ This section is substantially unchaged from Part II of the President's
Report for the Technical Assistance Project (P-3648-UNI) approved by
the Executive Directors on December 20, 1984.



21.       Provided appropriate policy changes are undertaken, the Bank's
lending program would aim primarily at the urgent diversification of
Nigeria's economy to reduce its excessive dependence upon petroleum as a
source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. At the same time, the Bank
would continue to support efforts to raise the productivity of the lowest
income groups and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in
Nigeria. As in recent years, the Bank would continue to provide support
for agriculture and rural development with emphasis on institution-building
and transfer of technology. These objectives are in line with the Federal
Government's priorities and with the emphasis it is placing on the need to
use the proceeds of the country's oil revenues to increase the productive
capacity of the economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of its
population, particularly the rural poor. The Bank would similarly support
efforts to stimulate a well-balanced and integrated development of
Nigeria's industrial sector. This approach would entail a combination of
intensive sector work and policy dialogue with the Government, as well as
Bank assistance for industrial projects in crucial subsectors.
22.       Projects in the agriculture, water supply and urban sectors
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming two
to three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors will
also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure.
There are good opportunities for the Bank to make a significant
contribution in energy and highway maintenance. Similarly, thero is a
strong case of continued lending for education. In this context,
vocational, technical, and teacher training would be given special
emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the Federal and State
Governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social
sectors. It is envisaged that some of thc pressing problems of rapid
urbanization will continue to be addressed through a number of urban
development projects focussed on the needs of the urban poor and resource
mobilization for urban areas. The Bank is also assisting the Government in
overcoming the country's health problems with a project aimed at both
federal and state (Sokoto) levels, and is continuing a dialogue with the
Government on population issues, perhaps leading to lending in this area.
23.       Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million
in FY1978 to nearly US$272 million in FY1984, Nigeria's disbursement
performance has lagged behind that of other countries in the region.  The
undisbursed balance now stands at 47 percent of the US$2.5 billion in loans
and credits approved.  One of the reasons for this development is the rapid
expansion of the Bank's loan portfolio since 1979 as well as the fact that
a number of large loans, with relatively large, planned disbursements
during the early years, were extended during this period, mainly for
agricultural projects. In many cases, however, disbursements have been
slowed by long delays in loan effectiveness and institutional and
management problems. Recently, the inadequate counterpart funding of
projects bv federal and state governments, resulting from lower oil
revenues, has further slowed disbursements. The FMG, with the arsistance
of the Bank's Resident Mission, is now carefully monitoring loan
disbursements with a view to identifying problems early and taking
corrective action. Also, the Bank has recently agreed to a series of



- 9 -
measures aimed at accelerating disbursements under both ongoing and new
projects (para. 20). These efforts are beginning to show results.
PART III - THE HEALTH SECTOR
Health Status
IL        24.       Despitc. the rise in life expectancy at birth from 39 years in
1960 to 50 years in 1982, general health conditions in Nigeria are still
poor by international standards.  In fact, Nigeria is more comparable with
poorer nations like Benin, with an average life expectancy of 48 years,
than with other middle-income oil exporting countries, with an average of
57 years. Infant mortality and child death rates are very high and claim
about 50 percent of total deaths. Maternal mortality is also high. High
mortality rates can be explained by the fact that: (a) 80 percent of
recorded deaths occur because of infections and parasitic diseases such as
measles, malaria, and diarrhea; (b) more than two-thirds of the pregnant
women have no access to ante-and post-natal care; (c) traditional medical
practices, particularly for child delivery, are inadequate and unhygienic;
and (d) high fertility rates adversely affect the general health of mothers
and infants. Ocher significant health problems in Nigeria include diseases
like pneumonia, gonorrhea, chicken pox, whooping cough, and filariasis.
Health Service System
25.       In the last two decades, Nigeria has expanded its health service
systen in the public and private sectors. For example, the number of
health establishments increased from 3,500 in 1965 to over 10,200 in 1981,
and the population-to-bed ratio was almost halved to about 1,100:1 over the
same period. Tertiary, secondarv, and primary level care is provided
through hospitals, health centers, maternity centers, health clinics, and
dispensaries, of which more than three-quarte-s are in the public sector.
Private facilitics are heavily concentrated in the south. However, many of
the fecilities, particularly at the primoary level, are inadequately
supplied and staffed. Also, as in many other countries, the urban
population is better covered by the health system than the population in
rural areas. Drug distribution rests mainly with the private sector,
although drug availability at government health facilities has improved
considerably in recent years.
26.       Nigeria has undertaken a vast and successful effort to train and
deploy health manpower. The number of medical practitioners increased from
about 700 in 1960 to 8,000 in 1981, and the ratio of population to nursing
personnel improved from about 16,000:1 to 1,300:1 over the same period.
Nevertheless, if the country is to provide widely accessible primary health
care (PHC) services, it will have to train additional health personnel, in
particular auxiliary level public and community health workers and medical
technologists. In addition, in northern Nigeria, it will have to train and
deploy female health workers to provide for maternal and child health (MCR)
services, including family planning.



%                                   - 10 -
27.       The responsibility for health is currently divided between the
federal, state, and local governments. The Federal Ministry of Health
(FMOH) has overall responsibility for the sector. It establishes national
healt'- policies and program guidelines, and monitors state and local
government health programs for compliance with these policies and
guidelines. In addition, FMOH has direct operational responsibility for:
(a) training of medical doctors and setting of accreditation standards for
all categories of health manpower; (b) operating teaching institutions and
psychiatric and orthopedic hospitals; (c) monitoring and controlling
contagious and communicable diseases; and (d) controlling drugs and
vaccines. In each of the 19 states, the State Ministry of Health is
responsible for planning and implementing all health programs not
explicitly reserved for FMOH, including: (i) planning and coordinating the
devele-ment of the health system within the state, (ii) operating and
maintaining all secondarv and non-specialized tertiary level health
facilities, (iii) implementing public health programs, (iv) training
nursing and auxiliary health personnel, and (v) assisting the local
government authorities (LGAs) with the management and operation of the
network of primary level health facilities. LGAs are responsible for
operating clinics and dispensaries, including the provision of basic
outpatient and community health, hvgiene, and sanitation services.
28.       FeCeral capital expenditures for health have increased in recent
years rising from 0.7 percent of the Federal Government's total capital
budget in 1975 to 2.8 percent in 1982. Among the various items of
expenditure, teaching and other hospitals have dominated, accounting for
about two-thirds of total FMOR capital allocations on average. The Basic
Health Service Scheme (BHSS, para. 31) received on average about
one-quarter of this, while national public health programs, training
institutions, laboratories, and other supporting institutions received the
remainder. Recurrent health expenditures of FMOH have increased
considerably in recent years, and amounted to about 3.5 percent of the
Federal Government's total recurrent expenditures in 1982. Almost 90
percent of these expenditures represent FMOR subventions and grants to
teaching and other federal hospitals and health institutions.
29.       The public health system is almost entirely financed out of
budgetary resources.  Only a few states arI hospitals recover costs through
user charges for hospitalization.  Both the Federal and state governments
are committed to the provision of free basic health care for all citizens,
despite evidence of willingness end ability to pay on the part of
beneficiaries.  Because budgetary resources allocated to the health sector
are not likely to grow at a pace commensurate with the rapidly rising costs
of Nigeria's heilth system, priority should be given to identifying and
adopting meas' -es to broap..en the health sector's resource base.
National Health Policies
30.       Since 1960, the national health policy has aimed at developing
the health system, manpower, and training and at strengthening the delivery
of preventive health services, especially in the rural areas. The First
Plan (1962-68) introduced innovative pilot programF that successfully
delivered MC-d and health education services using paramedical personnel.



- 11 -
The Second Plan (1970-74) gave priority to the reconstruction of health
infrastructure in the war zones. At the end of this period, when Nigeria
enjoyed rather ample financial resources and an expanded health manpower
base, the country's health authorities came under increasing pressure to
improve the quality and sophistication of hospital care. However, this
emphasis on curative and capital-intensive care led to an increasing gap
between actual expenditure patterns and the overriding national objectives
of promoting basic and preventive health care.
31.       To remedy this situation, the Federal Government developed the
BHSS as the focus of the Third Plan (1975-80). The major objectives of the
BHSS were: (a) to improve access to comprehensive health services,
particularly in rural areas; (b) to emphasize the celivery of key
preventive services at all health facilities, especially of MCH services,
including childhood immunizations and family planning; (c) to train and
deploy new cadres of para-medical community-oriented health workers; and
(d) to strengthen the management of the health system. FMOH was to
implement these objectives by establishing a modular, three-tiered network
of health facilities to be staffed by new cadres of community health
workers. However, full-scale implementation of this ambitious program was
almost immediately constrained by limitee funding, a low level of
commitment on the part of most state governments, and limited construction
capacity at the state level. Nevertheless, a total of W168 million was
spent on the BHSS between 1976 and 1981. A special commission established
by the Federal Government and chaired by the WHO Country Coordinator for
Nigeria, concluded that the objectives and policy framework of the BHSS
were appropriate vehicles to achieve PHC objectives - but the health
facility program had been a costly failure. The commission also underlined
the need for a strategy of decentralization, under which the states, LGAs,
and communities would participate in the provision of health care.
32.       The Government accepted the special commission's recommendations
as a strategy for PHC, and recognized the need for full integration of
existing facilities and manpower in t.e desired health system, and the
development of less costly and more appropriate facility designs and
equipment lists. It also recognized that, if the PHC program were to be
successful, the state Ministries of Health would have to develop their
planning, coordination, and technical control functions, particularly with
respect to the LGAs which operate most of the first-level health facilities
and are in direct contact with the communities.
National Health Issues
33.       The major issues facing Nigeria in increasing the effectiveness
of its health system include:
(a)  Planning for PHC.  The strategy of decentralizing planning
responsibility to the state level places a considerable new
responsibility or the state Ministries of Bealth. Although most
have become competent administrators of the existing health
system, they lack experienced planning staff. Despite this
handicap, the states have accepted the challenge, adopting
segments of the BHSS proposals to respond to the most pressing
needs. Sokoto is the first state to have prepared, with



- 12 -
assistance from consultants, a PHC-oriented project suitable for
external financing. Nevertheless, all of the states requir's
technical assistance to help strengthen their planning and
evaluation capacity. It is, therefore, important that FMOH
develop, as soon as possible, a technical capacity to provide ae
states with planning advice, particularly for developing a.,.
implementing a consistent and efficient approach to PHC projects.
(b) Access to Care. Despite the considerable expansion of Nigeria's
health facility network, about 15 percent of the urban and 30
percent of the rural population still lack access to basic health
services. Data on health facilities also show a wide variation
in the average population served by health facilities, and
indication of unequal access to health care. Construction of new
facilities in unserved areas is required to remedy this.
(c) MCH and Preventive Services. Many primary health facilities are
not able, because of lack of qualified staff and equipment, to
provide key MCH services, including immunization, family
planning, health education, and environmental sanitation
services, which are essential for the overall effectiveness of
PHC. There is also a shortage of midwives, particularly in the
northern states. Although Nigeria is firmly committed to an
expanded immunization program, technical and administrative
factors have constrained reliable program delivery.
Consequently, less than one-third of the children are protected
against the major communicable childhood diseases.
,d) Family Planning. The Government is well aware of the
implications of high population growth for development. However,
it has yet to develop a population policy with eplicit
demographic objectives, largely because of the sensitive ethnic,
cultural, and political implications of the population issue.
The National Population Commission has a mandate for census
operations, demographic studies, and registration of vital
statistics. The coordination and implementation of family
planning services falls beyond the Commission's jurisdiction; it
is considered an integral element of PHC and falls under the
responsibility of FMOR. To date, the Government's approach to
family planning has been cautious, and limited to encouragement
and some financial support for private sector programs. The
number of family planning acceptors remains low (only 14 percent
of all married women are estmanted to have ever used any form of
contraception, including abstinence), and is mostly limited to
urban areas. Before it can become more widespread in Nigeria,
contraception, whether modern or traditional, has to overcome
serious socio-cultural barriers, such as the low level of
education of women, cultural and religious traditions, high
infant mortality, and inadequate; MCH services.   Meanwhile, the
strategy of introducing MCI services at primary level health
facilities and of training health workers and traditional birth
attendants in family planning services will facilitate the



- 13 -
introduction of modern family planning services throughout
Nigeria.
(e) Efficiency of Service Delivery. The quality of the health
service delivery system needs to be improved to enhance the
cost-effectiveness of Nigeric's health services. The state
mi.,istries are, therefore, making effort to develop technical
supervision, regular in-service training, and evaluation systems.
The efficiency of the health service would also be improved by
better logistics, including transport, which is a constraint
particularly in the southern states.
The Bank's Rcle
34.       The Bank's assistance to the health sector in Nigeria began with
the financing of a health component in an urban project. A dispensary
construction component was included under the First Urban Project in Bauchi
State (Loan 1767-UNI) and subsequently a health education/hygiene promotion
component was included in the Water Supply and Sanitation Project in
Anambra State (Loan 2036-UNI). The implementation of these components is
proceeding fairly satisfactorily. In addition, the Bank has also studied
government policies, performance, and issues in the population, health, and
nutrition sectors as part of the Basic Economic Mission in 1979-80 (No.
3341-UNI).
35.       The proposed project, which would be the first Bank-financed
health project in Nigeria, originated with a request from the Sokoto State
Government in 1978 to include a health component in the agricultural
development project being prepared at that time. Folloving the decision to
upgrade the health component into a freestanding health project, the
Federal Government and the Bank agreed that this project would also provide
technical assistance to FMOH to strengthen its planning and program
evaluation capability. Sokoto State was selected as the Bank's entry point
in the health sector because of the state's poor health sta is and its
shortage of trained personnel and health infrastructure, as well as its
long experience with pilot health projects and the interest shown in
preparing a health component under the agricuiltural project.
36.       As a complement to the Bank's involvement in the health sector,
progress has been made in the Bank's dialogue with the Federal Military
Government on population issues. Nigeria does not yet have an explicit
poptlation policy with demographic objectives. Furthermore, until very
recently, the Federal Government was not receptive to discussing population
and family planning issues because of their political and cultural
sensitivity. However, there has been a growing awareness in recent years
among senior government officials of the impact of rapid population growth
on future economic development and on public sector financing requirements.
For instance, making its fi-:st public commitment to population policy, the
Government announced during a recent WDR seminar that it would "develop a
well-articulated population policy" to improve the health of mothers and
children. The Government also recognized the effects of rapid population
growth on the general quality of life causing strain on health, food
production, education and all other social services. Consequently, during



- 14 -
population reconnaissance missions to Nigeria in November/December 1984,
wide-ranging discussions were held with the National Population Commission
and the Federal Ministry of Health. Based on these discussions, we
proposed to the Government the possibility of Bank support for the
population sector. Possible areas for Bank assistance include
strengthening the population planning capacity of the existing federal
agencies, developing the demographic data collection, processing and
monitoring capacity of the Federal Government, and providing central
support to national efforts to promote and support delivery of family
planning services by both the private and public sectors. Further support
of family planning activities is also envisaged as part of future
state-level population and health projects.
PART IV - THE IROJECT
37.        The project was prepared by the Sokoto State Government (SSG)
assisted by consultants. It was appraised in November 1982 and
negotiations were held in Washington in November 1983. The project was not
presented to the Board sooner because the new Military Government's overall
review of its external borrowing program had only been completed in October
1984. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4599-UNI) is being circulated
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Area
38.       The project area is located in Nigeria's northern savannah zone
and covers the total area of Sokoto State. The 1983 population of Sokoto
State is officially estimated at about 7.8 million, and is estimated to be
growing at 3.0 percent per annum. The project area is predominantly rural
and agricultural. The disease pattern is similar to that of the country as
a whole. Measles is the leading reported cause of death, followed by
pneumonia, tuberculosis, and tetanus, reflecting the inability of the State
to cope with the situation. The problems in the health sector in Sokoto
State are similar to the problems at the national level discussed
above-insufficient access to primary health facilities; limited capacity
to deliver MCH services, including family planning and immunizations; low
quality of care due to weak technical supervision and in-service training
systems; and gaps in the institutional framework for directing and
coordinating state and LGA health programs.
Project Objectives
39.       The health project is the first effort by a state government to
implement the new PHC policies and to address priority issues in a manner
that is adapted to local needs and consistent with local resource
availability. It has two major parts with distinct objectives.
40.       First, under Part A, the project aims to support SSG's efforts to
reduce mortality and morbidity due to preventable and infectious diseases,
by focussing on the first level of health care provided through the
dispensary system of the LGAs in Sokoto State.  In particular, i- aims to



- 15 -
increase accass to and improve the quality of PHC by supporting: (a) an
expansion of the health network; (b) the strengthening of MCH service
delivery, including faw'ty planning; (c) the expansion of the  simunization
program; and (d) the development of regular technical supervision and
in-service trainir.- programs. In addition, through the establishment of a
zonal management system, the project would support the development of
institutional mechanisms for the Sokoto State Ministry of Realth (SMOH) to
provide LGAs with technical support and to better coordinate public sector
health activities.
41.       Second, under Part B, the project aims to strengthen FMOH's
technical advisory capacity for sector planning and programming and develop
a capability for the p;-eparation, evaluation, and replication of state
health programs, including the Sokoto health project.
Project Description
42.       The project would consist of:
Part A. Sokoto State Activities
Ca) Primary Health Services Development
The project would provide for the construction of about 60 new
health clinics in unserved rural areas. Each clinic would be fully
equipped and staffed and would serve between 8,000 - 15,000 people. The
project would also help introduce regular MCH and family planning services
at the dispensary level by providing for the construction, equipment, and
staffing of MCH annexes to upgrade about 120 existing dispensaries to
health clinic standards. The health clinics and upgraded dispensaries
would provide key preventive and basic curative services, both in clinics
and through community meeting and house visits, while the more serious
cases would be referred to health centers and hospitals. Training of 300
female health staff for MCH and family plannlng services would be provided
under the project.
(b) Expanded Immunization Program
To increase immunization coverage, the project would establish
static vaccination delivery points in about 240 health factlities,
strengthen the four existing mobile units to service remote populations,
provide vaccines and the requisite equipment, and strengthen the management
and supervision of immunization activities. The existing staff would
receive additional training in vaccinating procedures. To ensure the ready
availability of potent vaccines, a cold chain would be established at state
stores, to be located at headquarters of the Project Management Unit (PMU)
and four zonal health offices, to be established under the proiect (para.
4.2(d). About six man-months of technical assistance would be provided to
help organize and strengthen the administration of the cold chain
operations. To help implement the immunization program, a zonal
immunization unit would be established in each of the four zona' health
offices with responsibility for overall planning, monitorirg, and technical
supervision in their respective zones. The immunization units at



-I A, 
headquarters and each zonal health office would be provided with equipment,
vehicles and funds for training, incremental salaries, and operating
expenses.
(c) Training and Supervision
(i) In view of the socio-cultural need to have female staff
for delivering MCH and family planning services, the
project would reimburse the LGAs for the cost of
pre-service training at about 250 female community
health aides and 50 health assistants to help staff
project facilities. After completion of training,
these female workers would be expected to provide MCH
care and immunization, and advise mothers on family
planning, breast feeding, health education and
nutiition. The project would also support SSG's
ongoing program to improve the capability of
traditional birth attendants by training about 600 and
providing refresher training for about 1050 attendants.
(ii) The project would establish a training resource center
at PMU headquarters and four zonal training units at
the zonal health offices. The center would design and
organize the in-service training system, train the
trainers and supervisors, prepare and produce training
materials, and evaluate the training activities.  The
four zonal units, with guidance and support from the
center, would provide quarterly in-service training for
all LGA health workers, develop and produce health,
family planning, and nutrition education materials
aimed at government officials, village leaders, and the
general public, and train SMOH staff in equipment and
vehicle maintenance. The training facilities would be
provided with equipment and funds for irncremental
salaries and operating expenses.
(iii)     To reoriert and strengthen the LGA health supervision
system, existing LGA supervisors would receive training
in management and supervision methodologies and various
:echnical topics. An additional 60 LGA sipervisors, to
be recruited from existing rural health superintendents
and community health assistants, would be formally
trained as health supervisors at one of Nigeria's
medical schools. Also, about 18 man-months of
short-term consultancy services would be provided for
the preparation of detailed training and supervision
materials and for program evaluation.
(d) Institutional Support, Monitoring and Evaluation
To strengthen SMOH's management, coordination and project
implementation capacity, the project would establish a PMU within SUiOR
(Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement) and introduce a zonal



- 17 -
management system. It was agreed during negotiations that four conal
health offices (ZHos) would be established and fully staffed by May 31,
1986 (Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement. They would operate with
the support of the PMU. The project would provide for the construction,
furnishing, and equipping of PMU headquarters and zonal offices, staff
housing, vehicles, and funds for incremental salaries awed operating
expenses. To evaluate project progress and impact and to provide adequate
data for health planning, a state-level monitoring and evaluation
capibility would be establisohed within PMU which could form the basis for a
statewide management information system for the health sector.
Specifically, the project will provide about 24 man-months of consulting
services, incremental salaries, and funds to carry out sample surveys.
Sample surveys will be undertaken to determine, inter alia, actual
vaccination coverage, change in prevalence of tracer diseases such as
neonatal tetanus, and validation of data obtained from routine reporting.
Part B. Federal Support Activities
43.       To strengthen the presently limited capacity of FMOH to support
the states in health sector planning and programming and in developing and
implementing PHC programs, the project would enhance the program planning
and evaluation capacity of FMOH by providing about 120 man-months for
long-term advisors (consultancy) services, about 60 man-months of
short-term consultancy services, and six overseas fellowships. The
long-term advisors would include a health planner, a health economist, and
a statistician; the short-term advisors would be sought for project
evaluation, logistical systems, health manpower planning, and PHC
implementation. To support and institutionalize the knowledge and
experience, FMOR would assign staff to work closely with the advisors. The
project would also provide for vehicles, office equipment, and workshops as
well as funds to help states prepare future health projects and to develop
an institutional capacity within FMOH which would provide technical and
financial assistance for projects meeting federal guidelines. Among the
first tasks of the long-term advisors would be the preparation of a study
on health financing and possibilities for increased cost recovery in the
health system, to be completed by May 31, 1987 (Section 3.03 (b) of the
Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
44.       Part A of the project would be implemented by SMOH and Part B by
FMOH.  The administration and implementatior of each Part would be the
separate responsibility of the respective agencies. The project has been
designed so that the FMOH activities (Part B) would complement and help
replicate the experience gained under Part A of the project, thereby
strengthening institutional linkages in the health sector.
45.       While SMOH would have overall responsibility for implementation
of Part A of the project, operation of the project health facilities would
be carried out by the LGAs under the supervision of the Sokoto State
Ministry of Local Government. To ensure proper coordination between these
agencies and to establish an effective mechanism for policy guidance and
implementation, SSG would establish and thereafter maintain a Project



- 18 -
Executive Committee (PEC) (Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement). The
PEC would be chaired by the Commissioner of Health and would include as
members the Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries oi Health, Economic
Planning, Finance, and Local Government, the project managers of the Sokoto
health and agricultural development projects, as well as four
representatives of the LGAs.  The PEC would: (a) determine operational                     6
policies; (b) coordinate relevant activities between entities 'nvolved; (c)
review project implementation and approve annual action plans and budgets;
(d) approve contracts exceeding 1100,000; and (e) appoint senior project
staff. The PEC would be empowered to form technical sub-committees as
required, including a sub-committee on staff recruitment and deployment.
46.       As mentioned in paragraph 42(d), the project would be managed by
the PMU working through four ZHOs to be established and functionally
integrated into SMOR's structure. Each ZHO would serve about 4-5 LGAs and
be responsible for: (a) the coordination of all health activities of the
LGAs under its jurisdiction; (b) the development and implementation of ar.
in-service training program and a technical supervision systeu for LGA
health facilities; and (c) the implementation and technical supervision of
immunization activities. As in other parts of Nigeria, senior and
middle-level staff with experience in managing development programs are in
short supply in Sokoto State. The project has, therefore, been designed to
limit recruitment of new management staff to 13 positions. Five of these:
the project manager, the financial controller, the chief architect, the
immunization coordinator, and the training coordinator would be
internationally recruited and funded under the project. The appointment of
the project manager, deputy project manager, and financial controller of
the PMU would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the
Loan Agreement).
47.       By the end of the project, PMU's technical capacity would have
been strengthened, and a pattern of coordinated operations established.
The PEC, the PMU, except for the training center, and the four ZHOs are
expected to form the nucleus of a proposed Rural Health Services Management
Board to manage the LGA health facilities not covered by the existing
Health Services Management Board. It is also anticipated that by project
completion the senior Nigerian staff of the PMU would have acquired
sufficient on-the-job training and experience to take over from the
internatioral staff provided under the project.
48.       The Permanent Secretary of FMOH would have overall responsibility
for implementing Part B of the project, including recruiting the long-term
advisors and selecting the recipients of the overseas fellowships. To
attract qualified candidates and facilitate recruitment of these advisors,
UNDP has agreed to act as the administrative agent and service the
contracts under prevailing arrangements that include the provision of
housing and purchase of equipment and vehicles for the staff advisors.
Responsibility for the technical supervision of these advisors would remain
with FMOH.



- 19 -
Project Cost
49.       Total couts fur the project are estimated at US$53.0 miLlion
(including taxes and duties of US$1.6 million) of which the foreign
exchange component would amount to TTS$?0.7 million or 39 percenrlt. Cost
include US$10.8 million in incremer.tal optrating costs that would be
incurred by SSG and the LGAs over the project period. Project costs are
based on December 1983 prices. A breakdown of costs by major categories is
given in the Loan and Project Summary. Physical contingencies have been
estimated at 10 percent for civil works.  Price contingencies for foreign
costs are estimated at 3.5 percent ir. 1984, 8.0 pe:cent in 1985, and 9
percent thereafter; and for local costs at 22 percent in 1984 and 14
percent thereafter.
Project Financing
50.       The proposed loan of US$34.0 million would finance about 66
percent of total project cost, net of taxes and duties. It would cover the
full foreign exchange cost and 41 percent of the local cost of the project.
Of the total, US$31.0 million would be onlent to Sokoto State on the same
terms as the Bank loan and the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement
between Borrower and SSG would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01(a) ef the Loan Agreement). The Borrower and SSG would share
the foreign exchange risk on a pro rata basis. Of the rempining project
costs (net of taxes and duties), the FMG would finance US$10.9 million or
21 percent, SSG US$i2.8 million or 6 percent, and the LGAs US$3.7 million or
7 percent. Bank financing for the incremental recurrent costs has been
calculated on the basis of a declining proportion of these costs. The
federal share in financing Part A of the project would be made in the form
of grants to the project account. The LGA share would be contributed in
the form of meeting the incremental recurrent expenditures to operate
project health facilities. No cofinancing was sought for this project.
Because this is the first Bank-assisted project in Nigeria's health sector
the Gwvernment and the Bank wished to keep the financing, procurement and
sui-e,vision of the project simple and the scope of the project small.
51.       To ensure the timely and adequate provision of funding,.
assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) as a condition of
loan effectiveness, SSG would open a project account with a commercial bank
for Part A of the project into which the FMG and the SSG would each pay
their initial contributions 01300,000 for the FMG and W100,000 for the SSG)
(Section 6.01(b) of the Loan Agreement); and that subsequent contributions
would be made quarterly and in advance, in accordarce with the approved
annual budgets (Section 3.02(b) of the Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(c) of
the Project Agreement; (b) in the event the project does not receive timely
funding from the SSG, the FMG would pay directly to the project's
commercial bank account that part of the State's statutory allocation
corresponding to its agreed financial contribution for the project (Section
2.09 of the Project Agreement); (c) as a further condition if loan
effectiveness, PMU would establish overdraft facilities of N0.5 million
guaranteed by SSG (equivalent to about three month's expenditure) (Section
6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement); (d) SSG would open and thereafter maintain
a Special Account (Section 2.02(a) of the Project Agreement) and the Bank



- 20 -
would provide advances into this Special Account equivalent to about three
months' anticipated disbursements, but not exceeding US$1.0 million
equivalent; and (e) the Bank may refrain from making deposits into the
Special Account upon failure of the FMG and SSG to pay their contributions
into the project account (Schedule 4 para. 3 of the Loan Agreement). The
FMG would also establish and maintain with adequate funds a project account
with the Central Bank of Nigeria for Part B of the project (Section 3.02(a)
of the Loan Agreement).
52.       The very high costs of implementing the pilot BHSS programs and
the prospects of continued pressure on Nigeria's financial resource
required careful consideration of the affordability of the project, both in
terms of its capital and incremental operating cost. This is also a
condition of its replicability elsewhere in Nigeria. As a consequence,
construction equipment standards were closely scrutinized for possible cost
savings, taking into account the conditions under which the health
facilities will be operating. The base costs of constructing and equipping
a primary health clinic are estimated at N45,000, a 75 percent reduction
over the cost of establishing an equivalent BHSS clinic. Furthermore, the
decision to upgrade dispensaries instead of constructing new clinics has
resulted in significant savings, making the project less expensive and more
affordable to SSG than the BHSS program.
53.       The financial requirements of the proposed investment program on
SSG are modest and affordable: they average NO.75 million per annum (about
US$0.15 per capita), or about 9 percent of SMOH's capital expenditures in
1982. The recurrent cost implications of operating the project facilities
and services are also modest. By Year 6, when the project will have been
completed, total incremental operating costs are estimated at N1.8 million
per annum (in 1983 prices) of which NO.7 million will be borne by the LGAs
for the operation of the health clinics, and N1.1 million by SSG. The
incremental recurrent cost burden for the LGAs corresponds to about 9
percent of their health expenditures in 1982. The incremental recurrent
cost burden to SSG corresponds to about 6 percent of the 1982 state level
recurrent expenditures on health. These increases in recurrent budgetary
expenditures are reasonable, even under conservative projections of
Nigeria's likely resource availability.
Procurement
54.       All civil works (totalling about US$16.2 million) for the
proposed project are small and widely scattered and would be completed over
a period of time. While the threshold for the international competitive
bidding for civil works contracts is US$2 million, the average value of the
civil works contracts would be about US$400,000, and only one would exceed
US$1.0 million.   Therefore, all civil works contracts for the proposed
project would be let on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in
accordance with local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts for the supply of equipment, vaccines, contraceptives, and
vehicles, for US$300,000 or more, would be procured through ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines. LCB, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank, would be employed for equipment contracts estimated
to cost US$60,000 or more but less than US$300,000. Local competitive



- 21 -
shopping would be employed for contracts of less than US$60,000. Items for
procurement would be bulked to permit optimum use of competitive bidding.
Domestically manufactured goods procured under ICB would be allowed a 15
percent preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower, for
purposes of bid evaluation. The aggregate cost of these items is estimated
at about US$2.0 million. The services of internationally recruited staff
and consultants (about 35 man-years of long-term and 9 man-years of
short-term technical assistance) would be obtained on terms and cona:tions
satisfactory to the Bank.
Type of Procurement
(in US$ millions)
Type of Procurement                   Total Cost
including
Project Element             ICB      LCB      Other     N.A.   Contingencies
Land Acquisition             -         -        -       0.1           0.1
Civil Works                  -      22.2        -        -           22.2
(18.9)      -        -          (18.9)
Vaccines, Vehicles,
and Equipment              2.0      2.8       0.3       -            5.1
(2.0)    (2.4)    (0.2)       -           (4.6)
Advisorv Services and        -        -         -       3.8           3.8
Fellowships                  -        -         -       (3.8)        (3.8)
Studies, Training            -        -         -      21.8          21.8
and Recurrent Costs                             -      (6.7)         (6.7)
Total                       2.0     25.0       0.3     25.7          53.0
(2.0)   (21.3)    (0.2)   (10.5)        (34.0)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts that would be
financed by the Bane loan.
Disbursements
55.       The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows: 90 percent of
total expenditures for civil works; 100 percent of foreign expenditures,
and 85 percent of local expenditures for equipment, vehicles and vaccines;
100 percent of total expenditures for salaries and allowances of
international recruited staff, consultant services, and overseas training;
and 60 percent of local expenditures for local training, incremental local
staff salaries, and operating costs of PMU and the zonal health offices.
Disbursements would be made against full documentation, except for local
training, incremental local staff salaries, operating costs and contacts of
less then $100,000 equivalent, in which case



- 22 -
disbursements would be made against certified statements of expenditures.
The loan would provide for retroactive financing up to US$0.2 million to
help cover eligible expenditures incurred after December 31, 1984 to
facilitate start-up activities, such as the recruitment and posting of key
expatriate project staff.
Justification and Risks
56.       The proposed project directly addresses two of the most pressing
problems facing the health authorities in Nigeria: (a) the develapment of
an affordable, widely accessible, and efficient system to deliver the basic
health services that could accelerate improvement in the health status of
the population; and (b) the development of FMOR's role in promoting and
coordinating the preparation, evaluation, and replication of state health
programs.
57.       Part A would provide direct benefits to three distinct population
groups. First, the expansion of the health network would provide
reasonable access to modern health services for the first time to an
estimated population of about 700,000 rural inhabitants and raise
population coverage of the health system from about 65 to 80 percent of the
total rural population. Second, through improved MCH services and through
training and deployment of some 300 female health workers and 600
traditional birth attendants, about 450,000 mothers and children under 5
would benefit from basic MCH, family planning, and community health
serJices. Third, the expansion of the immunization program would protect
about 50 percent of children in Sokoto State against childhood diseases.
Since death of children below 5 years of age account for about 50 percent
of all death, project impact on infant and child mortality is expected to
be substantial.
58.       Strengthening the supervision and in-service training progrrAms
under Part A is expected to generate significant benefits through improved
quality and increase efficiency of care delivered at all primary level
facilities. One of the more important institutional features of the
project is the introductiv. of a zonal management system which would
provide an institutisnal linkage between the SMOH and the LGAs and would
strengthen the LGAs' capacity to manage their health programs. Under Part
B, the technical assistance would strengthen FMOH's institutional
capability in the areas of health sector planning and programming and would
help accelerate the development of PHC programs. The experience gained
under this project would also be of major benefit in preparing projects of
a s-imilar nature for the other states in Nigeria.
59.       Timely project implementation could be affected by funding and
staffing constraints. Insufficient counterpart funding has affected a
number of ongoing projects receiving Bank support, including the Sokoto
Agricultural Development Project. The problem stems in part from
inadequate financial management on the part of the state governments, and
has been exacerbated by the drop in Nigeria's oil revenues. This problem
and possible measures to limit its impact in the future have been discussed
with the Federal and State governments, and corrective measures have been
and are being taken (para. 20). As a result, the funding of the Sokoto



- 23 -
Agricultural Development Prodect has improved in recent months.
Nevertheless, to mini-mie this risk, the proposed Sokoto Health Project has
been reviewed and scaled down with the objective of cost-minimization, and
the financial requirements of the project on SSG and the state's LGAs are
considered affordable. The requirements have also been discussed in detail
with and accepted by the responsible state ministries.
60.       The attainment of some of the MCK objectives could also be
constrained by a shortage of qualified female health warkers. The Sokoto
health authorities are conscious of the risk and are taking measures to
encourage enrollment of female students in existing medical training
facilities and to retrain all present female health workers tc BESS
standards. The financial support provided by the project for training
female vorkers is aimed at reducing this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
61.       The draft Loau Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank. the draft Project Agreement betwecn the Bank and Sokoto State
of Nigeria, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.  These include the following conditions of loan effectiveness
(Section. 6.01 of the Loan Agreement): (a) execution of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and Sokoto State; (b) appointment by Sokoto
State Government of a Proiect Manager, a Deputy Project Manager, and a
Financial Controller for the EMU; and (c) opening by Sokoto State of a
commercial bank account for PML, and establishment of an overdraft facility
for PMU guaranteed by Sokoto State Government.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 21, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 24-                                           AM    I
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA               - SOCIAL NrDCATOI  M
NIGI                                 FUCC CR0015 (UEIG n lZUAS1) /s
Nosr               (MOST micEtr ETUIAE) /b
z,~aL  m: RS&   LDa DECE           MItlE 111
1960&     1970L    ES= Lb   AFRICA S. OF SARUM   3L AFRICA G MID UlST
AIEA CThIOSAN SIQ. RR)
TOTAL                             923.8       9Z3.8      923.8
AQRICULTURAL                      471.0       4.97.      513.1
Cw  Ha CAPt (1$)                     200.0       330.0      860.0           11129                  1149.6
HUeS CO3WEI0E PM CAPi
(KILOGRAMS OF OrL EQUIvALENT)      20.0        35.0      143.0             5D9.0                 622.1
PoPLATIO  AmI VIL STATIsIS
POPMATION.NID-IEAR (TOOAJS)   515980        6618.0    90572.0
URBAN POPULATION ( OF TOTAL)       13.1        16.4       21.4              29.7                  as.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION iN TA 200o  CL)                             169.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                           617.7
POPULATION NMOENT                                        2.0
POPMATION DESSr
PER SQ. KM.                      55.9        71.6       94.8              55.8                  36.3
PER SQ. 1!. ARXL LAN            109.6       133.0      170.7             111.5                 461.7
POPULATI  AGE STRCTURE (Z)
0-15 IRS                        65.4        46.6       47.8              45.4                  43.6
15-64 IRS                        52.3        51.0       49.6              51.7                  53.1
65 AND ABOVE                      L.3         2.4        2.4               2.9                   3.3
POPULATION CROI  RATE (2)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.5        2.6               Z.8                   L8
URUS                              4.7         4.7        4.9               5.2                   4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PEt TSI)         52.0        50.7       49.5              47.0                  40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER  05) 25.3                20.8       16.2              15.2                  11.5
GROSS REPROUCtION RATE              3.4         3.4        3.4              3.2                    2.8
FAMILY PIAMNING
ACCEPTORS. ANAL (TR00S)           ..         7.6
USERS (: OF KARRIED O              ..         ..         6.0                ._                  22.2
PUOD AMD NUDEITUE
INDEX OF FOOD PRDF. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-.O1)                     100.0       102.0       92.0             91.6                   97.3
PER CAPrIA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES t- OF REQUIREMENTS)     83.0        84.0       91.0              98.2                 110.8
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DY)          45.0        45.0       49.0              56.7                  70.1
OF WHICH AND(AL AND PULSE      10.0        11.0       11.0 /C           17.0                  17.8
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DATH RAI          50.0        34.0       20.0             18.7                   14.6
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRT  (YEAPS)     38.7        43.7       49.6             51.7                   57.5
DFASr NTMRT. RATE (PER THS)       190.0       154.0      109.0            102.7                  101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WJATER (CPOP)
TOTAL                              ..          ..         .               35.6                  59.7
URAN                               ..          ..                         54.1                  84.5
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..              27.3                  38.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              . -'
URBAN                              ..          .
RURAL                              ..          - 
POPULATION DER PHYSICIAN        73710.0     24670.0    12550.0 Id        11948.3                4345.1
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          4040.0 /I   5070.0     3010.0 rd         2248.9                1831.1
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          3020.0 If   z220.0     1180.0 Id          986.9                 632.9
U3RBAN                          430.0 ,"    490.0      30                368.7                 545.5
RURAL                         25630.0 I.  18490.0     5&90.0            012.1                2513.5
AD1IISSIOS PER HOSPAL RED           ..          ..          .                ..                   26.2
;siR
AVERAGE SIZE OF DUSEHOL
TOTAL                              ..          --
URBAN                              ..         *.7/h
RURAL                                          --.-
AVERAGE N0. OF PERSONSIROCK
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBA                              3.0         2.2 /h
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS To ELEcr. (2 oF DwELLS)
TOAL                               ..          ..         4. ..                                 46.2
URBaN                            81.3        42.4 lh                                            77.7
RURAL                              ..          ..         ,,                ,,                  16.1



AN1M I
- 25. -                                                  Page 2 o5
SIGCMUA                -SOCIAL IlBCAS DATA SIIRfT
SlCGRWA                              R1FRECZ GOIIPS (WGUIIZD AVERAGES) la
205?r               (os  rKT ESTME) /b
RECENT         DE  DCIE             3DLZ D
N960!_t   197QL                   AFRtICA S. oF sAHARA   S. AFRICA 6MD EASr
ADJUSTED ESRMLfST RATOS
PRZMM:  TOTAL                      36.0        37.0        98.0 AL           91.0                    88.3
!IAr.* 46.0                         47.0           .               90.5                  102.5
FrLuLE                  27.0        2;.0          ..               73.6                   73.6
IL                     SECOSDaRY` ToTAL                   4*0          4.0        16.0 IL            17.4                   43.0
HALE                     6.0          6.0          .               23.7                   52.3
FmIALE                   1.0         3.0          ..               14.8                   33.0
VOCATIONAL C: OF SECOSMUY)           4.8          8.5         3.1 /.j           5.3                    10-3
PPIL-TEAC9EX R=AO
'aRIAR                             30.0        34.0          ..              38.6                    30.3
SECOsDAr                           19.0        21.0          ,,              24.3                    23-1
ADULT LITIRAC! RATE CZ)              15.4  a       ..        34.0              35.6                    43.5
ainTJ~E
PASSESR CARS/TBOUSAND POP            0.6          0.9         1.4 /I           20.7                    17.8
RAWI RECEIVERS/7S0gSASD POP          2.8         19.3        66.1             100.8                   138.8
TV UEEvERS/TEUSAND POP                0.0         1.1         5.3              18.5                     6.1
BEDSPAPEA C-DALY GERsAL
INTEST-) CIRCLATION
PER MUSASD POUUXION               5.5          4.8         6.9 A            17.2                    31.2
Cl5EA ASSAL ATDAc CAPITA              .            ..         0.0  f            0.3                     1.7
TOTAL LABO0  PORCE (TEOUS)        22788.0     25992.C    32478.0
F;iZE (pRICEs?)                   41.3         40.6        39.7              33.8                    10.8
AGRICCLT    (PERCENS)              71.0        62.0        54.0              57.1                    42.4
INUST  (PEET)                      10.0        14.0        19.0              17.4                    27.9
PARTICIPASIOS RATE (PERCENS)
,VTAL                             42.2         39.3        35.9              36.3                   26.2
HALe                               50.3        47.3        43-7              47.6                    46.6
FEMALE                             34.4        31.5        28.2              25.1                     5.8
ECM0EC DEPXEECY RATIO                1.1          1.2         1.4               1.4                    1.8
ZlOU DXSTEUJuTI
PERCT OF PRITVA  ISC!
RECErVED 81
EXdEMST 5Z OF  lUSED.DS                                   ..                ..
RIGr ZO 0F OS          S             ..          ..H..S..O.
L-WST 2  OF OC.SE.O..S
L06ES  605 OFr ROGSD LS             ,.           ..
POV=r B  ROM
ESTIMATED ABSOLSTE POVEll IUCM
LEVEL (rSS PE1 CAPITA)
LRIMAS                               .           .        696.0             525.3                   274.8
AL..                                                      341.0             249.0                   177.2
ESTINATED RELATIVE POVERTT IRCMM
LEEL  CUS$ PEA CoAI)
EiS                                                       621.0             477.4                   402.6
RMRAL                                                     207-0             196.0                   284.9
ESTMATEZD POP. DLF ABSOLUT XE
POVERTY ISCO   LEVEL (2)
Ellr                                     ..           ..          .                  ..
_                      RL                                  ..           ..          ......
Sgl AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
SOT ES
A   Min gr*uP Avarages for each indicator are population- eghted aritbdc mans. Coverage of couutr?ar amng the
ndIcAtor. den7enC  an Sealcblity od data and to not unlfrn.
/b  Cnler othoerise noted. 'Dta for 1960' refer to ra  yar between 1959 sad 1961. Data for 1970r betwen 1969 and
1971; and data for -Ioet Pacent etlsate" between O980 end 1932.
/c  1977; Id 1979; la 1962; It Including ex-Vort Cameroon under Britih        2ta         176; Ih 1972; /I 1979;
.a Ceria fields of *tufr proviouIy cleeified under other eacosd Ise oe duchi   octoel or tiCEae
nature "r now reported under gnral educatlon.
JM. 1934



-PS"3134 a. - ft. - an..4" ean-ee.af a- mnin
ft S..   5         3*at   ~ 303  "53    231 3 in    3-1 
33.24_1 Ase 133-313  a.3    --ij.j.434  -u.a0.as p1.   a.
-wa -- e.dTinj aw 0.3331 32W Am ft
- 5.55303  333 l333    leas3      -ft  3 30335.3 PI-RiP3s 33ee
seet J.           "3333333 W.in - 933.333  33'3                    33
as    cal    d-    -  P333    ..~ f --        53    534.            -3
3:3        13143534.3          3)333 .   J- -111--en    -  "itee At..=3
-323                                                                                                ves431343p33-33 aM  -a 3532     3 -  3     W
_1.Tss..cs--j                                                                                     anaana   eal 3.3ant333in05 " 132Sm
-I..5 -   333   331 -.3 .   T13 M - J.    4)  -ft3 .5.15,-3
31~~~~51 j-  = -01. -6                               -n  3-za._a333333- hl0 e4 -3 SsI3.  5*.
tI-Z -A as  --n---    - ~       -a  -  -          T'taf lti  - *)*33                                  *:*iv n 31  -am  ,-.  .i    33.t
*3t33   - -   la-   -    ,a)  333133~  a3J3d-  =33                           bIbe, -oa  53 33-  33 I3          30333   -11a3) e 33m -at  e  Best3 rigi
3333  - 3.3.335  13~3  -33 I"a- 3    -3333 -----.                                        1- a334*) 335d33                                           es      3ll3
n3. -.3. .sl.a-Il a.  -- ,a-~1s  I a.aa. I"- 3 !.3*l
I3.. M W ~     inI33.  33  3-.-dasaaa                        164*321. i   5*SI                                          T33  533ai3a 
*3343  0  53  a    3333    31      333334 33,- ftWImass333  fl eeet                                        350 3333 -J elb33            -Beai als 43 30
-  in    3. -(331- .33 335 23   3-353   3a335313, 33-333          f in       A  - - -    1-33  -4 5in30 ate   D33 33*`    , J 3. -"-   213
-  .3 .in3. p~a~3 :w.a-e .31  3-a. ...3.* '35333533           sat  -  35.3  1.t0.5 53   -  3-333J         35533 33ov*3tan .3*5 intIa
1   M33  c e-i   1-i     ml        *   .3                                           -ft.i.,  n  a. 34 Ij 33.a -  33W  -  03  33   l.3.3aa  333   3
i-u- a.   32 It i~~n-T  v-~333  13t-a a-  d    - a   P-
-919-st P.3130.                                             -13, 5 -t.a  323 3  3,5333  n.3                  223 -a -a3
a. 333334. 333333333  33333 3!a..a.3  3.ft ~ 33-5    33                               333-       S    ni1hna a- Sa  P         *se  au An  sttst   -i  el3.
  333*-   pnai P-    -333  n       *l, 3an  33333      ~       pk..a                   .35333  33et Tsal-5 -M5- eellp  -  3-a           .1.33       v.   ....  .3
.3 33-a-3  ~in 33.330  3133Sa. .33, -  3a- 5-..a-s. 3-3.                          a-a.  33l              .W1133   -tweet 314 *q. a.3a.- P.     "
33   lnIaraa - *ia    -in  *. .....   -                                                      -J 333333 3333 .a3333aad                                 003
-I,tea.   I-...33             *.5-. .....           3..~33                            33  a3.         a       n  ua.a   33                r333   33..
-ans.1 .~    an:-a. .s.3  -3  a......4- T.a.sa3j 3najo- d   3333,5 e-*1a                                                sat-33a. S         *   n
P-ePle-       3J 333-= I *.... a* *s   -Ia-                                                                                                              'Ml.-ua-.~aa  ...     -  .   a...
*.J3   .3     5.-38 a....ss3.. 3 33 sea-  a-r    53  - la.3a3.3333                       3,33*3a 33.5 - .1.5- et...1   -A54cg AI.e-fl33. ft         a a. 333,
aes-e esa            ps.i :..s in....33!3J !3333333                                                                                   3313:3as v;-  as
- ajn.  353a                                                                                                                                   ;,33-I 33.S    3 35  .M3'
33533335   .a.  *333   *3a3   3~3-  3  .1        in  3.33                             .3330 a.-  35 .J.              *a      .153333    3
e"J      !-   .33       3        -53-3.r33   33    -% 3a                                            ia135- a       - x        '30   Wn.f  ninafl 
**    _T_:3-  3_3.    _ft        -n S ,  f-v. a .                 -PleC   3.- 33J       33- -e -33333    a53      .31   1-
5333.433   - (33533130 ~S3a  03 351.333d53 .303333                                         ..-I3~   aCS O - 3353 Cla   3343 t
*3a3 a an -    I a    33350..3  -     .si           a3                      1ania              ..-sPa    a           .39-M         b     V
3.33133-44 3355    .31.2333 '3.15323= in0.3  334 353333 1333nS                           333- 33.3       *1.33~t-W6 5 30 3- W 3
.5  33in3 33  .33)33344- 5533  3-3*3)          3    4                  023  a   ~ 5~    33   130    3-0.  053, 333   3.3
3343353 p33t333 .31*303               *J.*_-                  a3 ..T .A in'33  3- 33-I         133
iza~     _   ~ ft--9 -t-aw  -     3-.-(     33333-3   13-3-3 53 3J..33-                                   .-a P- n..a.  -Uk --   .333..
-r23333             -13    !.3 .33  333  a        - --. --s  353.. 3                                               T.3 31in353  303          -.32
-.1.s.  335t33333.311" 3.)53333 ge.5 T"S3  553                  43aw   -333" .- .343 -   .3
333 3d3  -f**~-SaPes    tsts333' *553- 333 ,.    (33 3-.nS.lea -,    ---e
35 1s-e  -33-I' 13l-  3iv333  3-33d)3 - 3333.J.3.'T-" 3S5 Sels                                                                                                -
5333333  533.333       3133.a    3533   5553..3*3  3 - 1-S  AM33.353  33t 33-i *3.533 -all .33 a q
3   5.-3--3                                                                  total- v-93.3     33   3)),53.  3   3 3aai tams-  0-5
5353-           -e3    33  33 3,33  an, 3_         3 33)t-3 pl    a3s-                       133   3353   333531  aa   313   ..335    n                        a
333. p30. 332133  3431 a11333-.1.3353323    a-I        s 43a                            33       r-r-33   il  a.  -Ians.-.  *23153 1--a333
333-S-  323   sn.333333-P-33-  V- .3. AV a-  5333.s                               1133   333a In-                 1,3.33   -              =    AIL.3 .-03
a_ ..",        _: "% Iesel33                                                              in333a  3  )033,-335330.3.2
in .33533a3  353=43-    3-a-3  0 3.  -A3-saa3a3.  OIsiA                   5235=   in5113331    in _      -3 i    .0. a- 43   334i3
3.333   .a & 3-a  -U31-333   -    .s3  Se3  31-          ft.-  apSta-                3-3..  4.- eel-a  3-13533,-(.3   . 3)335310                             3
33a3.in.33..5.         133-s-   333  23.3 ..33333l3 03333                                                                                              - ft
-do3-     eaa-f --p "-es  elesev-   $.N%lee      20. "Pins 0a.5  e-0              II&3a.3  - Z *M- -J331 --J    3  )!3 -
33USt 33~30.31. a.            ist- -aa3, ~13)33-A -                  -a.CZ 3 -                F-..s.             4         -a.  I as --B  in1 &a3
3353l 3333333333 a._.3 533-15-Mir34                 *3  .'3as3' 3 -333333-~ 3P-  e-a. 3-3.1        -l lA323la al. 43333-  inee
3-35in3 33  -3 33lS530    -M -3 533   333)     ftg433-.3 131 533    t e3V  %9   .33-3  r- 35533=3- 3                  l-34 t.J.3   -   3-- asestee    dna-
in  51333-33     d33   le. .543   13)3    33a- vl M 33. 3*33p        =                   f~aP"Alssaaeee-                  -           -    ll.1-3e-
l*5a)  334333   0.33..4 .033333.    W33334an 33.333                                                                         3.P  3.3  n i335 0so
]O   3313 2 3.a.3a 33                  -   3a43        333 i3i53                                 33    r3    333    11   3              5   333333.-33133
33*a 2*33.p3533.P   33345334i                          13 3    q133333  33 33533   3393n    3 i       0i  Eai.    -



-27                                         MAIN  I
PaT-of 5
ICOIOmzC INDICATORS
gl1053 NATIONAL PRODUCT to 1lea                                         ANNUAL KATZ Or ONOVTU(5. CogInmt Ppigeg)
.... ... _  -----                                               ........ . ............  . ,._ ,,,,_,,,_,,,,,_,_,_ ...
VI NI... /i      I               1975.30                     911 /1               It"
cuP at Market Prieto                10,106         100.0                3.1                     -7.6                  -4.1
*       Gross Oememtle Invegtment            10l.15         16.0                1.3                      7.6                 .11.1
Gre$ nstisonal Saving                9.OTO          12.9                5.2                    .11.6               -.1.0
Current AecoiRt anlon*e             .7,341        .10.5                                           -
mport. oaf Goeosf s                 13                                                         .31.6                -1. 1
Imps rt. or Geve,arsI                                                 15.6                     -T.1                 .31.9
Or PUT. 1.633 VOICe AND
PlROa'.rsvIT1 IN 1931
Ce*._.                                .       .......                                 .
Ue  un           s                  un            I                  Vii           s
4rieulture                          1,6          71.8                19.6                                           *0.o
Agriculture                         1 "11ls  27,709  39.0              6.2          119                1,320        195.5
Services 6 Mining127,117                           39.2                T.0          21.3               3.971        1.3.T
Total/Awerse                   T71,020        100.0               31.3         100.0              2.16S         100.0
EINNuT rI"NcE
Generel Goverent                                       Central Goeernment
CM KIn.)        S of GOP                               (m lIn.)       5 of GOP
19   /1/  1962 1    1979.31  /4                        1981      1982 /if 1   9 lf; al st,
Current Receipts                    12.620      W6.1          29.5                          7.320      15.3          21.3
Current Eupanditure                 69.12       20.1          20.1                          6,678      10.2          10.8
Corrant Surplus                      3,008       6.3            9.4                         2,52        5.1          10.5
Capital Expenditrer                  9.547      20.0          13.0                          6.2T0      13.1          12.9
External asststanceCuet)               ..         ..             ..                          264        0.6           0.6
NONE?. CRtDIT AID PRECES                           19T6        19TT       1978      19T9       lgJO       1981       1982
i(Million d Outatsnding End Period)
Nmner  and Quasi Nones                            5,83      7,313      T,521      9,369    14,390    15,239    16,694
Dank Credit to Public S-eztor(neti                  551      2,309      3,1t3      3.313      3,539      6,299    10,328
lank Credit to Prtvate Sector                     1,332      3,659      6,635      5,126      6,766      8.917    10,S67
APercentages or Index Numbers)
Money * Ouasi Money ar * or GOP                    21.6       26.7       22.2       24.3       30.9       32.3       3 .9
General Price Inue1(1975.100)                     123.9      163.0      166.7      186.3      204.9      267.5      266.5
A"nal1 Percentage Changes in:
General Price Inede                                21.7        15.1       16.6      11.S       10.0       20.3        7.7
lank Credit to Pubivc Sector                          ..     319.1       36.1        5.6        6.1      7r.0        64.0
Dank Credit to Privete Sactor                      3.38       65.2       29.7       14.3       31.6       32.2       18.5
Note:  *ll conversions to dollars in this table are at the avarage  sexange rate prevaling during period
covered.
/I/ levised astmsates. I2/ Offtclal estimtes. /a/ Provisional.
/3/ The data is derived rrom plaelng documents and refers to the number of 'gglrnully employed.
..Not Available.
April 1i, 1986.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE P81133Tn AND CAPITAL FLOWS
SALAUCE OF PAYMENTS                                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS AEtCRACE 1981-1903) /#/
1981 t/I  1982 t/Z  1983 /3/                                USt Win.         s
(WIllioes US 8)
boports of Goods f.o.b.              17,718    12.930    10,730             Crude Oil                13.421       96.7
of which:Petral0um                 17.162    12.751    10,350             Cocoa Products              22S        1.6
Imports et Ceeds r.e.b.              15,390    16.838    12.251             Palo Products                aS        0.6
Services A rncome                    -1.103    -3.060    -3,208            Tnn                           2S        0.2
let Transfers                          -567       -373      -260            Other Commodities           127        0.9
Current sccount Delance              -6.002    -7.31"  -..992                          Total         13.U32      100.0
EXTERNAL DUET. DECERtDE 31. 1983 /5/
Olrect Foreign  nvest-mnt               165        358        365
Set Official NL? Borrowing              311        755        980                                             U05  ml.
of which: AmortIzation               _583       -477       1200                                             - - _ __
Public Debt. Inel. Undlabursoe 15.501
tther Capitel(Slort-Tera)                109       *96       -6.3            Ron-Cuaranted Prlvate Debt
Net Errors A OaIsSIOns                -1543       -689          0           Total Outatanding A Disbursed   1"756
Overall Balance                       -6200      -6118     -4290
lsnineIng                              6200      61l        *290
__7T SEIVICE RATO For 1933 t6t
Reserve wovement3i1scr.-I             6.200      2.367       51i
Arrears                                   0      *.0S1     3.770                                                    s
2eserve Levels                        * 261      1.429     1.092
eser-re as Month or Imports           0o18        0.07      0-07            PublIc Debt.  ecl. Guarant-ee         17.9
Mon-Guarantee Private Debt
Imports                              13,390    16.838    12.2S'
of ublei: Food                        3,15      2 7e6     1.87S            Total Outatandlag * Disbursed         17-9
Consumer Goods             *.612      4 141      3.259
Inter.edlte Goods         * 682      1,342     3,13T
Capital Good3              5,942      5S569      3.963            IBRD/IDA LERDING (Feb. 29.1984) (Clillons $S
RATI OF EXCNRAGE
islD     ID& /7/
1978: 11.00 z 0581.57
1979: R1.00 a 0581.66                                                       Outstanding & Dlabursed             8t8.0       36.T
1910: 31.00 a US0813                                                       Undlabursed                       1,091.t        -
1981: 31.00 z US0163                                                                                         -              -
1912: t1.00 z US01.9                                                       OutStandIng lecl. Undlsbursed  1'939.1 '         6.T
1983: 11.00 z tS8139
1?f Provisional. 12/ Official estimates. /3/ Staff etiustes.
/4/ Official estimates ror 1961 and 1982.
tsr Eacluding 15.9 billion short-term arrears.
/6/ Ratio of IL? debt service to exports of goods and non-ractor services.
/T7 As of February 1968.
eot Available
April 15. 1954



-29- .29
IN  sITATUE at 3:x IoUP @oPsToU3
A.   TTmSIIs 0TV C9OUt OPSS0              1       19 Sl NIGRUtA 1/
(a o    p         rO
loa or                                                                    U9J iliSeu
Credit                                                                   (l tlee  cocellstoc)
Twunty ci  loa1a and two credits fully diebored                 682.1       35.3 2/
1191      197b      Nigeria     LC. state oil Pals               19.o                   3.7
1454      1677      Nigeria     Igric. Dev. Lafia                27.0                   0.5
145      1977       igecia     Agric. Dev. Ayaegba              33.0                  0.2
1392      1973      Nieria      NBc. got. a"llholder Oil         30.0                   3.7
1597      1978      Nun         Induetrial Deloe_nct             3..                  18.J
1887      1937      Xi4rtia     Agrc. Dow. Nid                   23.0                  *.2
1lt8      1979      Nigri4a     Agric. Dev.  alermn              27.0                 10.5
1l79      1379 3    Niria    YJeatry                             31.0                  3.3
1711      1973      Nigeria     Water lupply - Naduna            92.0                 70.7
1719      1679      Nigfri      AgrIc. a Rural vast. Smt.         9.0                  3.7
17tt      1960      mrA         power Logoc                     100.0                 85.9
17b7      1960      Nigeia      Urban D velopment - Sw.ceb       17.6                  10.3
1836      1930      Nigeria     Agri. Doev. - Oyo-Nortb          21.0                 21.9
164      1930      Nigeria     Ag4ic. Dev. - Zhiti-Akoko        32.5                 20.4
1U3       1630       iepria     loads                           7O.0                  25.8
1931      19e1      Nigeria     Agilc. Dev. - Daucbi            132.0                 55.9
1932      1901      Ligeria     Agric. Dov. - Kano              142.0                 97.4
2029      19e1      Nigeria      Tech. Assistanca-Agric.         47.0                  31.3
2036      1932      Nigeria     Water Supply - A!REbra           67.0                 54.4
20W5      1982     NEA           Power - Dlitribution           100.0                 82.1
Z185      1982      Nlgeria     Agric. Dev. - Sokoto            147.0                11i.&
2299      193       NIDS         :nduutrmal Developent          120.0                 11B.2
2345      1934      Nigeri    frrtillser Import                 250.0                 159.8
2376      1934      NRIC         Small 4 Ndium Scale Indusery  41.0                    40.9
*   2390      1934      NMP          Tech. A et. - Coe 2nginering  25.0                    25.0
*   2436      1954      Nigeria      Agric. Dew. - Kadun            122.0                 122.0
Total                                              2.479.1       35.3   1175.9
Of which baa bean repaid                             293.3        4.0
Total Outstcanding                                 2.135.8       3i.3
Amount sold                         16.8
Of vbicb bas been repaid            16.8                0.0
Total nov held by Bank 4 IDA                       2.185.o       31.5
Total undiebured                                                         1.175.9
3.  STAT-EMS o0 IFC LNvESTNTS
(As of septmber 30. 1984)
Fiscal                                                Type of        Aount in USS Million
Tear                                                Business        Loan    E         Sotal
1964. 1967.       Arews Textiles Ltd.                Textile Ofg.    1.0       0.6       1.6
1970
1964              Nigeria Industrial                 Dev. Fin. Co.             1.4       1.4
Developmnt Sank Lrd.
1973              Funtua Cottonseed                  Vag. oil         1.6                1.6
Crushing Ltd.                      Crushing
1973              Nigerian Aluminiu                  AluSinium        1.0      0.3       1.3
Extr slon Lcd.                     Proceseing
1974              Litfige Sugar                      Sugar                     0.1      0.1
Zotate
1980              NIH                                Textiles         t.2      0.7      6.9
1981               ueJA llotel                       Tourim          10.2      1.5     11.7
1985              Timer Battery                      Dry-cell         4.7      -        6.7
atteries
Total Grses ComeitmetC                             26.7      6.8     29.3
Lace cancellations. terming-
tcons, repaymnts and sales                     5.9       1.6      7.5
.otal Co_itent now hbld by 7IC                     11.8      3.0     21.8
Undiebureed                                         7.2      1.4      3.6
' Not yet signod.
f The statue of the projects listod In Pert A Is described in a separate report on all Sank/IDA
finaned projects In exscution. which i1 updated twice yearly and circulated to the Zecutive
tirectors on April 30 and October 31.
7/  Prior to exchange rate adjusccen.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Sokoto Health Project
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:        18 months
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:               Sokoto State
Government
(c)  Date of first presentation to the rank:                  February 1980
(d)  Date for first Bank mission to consider the project:   April 1980
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:                  November 1982
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:                      November 1983
Cg) Date of Government's confirmation of
intention to borrow:                                     October 1984
Ch)  Planned date of effectiveness:                           September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
the Sokoto State Government (Condition of Effectiveness; para.
50).
(b) Appointment of a project manager, a deputy project manager, and a
financial controller for the PMU (Condition of Effectiveness;
para. 46);
(c) Opening by Sokoto State Government of a project account in a
local commercial bank, and establishment of overdraft facilities
for PMU, guaranteed by the State Government, equivalent to about
three months' expenditure (Condition of Effectiveness; para. 51);
(d) Establishment and staffing of four zonal health offices by May
31, 1986 (para. 42 (d);
(e) Completion by the Federal Ministry of Health of a study on healtb
financing and possibilities for increased cost-recovery by Mav
31, 1987 (para. 43); and
(f) Authorization by Sokoto State Government that the Borrower would
deduct and pay to the project Sokoto State's contribution
directly from its statutory allocation in the event Sokoto State
fails to pay (para. 51).



4-~~~~~~~~~~~~5
N                    IG                                     E                 R
.m ISA
-  WURN&~~~~~~' ~Sh
13'                                 RGUNC,                    da                                          4                -            I
TALATA
MAFARA
do~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s'
'BODINGA
12 @  vt  a                                                          Gml I                                Ai .
< 37\  ti rj
-11-                                                                                 Zur "-   '       @\ R    ,            AN.Kfr-
n ,au rv              NIGER  STA TE                                     KADUd-- -:
n~~~~~~~
zUr                                           W  A R  A  - E 40  80 KGLOt.l
J sTr A Tr E                                            .;-et,,Th.s raD has beer? repared fry The I~b1 tiks  f eS5WER A  hK          r D
the raders and s aexcssvety for Me jemrna use of The WVVO  Bank arKr
Fiarce Coparakon The denonrmartons used and ihe bouri1anes 5'?-.En
.Viity. on te Mr of The Wbork ank ard She hltematrn fic Capo
on the leDga sgatus of arr ternory or an endorserne or accetarce Off



,                         ,                                      _~~~~~~~~ IBRDp 17017R
O                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~7-                      8
N IGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Proposed:
*  Project Management Unit
AN. >    ^\Heodquarters
GE  AX                              4p~~~~~~~ Zonal Offices
;c %  e  <2>v ISA  '\                     T     Upgraded Dispensaries and
I~~SA                                        Primary Health Clinics
SIinkoaF                                  Existing
-~ u-:-                             N v8_,   wj< *  ;;-- \r_     Dispensaries and Clinics
I -    w   :t, >  <  1  /\   Health Centers
-TALALATA    77 ~                                     C  Hospitals
MAFARA                                                      Roads
SO l4p                                                     Railroads
NAMODA"               *~~~~ State Capitol
_  ~ ~ ~~~     ~Airport
Rivers
@ -\5 :Local Government Boundaries
State Boundaries
*             ~~~~Zonal Boundaries
International Boundaries
Population density per sq. km.-
~i  \    '.   GU SAU                  160
120
__  /                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~80
*+/   ANKA    /4O
*   s                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8-
&fF        KA DIJNA                                                 NiGEA  L I
N   *'                               .  , -'5                   N I G E R
91                            B~~~~~~~~~URKINA~~    SOKOTO,
rE    ~ADNASTA TE
L           25            50 MILES                             (|
0           40          80 KILOMETERS                            l Lgos
Wamd tY The WOW Brs staff exck wo e f  enc of        --CAME ROON  f
_ _w  tor the wdemat use ot The rwbl fank awn the kiternabonat                -
-'to denOnwaf used and ft bourxanes stIm 7 on VW m do not                         N.,
7 ie Uebd Banic and hebarnat.onat F    y Coroton. anl ,cgenw 
- -IMY or ary (fOrsnllet or accepftace of sudc botmwnes
EQUATORIAL GUINEA           _
DECEMBER 1984



