Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 13730
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2503-UNI)
NOVEMBER 29, 1994
Population and Human Resources Division
Central-Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        = =    Naira (N)
1983 US$1            = =    Naira 0.71
1986 US$1            ==    Naira 1.75
1987 US$1            = =    Naira 4.02
1988 US$1            = =    Naira 4.54
1989 US$1            = =    Naira 7.37
1990 US$1            = =    Naira 8.04
1991 US$1            ==    Naira 9.90
1992 US$1            ==    Naira 17.3
1993 US$1            ==    Naira 24.0
ABBREVIATIONS
EPI           Expanded Program on Immunization
FGN           Federal Government of Nigeria
FMOH          Federal Ministry of Health
FMHSS         Federal Ministry of Health and Social Services
FP            Family Planning
LGA           Local Government Authority
MCH           Maternal and Child Health
PHC           Primary Health Care
PEC           Project Executive Committee
PMU           Project Management Unit
SHT           School of Health Technology
SMOF          State Ministry of Finance
SMOH          State Ministry of Health
SSG           Sokoto State Government
TBA           Traditional Birth Attendant
TRC           Training Resource Center
ZHO           Zonal Health Offices
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operafions Evaluation
November 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Nigeria
Sokoto Health Project (Loan 2503-UNI)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Nigeria -Sokoto Health Project (Loan 2503-
UNI) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
This project assisted in expanding and improving delivery of primary health care in one state
of Nigeria and in strengthening the Federal Ministry of Health.
Implementation problems were severe. Initiation was delayed, the project had to be
restructured just after becoming effective, counterpart funds were insufficient, the state was divided
into two during the course of the project, project management and institutional capacity (to handle
procurement, and monitoring and evaluation, among other things) was weak. Nevertheless, with an
extension of 2-1/2 years, the project accomplished most of its specific targets and its outcome is rated
as marginally satisfactory. Institutional development is rated as modest and sustainability as uncertain
(in large part because of continuing financial problems of the states involved).
The Project Completion Report is of acceptable quality. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World B1ank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2503-UNI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .            .........................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY   .............................iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity .................................
2. Background .         ..................................I
3. Project Objectives, Description, Design and Organization    ......         2
4. Project Implementation  ...........................                        4
5. Project Results ................................                           5
6. Project Sustainability  ............................                       7
7. Bank Performance ..............................                            8
8. Borrower Performance  ...........................                          9
9. Project Relationship .............................                        10
10. Consulting Services  ............       ..      ..............           10
11. Findings and Lessons  ......        .....................               10
12. Project Documentation and Data  ....................                     11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. By Sokoto State Ministry of Health  ...................                   12
2. By Kebbi State Ministry of Health .16
3. By Federal Ministry of Health and Social Services ....       ......       18
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans .........................                        31
Table 2: Project Timetables ..........................                       33
Table 3: Loan Disbursements - Cumulative and
Actual Disbursements .. ..............            ..............           34
Table 4: Project Costs and Financing ....................                    35
Table 5: Status of Covenants .............         I    ...........          36
Table 6: Project Results ............................                        38
Table 7: Use of Bank Resources .......................                       39
Table 8: Mission Data by Stages of Project ... I         ............        40
This document has a restncted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc of ther 
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.    l






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2503-UNI)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sokoto Health Project in Nigeria,
for which Loan 2503-UNI was approved in the amount of US$34.0 million equivalent. The
Loan was appraised on October 19, 1982, approved by the Board on March 14, 1985, and
declared effective on January 15, 1986. It was closed on May 31, 1993 (against the original
closing date of December 31, 1990). An amount of US$3.0 million was canceled from the
loan in December 1992, and the final disbursements amounted to US$26.2 million or 77% of
the original loan amount. On November 8, 1993, an undisbursed amount of
US$4,761,370.48 was also canceled.
This PCR has been jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources Division
of the Western Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the
Borrower (Parts II and III).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project in February 1993, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
internal Bank memoranda; information in the project files; and Borrower submissions. Bank
staff also conducted field visits during the preparation of the PCR. Part II of this PCR has
been prepared by the Sokoto State Ministry of Health, Kebbi State Ministry of Health, and
Federal Ministry of Health and Social Services.






- iii -
PROJiECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2503-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Loan 2503-UNI was signed with the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) on May
17, 1985 for financing a Sokoto Health Project. This health project was the first in Nigeria to
have been prepared by a state government within the framework of primary health care (PHC)
policies. It attempted to implement these policies and address priority issues in a manner that
was adapted to local needs and consistent with local resource availability.
Obiectives
2.    The main objectives of the project were to assist in expanding and improving delivery
of primary health care in Sokoto Statel/ and strengthening the technical advisory capacity of
the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH)2/ on health sector planning and programming.
ImDlementation Experience
3.    The project was originally scheduled to be completed by July 1990, but most of the
project activities were only completed by May 1993, or a delay of almost three years. It was
only during the last 18 months of the project life that implementation picked up considerably.
At the time the loan was closed, $7.8 million was canceled (of which $3.0 million had been
canceled earlier in December 1992), and the total disbursement was $26.2 million.
4.    To address the changing priority needs of the health sector in Sokoto State and the
available financial resources of the Borrower, the project was restructured in May 1986 to
include the provision of essential drugs, the establishment of a cost recovery mechanism, and
the mobilization of the community to participate in planning and implementing PHC services.
In June 1989, in light of the increasing difficulties the government faced in financing
I/ In 1992 Sokoto State was divided into two states: Kebbi State and Sokoto State. The legal
agreements were amended to reflect this change.
2/ The name was later changed to the Federal Ministry of Health and Social Services
(FMHSS).



- iv -
recurrent expenditures, the project was recosted, and the civil works component scaled down
and refocussed from new construction to rehabilitation of existing health facilities.
5.     Project implementation was jeopardized by (a) insufficient counterpart funds; (b)
unstable political and economic conditions, including the division of Sokoto State into two
states; (c) insufficient capacity to handle procurement; and (d) weak project management and
institutional capacity.
Results
6.     The project did not meet all of its specific appraised targets, but it has yielded benefits
and has made important contributions towards the development of PHC in the project states.
It laid the foundation for a strengthened PHC system by expanding the provision of maternal
and child health (MCH) and, to a limited degree, family planning (FP) services and, through
provision of essential drugs, medical equipment, and staff training, improved the quality of
services provided, although not consistently in all project health facilities. It also helped
increase the immunization coverage from 10% in 1982 to 60% in 1992 (albeit short of the
70% targeted at appraisal). The full impact of this service expansion and quality
improvement will not be known for some time, but limited data from clinics and first-hand
observations by State Ministries of Health (SMOH) indicate improved services and usage in
some facilities. The project also contributed to the preparation of a National Essential Drugs
Project and a National Population Project which were subsequently financed by the Bank, and
the development of a national health insurance scheme and a national population policy.
7.     What was not fully achieved was the development of: (a) a larger cadre of trained
female health workers to provide MCH/FP services, (b) a system for coordinating and
monitoring and evaluating health programs, and (c) the FMOH's technical advisory capacity
for sector planning and programming.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
8.     The main lessons from the project are as follows:
(a)    Changes in the health sector can occur rapidly and call for flexibility in
implementing health projects. Adjustments in project design proved to be
very time consuming and required intensive efforts fiom both the Borrower
and the Bank;
(b)    Establishing a separate Project Management Unit (PMU) resulted in the
creation of parallel programs, activities and structures which was wasteful. It
discouraged the commitment and ownership by the SMOH to the project. The
Bank also underestimated the difficulties in assimilating the Project
Management Unit into the mainstream functions of the SMOH;
(c)    Appointment of key personnel within the PMU was seriously delayed and
consequently affected project activities at the early stage.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2503-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name:                Sokoto Health Project3/
Loan Number:         2503-UNI
Regional Unit:       Africa Region - Western Africa Department
Country:             Nigeria
Sector:              Health
2. Backeround
2.01   At the time the project was designed and prepared, the economic environment in the
country and in Sokoto State was favorable, although government revenues had started to drop
due to the softening of the oil market. The rate of economic growth was about 7% p.a. and
average GNP per capita was estimated at $760 (compared to $340 in 1991). The growth in
oil revenues in the seventies enabled the government to embark on massive investment
programs in basic infrastructure.
2.02   The health sector benefitted, albeit slightly, from increased budgetary resources.
Drugs were generally available at government health facilities; the primary health level
network had been expanded; and the number of health workers had been substantially
increased. In spite of these improvements, a significant proportion of the population still did
not have reasonable access to health care. Where the primary health system was accessible,
maternal and child health services, immunization, and family planning - essential to reduce
mortality and morbidity - were often not available. Although great emphasis had been placed
on increasing the number of health workers, there was a need to improve the quality of their
services to increase their impact on health conditions which were poor by international
standards. Nigeria's mortality and morbidity from preventable and infectious diseases
remained high. The approach to family planning remained cautious and the government did
3/ The project name was changed to Kebbi State and Sokoto State Health Project in 1992
when the Sokoto State was divided into two states.



not have a population policy nor a family planning program aimed to lower the country's high
fertility rate.
2.03   Recognizing these unsolved health issues, the government refocused its efforts by
shifting from its costly Basic Health Services Scheme - the centerpiece of the 1975-80 Plan
when the economy was at its peak - to a primary health care program, which gave more
emphasis to basic health care provided at the dispensary level. Furthermore, it decentralized
the responsibility of implementing PHC to the state governments and increased the active
involvement of local governments that operated most of the PHC facilities, in the sector
planning process. Among the states, Sokoto State - the home of the President of Nigeria at
that time - was the first state to rise to that challenge by preparing a health program within the
framework of PHC policies for external funding.
2.04   The project was the first Bank-financed health project in Nigeria. The Bank's
dialogue on this project began in 1978 during the preparation of a health component for the
Sokoto Agricultural Development Project (SADP) (Loan 2185-UNI) which subsequently led to
a joint decision to upgrade the health component to a free-standing health project. Preparation
of this project was completed by an expatriate consulting firm.
3. Project Objectives, Description. Desien and Organization
3.01   Project Objectives: The project had two major objectives: Part A was to assist
Sokoto State Government (SSG) in its efforts to reduce mortality and morbidity from
preventable and infectious diseases by focusing on PHC which was to be provided through the
dispensary system of the Local Government Authorities (LGA) in Sokoto State. The project
sought to increase access to and improve the quality of primary health care by expanding the
health network; strengthening MCH service delivery; expanding the program of immunization
(EPI) against childhood diseases; and developing regular technical supervision and in-service
training programs. The project also was to support the development of institutional
mechanisms for the Sokoto State Ministries of Health (SMOH) to provide LGAs with
technical support and to better coordinate public sector health activities. Technical support to
LGAs was designed to strengthen training and supervision of health care programs. Part B of
the project aimed at strengthening FMOH's technical advisory capacity for sector planning,
programming, and developing a lasting capability for the replication and promotion of state
health activities for PHC. The project was to assist the FMOH in its preparation of future
health projects and to create within the FMOH an institutional capacity to provide technical
and financial assistance for projects meeting federal guidelines and standards. Part B included
a study on health finance and increased cost recovery in the health system.
3.02   Project Description: The following is the composition of Part A:
a) primary health services development - to expand health network through the
construction of health clinics and provision of equipment/staff, to develop MCH and Family
Planning services at the primary level through the construction of MCH annexes and
provision of equipment/staff;
b) expanded program on immunization - to provide vaccines, equipment, vehicles,
technical assistance, training expenses and funds to cover incremental operating costs;



-3 -
c) training and supervision - to train female community health aides/female
community health assistants, to train Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs), to establish regular
in-service training programs, and to strengthen the existing primary health worker supervision
system;
d) institutional development, monitoring, and evaluation - to establish a zonal
management system and to develop a health project/program monitoring and evaluation
system.
3.03   Part B was primarily to provide technical assistance, equipment, vehicles, and
fellowships to the FMOH. The project was also to provide funds to FMOH for helping the
states prepare future health projects and a strategy for creating within FMOH an institutional
capacity to provide technical and financial assistance for projects meeting federal guidelines
and standards.
3.04   Project Design: The project's original design was based on the country's existing
sector and macro policy objectives, and the existing approach agreed by the Bank and the
Borrower in developing and financing state-level projects. By the time the project was
presented to the Board, however, some important events had occurred that affected the
original strategy. The economic and political conditions in the country had deteriorated with
plummeting oil prices, the overthrow of the government, and the devaluation of the Naira,
which in turn, led to a further and deepening deterioration of the health system. Drugs were
no longer available in most government facilities; equipment were not functioning; and there
were inadequate funds for recurrent expenditures. The state and local governments were
particularly financially distressed.
3.05   In light of these developments, the project design was changed in May 1986. These
changes included the provision of essential drugs, introduction of appropriate cost recovery
measures, scaling down the number of new health clinics to be established, undertaking a
health financing study, and the mobilization of the community to participate in the planning
and implementation of PHC services. During a mid-term review in June 1989, the project
was recosted and refocussed towards improving the quality of rather than improving the
access to health services, in view of the increasing difficulties of the government, particularly
the LGAs in meeting recurrent costs. Thus, construction of new health centers was given
lower priority over rehabilitation of existing facilities. These changes have generally been of
a positive nature and were more congruent with the priority needs of the health sector and
with the government's available financial resources for recurrent expenditures.
3.06   Or2anization: Part A of the project was implemented by the Sokoto State Ministry of
Health (later adding Kebbi State Ministry of Health) and Part B by FMOH. Under Part A, a
high level, policy-making Project Executive Committee (PEC) was established which
coordinated project activities, reviewed project implementation and approved annual action
plans, budgets, and large contracts, and appointed senior project staff. A Project
Management Unit (PMU), designed to be integrated into the SMOH's structure and working
through four Zonal Health Offices (ZHO), was established to manage the project. The
Permanent Secretary of FMOH had overall responsibility for implementing Part B, with the
National Health Planning Directorate and the Primary Health Care Coordination Unit
responsible for preparing detailed budgets and work programs. The format of the project
organization was copied from the Bank-assisted Sokoto Agriculture Development Project.



- 4 -
4. Project Implementation
4.01   Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up: The loan of $34 million was approved by
the Board on March 14, 1985 and became effective on January 15, 1986, eight months after
loan signing. The main reasons for the delay were difficulties in: (i) restructuring the project
to reflect the changes mentioned in paragraphs 3.05 and 3.06, and (ii) difficulties in meeting
the conditions of effectiveness. The adjustments were agreed upon prior to Board approval
and effectiveness. However, extensive resources were diverted toward modifying the Project
Agreements. It was only in June 1986 that the Amendment to the Loan and Project
Agreements were signed, and in August 1986 that the Memorandum of Understanding
Regarding the Adjustments in the Sokoto Health Project was agreed upon. Serious delays in
recruiting key PMU technical staff hampered operations.
4.02   Progress of Implementation: The project was originally scheduled to be completed by
July 1990, but most of the project activities were only completed by May 1993, or a delay of
almost three years. It was only during the last 18 months of the project life that
implementation considerably picked up.
4.03   The four factors which were principally responsible for delays in project
implementation were: (a) lack of counterpart funds; (b) unstable political and economic
conditions, including the division of Sokoto State into two states; (c) insufficient capacity to
handle procurement; and (d) weak project management and institutional capacity.
4.04   The FMOH provided its counterpart contribution at the start of implementation.
The counterpart funding arrangements for this project were similar to the SADP project in
which the federal government was obligated to provide counterpart funding. However, the
continuing devaluation of the Naira and the increasing demand for additional resources for
PHC from other states made it politically impossible for FMOH to continue providing the
counterpart funding. FMOH's contribution of $10.9 million was equivalent to only about
N7.7 million in 1985, but increased to N213 million in 1992 as a result of the devaluation of
the Naira. Thus, FMOH was unable to provide counterpart funding, especially towards the
latter part of the project life, in spite of the fact that the Bank, in 1989, increased its share of
financing from 66% to 84%, and decreased the FMOH's share from 20% to 9% (or N29.1
million), SMOH from 6% to 3% (or N8.7 million), and the LGAs from 8% to 4% (or N11.7
million). The LGAs also had serious problems in meeting their counterpart contributions,
which were initially expected to be modest in the form of dispensary staff salaries. Due to
the subsequent changes in the federal revenue allocations (in which federal funds were directly
given to LGAs, instead of through the state governments), it was agreed that LGAs would
carry a higher share of the project cost to include cash contributions. But even at the reduced
proportion, the LGAs were not able to provide the required counterpart funding. On the
other hand, Sokoto State contributed its statutory counterpart funding consistent with their
obligations in the legal document. In light of the experience from this project and of that of
another Bank-financed project (Imo Health), FMOH has stopped providing counterpart
funding to Bank-financed state-level health projects.
4.05   The political instability in Nigeria made it difficult to implement the project on
schedule. The changes in government (from civilian government to military government and
reverse) and the consequent frequent replacement of health commissioners seriously hindered
the steady implementation of project activities. A civil disturbance in Sokoto State destroyed
the SMOH headquarters, equipment, vehicles, and project files. This was followed by a



strike of nurses, and shortly before project completion, a strike of civil servants. The division
of Sokoto State into two states (Kebbi State and Sokoto State) also slowed down
implementation. Project assets and liabilities had to be reallocated; Legal Agreements had to
be amended; and Kebbi State needed time to establish its own Project Management Unit.
4.06   The project continuously had problems in procurement. Internal procedures within
the SMOH concerning procurement clearances were cumbersome and time consuming, yet,
neither the SMOH nor the PMU were willing to build its capacity for procurement, other than
hiring initially local procurement agents, the practice of which was later abandoned because of
the high costs of the fees charged. SMOH never hired a qualified procurement officer for the
project during the entire life of the project. Thus, there was no adequate procurement
planning, preparation of bidding documents and bid evaluation reports took a long time, and
considerable amount of Bank staff-time was spent on checking on procurement just so mis-
procurement did not occur. Part of the problem was also due to the Project Executive
Committee (PEC) which at times rejected the recommendations for contract awards by the
technical committee, and often reviewed the procurement contracts regardless of the amounts.
There were as well long delays in reviewing consultant contracts by the State Ministry of
Justice, and the delays in the placement of key technical staff from the State Ministry of
Works resulted in significant slippage in the execution of the civil works component.
4.07   The PMU was not adequately staffed: it took about 10 months to appoint the first
project manager, and 19 months to find his replacement after his contract was not renewed;
the project also did not have a qualified financial controller for a long time. Other vacancies
could not be filled up immediately by competent and qualified people in view of the
reluctance of SMOH to appoint people outside the State when no qualified candidate could be
found locally. From the technical side, the SMOH had serious manpower constraints and was
complicated by the frequent turnover of the health commissioners (para. 4.05).
4.08   Project Costs: The estimated project cost at appraisal was about $53 million. From
the appraisal in 1983 until project closing in May 1993, the Naira depreciated by 1371 % (in
US$ terms). At project closing, total project cost was estimated to be $31.6 million.
4.09   Disbursements: Given the revisions of the project and the three-year delay, it makes
little sense to attempt a detailed comparison between the appraisal and actual schedules. At
the time of the original completion date, 29.6% of the loan had been disbursed. Before the
loan was closed on May 31, 1993, after two extensions, there was an $3.0 million
cancellation from the project. Total disbursement was $26.2 million. Disbursements against
commitments were made until November 8, 1993, and an undisbursed amount of $4.8 million
was canceled.
5. Project Results
5.01   The project did not meet all its specific appraised targets, but it has yielded benefits
and made important contributions towards the development of PHC in the project states. It
increased both the quality and the coverage of health services, albeit short of the appraised
targets, particularly in rural areas which had been previously neglected. The full impact of
this service expansion and quality improvement will not be known for some time, but limited
data from clinics and first-hand observations by SMOH from both states indicate improved
services and usage, although not consistently in all project facilities.



-6 -
5.02   Specifically, the following physical achievements were made:
(a) upgraded and constructed 70 health facilities which represented 117% of appraisal
target (1000% of revised target of mid-term review); renovated 135 health centres (135% of
appraisal target, and 68% of revised target of mid-term review); constructed 4 Zonal Health
Offices; constructed 148 boreholes; a Central Medical Store was constructed in both Kebbi
and Sokoto States;
(b) procured vehicles, furniture, office equipment for PMUs, clinics and dispensaries;
provided vehicles, furniture, equipment for the State EPI program; provided vaccines,
vehicles, furniture, equipment for the State Central Medical Stores; provided vehicles, office
equipment, teaching aids for the development of state health planning and management
capacity;
(c) increased the supply of essential drugs, medical equipment and supplies;
(d) increased the coverage of immunization from 10% to 60% (short of the 70%
target);
(e) trained or retrained about 4560 traditional birth attendants (TBAs) (182% of target)
and institutionalized their role in health care delivery; and
(f) trained around 300 community health extension workers (compared to the 300
target), trained 36 Senior Health Tutors on clinical instructions, trained 620 LGA health
personnel on drug revolving fund scheme, trained 60 senior community health extension
workers on clinic management, provided overseas training for 15 senior health personnel, and
about 148 LGA supervisors were trained (compared to appraisal target of 60, and mid-term
review target of 5). (See Table 6 in Part III.)
5.03   The project also introduced the concepts of cost recovery and cost containment;
encouraged the community to actively participate in planning and implementing PHC services;
introduced a technical supervision and in-service training program; and developed a
mechanism for the SMOH to provide LGAs with technical support through a zonal
management system (four zonal offices were established for the purpose for monitoring and
evaluation of LGA health activities). Furthermore, it contributed to the preparation of the
National Essential Drugs Project and the National Population Project, which were
subsequently funded by the Bank, and to the development of a national health insurance
scheme and a national population policy.
5.04   The project was particularly active in community mobilization. Together with the
State Ministry of Health, the project involved the rural communities and helped their
participation and increased their general awareness of health related activities and issues.
SMOH and the project procured and distributed TBA stocked kits to over 29 LGAs, and
provided financial support to the State Women Commission for conducting a workshop on
mobilization strategies. The project also established an additional 44 village health
committees (VHCs). These committees still exist and have continued to monitor the progress
of their various facilities. The importance and usefulness of the VHCs has been recognized
by the SMOH who now uses some of the same instruments to assist them with health related
community matters. The project contributed to the increased participation in training and the
development of training manuals. Women in Health activities were also developed under this
project. There were 29 committees of women in health established by the SHP following a
nationwide initiative launched by FMOH. These activities encouraged greater participation of
women in health, including instituting infant weaning and child feeding activities, and
nutrition and income generation programs. The project was instrumental at helping break
down some of the cultural and religious barriers to training female workers. Although fewer



than the estimated number were trained, there is a positive indication that more communities
would in the future be willing to allow their young women be trained.
5.05   The availability of upgraded health facilities, trained staff, and drugs has led to an
increase in the utilization of the cliniics with tangible results. A comparison of clinic registers
for this year and previous years as well as reports from clinic staff and patients indicate that
twice the number of people are using the clinics than previously, and currently there are
approximately 200 patients a month. The clinic staff of the facilities visited by Bank staff
report that there has been a marked decrease in child mortality due to epidemics since the
start of the immunization programmes. Whooping cough and in some areas tuberculosis
which were responsible for the death of many children are now rare. Where maternal and
child health annexes had been constructed, there were reports of an increase of usage by
patients by approximately 40% in comparison to mother having their babies at home as was
previously done.
5.06   What was not fully achieved was the development of (a) a larger cadre of trained
female health workers, (b) a comprehensive health program monitoring and evaluation system
at the States, and (c) FMOH's technical advisory capacity for sector planning and
programming and a lasting capability for the replication and promotion of state health
activities for PHC, although some important beginnings have been introduced. The Health
Care Financing - Cost and Utilization Study produced a "Draft Final Report". The final
section of the study was only 75% completed.
6. Project Sustainability
6.01   The State Governments of Sokoto and Kebbi can build on the project achievements to
ensure the sustainability of the PHC programs. The concept of cost containment and cost
recovery mechanisms which the project introduced, if continuously pursued, will help in
improving the financing of the health sector. Additional training is necessary to improve the
understanding of drug revolving funds. The promotion of efficient ways of procuring drugs,
and the use of generic instead of brand-name drugs, coupled with the drug cost recovery
program will ensure that the population will have a sustainable and reliable supply of safe
drugs at affordable prices, provided the basic principles of the essential drugs program
developed under the project, are continuously adhered to.
6.02   Following the handing over of the projects facilities to the LGAs around the time the
project was closed, it will be very important that links be established between the PHC
department in the SMOH and the LGA facilities and that the SMOH improve supervision and
monitoring, as well as provide technical support. The facilities that were upgraded and/or
constructed can undoubtedly be used for a long period of time, but they will revert to their
pre-project condition, unless there is adequate maintenance. Local building/maintenance
groups need to be established within the LGAs and continued use of existing village health
committees should be encouraged. The village health committees have an important role to
play in ensuring that the facilities are adequately maintained and that people are made aware
of their value.
6.03   Various training have been undertaken including the unprecedented training and re-
training of over 4500 TBAs, but unless follow-up training is undertaken, their effort will be



- 8 -
diluted over time. The use of trained TBAs to complement the work of salaried health
workers will ensure that basic services are provided at a minimum cost.
7. Bank Performance
7.01   The Bank made a positive contribution by providing the technical and financial
support to the development of PHC in the project areas. It showed flexibility in its approach
on a number of occasions. The first instance was the restructuring of the project shortly after
negotiations to reflect changes in circumstances since appraisal. The second instance was
during the mid-term review when the Bank responded to the local communities' request that
PHC services in some facilities requiring maintenance, regardless of ownership, would be
resuscitated by the project through the provision of equipment, drugs and trained staff.
7.02   However, in retrospect, there were some obvious shortfalls in the Bank performance.
At the design stage, the Bank should have read better the signals of a deteriorating economy
and its implications for the priority needs of the health sector, and should have designed
accordingly a project which was more calibrated to the capacity of the Borrower. By doing
so, time would have not been wasted in restructuring the project even before it started.
7.03   The arrangement of counterpart funding from the federal government was patterned
after a practice in the agriculture sector for Bank-assisted, state-level projects. It created a
precedent that was hard to live up to and eventually had to be abandoned. The Bank, in this
regard, contributed to the development of a situation that eventually became untenable in
political terms since FMOH could not put most of its PHC budget into counterpart funding
for Sokoto and Kebbi States, as well as for Imo State (another Bank-assisted state-level health
project).
7.04   The decision to establish a separate Project Management Unit, also patterned after the
Bank-assisted SADP, resulted in the creation of parallel programs, activities and structures
which was wasteful. It also explains the lack of commitment and ownership by the SMOH to
the project and the dilution of project impact on institutional development. The Bank also
underestimated the difficulties in assimilating the PMU into the mainstream functions of the
SMOH. Attempts to correct this mistake were needed in early May 1986 but it was not until
mid 1988 that the Sokoto PMU was finally assimilated to the mainstream functions of the
SMOH.
7.05   The main responsibility for preparing the project was given to an expatriate consulting
firm, with the state government playing a passive role, which explains the lack of government
commitment and ownership. While this was the current practice at that time particularly for
preparing state-level projects because of the lack of local capacity, the Bank, in retrospect,
should have been more forceful in ensuring a much more active government involvement.
7.06   In terms of staff-time spent on supervision, the Bank spent a total of 182 staff-weeks
of supervision between 1986 and 1993, i.e. 22.8 weeks per year. The Bank sent three
missions in 1985 and five missions in 1986, and thereafter, twice a year. Staff from the Bank
Resident Mission also visited the Sokoto to follow-up on agreements reached during the
regular missions. The Bank's extensive and above-average supervision did not necessarily
correlate with improved performance. Nor was it able to help resolve the start-up problems
in spite of the frequency of the Bank missions in 1985-1986; nevertheless, it should be noted



-9-
that the supervision in the earlier years was difficult, as it involved a major project
restructuring. In terms of the nature of assistance at implementation, in retrospect, the Bank
should have given more timely technical assistance on procurement.
8. Borrower Performance
8.01   During project preparation and appraisal, Sokoto State provided all the support
needed, including financing the full cost of project preparation. Despite slow progress, the
state governments deserve credit for the turn-around in project implementation during the last
year and half of the project period.
8.02   As mentioned earlier, the Borrower's performance contributed to the delays in project
implementation, namely inadequate support by the federal government, lack of
communications between Nigerian officials, frequent changes in health commissioners and key
PMU staff, lack of counterpart funds, misuse of project funds for expenses not related to the
project, and lack of general supervision by FMOH and SMOH.
8.03   The federal government was not able to support the project actively. A series of
changes in the appointment of state health commissioners and senior PMU staff disrupted the
continuity of project management. After the departure of the first Project Manager, the PMU
had no manager for about 18 months. The PMU also functioned poorly during the early
stages of project life because it did not have a qualified financial controller for a long time.
Communication between Nigerian officials was inadequate. No regular meetings were
scheduled among FMOH, SMOH, LGAs and project officers. Financial contributions from
the federal government and the LGAs were not met fully. A few government officials
mistakenly thought that they were free to spend project funds and consequently misspent
funds. The misspent funds were returned to the project account only after a long period of
time and repeated demands for reimbursement made by the Bank. General supervision by
FMOH and SMOH on the quality and quantity of services provided under the project was not
carried out frequently.
8.04   This performance, however, when compared to subsequent Bank-financed health
projects both within and outside Nigeria, is not unusual, considering the following factors: (a)
it was the first Bank-financed health project in the country; (b) the serious constraints in
manpower, especially in management and technical skills in Sokoto; and (c) the difficult
political and economic environment within which the project was implemented. But outside
these factors, additional problems associated with the performance of the borrower included:
lack of communication among the FMOH, SMOH, the LGAs, and the PMU; cumbersome
procurement procedures; reluctance of the state government to hire competent and qualified
people outside the state; PEC's involvement in routine procurement decisions; and failure to
carry through some of the agreed arrangements for implementing the project (such as focusing
on rehabilitation instead of construction of new facilities, expanding the agreed simple
architectural design for health centers, appointment of a procurement officer, providing
adequate staffing of the upgraded health centers with trained personnel).
8.05   The main lessons that can be learnt by the Borrower from the experience from the
project are: (a) the implementing agency should have the primary responsibility in the design,
preparation and implementation of projects; (b) improved communication and coordination
among the FMOH, SMOH, and the LGAs, and more involvement of the LGAs and the



- 10 -
community in designing, planning and implementing health programs would have facilitated
project implementation and would have resulted in more project benefits.
9. Project Relationship
9.01   In general, there had been regular dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower.
Although a Project Manager was once replaced and the Project Executive Committee was
abolished without prior consultation with the Bank, the Bank and the Borrower were able to
set up regular communications and establish a good working relationship through direct
discussions and frequent meetings.
9.02   The relationship between the FMOH and the State was unsatisfactory. There was not
adequate communication and coordination between the two parties. One of the reasons was
the long distance between Lagos and Sokoto State. The other reason was the difficulties in
communications. FMOH officials were displeased with state officials because they were not
invited to PEC meetings nor given sufficient notice of meetings. Sokoto State was
disappointed at FMOH for not providing advice and funding for the project as agreed
previously.
9.03   Frequent changes in health commissioners and the Project Managers often led to a
poor relationship between the SMOH and the PMU. New officials did not always agree with
the priorities set in the project. For a while, serious internal conflict within the PMU caused
a severe breakdown in project management. From interviewing the Borrower, it was noted
that LGAs were ill-informed about project objectives. LGAs would probably appreciate the
project more if they were more aware of its benefits to them.
10. Consulting Services
10.01 The performance of consultants, contractors and suppliers in the project was mixed.
T'he continuing devaluation of Naira made it difficult for some small-time contractors to
complete their construction contracts. The performance of the UN agencies who were used as
consultants (e.g. WHO, UNICEF, and UNIDO) was, in general, satisfactory.
11. Findings and Lessons
11.01  The health financing structure at the time of project design differed from its structure
during implementation. At the time of project appraisal, major investments were taking place
in the infrastructure of the PHCs. However, after the project had been approved, difficulties
occurred with regard to the Borrower's financial capacity to provide counterpart funds and
finance recurrent costs. Project activities for PHC were originally to be carried out by the
state governments for the LGAs. The proposed structure discouraged LGAs from taking the
lead in implementing the project. When the project was implemented, the federal government
shifted overall management responsibilities for PHC to LGAs. However, the LGAs did not
have the capacity to effectively implement PHC programs.
11.02 Although the Borrower and the Bank agreed on major adjustments prior to
presentation to the Board, legal documents had not been finalized until long after project



- 11 -
effectiveness. Drafting the documents after Board approval delayed implementation of the
project.
11.03 The decision to establish a separate Project Management Unit resulted in the creation
of parallel programs, activities and structures (such as EPI and MCH/FP) which was wasteful.
It also explains the lack of commitment and ownership by the SMOH to the project and
dilution of project impact on institutional development. The Bank also underestimated the
difficulties in assimilating the Project Management Unit to the mainstream functions of the
SMOH.
11.04 One of the conditions of effectiveness was the Borrower to have appointed the Project
Manager, the Deputy Project Manager and the Financial Controller. Sokoto State failed to
identify a suitable candidate for PM months after Board approval. After a long search, an
expatriate was hired by Sokoto State through Bank assistance. However, his appointment
proved to be counterproductive as it made coordination between the PMU and SMOH difficult
and created morale problems among local staff.
11.05 The lack of active involvement in the careful preparation of the project by the
government, relying fully on expatriate consultants, led to a lack of ownership and
commitment by the government to the project which are essential factors to the success of the
project.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01 The quality of project reports was very good at the beginning of project
implementation, but it deteriorated over the years, including the regularity of submission.
The last time regular progress reports were prepared and submitted to the Bank was in March
1992. Project files were burned down during the civil disturbances in 1991 resulting in
incomplete project documentation at the States.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROIECT
(LOAN 2503-UNI)
PART II: PROJ.ECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. BY SOKOTO STATE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
I.    a)     The Sokoto Health Project was designed to provide ways of improving the
deteriorating state of health care delivery system in the State. It is against this background
that the Local, State and Federal Governments and the World Bank decided in 1985 to
financially support the establishment of the project towards the improvement of the primary
health care delivery system.
b)     Sokoto Health Project became officially effective on January 15th, 1986 and
was billed to close on 31st December 1990. It was however extended for 2 years to end on
3 1st December 1992. At the end of 1992, it was further extended to 31st May 1993 to
complete certain key activities that would enhance the overall performance level of the
project.
2.     The main objectives of the project were:
a)    Improving the dispensary system by renovating 224 and upgrading 120
dilapidated dispensaries, staffing and equipping them with medical equipment, furniture and
boreholes;
b)     Expansion of EPI/ORT program through Maternal Child Health and Family
Planning support services;
c)     Establishing Community Mobilization System through health education;
d)     Training of primary health care staff;
e)     Establishment of an Essential Drug Programme;
f)     Establishment of Zonal Health Offices for the State and provision of
infrastructure and other impetus necessary to make the health supervisory system efficient.
3.     The responsibility of achieving the overall objectives rest on the Project Management
Unit which has the following departments:



- 13 -
Construction (civil works)
Procurement
Training and Manpower Development
Maternal Child Health and Family Planning
Community Mobilization/Health Education
Zonal Health Offices
Finance
a)    Construction (Civil Works)
i)     70 dispensaries were upgraded to clinics
ii)    135 dispensaries were renovated
iii)    2 Zonal Health Offices constructed at Wurno and Gusau
iv)    148 Bore-hole constructed
v)     Central pharmaceutical stores constructed to serve the total needs of
the state.
b)    Procurement
i)     Procured vehicles, furniture and office equipment for Project
Management Unit over the life of the project that have helped to
improve the efficiency of the PMU;
ii)    Procured furniture for all clinics and dispensaries;
iii)    Provided vehicles, furniture and equipment for the State EPI
programme;
iv)    Provided vaccines, vehicles, furniture and equipment to the state
medical stores to enhance the drug revolving fund scheme;
v)     The health planning and management capacity development strategy
of the state was given a boost with provision of vehicles, office
equipment and teaching aids;
vi)    Procurement of drugs and medical equipment and supplies.
c)    Community Mobilization/Health Education
i)     235 Village Health Committees were established;
ii)    40 Voluntary Village Health Workers were trained;
iii)    1,072 villages were enumerated on household survey. Interviews
were also conducted covering each household;
iv)    Seminars were conducted for traditional rulers on Community
Mobilization and EPI/ORT Programme;
v)     Various seminars were organized for the members of the Village
Health Committees;
vi)    Support to Health Education Unit of State Ministry of Health with
health education materials;
vii)    Printed home-based record card and distributed to all Local
Government Areas;
viii)   Printed posters of various types for the purpose of public enlightment;
ix)    Procurement of 700 kits for Voluntary Village Health Workers;
x)     Procurement of Community Mobilization Equipment and Materials;
xi)    Drugs for Voluntary Village Health Workers' Kits were also
procured;
xii)    Home based record cards were printed.



- 14 -
d)     Maternal Child Health and Family Planning and Women in Health
i)     1020 Traditional Birth Attendants were trained;
ii)    1300 re-trained Traditional Birth Attendants, these include others
earlier trained by Ministry of Health;
iii)    29 Committees of Women in Health were established in the 29 Local
Government Areas of Sokoto State;
iv)    Series of workshops and seminars were conducted for Community
Health Extension Workers in MCH/FP and Women in Health
Activities;
v)     Family planning materials were procured and distributed to all clinics;
vi)    Printed and distributed MCH/FP posters;
vii)    Purchased and distributed 1,600 TBA, stocked kits to 29 Local
Government Areas in Sokoto State;
viii)   TBA certificates and ID cards were printed and issued to trained
TBAs in the State;
ix)    TBA training materials were purchased and distributed to all Local
Government Areas in Sokoto State;
x)     ORT/Food demonstration materials were purchased and distributed to
13 functional clinics with MCH/FP programmes in the State;
xi)    Procured two grinding machines for women in health activities for
Wurno and Gusau Zones.
e)    Training/Management Development
i)     Trained 300 Female Community Health Extension Workers for 29
LGAs in the State;
ii)    Trained 36, Senior Health Tutors on clinical instruction;
iii)    Trained 620 Local Government Areas health personnel on Drug
Revolving Fund scheme;
iv)    Trained 60 Senior Community Health Extension Workers on clinic
management;
v)     Provided overseas training for 15 Senior Health Personnel;
vi)    Trained 29 LGAs PHC Directors on supervision checklist;
vii)    Supported the new School of Health Technology, Gwadabawa with
bedding materials, library books, lab equipment, and other teaching
aids;
viii)   Supported School of Nursing Midwifery with library books;
ix)    Supported Specialist Hospital, Sokoto with renovation of its library
and provision of books;
x)     Vital science equipment were procured and distributed to LGAs;
xi)    Printing of posters and temperature charts: printed 10,000 copies of
BD and Hourly TPR and printed 4,000 copies of posters to be used in
the clinics and for public enlightenment on PHC in the communities.
4.    Finance
Total amount loaned by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) to the Federal Government of Nigeria is US$34.0 million. US$31.3 is on lent to
Sokoto and Kebbi State Governments. Sokoto Health Project has utilized US13,721,584.50 at



- 15 -
the end of all transactions.41 Counterpart contribution is thus: Federal Government -
N6,870,720.0; Sokoto State Government - N5,238,000.0; and Local Governments -
N9,567,692.4. The World Bank has successfully recovered its initial advance under the
Special Account arrangement. All audit reports have shown proper management of accounts
of the project.
5.     Performance of IBRD
a)     Positive:
i)     On the whole, the Bank performed credibly. Whatever achievement
we have today in the Primary Health Care delivery system owes a lot
to the Bank.
ii)    We note with appreciation the extension of closing date of the project
life span on two occasions which together extended the project life by
2 years five months to end of 31st May 1993.
iii)   We also note the tremendous effort put to see to the approval and
execution of the shopping list in November 1992.
b)     Negative:
i)     One of the major problems encountered in project implementation is
delays in seeking and getting World Bank approvals for virtually
every activity. We do appreciate that what we consider cumbersome
procedure put up by the World Bank is the international standard,
nonetheless our socio-economic pack of development suggests that we
give less time to such procedures and more to execution. A general
procedural framework should be agreed upon and certain activities
falling within should not require further Bank's approval.
ii)    The performance of international staff especially the Project Manager
was quite poor. The Bank should encourage local staffing whenever
feasible.
6.     Performance of Project Management Unit
a)     Positive
i)     The PMU has also performed fairly satisfactorily.
ii)    It was able to work within the Bank's guidelines and acceptable limits
throughout the project lifespan.
iii)    It executed all activities that from the success story of Sokoto Health
Project.
b)     Negative
i)     Had a poor procurement department that was not able to handle the
procurement of drugs and medical equipment and supplies. Changes
in mid 1992 that saw to the termination of the Procurement
Coordinator and taking over of procurement functions by the finance
department save the situation.
ii)    Delays in payment of contractors due to cashflow problems.
4/ This figure was adjusted due to splitting of the States (see Table 4 on page 35).



- 16 -
iii)    Poor communication and other logistics.
iv)    Save for the tail end of the project's lifespan, the PMU has not been
aggressive, because of the bureaucratic set up of the Ministry of
Health, the project wasn't allowed to implement activities (routine)
without making reference to Ministry which caused delays.
7.    Performance of the Government
a)    Positive
The Government has since inception given the project all forms of
support to enhance achievement of objectives.
b)    Negative
i)     There were occasional changes in project key personnel due to
changes in Government.
ii)    Decisions were taken faster by the Health Commissioner in the
absence of the Project Executive Committee who have demonstrated
delays in taking decisions.
iii)    Poor payment of counterpart funding by the Federal Government.
iv)    Policy changes in national health structure.
v)     Inflationary trends and continued Naira devaluation led to non-
performance of many suppliers.
vi)    The creation of States brought about delays that affected the
performance of the project. Kebbi State was created out of Sokoto
State on 27th August 1993 and this led to the splitting of former
Sokoto Health Project into Sokoto and Kebbi Health Projects. The
splitting practically took effect from 1st July 1992 after the World
Bank mission of June 1992 agreed on the modalities.
B. BY KEBBI STATE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
1. INTRODUCTION
Creation of states: The creation of Kebbi State out of former Sokoto State on the 27th,
August 1991 led to the splitting of the former Sokoto Health Project into Kebbi and Sokoto
State Projects on June 2, 1992. Under the new arrangement, both Kebbi and Sokoto States
were merely to complete those scheduled components of the former Sokoto State that then fell
under their purview. In the light of that, Kebbi Health Project (KHP) developed its objectives
and targets.
2. PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
The targets set by Kebbi Health Project after the split were met up to about 95%.
Implementation of the Kebbi plan cost a total of N270 million, which includes a total of
US$12.3 million drawdown by KHP, 5/ plus N5.47 million from State and N1.l million
funding from LGAs.
5/ This figure was adjusted due to splitting of the States (see Table 4 on page 35).



- 17 -
3. PROBLEMS AND EXPERIENCES IN IMPLEMENTATION
a)    World Bank
i)     World Bank's performance has been very professional. The
professionalism was even carried to a fault. The control procedures
were too involved. They could have been made simpler without
losing control and competition in procurement, either initially at
negotiations or by amendments during implementation.
ii)    Secondly, the Bank's supervision missions were insufficient,
infrequent for effective control in terms recognition of problems and
modifying rules to accommodate them.
iii)    Frequently, the Bank took long to give replies to requests. This was
probably because the Bank did not have professionals to look at the
issues, but rather it had to use consultants.
iv)    The Bank's attitude to loan negotiation, agreement, and
implementation was apparently incentive to local problems. Provision
should be made for the Bank to take local factors into consideration to
aid speed in project implementation as long as quality and efficiency
and effectiveness are not compromised.
v)     Bank's report on drawdown, commitments, and charges were too far
in between to be useful, such that anytime there was any charge in
government and/or management, it was difficult to know these items
off hand.
b)    Federal Government
i)     The main problem with the Federal Government has been that she
was not paying her part of the counterpart funding regularly or in
good amounts. To date she has performed only up to about 30%.
ii)    Being the Borrower and closer to the project states than the Bank, the
Federal Government should establish an effective supervision
machinery to keep track on project implementation.
c)    State Government
i)     The State Government has been prompt in payment of contribution.
ii)    The major problem has been interferences in project management
from upper levels of government sometimes stifling project
implementation.
iii)   Related to the above, were frequent changes of government and
corresponding changes in top management of the project.
d)    Local Governments
The LGAs were not clear about their role in the project until late.
And when informed, they did seem keen about their own contribution
to the project, and what the project would do for them.
e)    Management
i)     A health project like this should have an indigenous health
professional right from the beginning instead of an expatriate and
non-health-professional one. This would have helped local
understanding and appreciation of the issues and speedier
implementation of the project from its early years.
ii)    There seemed to be an initial lack of complete understanding of the
procurement sections of the agreements on the part of the earlier



- 18 -
project and task managers of the project. This led to issues that did
not need to go to the Bank for approval and wasting valuable time.
iii)   A major lesson is that all heads of departments of this kind of project
should have efficient and effective professionals in their fields, and
that, professional or not, once project staff begin to show signs of
incompetence, they should be replaced.
f)    Termination of Project
By the closing date of the project on May 31st 1993, the project still
had an outstanding liability of well over N1O million, and a
commitment of about Nl million. The states also had all the LCs
opened in respect of all the ICBs to be executed by various
companies (which together would cost the project N2 million
including Sokoto's portion), to be cleared and to be distributed.
Hence, the project only stopped engaging fresh activities, disengaged
most staff, but continued to pay off liabilities and applying for
reimbursement from the Bank hoping to finish by about end of July.
C. BY THE FEDERAL MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
1.    The Sokoto Health Project was designed with the primary aim of reducing mortality
and morbidity from preventable and infectious disease, improving the quality of primary care
by supporting a number of innovative initiatives and to provide means of improving the
deplorable state of health care delivery system in Sokoto State within the concept of Primary
Health Care strategy. It is in light of this that the Federal Government, the State, the Sokoto
State Local Government Areas and the World Bank agreed in 1985 to financially and
technically support the project towards the achievements of its noble objectives. The
objectives included the following:
i)     Provision of effective MCH services;
ii)    Family Planning;
iii)   Manpower development;
iv)    Community mobilization through efficient Health Education;
v)     Provision of drugs and equipments;
vi)    EDP/ORT support services;
vii)    Provision of infrastructure;
viii)    Other services necessary to improve health services delivery in the
entire State.
2.    These objectives were not completely achieved by the project due to numerous
unavoidable constraints encountered during the course of implementation. However, it is
noteworthy that the impact of the project was appreciated not only by the indigenous of
Sokoto State but all the people who were somehow associated with the project.
General Background
3.    In 1970, the World Bank gave loans to Sokoto and Kaduna States for the development
of an agricultural project. Later it was discovered that progress of development could be
enhanced if health components were included to take care of the rural community involved.
A health project component was conceived to be attached to the agricultural project. The
health project was formulated and cashed for inclusion in agricultural project. Because of



- 19 -
time lag between the two projects, integration in execution was not possible. The health
project was separately planned to be added onto the agricultural project. The health project
formulated was based on primary health care approach - "Sokoto Health Project".
Project Objectives
4.     The health project was the first in Nigeria to have been prepared by a state
government within the new framework of Primary Health Care policies. It was to seek the
implementation of these policies and addressed priority issues in a manner that was adapted to
local needs and consistent with local resource availability. The Sokoto Health Project
consisted of Parts A and B.
Part A
4.01   This part aimed to assist Sokoto State Government in its efforts to reduce mortality
and morbidity from preventable and infectious diseases by focusing on the first level of health
care provided through the dispensary system of the Local Government Area (LGA) in Sokoto
State. In particular, it aimed to increase access to and improve the quality of Primary Health
Care by supporting:
a)    the expansion of the health network;
b)    the strengthening of Maternal and Child Health (MCH) service delivery
including family planning;
c)    expansion of the immunization programme against childhood diseases;
d)    the development of regular technical supervision and in-service training
programmes; and
e)    through the establishment of a zonal management system, the project would
support the development of institution mechanisms for Sokoto Ministry of
Health (SMOH) to provide LGAs with technical support and coordinated
better the public sector health activities.
Part B
4.02   This project portion aimed at strengthening Federal Ministry of Health's (FMOH)
technical advisory capability for the replication and promotion of state health activities for
Primary Health Care (PHC).
5.    The project was expected to be implemented within a period of five years. While Part
A of the project was implemented by Sokoto State Ministry of Health, Part B was
implemented by the Federal Ministry of Health. The project was designed in such a way that
the FMOH activities (Part B) would complement and helped replicate the experience gained
under Part A of the project, thereby strengthening institutional linkages in the health sector.
Organization and Management of the Proiect
6.     Sokoto State Ministry of Health had overall responsibility for the implementation of
Part A of the project. However, operation of the project health facilities was to be carried out
by the LGAs under the supervision of the Sokoto State Ministry of Local Government in
order to ensure proper coordination, establishment of an effective mechanism for policy
guidance, and implementation monitoring, Sokoto State Government established a high level
Project Executive Committee (PEC) to oversee the project implementation.



- 20 -
7.     FMOH was represented on PEC by the Director of Primary Health Care and Director
of National Health Planning Departments. Other members included Director Generals (DGs)
of the Sokoto Ministry of Finance (SMOF), Sokoto Ministry of Local Government, SMOH,
Sokoto Ministry of Planning (SMOP) with the Commissioner of Health as the Chairman.
The Project Executive Committee (PEC) is responsible for:
a) determining operational policies;
b) coordinating relevant activities;
c) reviewing project implementation;
d) approving annual action plan and budgets;
e) approving contracts exceeding N100,000.00;
t) approving senior project staffs.
8.     Under Part B, formerly Permanent Secretary and later the Hon. Minister of Health
implemented the technical assistance component. He was responsible for the following:
a) approving the budgets and work programme;
b) overseeing implementation and approving the award of all contracts;
c) operating the subproject account into which the Federal Military Government
(FMG) contribution and loan disbursement.
Proiect Implementation
9.    The Sokoto State Ministry of Health (SMOH) and later Kebbi State Ministry of Health
(KSMOH) had the major responsibility for implementation of Part A of the project with
Sokoto, Kebbi LGAs assisting while the Federal Ministry of Health was responsible for the
Part B.
10.   The implementation of Part B was done expeditiously, but same could not be said of
Part A because of multifarious constraints encountered during implementation. It is on record
that more than 66% of the project objectives were achieved. The Part B of the project was
implemented according to the agreed concept in the project document and by mid-term review
Part B was about ninety five percent completed. Part B focused mainly on the following:
- training and other technical assistance which geared towards strengthening the
managerial process and nascent health planning and statistical units in State
Ministries of Health;
- supported State and LGAs' five year health planning;
- supported various studies;
- provided project preparation funds for at least three health and population projects.
Proiect Cost and Finance
11.   The whole issue of Sokoto Health Project including the cost of the project and the
method of sharing cost were discussed at inter ministerial meetings consisting FMF, FMNP,
FMA, WB and FMOH. The total cost of the project for 5 years after several review and
adjustments was put at US$53.00 million. It is assumed that about 66% of the project



- 21 -
objectives were met utilizing about US$48 million out of the project cost. The exact cost of
the project will be available at a later date.6/
12.   Financing plan was that the bank loan of US$34.00 million would finance 66% of the
total project cost net of duties and taxes. It covered full foreign exchange component of the
project and about US$13.3 million equivalent of 41 % of local costs.
13.   The proposed Bank loan of US$34 million was made to the Federal Military
Government (FMG) in 1985 out of which US$31.1 million was on-lent by FMG to the Sokoto
State Govermnent, and FMOH was supposed to utilize US$2.9 million. The US$34.00
million was payable over 20 years including five (5) years of grace at the standard variable
interest rate. The local project accounts were opened in 1985. Part A account in Sokoto
which was operated by the SMOH Commissioner and Part B account at the Central Bank
which was operated by the FMOH. As per the Federal Executive Conclusion on the project
the Federal Military Government was to contribute the sum of N8.4 million spread from
1985-1900 as follows: 1985-N1.4 million, 1986-NI.3 mil., 1987-N1.4 mil., 1988-N1.8 mil.,
1989-NI.2 mil., 1990-N1.2 mil.
14.    According to the World Bank agreement, the FMG local currency contribution to the
project was to be shared as follows: 86% Sokoto State project Part A account maintained in
Sokoto, 13.8% to Federal Ministry of Health account for Part B maintained at the Central
Bank, SSMO-LGA also sent her yearly contribution to the Part A account in Sokoto.
15.   By January 1989, the Federal Government had contributed N5.98 million,7/
representing 94.92% of total contribution (N6.30 million) expected of her for the project
whose date of expiration was 31st July, 1990. However, during the mid-term review which
was May 1989, the life of the project was extended till July 31, 1992, and the project cost
was reviewed and later the life was extended till December 31, 1990. The total revised cost
Part A of the project was US$37.1 million of which $31.3 million was financed by the World
Bank. This represented an increase from 66% to 84% of the World Bank share of the cost of
financing the total project. The remaining 16% of US$5.8 million (N49.5 million) of the
total cost of Part A increased accordingly. The FMOH contribution was up to N29.1 million,
Sokoto State MOH to N8.7 million and Sokoto LGAs to Nl 1 .7 million.
Project Achievement
16.   Although the project was manned with myriads of constraints the achievements from
February 1986 to 31st December 1992 can be clearly enumerated as follows:
a) Construction (Civil Works)
70 dispensaries were upgraded to clinics;
135 dispensaries were renovated;
2 Health Zonal Offices constructed at Wurno and Gusau;
6/ The exact project cost was never given to the Bank by the Federal Ministry of Health and
Social Services.
7/ This figure differs from that of the figures the Bank had gathered (see page 4. paragraph
4.04).



- 22 -
66 Boreholes Tank.8/
b) Community Mobilization
- 235 Village Health Workers
- 40 Voluntary Village Health Workers
- 1072 villages were enumerated on household, survey and interviews were
conducted to each household;
- seminar were conducted for Traditional Ruler on Community Mobilization
EPI/ORT Programme, Phase I District Heads, Phase II Village
Heads; various seminars were organized for the members of the
Village Health Committee costing N369,000.00;
- support to Health Education Unit of State Ministry of Health (Health
Education Materials) costing N1,000,000.00);
- printed home base record card at the cost of N760,000.00 and distributed to
all Local Government Areas;
- printed posters of various types at the cost N250,000.00 for the purpose of
enl ightment.
c) Maternal Child Health and Family Planning and Women in Health Department
The Department had to date achieved the following:
- 1020 TBA were trained;
- 1300 retrained TBA;
- 29 committees of women in health were established in the 29 Local
Government Areas - Sokoto State;
- various workshop and seminars were conducted for Community Health
Extension Workers in MCH/FP and Women in Health Activities
costing N22,999.00;
- family planning commodities were distributed costing N322,299.00;
- printed posters MCH/FP costing N50,000.00;
- purchased and distributed over 2,500 TBA kits to 29 Local Government
Areas in Sokoto State;
- TBA Certificate and ID Card were printed at the cost of N42,000.00 and
giving qualified TBA for Sokoto and Kebbi State;
- Procured various and equipments for EPI/DRF support;
- 82,796 deliveries were handled and recorded by the TBAs;
- TBA training materials to 27 Local Government Areas in Sokoto State were
purchased and distributed;
- ORT food demonstration materials to 13 functional clinics with MCH/FP
programmes were purchased and distributed to 27 Local Government
Areas in Sokoto State.
d) Training/Manpower Development Department
- trained 484 Female Community Health Extension Workers for both Seniors
and Juniors for Kebbi and Sokoto State;9/
- trained 36 Senior Health Tutors on clinical instruction;
8/ Figure contradicts with that of Sokoto's: Sokoto's calculation was 148 (page 13).
9/ Figure contradicts with that of Sokoto's: Sokoto's calculation was 300 (page 14).



- 23 -
- trained 620 Local Government Areas Health Personnel on Drugs Revolving
Fund Scheme;
- trained 60 Senior Community Health Extension Workers on clinics
management;
- trained 15 Senior Health Personnel on various disciplines overseas;
- 29 PHC Directors on supervision checklist;
- supported School of Health Technology Jega with library books, bedding
materials and has equipment;
- supported new School of Health Technology Gwandabawa with bedding
materials and library books;
- supported Specialist Hospital Sokoto with renovating of its library and
provision of books;
- supported School of nursing/midwifery with library books;
- trained 20 Senior Personnel of Health Planning and Management.
Performance Assessment of Staffs
a) SSMOH & SSLGs
17.   The project part of which was implemented by SSMOH & SSLGAs was not evenly
handled throughout the life of the project. The staff strength in most cases throughout the life
of the project was grossly deficient. Also the quick changes of the key staff did not allow for
continuity of the project implementation. The foreigners occupying key positions in the
project served as a major set back during implementation. The foreigners usually spent over
half of their time learning the culture and the new environment which made little or no impact
on the project implementation. The project launching which would have served as a means of
informing and enlightening the generality of the people did not take place.
b) The World Bank
18.   The project was designed in such a way that the FMOH had no authority whatsoever
over the implementation procedures of the project. Sokoto State was given all authorities and
was the World Bank as the only institution that could offer assistance, provided guidance and
guidelines. The recruitment of foreigners and foreign consultants for the project was based
mainly on the advice of the World Bank and this did not help the project. Local experts from
other part of the country could have been allowed to compete for the jobs on the project. The
FMOH technical support to the project is very crucial. For the success of the ongoing and
future projects under the World Bank support, Washington should formulate strategy of
sharing authority, supervisory and responsibility with the FMOH. This would stimulate the
Federal officials to offer the needed technical guidelines and technical support required by the
project from the Federal level.
c) Federal Ministry of Health
19.   While a number of health agencies at all levels of Government partake in the
implementation of the project, responsibility for overall project co-ordination, guidance and
technical supports which was supposed to be with FMOH was not allowed to be there. Hence
the supposedly official ultimately responsible for the project, the Federal Ministry of Health
was totally out of the picture. Though the Directors of PHC&PRS were members of PEC,
SHP officials ensured that notification for meetings never reached Lagos in good time to



- 24 -
allow for their full participation at such meetings. Decisions were reached about the
implementation of the project with very little or no input at all from the Federal level.
Mechanism for the FMOH to enforce authority was not there. It was realized that those
corrective activities which FMOH could have put in to the implementation constraints were
not there. In conclusion, the FMOH was rendered as mere observer in the implementation of
a project into which she was heavily financially committed and this should be corrected now
and in all such future projects.
Problems Encountered in Project Mobilization and Execution
20.    Although Sokoto Health Project (SHP) became legally effective on 15th January 1986,
the Project Management Team was not recruited and a number of essential pre-startup
activities was not undertaken immediately. Notably the "Project Launch Workshop", a means
of informing the public and all participating levels of Government about project objectives and
strategies in order to obtain advance understanding and commitment, were not put in. This
place was indeed a crucial opportunity missed, as resistance to the original Loan in many
informed quarters of the State was significant. It was felt by many, who criticized that such a
significant amount of foreign exchange should never have been borrowed for a "soft" (i.e.
non-capital investment return) project.
21.    The key project management nucleus was not effectively in place to undertake full
scale mobilization until 1st April 1986. Expectedly, it was discovered by World Bank
officials that the very premise of public sector financial capability and growth, upon which the
justification for the project was based, was entirely in question. Rather than a situation of
available financial resources, the fall in world oil prices and the attendant Naira value crisis,
brought into serious question the ability of the LGAs to sustain the incremental health service
recurrent costs occasioned by project implementation. While the domestic and international
crisis of financial confidence started well before Loan effectiveness, it was not considered
sufficient reason to suspend or retard activation of the Loan and commencement of multi-
component project activities. Instead, an entire restructuring exercise was commenced prior to
Loan effectiveness, which was not crystallized until be end of April 1986. The following five
(5) months were spend in negotiations with the State Government regarding massive
restructuring exercise, and the ensuing Cabinet deliberations, during which very little physical
progress was achieved. One of the key elements of the restructuring package was a major
health care financing consultancy study, the results of which were, in effect, to indicate the
State's ability to pay for the Sokoto Health Project. This is clearly information which should
have been obtained prior to full loan effectiveness and multi-component implementation.
22.    These unique constraints served as a serious physical and psychological retardant to
the State authorities and project personal responsible for initial project mobilization, and set a
tone of implementation uncertainty that took and long time to overcome.
23.    From the beginning, it was clear that participating state agencies and, indeed, the
Project Executive Committee (Board) were insufficiently aware of the true nature and scope of
the project, and the unique pre-conditions to effective implementation of externally-financed
project within an existing government framework. A number of key project initiatives were
designed with inextricable link to the existing bureaucracy, thereby virtually institutionalizing
implementation impediments as a natural result of the orientational dichotomy between
permanent and limited - life organizations. Typical of the impediments to effective



- 25 -
implementation were the following environmental and institutional factors: endemic
bureaucratic delays:
24.   Countless hours of management time were consumed in completing certain routine,
policy and legal formalities, such as:
-      change in the authorized state signatures from the Ministry of Finance to the
Ministry of Health/Sokoto Health Project sixteen (16) months to effect;
-     establishment of the required N500,000.00 overdraft facility took twelve (12)
months;
-     amendment to authorize the dollar-denominated Special Account and
subsequently activate the account took sixteen (16) months to complete;
-      execution of the Legal Amendment to the Loan Agreement was not done in
time;
-     payment of Statutory Federal Financial Subventions on quarterly basis took
considerable efforts and time;
-     lack of understanding of mutual roles in the interministerial vetting and
approval process created numerous unnecessary delays and fostered
unwarranted feelings of competitiveness or lack of highly required
cooperation.
b) World Bank Conditionalities and Implementation Experience:
25.   Sokoto State Government experience with World Bank projects was limited to the
agricultural sector when the Sokoto Health Project was mounted under a different division
within the Bank. Although the Rules and Regulations are theoretically the same, conditions of
application and interpretation varied widely. While it was true to say that the Ministry of
Health did not fully understand the loan and implementation conditionalities, it was equally
true that the Bank only slowly came to appreciate the unique situation of the Borrower.
26.    Early communications, implementation and understanding hampered the close
cooperation which characterized the relationship since the appointment of an experienced
client-sensitive project officers. This mutual lack of understanding which continued during
the initial year of implementation, served as a temporary retardant to early progress.
27.   While the World Bank funds were in every sense a loan to the State, they were
disbursed only in satisfaction of certain strenuous conditionalities which should be observed if
default was to be avoided. This often meant that the most pragmatic or locally efficient and
auditable means to achievement could not be utilized. Though not always fully appreciated by
the State Government, and most certainly not by local businessman or the Loan repaying
public, it was essential that strict conditionalities be observed. Any form of deviation
received Bank's approbation, and cancellation of proportionate amounts from the Loan fund.
c) Professional Management Personnel Recruitment:
28.    When a number of posts to be internationally recruited were negotiated out of the
project agreement, provision was not made for their effective replacement with nationally-
recruited contract or limited consultancy personnel.
29.   The recognition of these posts as essentially senior in nature was thereby lost, and
management capability vacuum created. This situation was exacerbated by the project



- 26 -
restructuring exercise which established a number of major components without provision for
their exceptional managerial requirements. The uniqueness of the interventions planned under
the project and the commensurate requirement for specialized and exceptional management
skills was never adequately addressed by the Project Executive Committee, to the detriment of
project implementation.
30.    Compounding the problems was the fact that vacant posts requiring highly specialized
individuals were filled with seconded personals whose main qualifications were availability
and willingness to serve.
d) State Ministry of Works as Consultants:
31.    The initial positioning of the SMOW&T as construction planning and implementation
consultant to the project was an experiment which even in concept had little chance for
success. Its efforts to the contrary, the SMOW&T had proved incapable of providing the
overall hands-on engineering and construction management services required of a State wide
multi-site building programme. The unfortunate miscasting of an essentia! sister services into
a role for which it was not institutionally equipped or disposed resulted in major area of
implementation disappointment and created considerable mutual frustration in the two
participating organizations. Litany of non-responsiveness was chronicle from the inception of
the consultancy, after five(5) months of inter-ministerial contract negotiations, which could
never have occurred with or been tolerated of an external engineering construction
consultancy organization. This unique experiment in public sector consultative services
clearly failed.
e) Delay of Cancellation of Essential Consultancies:
32.    The unpopularity of consultancies associated with externally funded projects,
particularly as they had come to be associated with large percentages of foreign exchange loan
funds, redundancy of data collection and compilation efforts by foreign experts, and
accumulation of unused data upon Ministry shelves, had been visited upon the Sokoto Health
Project. Unfortunately, the design of this project was a landmark and was to be utilized as a
pilot effort within the country and as a model for implementation elsewhere. Thus many of
the components in the design could have been unique not only to Sokoto State by to the
Federal Republic. This meant that the theoretical knowledge and experiential skills
prerequisite to implementation of number of these components did not in fact locally exist. In
addition, the scope of these components was such that master implementation on a large scale
turnkey basis was required. Therefore, the inevitability of major consultancies, many of
which were embodied in the restructuring exercise or otherwise agreed with the Bank, had
been well established. Due to an essential misunderstanding of this situation both on the part
of the SOSG and the PEC commissioning of essential consultancies in health care financing
and drug revolving fund implementation was retarded for almost two years. Lack or
recognition of the scale and impact of the management and supervisory systems component,
not fully understood, resulted in a two years' implementation delay in this component,
characterized by stopgap measures, after the cancellation of the implementation consultancy
which required a year of work to develop. The same situation developed with respect to the
overall community mobilization/health education implementation consultancy designed to plan
and guide overall institution of the statewide community health awareness programme. Many
months of pre-approved work was wasted, and excellent framework abandoned when the
required technical assistance was disapproved.



- 27 -
f) Others were:
33.    - inefficient procurement specialist
- lack of continuity of project key personnel
- delay from PEC in taking decisions
- state creation and the splitting of the project as a political factor
34.    The above highlights some of the major constraints to effective implementation of the
Sokoto Health Project, which may be representative of the impediments generally encountered
in the realization of externally-funded public section undertakings. In any event these and
other factors have served to severally constrain the Sokoto Health Project. Notwithstanding,
significant strides were made, and the pace of project momentum and physical achievement
increased considerably. Still, it is clear that significantly more could have been achieved had
the requisite freedom to act, the main requirement for effective implementation and the one
characteristic which most distinguishes project-type management from the traditional public
sector management approach was allowed from the onset.
Solutions That Should Have Been Proposed at Mid Term Review
35.   In the specific instance of the Sokoto Health Project, the solutions are directly
suggested from the exposure of the problems. After seven years of life, the measures
necessary to have increased pace and effectiveness of implementation can be summarized as:
1) streamnlining of the vetting and approvals cycle through such measures as
appointment of an independent legal council or a specific senior SMOJ Attorney to become
expert in SHP-related matters, increasing PEC contracts approval threshold, etc.;
2) removing SHP from the recruitment constraints imposed by adherence to the public
service grading/sa!ary system totally unsuited to the essentially limited employment periods
inherent in project work, and maintaining secondments to an absolute minimum other than in
counterpart development roles;
3) retaining the SMOW&T within its traditional capability as monitoring and
evaluation agent for the SG and evaluation agent for the SG and employing the professional
services of nationally recognized firm of engineering/construction consultants, coupled with
direct recruitment of construction field management personnel;
4) adopting a large-scale statewide construction strategy more suited to the operational
and supervisory realities than myriad small contracts with multiple contractors of widely
varying capabilities;
5) adoption of internationally competitive bidding to those consultancies agreed with
the IBRD to be essential to the proper implementation of the specialty components;
6) reorganization of the management functional responsibility with the project, with
national recruitment for all positions clearly requiring particular expertise unavailable within
the State, couple with a distinct counterpart relationship to ensure the most efficient transfer
of expertise.
Lessons Learnt
36.    1) Recruitment of project staff and consultancies could have been within the country
except resources are not available;
2) Supervisory authority could have been shared by the World Bank and FMOH;
3) Recruitment of staff, consultant to the project should have been national and not
restricted to the project state only;



- 28 -
4) FMOH should be encouraged and empowered to play leading role in the
implementation of state project whose land was guaranteed by Federal Government of
Nigeria;
5) Encourage the use of local experts except where not available within the country;
6) Related federal ministry should be a controlling authority to implementation or
should be given authority to act when there are problems, since the FMOH and the state
concerned would be financially committed;
7) The FMOH should have the knowledge of decisions on all concerned projects
before forwarding them to the Bank;
8) Both FMOH and the World Bank should have "no objection" power over the
appointment of project staff, consultants and award of contract over US$5,000.00;
9) While the Project Executive Committee is chaired by SMOH Commissioner,
FMOH representative (DPHC&DC) should be his Vice and hold the chair when the
Commissioner would not be around;
10) Project staff should be properly remunerated and not restricted to Government
grade level;
11) FMOH project officer representing the DPHC&DC should be made to handle the
project on a full time basis and report adequately to DPHC&DC;
12) There should be policy endorsement to ensure that project fund be used only for
what is meant for and project procedures should be carefully followed;
13) Future project should be costed in US dollars;
14) In project implementation, World Bank should not undermine the authority of
FMOH but rather enhance it, and strategy to foster such should be formulated.
Recommendations
37.    1) The use of foreign experts should be discouraged as this would not enhance the
continuity of the project at the expiration of their contract. Local experts could be readily
available at a reduced cost;
2) FMOH that would be financially committed in the project should be given authority
to act when problems arisen;
3) In all procedures, FMOH should have a knowledge of decisions on the project
before forwarding such to the Bank;
4) There should be supportive powers from both FMOH and World Bank over the
appointment of project staff, consultants and award of contract over US$5,000.00;
5) Project staff recruitment should be on national level, and not restricted to the
project state;
6) FMOH should be adequately represented in the Project Executive Committee while
the committee is chairmaned by CMOH, (Commissioner) and the Vice should be the
representative of FMOH (DPHC&DC);
7) That project staff must be properly remunerated and not restricted to government
grade level;
8) Policy for the implementation of future projects must ensure that project fund be
used only for what it is meant for; and that the procedures of the project implementation be
followed carefully;
9) The use of foreign currency in the cost of the project is highly recommended;
10) World Bank and FMOH should work one accord and formulate strategies to foster
the proper implementation of future projects.



- 29 -
Conclusions
38.   Sokoto Health Project is a very important project in the sense that it is the first of its
kind in Nigeria to be prepared and implemented within the context of Primary Health Care
approach. However, it might be argued that is was unfair to Sokoto State to have tried such a
very important pilot project of its complexes in that State without adequate back up provisions
in terms of sufficient project policy. Both the World Bank and FMOH would have made
enough provisional guidelines to enhance institutional capacity required of a project of such
complexity, innovation, commitment, experience and dedications.
39.   Today, both Sokoto/Kebbi States indigenous have benefitted tremendously from the
project and its impact on the health services delivery is in no small measure appreciable. The
fact that over 60% of the stated objectives were met on 31st December 1992 made it a highly
rewarding and beneficial project to the country. However, all the World Bank supported on-
going and future health project should carefully study Sokoto Health Project implementation
and procedural problems, achievements, and constraints. This will be of a tremendous
advantage towards their successful implementation.
40.    One problem that stood out against Sokoto Health Project was the inability of the
project to recruit an experienced and well qualified procurement officer. This made
procurement extremely difficult for the project and it gave the picture as if the World Bank
posed difficulty in issuing the required no objection. With an efficient and experienced
procurement officer the problems of the World Bank assisted projects would be considerably
reduced.
41.   As part of the success of Sokoto Health Project (SHP) is the development of FMOH's
role in the preparation, evaluation and replication of state health programme for PHC. Today
PHC is a success all over the nation and so far SHP assisted in the development of Imo
Health and Population Project, Essential Drugs Project, and Health System Fund Project.
Also the technical assistance under Sokoto Part B to the FMOH greatly strengthened its
capabilities in the areas of health sector planning and programming, evaluation and replication
of similar projects.
42.   This eventually helped in accelerating the development and operation of PHC
programs nation-wide. The development of the institutional capabilities at FMOH level to
develop affordable, widely accessible and efficient system to deliver Primary Health Care
services which in real terms brings about the improvements in the health status of the
population in general terms is another justification for the success of SHP.
43.   The fear of the risk of insufficient counterpart funding right from onset is justified.
Despite the fact that SHP was scaled down and reviewed with the objective of cost-
minimization which confirmed earlier that the financial requirements of the project on Sokoto
State Government and the LGAs were considered affordable, all the three levels of
Government including FMOH found it extremely difficult to meet the much needed financial
obligations. This was due to the rate of Naira devaluation which was one US$ to one Naira
when the project turned effective and rose as high as to one US$ to thirty five Naira during
the life of the project.



- 30 -
44.   However, the advancement of technical know-how already developed at the federal
level makes the condition of SHP replicable in other states of the Federation very
encouraging.
45.   Sokoto/Kebbi Health Project with all the attendant constraints was a successful project
in which both the World Bank and FMOH tried very hard to enable the general populace in
both States benefitted tremendously.



- 31 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2503-UNI)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
(Page I of 2)
Year of
Loan               Purpose              Approval       Status        Comments
First (Bauchi)        Lay foundation        1979          Closed        PCR/PPAR
Urban Development   for both a national                                 completed.
Project               low-cost housing
(Ln 1767-UNI)         program and a
broader future
urban lending
effort; seek to
demonstrate the
applicability of
the sites & services
and upgrading
approaches for
low-income shelter
provision.
Anambra Water         Enhance living       1981           Closed        PCR
Supply and            conditions in                                     completed.
Sanitation Project    Anambra State
(Ln 2036-UNI)         by improving
water supply,
solid waste
collection and
disposal, urban
infrastructure
& health education



- 32 -
(Page 2 of 2)
Year of
Loan              Purpose              Approval      Status        Comments
Imo Health and       Improve health of    1989         On-going      Weak project
Population Project    the people of Imo                              management,
(Ln 3034-UNI)        State and provide                               non-compliance
voluntary family                                with legal
planning services.                              covenants,
mid-term
review planned
early 1994.
National Essential   Ensure public has    1989         On-going      Project is
Drugs Project        access to sustainable                           generally on
(Ln 3125-UNI)        supply of safe,                                 track. Drug
effective, affordable                           procurement
drugs.                                          remains a big
problem.
National Population    Strengthen institu-    1991     On-going      Project is
Project              tional framework,                               on track and
(Ln 2238-UNI)        expand on experimental                          implementation
basis intersectoral                             expected to
national population                             be improved.
program.
Health System Fund   Improve state health  1991         On-going     FMOH/PFIs'
Project              systems by utilizing                            performance
(Ln. 3326-UNI)       PFIs to implement,                              unsatisfactory.
and assist states in                            Mid-term
improving health                                review was
system investment                               completed in
planning.                                       Nov.1993.



- 33 -
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                 Original Date               Actual Date
Identification                                   April 1980
October 1980
Preparation                                     July 1981
October 1981
Initial Project Brief                            October 5, 1982
Appraisal            September 1982              October 19, 1982
Issues Paper                                     December 27, 1982
Appraisal Follow-up   October 1982               May 12, 1983
Loan Negotiations    July 29, 1983               November 28, 1983
Board Approval */    July 1984                   March 14, 1985
Loan Signature                                   May 17, 1985
Loan Effectiveness   August 15, 1985            January 15, 1986
Loan Closing         December 31, 1990           May 31, 1993
Date of Last Disbursement                        November 8, 1993
#/ The project was not presented to the Board as scheduled because the Federal
Military Government decided to review its entire external borrowing program before
approving any of the already negotiated project.



- 34 -
TABLE 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
CUMULATIVE AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Thousand)
Estimated      Revised         Actuali.       Actuall
Year         Amount        Amount         Amount         as % of
------- Cumulative --    ----             Estimate
1986        1,200.00                          227.09            0.7
1987        5,100.00                         2,260.56           7.3
1988        10,200.00                        5,111.30          16.5
1989        17,700.00      12,500.00        8,475.97           27.3
1990        27,200.00     23,700.00          9,202.04          29.7
1991        34,000.00     30,000.00         11,205.82          36.1
1992                      34,000.00         16,650.37          53.7
1993                                       26,238.63           84.6
Loan Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disburasmanta
(US$ Thousend)
35,000.00 T
30,000.00
25,000.00
20,000.00
15,000.00
10,000.00
5,000.00
0.00
to    oN      0                                    c, o  -  X
co     0      go      co     0      0)    CD    CD
| * ~Estimated    - -  -  Revised          Actual
0)  0)  0)  0)   0)     0)      0)     0)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 35 -
TABLE 4: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Prnioct Costs
(Thousands of Naira and US$)
(tam                   N~~~~~~~lrg  :y~~~~~~~~ . N1~~~~*.~~~~        ~ ~            VS 4:. ~~~~~~~~:.....j:.... ...
Category 1                        10,843.0   18,258.4   87.37e.0  10,086.2          6,224.0    5,795.2   31145.8    519e.3
ICivil Works)
Cateaory 2                          2,908.8    4,361.0  139,875.6  1 e,541.9         1,314.4       791.1    8618.3    7970.3
(FunitureNehicles/Suppliesl
Category 3                          1,558.8    2,337.0   1 8,e20.1    2,384.3                      617.4                  309.0
(Intl.Consultants/Trainingl
Cateoory 4                                      2,700.0                                                                                   2,579.7
(Part B: ConsuttantesVehicles)
Cateoory 5                          9,131.1   13,e89.8   37,777.0   4,593.5   14,138.0    1,eO7.1   15283.8    1393.0
(Lcl.Training/Optg Costsa
PMU/ZHOs)                                                   __        __                      ___                                __
PMU..........   .... .................... ..................... ............   ........................   ....... ...   . ......  .. .   ...
Total                             24,441.7  39,344.2  281,648.7  33,585.9   21,878.4    8,810.8  53,027.9  14,858.8 _                      2,579.7
B. Proiect Financing
(Millions of Naira and US$)
Sotwc. of F~~~~~~~~~...... . .. . ........ ..                                                                      .   ........
World 8ank                                         31.1           2.9      31.3          2.9                                  2e.2
FMOH                                                9.4          1.5         4.0         1.5           6.9
State Ministries of Health                           2.8                     0.9
Sokoto Stats                                                                                         5.2
Kebbi State                                                                                          5.5
LGAs from both States,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,.  3.7        1.3                       10.7           __-
TOTAL                                              47.0          4.4       37.5          4.4           28.3                   2e.2



-36 -
TABLE 5: STATUS OF COVENANTS
(Page I of 2)
Section                      Covenant                     Status of Compliance
. ...     ..... -     -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _  - -
Loan Agreement
3.01 (a)(b)(c)(d)     Commitment of the Borrower to cause        Complied.
SSG pursue and execute the objectives
of the Loan as set forth in Schedule
2 of the Agreement, relend proceeds
and protect Borrower's and Bank's
interest
3.02 (a)              Borrower shall open an account for         Complied.
Part B
3.02 (b)              Borrower shall make adequate budgetary     Revised FMOH
provisions for the purpose of its          contribution to SHP
contribution to Part A                    had not been met.
3.03 (a)(b)           Appoint consultants for Part B and complete  Preliminary Report
Health Care Financing Study               completed.
3.04 (a)(b)           Insure imported goods and commit them      Complied.
to the purpose of the Project
3.05 (a)(b)           Seek prior clearance on procurement plans    Mostly complied,
and maintain records for such procurement,  limited cases on
monitor and advise on cost and benefit    proceeding
analysis                                  procurement process
with prior clearance
from Bank.
4.02 (a)(b)(c)        Maintain good accounting and procedures    Audit report were
and have audited report for each fiscal   usually late and
year sent to the Bank                     a few were not
satisfactory.
Project Agreement     SSG's commitment to the project objectives   PEC was established
2.01 (a)(b)(c)(d)     and establishing the PEC, PMU, and the     but abolished without
four ZHOs                                 prior consultation
with Bank, PMU set
up but key staff
missing for some
period of time,



- 37 -
(Page 2 of 2)
Section                     Covenant                    Status of Compliance
2 ZHOs upgraded and
2 ZHOs constructed.
2.02 (a)(b)(c)       SSG to open special account and project   Complied.
account and ensure payments of its
contribution to the project
2.03                 Recruitment consultants/experts/specialists    Complied.
to assist SSG to carry out Part A
2.04                 All procurement to be financed from the   Complied.
Loan have to be made in accordance with
Schedule I of the Agreement
2.05 (a)(b)          Insure goods imported and use the goods   Complied.
and services for the purpose of the Project
2.06 (a)(b)          SSG to cause SHP in furnishing the Bank   Complied.
with all procurement plans, maintaining
records, monitoring the progress, and
providing information on costs/benefits
concerning Part A
2.07                 SSG to perform all its obligations under  Complied.
the subsidiary loan agreement
2.08 (a)             SSG to exchange views with Bank on        Complied.
progress and performance of Part A
2.09                 SSG agrees that the relend proceeds       Complied.
be deducted from the Federation Account
and the Borrower pays any such deduction
directly into project account
2.10                 SSG to cause to acquire land and its      Complied.
rights necessary for executing Part
A of the Agreement
3. 01 (a)            SSG to cause PMU to maintain all          Complied.
records on its accounting procedure
3.02 (a)(b)          SSG to cause PMU to audit its accounts    Complied, but
and financial statements and furnish     often late.
to the Bank not later than six months
after each fiscal year.



7 5                                       * r i } | l [| 6 L  t '     e 1  |- --1 -E  R- - - - -  -   i - -
ii Ii                   I _EI I I I I    1_I*I           
;                                                                                                    za
I I                  I    I                                                                      a   I
               EE                                                                          o                E
I                                              a                                               N &P   P  I P P  I
I  -                                                                                    N ~~~~~~~~~~11-   ---I 
N   o  o  o                                                                                                          No  g  o  | o  g  ,   k
*========                      = ==== ==  ======================                                           I: =N        *
;_________________-_----_-----------------------
O O O  e _"8   
afi  Z o   ;        I  N
*           o                                                                        a g  a  o  S   Y       | 8 i i C
|   wo S_              ^                         M                   g                          * f000  n 
i~ ~               ~         ~~~ I      !i
|    O   _   |  t  g  -g g 0 9 w~~~~~~~                                                                   I s
S                                                                    I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  I  I
|   O >  w         s               U ! q o      |      w           a i   u  U    S b O        , E a    r
*i          o   -                                                                  lii                       Ii g          <S I5
I                                                                                                           I        i 
*                                                                                                                  -  I   U== = = == = = = == = = = = == = = = == = = = = == = = = =
-~~~~~~~~~I 8t 



- 39 -
TABLE 7: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Staff Inputs
Stage of                    Original   Revised           Actual
Project Cycle               Plan        Plan             Staff Wks
Preparation, Preappraisal   -           -                53.1
Appraisal                   -           -                38.7
Negotiation                 -           -                18.3
Supervision                 89          117.5            182
TOTAL                       89          117.5            292.1



- 41 -
(Page 2 of 2)
Stage of           Month/      No. of              Total       Performance
Project Cycle      Year        Persons 1/          Staff Wks    Ratings
PM2/  OS3/
9/1988       1 HQ               0.4         n.a.
12/1988     2 HQ               1.6          2     2
5,6/1989    4 HQ, 2L, IC        12.0        3      3
11/1989     IL                 0.2          n.a.
5,6/1990    2HQ, IL            3.5          3      3
9/1990       IL                0.3          n.a.
11/1990     3 HQ, IL           2.0          3     3
11/1991     3 HQ               2.5          3     3
6/1992      3 HQ, 2L            5.6         no ratings
3/1993      3 HQ               2.5          4      4
Subtotal                       31                 46.5
TOTAL                           44                 58.7
Note: 1/ HQ - Headquarters Staff; L - Local Staff, C - Consultant.
2/ PM - Project Management.
3/ OS - Overall Status.



- 40 -
TABLE 8: MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
(Page 1 of 2)
Stage of           Month/      No. of              Total       Performance
Project Cycle      Year         Persons 1/         Staff Wks    Ratings
PM2/_OS3/
Preparation -      5/1983       6 HQ               6.0
Appraisal
11/1984     2 HQ               0.8          -     -
Subtotal                       8                  6.8
Board Approval -   4/1985       1 HQ, 1L           0.6          -
Effectiveness
7/1985      2 HQ, IL            1.2         2      2
11/1985     2HQ, 1L            3.6          1      1
Subtotal                       5                  5.4
Effectiveness -    4/1986       2 HQ, 1L           3.6          1     1
6/1986      1 HQ               0.4          1      2
7,8/1986    I HQ               3.0          2      2
10/1986     1 HQ, 1L, 1C       3.0          2      2
4/1987       1 HQ, IL           3.0         3      2
7/1987      1 HQ, 1L            1.0         2      2
11/1987     1 HQ               0.1          n.a.
11/1987     2 HQ               0.9          n.a.
6/1988       IC                 0.9         n.a.



- 41 -
(Page 2 of 2)
Stage of          Month/       No. of             Total       Performnance
Project Cycle      Year        Persons 1/         StaffWks    Ratings
PM2/  OS3/
9/1988      1 HQ               0.4          n.a.
12/1988     2 HQ               1.6         2      2
5,6/1989    4 HQ, 2L, IC       12.0         3     3
11/1989     IL                 0.2         n.a.
5,6/1990    2HQ, 1L            3.5          3     3
9/1990      IL                 0.3         n.a.
11/1990     3 HQ, IL           2.0         3      3
11/1991     3HQ                2.5         3      3
6/1992      3 HQ, 2L           5.6          no ratings
3/1993      3HQ                2.5         4      4
Subtotal                      31                 46.5
TOTAL                          44                 58.7
Note: 1/ HQ - Headquwten Staff; L - Local Staff; C - Consultant.
2/ PM - Project Management.
3/ OS - Overal Status.



