Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                            j
Report No. 4599-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
February 21, 1985
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Calendar 1983    Calendar 1984    December 1984
Currency Unit        Naira (N)        N                 N
US$1.00              N 0.72           N 0.75            N 0.81
Naira 1.00           US$1.38           US$1.35          US$1.24
Currency Equivalents Used in this Report:  N1.00 = US$1.50
Weights and Measures
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric:
1  square kilometer (sq km)           0.386 square mile
1 kilometer (km)                 =    0.62 mile
I  meter (m)                     -    39.37 inches
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
SOKOTO REALTH PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:           Federal Ministry of Health
Sokoto State of Nigeria
Amount:                US$34.0 million
Terms:                 Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:       US$31.0 million of the loan would be onlent to the
Sokoto State Government on the same terms as the Bank
loan. The Borrower and Sokoto State Government would
share the foreign exchange risk on a pro rata basis.
Project Description:  The project would help expand and improve the delivery
of primary health and family planning services as well
as immunization coverage in Sokoto State. It would
also strengthen the technical advisory capacity of the
federal health authorities. At the state level, it
would include: the construction, equipping, and
staffing of about 60 health clinics and the upgrading
of 120 dispensaries; the provision of vaccines and
equipment for the immunization program; and the
establishment of an adequate training and supervision
program. At the federal level, it would provide for
equipment, technical assistance, and training. Project
implementation could be affected by inadequate
counterpart funding and a shortage of qualified female
health workers. To minimize the funding risk, the
scope of the project has been scaled down, and
stringent funding arrangements have been agreed upon.
The second risk is being reduced through the training
of female workers under the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Local       Foreign      Total
(US$ Million)
Estimated Cost:
A.  Sokoto State Activities
Primary Health Services Development             10.2          5.6        15.8
Expanded Immunization Program                    1.7          2.7         4.4
Training and Supervision                         4.0          1.2         5.2
Institutional Support, Monitoring,
and Evaluation                                 5.3          5.1        10.4
Sub-total                                       21.2         14.6        35.8
B.  Federal Support Activities                        1.3          2.3         3.6
Total Base Costs                                22.5         16.9        39.4
Physical Contingencies                           1.0          0.6          1.6
Price Contingencies                              8.8          3.2        12.0
Total Project Costs (including taxes
and duties of US$1.6 million)            32.3          20.7        53.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                            13.3         20.7        34.0
Federal Military Government                     10.9          -          10.9
Sokoto State Government                          4.4          -           4.4
Local Governments                                3.7          -           3.7
Total                                           32.3         20.7        53.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year                          1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Annual                                     1.2   3,9   5.1   7.5   9.5   6.8
Cumulative                                 1.2   5.1  10.2  17.7  27.2  34.0
Rate of Return:    (not applicable)
Staff Appraisal Report:  4599-UNI, dated February 21, 1985



- iii -
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic Data                   . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .       i
Definitions   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .    . . . .     ii
Abbreviations     . . . . .            . .
I. THE HEALTH SECTOR . . ..1
A. General Background.           . .  .  .  .   . . . . . . . .  . .  I
B.  Demographic Situation .  . .  . . . . . . . . .   . .         1
C.  Health Status . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         2
D.  The Health System.            . .  .   .  .  .   .  .   . .     . .  3
E.  Health Expenditures and Financing . . . . . . . . . .         5
II.    NATIONAL HEALTH POLICIES AND ISSUES . . . . . . . . . . .          7
A.  National Health Policies  .   . . . . . . .   . .             7 . .  7
B. National Health Issues. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          9
C.    Bank  Role   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
III.   THE PROJECT AREA  . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .   .           12
A. General Background            ..12
B. The Health Sector   . . . . . . . .   . . . .  . . .          13
C.  Key Constraints to Health Service Delivery  . . . . .        17
IV.    THE PROJECT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         19
A.  Project Objectives  .   . . . .   I . . . . . . . . .        19
B.  Project Composition .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        20
C. Detailed Features ..                                          21
V.     PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING.               .   . . . . . .        27
A. Cost Estimates   ..27
B.  Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . .        .   .       28
C. Procurement.. . . . .                                         29
D.  Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        30
E.  Budgeting, Accounts, Audit and Reporting  . . . . . .        31
VI.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION . . .         31
A.  Organization and Management of Part A .  . .   . . . .       31
B.  Organization and Management of Part B . . . . . . . .        33
C.  Project Implementation    .   . . . . . . . . .  . . .       33
VII    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . .                       34
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . .         35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. E. de Gaiffier (mission leader), B Liese, H. J. Park, Ms. L. Domingo
(Bank) and Mr. Shanahan (consultant).



- iv -
Table of Contents (cont.)
Page No.
ANNEX I      Tables
T-1         Comparative Socio-Economic Indicators    e                        37
T-2         Distribution of Deaths from 8 Principal Notifiable
Diseases - Nigeria and Sokoto State .                           38
T-3         Disease Patterns for Notifiable Diseases
- Nigeria and Sokoto State                           .         39
T-4         Health Establishments, 1981 - Nigeria and Sokoto State    40
T-5         Typical Staffing Patterns for Selected Health Facilities.   41
T-6         Federal Ministry of Health - Planned, Budgeted
and Actual Health Expenditures        . .                       42
T-7         Population, Area and Population Density
of Sokoto State by LGA Area, 1981  -  .. ...                    44
T-8         Disease Pattern: Outpatient Visits and Hospital
Admissions - Sokoto State 1980 ..45
T-9         Sokoto State Health Budgets and Expenditures, 1979-1984    46
T-10        Estimated and Targeted Immunization Coverage
in Sokoto State ...........................   47
T-11        Expected Training Load for In-Service Training  -     -           48
T-12        Key Project Indicators ............................           .   49
T-13    Detailed Project Cost Tables                      ..                  50
T-14        Estimated Schedule of Disbursements              .       .        60
T-15   Project Zones                                        .. ..      -   61
T-16    Incremental Staffing Requirements ..                                  62
T-17        Quarterly Implementation Schedule of Project Activities           64
T-18        Projected Coverage and Number of MCH and General
Outpatient Services Provided Through
Project Facilities          .. ...............   65
T-19        Incremental Recurrent Costs of Project Health Services            66
ANNEX II    Sokoto State General Background...   67
ANNEX III   Sokoto State:  Implementation of the Pilot Phase BHSS
and the Health Network Construction Programs ..... ....   69
ANNEX IV    Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project Fil .e ......  .. ....   .                              71
ANNEX V      Charts
C-1         Organization Chart, Federal Ministry of Health .72
C-2         Organization Chart, Sokoto State Ministry of Health......   73
C-3         Organization Chart, Sokoto Health Project .74
MAP
M-1       Map - Sokoto State Health Network



- v 
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Basic Data
Nigeria         Sokoto State /2
Total Area                               924,000 sq km         101,050 sq km
Total Population (mid-1982)                90.6 million      7.8 million (1983)
Density per sq km (mid-1982)                   98                  77 (1983)
Average Annual Growth of
Population (1970-82 in %)                   2.6              3.0 (est.)
Crude Birth Rate (1982)                     50/1,000             45/1,000
Crude Death Rate (1982)                     16/1,000             20/1.000
Life Expectancy at Birth (1982)                50                  n.a.
Infant Mortality Rate (1982)                  109                  140
Child Death Rate (1982)                        20                  n.a.
Total Fertility Rate (1981)                    6.9 1/              6.0
Urban Population as a Percentage
of Total Population (1981)                 21                   22
Adult Literacy Rate (1980)                     34                  n.a.
Primary School Enrollment (1981)               98                  47
Population per Physician (1980)              12,550            60,700 (1982)
Population per Nursing Person (1980)          3,010            18,800 (1982)
Daily Per Capita Supply of
Calories as Percentage of
Requirement (1980)                          91                  n.a.
Per Capita Gross National
Product (1983)                           US$760                 n.a.
/1 Results of World Fertility Survey, 1980, indicate national coverage TFR
of 6.3.
/2 Data for Sokoto is for 1981, except where otherwise stated.
Source: For Nigeria, World Development Report 1984, except as noted above.
For Sokoto State, Sokoto State Government.



- vi -
DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy Rate                 The percentage of persons aged 15 and over
who can read and write.
Child Death Rate                     Number of deaths of children aged 1-4 years
per year per 1,000 children in the same age
group in a given year.
Crude Birth Rate                     Number of live births per year per 1,000
people.
Crude Death Rate                    Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Infant Mortality Rate               Number of deaths of infants who die before
reaching 1 year of age per year per 1,000
live births in a given year.
Life Expectancy at Birth            Indicates the number of years a newborn
child would live if subject to the
mortality risks prevailing for the cross-
section of population at time of birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate              Number of maternal deaths per 1,000 births
in a given year attributable to pregnancy,
childbirth or puerperal complications.
Rate of Natural Increase            Difference between crude birth and crude
death rate; usually expressed as a
percentage.
Total Fertility Rate                 The average number of children a woman will
have if she experiences a given set of age-
specific fertility rates throughout her
lifetime.



- vii -
ABBREVIATIONS
BHSS          Basic Health Services Scheme
BHU           Basic Health Unit
CH            Community Health
CDR           Child Death Rate
CSM           Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis
EPI           Expanded Program on Immunization
FGN           Federal Government of Nigeria
FMOH          Federal Ministry of Health
FMG           Federal Military Government
FP            Family Planning
HSMB          Health Services Management Board
IMR           Infant Mortality Rate
LGA           Local Government Authority
MCH           Maternal and Child Health
PHC           Primary Health Care
PEC           Project Executive Committee
PMU           Project Management Unit
RHSMB         Rural Health Services Management Board
SHT           School of Health Technology
SMOF          Sokoto State Ministry of Finance
SMOH          Sokoto State Ministry of Health
SSG           Sokoto State Government
TBA           Traditional Birth Attendant
TRC           Training Resource Center
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA         United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
WHO           World Health Organization






NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
I. HEALTH SECTOR
A. General Background
1.01      The Federal Republic of Nigeria comprises 19 States.  Its total
land mass extends roughly 1,100 km from North to South and 1,300 km from East
to West, forming a total land area of about 924,000 sq km, about 3% of the
African continent. Although situated entirely within the tropics, ecological
and climatic conditions vary widely, ranging from semi-arid savannah in the
North to rainforest and mangrove swamps along the Atlantic Ocean in the
South. Variation in physical setting is accompanied by diversity in socio-
cultural traditions and practices that affect health conditions, perceptions
and behavior.
1.02      Economic Situation.  Nigeria's economy is dominated by the petro-
leum and agriculture sectors. In 1983, petroleum accounted for about 23% of
GNP and generated about 96% of export earnings and 62% of government
revenues. The rapid growth of oil revenues between 1973 and 1980 helped
sustain a rapid rate of economic growth averaging 7% p.a. In agriculture,
overall output remained virtually stagnant during the 1973-83 period. In
1983, average GNP per capita was estimated at $760. However, this income is
unevenly distributed. In the rural sector, estimates of agricultural income
range as low as $100 per capita per year, placing this segment of the
population among the poorest in Africa. Over the last decade, growth in oil
revenues enabled the Government to embark on massive investment programs in
basic infrastructure, large scale manufacturing and education. Other sectors
including health, benefited only slightly from increased budgetary
resources. The softening of the oil market since 1981 has resulted in a
sharp drop in government revenues, and in 1982 led the Federal Government of
Nigeria (FGN) to adopt austerity measures to constrain public expenditures,
imports and overseas borrowing.
B. Demographic Situation
1.03      Census and other demographic data are outdated and unreliable.
Over the past decade, efforts to enumerate the population have been hindered
by political and socio-cultural sensitivities linked to Nigeria's complex
ethnic composition, memories of the civil war and to the federal constitution
that heavily weights current population size in the political process and in
revenue sharing. Extrapolation of the 1963 census leads to a best estimate
of Nigeria's population in mid-1982 of 90.6 million, which makes Nigeria the
tenth most populous country in the world and most populous in Africa. The
average population density is 98 inhabitants per sq km, which is high by
Western African standards. Within the country, population densities vary
greatly, exceeding 600 inhabitants per sq km in rural areas in the Southeast
and Southwest, and falling below 30 inhabitants per sq km in large parts of
the North and Center.



-2-
1.04      Officially, Nigeria's population is represented to have been
growing at a constant rate of 2.6% per annum since the 1963 Census. However,
other estimates suggest that the growth rate might be higher. For example,
recent estimates of the National Population Commission suggest that the
growth rate for 1975-80 was over 3% per year, due to a combination of a high
and constant crude birth rate and falling death rate. Further declines in
the death rate are anticipated in the foreseeable future as a result of
higher standards of living, rising adult literacy levels and greater access
to better health services. The already high rate of population growth will
therefore rise unless fertility is significantly reduced. This prospect has
important implications for economic and social development programs in
general, and for health sector development policies in particular.
1.05      The age structure of the population is typical of a developing
country: children under 15 account for over 45% of the population. Over two
thirds of the population live in rural areas where human settlement patterns
are often very dispersed. Since the early 1960s, the urban population has
been growing at more than 5% per annum, with much higher growth in certain
urban areas. For example, Lagos has been growing at over 9% per annum and
has now reached an estimated population of over 4 million. Population
projections for the year 2000 indicate a total urban population in excess of
75 million and 15 cities of over I million inhabitants. This rapid urban
growth has become a leading economic and social issue, particularly in parts
of the South where it has accentuated demand for basic sanitation, housing,
health, education and other public services.
C. Health Status
1.06      Mortality and Morbidity.  Data on mortality and morbidity patterns
in Nigeria are unreliable and incomplete, hence must be interpreted with cau-
tion. Nevertheless, available data point to health conditions that are poor
by international standards (Annex I, T-1). Although life expectancy at birth
rose from 39 years in 1960 when Nigeria became independent to 50 years in
1982, it is still well below the average for middle income oil exporting
countries (57 years) and close to the levels prevailing among Nigeria's
poorer neighbors: Benin (48 years) and Togo (47 years). At the origin of
this low life expectancy are a high infant mortality rate, estimated at
109/1,000 live births in 1982, and a high child death rate estimated at
20/1,000 children aged 1-4 years annually, about twice the level for middle
income oil importing countries. This represents about 50% of all deaths.
Maternal mortality is high and probably exceeds 10/1,000 live births recorded
for mothers who delivered in hospitals. Four considerations help explain why
these mortality rates are high. First, the toll of infectious and parasitic
diseases is high: in 1981, about 80% of recorded deaths were due to measles,
malaria, pneumonia and diarrhea (Annex I, T-2). Second, less than 30% of
pregnant women receive any form of modern ante- and post-natal care. Third,
traditional practices, particularly for child delivery, are often medically
inadequate and hygienically inappropriate. Fourth, Nigeria's high total
fertility rate, estimated at 5.8 live births per woman in 1980, implies a
pattern of frequent and closely spaced pregnancies that have an adverse
impact on the health and nutritional status of mothers and infants.



-3-
1.07      Preventable diseases account for much of the high morbidity.
Malaria, diarrhea and measles account for over 80% of reported diseases.
Other health problems include pneumonia, gonorrhoea, whooping cough, chicken
pox, and filariasis (Annex I, T-3). Although little recent data are
available on rural-urban and inter-regional differentials in mortality and
morbidity levels, there is little in these data to indicate that the
significant differentials recorded in the 1960s and 1970s no longer persist.
1.08      Nutrition.  Available data suggest the existence of serious nutri-
tional problems, particularly among infants and young children. Poor per-
formance in the agricultural sector between 1965 and 1975 resulted in a 20%
decline in food availability per capita. In 1977, FAO estimated the average
calorie intake at 83% of the minimum requirements, placing Nigeria among the
13 nations with the most seriously inadequate food supplies. Household
consumption surveys indicate that up to 40% of rural households and 20% of
urban households have incomes that are not sufficient to meet minimum food
requirements.
D. The Health System
1.09      Organization of the Health Sector.  Nigeria's constitution of 1979
specifies that health is a concurrent responsibility to be shared by the
Federal and the State Governments. The Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) has
overall responsibility for the sector. It is organized into seven
Directorates which report to the Minister through a Permanent Secretary,
including the Directorate of National Health Planning and the Primary Health
Care Coordination Unit (see Chart C-1). FMOH establishes national health
policies and program guidelines, and monitors State and Local Government
health programs for compliance with these. In addition, FMOH has direct
operational responsibility for: (a) training medical doctors and setting
accreditation standards for all categories of health manpower; (b) operating
institutions and services of national character or common usage among the
States, including teaching, psychiatric and orthopedic hospitals; (c)
monitoring and control of contagious and communicable diseases; and (d)
control of drugs and vaccines.
1.10      In each of the 19 States, the State Ministry of Health is
responsible for planning and implementing all health programs not explicitly
reserved for FMOH. Each Ministry is headed by a State Commissioner of Health
who is responsible to the State Executive Council. Reporting to the
Commissioner is a Permanent Secretary who is the head of Service. Ministries
of Health are typically organized into a number of technical units which
report to the Permanent Secretary through a Chief Medical Officer. The State
Ministries of Health are primarily responsible for: (a) planning and
coordinating the development of the health system within the State; (b)
operating and maintaining all secondary and non-specialized tertiary level
health facilities; (c) implementing public health programs; (d) training
nursing, midwifery and auxiliary health personnel; and (e) assisting the
Ministry of Local Government and Local Government Authorities (LGAs) with the
management and operation of the network of primary level health facilities.
1.11      To assist in operating the network of State facilities and to cut
through the complex and cumbersome administrative procedures governing the
Civil Service, a Health Services Management Board (HSMB) has been created in



-4-
each State. The HSMB administers health care facilities at state level, such
as general hospitals, rural health centers and urban clinics, and coordinates
health services delivered by these facilities.  Its primary functions are
personnel administration and management of logistical support systems,
including drugs, supplies, small equipment and maintenance. It is headed by
a Chairman who reports to the State Commissioner of Health.
1.12      Within each local government area, the LGA is responsible for
operating the primary level of the health system (clinics and dispensaries),
including provision of basic outpatient and community health, hygiene and
sanitation services.  These LGA activities are coordinated through the State
Ministry of Local Governments with assistance on technical matters from the
State Ministry of Health.  In practice, most LGAs lack institutional and
financial capacity to fully carry out their mandate and the State often
provides special grants to the LGAs and also directly provides primary level
services. Within the LGA, responsibility for health and sanitation falls to
a Health and Social Welfare Councillor whose unit is typically divided into
four small sections: (a) preventive health, includling public health and
information programs and public sanitation; (b) curative health, including
the operation and supervision of health facilities; (c) leprosy treatment;
and (d) social welfare.
1.13      Health Establishments.  In the two last decades, Nigeria has made
great strides in expanding the health system. Between 1965 and 1981, the
total number of health establishments in both the private and public sectors
grew from about 3,500 to over 10,200 and the population to bed ratio declined
from over 2,000:1 to about 1,100:1 (Annex I, T-4). Tertiary level care is
provided through 7 federally-operated teaching hospitals with about 4,700
beds, 18 maternity and pediatric hospitals with about 1,600 beds, 56 special-
ized hospitals with about 3,900 beds, 705 general hospitals with about 45,000
beds and 39 leprosaria with about 1,400 beds. Secondary level care is
provided through 688 health centers with about 3,600 beds and 2,320 maternity
health centers and homes with about 14,300 beds.  Primary level care,
including community health activities and housevisiting, is primarily pro-
vided through about 3,500 dispensaries and health clinics. Primary level
care is also generally provided by outpatient facilities at hospitals and
health centers.  (See Annex I, T-5 for typical staffing patterns of health
facilities). Many of the health establishments, particularly at the primary
level, are in poor condition, undersupplied and inadequately staffed.
1.14      About 81% of health establishments and about 70% of bed capacity is
in the public sector. As is usually the case, the urban population is better
covered by the existing health network and is provided with a wider range of
health services. Private health facilities, mostly run by missionary
societies, are heavily concentrated in the southern States; for example,
private sector facilities account for 54% of health institutions and 47% of
bed capacity in Anambra State and 26% of institutions and 55% of bed capacity
in Cross-Rivers State, but contribute less than 5% of facilities and bed
capacity in Borno, Gongola, Niger and Sokoto States. The private sector is
also the major distributor of drugs, although drug availability at government
health facilities has much improved since 1975 as a result of State
Governments allocating larger budgets for this purpose.  Supporting the
formal health system in a number of southern States are pilot village health
worker programs developed under the aegis of the State Governments.



-5-
1.15      Health Manpower.  Over the past two decades, Nigeria has undertaken
a vast and successful effort to train and deploy health manpower. The number
of medical practitioners increased from about 700 in 1960 to over 8,000 by
1981 when there was one doctor for every 10,500 persons. Over the same
period, the ratio of population to nursing personnel improved from about
16,000:1 to about 1,300:1, corresponding in 1981 to about 28,000 registered
nurses, 28,000 registered midwives, 2,400 registered community midwives,
2,800 specialized nurses and about 4,000 community health (CH) assistants and
aides. There are also about 1,350 medical laboratory technologists and about
2,800 registered pharmacists. Despite these impressive gains, Nigeria still
faces a shortage of health workers if it is to provide widely accessible
primary health care (PHC) services. There is a general shortage of auxiliary
level health workers trained in public and community health activities, such
as the CH assistants and aides, and of auxiliary level medical techno-
logists. In the northern parts of Nigeria, there is also a shortage of
trained female health workers that seriously constrains delivery of maternal
and child health (MCH) and family planning services.
L.16      Nigeria's health manpower training capacity is now well developed
and capable of producing the required manpower over the medium term. In
1980, over 1,000 doctors, 3,000 nurses, 2,500 midwives, and 2,500 CH workers
received national accreditation. Deployment of health manpower follows pat-
terns of health infrastructure and favors urban populations and the southern
States. Existing health facilities, including those in rural areas, are
generally staffed with at least a minimum core of health workers.
1.17      Data on private and traditional health service providers are scarce
although the categories and numbers of traditional practitioners are known to
be large. Over the past decade, State Governments have carried out pilot
programs to provide basic training to some of the traditional practitioners,
particularly the traditional birth attendants who have been trained in simple
hygienic birth practices and the identification of high risk pregnancies for
referral to health centers and hospitals.
E. Health Expenditures and Financing
1.18      Health Expenditures.  Data on budgeted and actual health expend-
itures at the federal level are given in Annex I, T-6. In order to present
an overall picture of public expenditures on health, these data need to be
completed with data on state and local government expenditures that are for
the most part not reported on a systematic basis. Nevertheless, taking into
account partial data relating to 1981 and earlier years, a range estimate of
total (investment and recurrent) public expenditures for health in 1981
between N 8.00 and N 10.00 per capita (US$12.00 to US$15.00 at current
exchange rates) can be advanced. This level of expenditure would correspond
to about 6% to 8% of total government expenditures and 1.7% to 2.1% of GDP
compared to an average of 1.7% of GDP and a range of 1.0%-2.5% of GDP for 50
middle-income countries.
1.19      At the Federal level, capital expenditures by FMOH on health since
1975 have varied between 0.7% and 2.8% of the total capital expenditures of
FGN.  Over the six-year period 1975-1980 they amounted to N 368.6 million,
about 1.7% of total capital expenditures by FGN. In 1981 and 1982, FMOH
capital expenditures rose sharply to N 142.1 million and N 157.1 million



-6-
respectively, about 1.8% and 2.8% of the total federal investment program and
equivalent to about US$2.50 per capita at the current exchange rate. In real
terms, capital expenditures for health grew at an average of about 13% per
annum between 1975 and 1982. Over the eight-year period 1975-1982, about 62%
of the investment expenditures were made for teaching hospitals, 6% for other
federal hospitals and 26% for the Basic Health Services Scheme (BHSS)
(including training and vaccine grants to the States). National public
health programs accounted for only 1.3% of the FMOH total, while investments
in training institutions and laboratories and other supporting institutions
totalled 3.1% and 2.4% respectively.
1.20      Recurrent health expenditures incurred by FMOH doubled between
1978/79 and 1981 when they reached N 153 million, about 3.5% of FGN's total
recurrent expenditures. In real terms, recurrent expenditures grew by 47%
between 1979 and 1980, and declined by about 4% in 1981 and in 1982. As part
of the Government's austerity measures, the actual recurrent expenditures of
FMOH were held about constant in 1982, N 152 million or $2.60 per capita, and
a 7% reduction introduced in the 1983 budget, despite rising costs of
providing medical care and the impending completion of a number of federal
projects. About 88% of these expenditures represent FMOH subventions and
grants to teaching hospitals (N 109 million in 1982), other federal hospitals
(N 23 million) and health institutions (N 3 million). Salaries of FMOH staff
account for about 7% of the total and other operating expenditures about 5%.
1.21      Health Financing.  The public sector health system is almost en-
tirely financed out of budgetary resources. Partial cost recovery through
user charges for hospitalization is practiced in a few States and in federal
hospitals. Sanitary inspections and licensing fees also generate modest
revenues which accrue to general revenue. However, the Federal and State
Governments and the major political parties share the view that provision of
free basic health care to all citizens is a social obligation, despite
evidence of a considerable willingness and ability on the part of bene-
ficiaries to pay for health services. These considerations as well as the
increasing evidence that budgetary resources allocated to health will not be
able to grow at a pace commensurate with the rapidly rising cost of operating
Nigeria's health system render the study and adoption of means to broaden the
public sector's resource base a matter of priority.
1.22      External Assistance.  The rapid growth of Nigeria's oil revenues
during the past decade and its impact on per capita income have curtailed
Nigeria's need and eligibility for external assistance. As a consequence,
such assistance in the health sector has been limited. Most of what has been
made available has been channeled to technical assistance and limited support
of pilot maternal and child health (MCH) and family planning programs (e.g.
WHO-, UNICEF- and UNFPA-assisted projects). In addition, missionary
societies have continued to support health programs, many of which were
started before Independence.



-7-
II. NATIONAL HEALTH POLICIES AND ISSUES
A. National Health Policies
2.01      Since 1960, statements of national health policy have given
priority to expanding the health system, particularly in the rural areas,
developing health manpower and training capacity, and strengthening the
delivery of preventive health services. In the early years, primary emphasis
was placed on maintaining the health system inherited at Independence and on
developing sector planning capacity at the national level. The First
Development Plan (1962-68) introduced innovative pilot programs to deliver
MCH and health education services utilizing para-medical personnel. These
programs were a success and well accepted by the population. Their repli-
cation was envisaged but held up by the outbreak of Civil War in 1967. The
immediate post-war period was covered by the Second Plan (1970-74) in which
priority was given to reconstruction of health infrastructure in the war
zones. By 1975, the start of the Third Plan period, Nigeria enjoyed an
expanded health manpower base that placed increasing pressures on Government
to improve the quality and sophistication of care, particularly of hospital
care. These pressures led to a widening gap between national policy objec-
tives that continued to emphasize the need to focus efforts and resources on
basic and preventive health services and actual expenditure patterns that
showed that an increasing share of financial resources expended on capital
intensive programs oriented to curative care.
2.02      The Basic Health Services Scheme.  In order to remedy this situa-
tion, FGN commissioned a special task force to draw up a policy framework for
developing a comprehensive health system capable of meeting the health needs
of all segments of the population, and a program with specific proposals as a
vehicle to implement their policy recommendations. The task force received
support from WHO and consultants. Its recommendations were adopted by
Government in 1976 as the Basic Health Services Scheme (BHSS) and incor-
porated as the centerpiece of the health sector proposals under the Third
Plan (1975-80). The major objectives of BHSS were: (a) to improve access to
comprehensive health services, particularly in rural areas; (b) to emphasize
delivery of key preventive services at all health facilities, particularly
MCH services, including childhood immunizations and family planning; (c) to
train and deploy new cadres of para-medical community-oriented health
workers; and (d) to strengthen the management of the health system.
2.03      To implement these objectives, FMOH proposed to create a new, modu-
lar, three-tiered network of health facilities that were to be staffed by new
cadres of community health (CH) workers. Each module or basic health unit
(BHU) was conceived as a self-contained subsystem covering 150,000-200,000
people. At the BHU apex a comprehensive health center was to provide
tertiary level care. It was to be supported by three to five primary health
centers providing secondary level care. Each of these in turn was to be
supported by three to five basic health clinics and a mobile clinic to
provide primary level and community health care. To help produce the CH
workers who were to staff the BHUs, the BHSS implementation program called
for the construction in each State of a School of Health Technology (SHT).
Curricula for each category of CH worker and teacher training programs were



-8-
developed.  To provide working models for BHSS facilities, standard specifi-
cations for each aspect of the desired health system were drawn up, including
architectural plans, equipment lists, staffing patterns and work schedules
for each type of facility.
2.04      The BHSS implementation program proposed the construction over ten
years of about 285 complete BHUs to replace most of the existing health faci-
lities and 19 SHTs at an estimated total capital cost of about N 2 billion.
These costs were to be financed by FMOH. Once constructed and equipped, the
States and LGAs were expected to assume responsibility for staffing and
operating the facilities according to federal standards, but without further
financial support from the Federal Government. While the BHSS implementation
program was clear about its objectives of creating a new health system, it
was silent about the fate of the existing health system to which the State
Governments were highly committed.
2.05      Implementation of this ambitious program was constrained by three
factors: first, starting in 1977, FMOH funding was sharply cut back as part
of a succession of increasingly stringent austerity measures adopted by
Government to deal with a severe and rapid deterioration in Nigeria's finan-
cial position; second, a low level of commitment on the part of most State
Governments to what was regarded as an attempt of the Federal Government to
impose a duplicate health system that would be very costly to the States to
operate; and third, a limited construction capacity at the State level for
the type of construction adopted in the standard designs. Finally, FMOH
funding covered the construction of one SHT and one pilot BHU in each State
for which grants of about N 2 million and N 4.4 million respectively were
given to each State, as well as grants for staff training and immunization
services. Between 1976 and 1981, a total federal expenditure of N 168
million was made on the BHSS. Performance in implementing even this pilot
phase varied considerably among components and States. Most States readily
accepted federal assistance for the SHT and SHTs are operational in all
States, although some of them are still operating in temporary facilities.
Performance on the construction of the BHUs was much poorer. Most States
chose only to construct health clinics and one State, Sokoto State, placed
all its health clinics in one LGA. In other States, construction was spread
widely, and in at least one instance, never undertaken. It is estimated that
fewer than 50% of all facilities constructed have been put into operation.
2.06      Primary Health Care.  Following Nigeria's ratification of the Alma
Ata Declaration on Primary Health Care (PHC),/1 a Special Commission was set
up to review the performance of the BHSS implementation program in order to
propose how Nigeria might best achieve its PHC objectives. The Commission
concluded that the objectives and policy framework of BHSS were appropriate
but that the limited BHSS implementation programs had been a very costly
failure. As a strategy for implementing PHC, the Commission recommended
greater involvement of State and Local governments and the community in
developing health programs, full integration of existing facilities and
health manpower in the desired health system, the development of less costly,
and more appropriate facility designs and equipment lists and the adoption of
explicit evaluation criteria. These conclusions called for adjustments in
the allocation of responsibilities for health between FMOH and the States.
/1 International Conference on Primary Health Care held in Alma Ata,
Russia, 1979



-9-
2.07      In late 1981, FGN accepted the Commission's recommendations.  In
addition, FGN desired that FMOH develop a technical advisory capacity to
assist States in the design, operation and evaluation of PHC programs and,
for this purpose, expanded and upgraded the BHSS National Coordination Unit
into a Primary Health Care Unit with the rank of a FMOH directorate.
2.08      As the FMOH and State-level capacities to translate health policies
into operational programs are still weak, FMOH recognized that the success of
its decentralized strategy for PHC would depend on increasing the effective-
ness of institutional mechanisms to direct and coordinate health planning and
programming efforts, particularly at the State level. This it proposed to do
by strengthening the technical capacity of FMOH to support and provide
impetus to State-level health planning and programming efforts, and by
encouraging the State Ministries of Health to develop their planning, coordi-
nation and technical control functions, particularly with a view to the LGA
dispensary system. In the context of PHC, the emphasis on the State-LGA
relationships deserves special attention as, in practice, the LGAs have a
very limited financial and human resource base and need to rely heavily on
State support to develop and operate the primary level health facilities.
B. National Health Issues
2.09      Planning for Primary Health Care.  The strategy adopted by FGN in
1981 of decentralizing planning responsibility to the State Governments has
significant policy, institutional and manpower implications for the State
MOH's. These have, as a rule, developed a reasonable level of competence in
operating the existing health system but lack staff experienced in sector
planning and the demanding tasks involved in developing effective PHC pro-
grams. The States are making best efforts to rise to this challenge, mostly
by adapting segments of the BHSS proposals to respond to their most pressing
needs. Among the States, Sokoto State, with assistance from consultants, is
the first to have prepared a PHC-oriented health program suitable for exter-
nal financing. Nevertheless, it is widely recognized that the States will
require technical assistance to help strengthen their planning and evaluation
capacity. It is within this context and to foster consistency in approach
and efficiency in implementation that development of a technical capacity
within FMOH to provide the States with planning advice to develop and
implement PHC projects derives its urgency. The creation in 1982 of the PHC
Coordination Unit in FMOH is a first step towards developing this capacity.
A related issue affecting the State level ability to plan and implement PHC
programs is the need to better develop institutional mechanisms to involve
the local level of government that operates most of Nigeria's primary level
health facilities, in the sector planning process (see para. 3.23).
2.10      Access to Care.  Nigeria has made great efforts to expand the net-
work of basic health facilities, as evidenced by the total number of health
facilities which has increased from 3,500 in 1965 to more than 10,000 in
1981. Between 1977 and 1980, the total number of dispensaries and primary
level clinics increased from 2,109 to 3,505, and the number of MCH centers
from 1,476 to 3,220. Nevertheless, a significant proportion of Nigeria's
population still does not have reasonable access to modern health care:
studies to map the population coverage of the health system indicate that
about 15% of the urban and about 30% of the rural population do not have



-10-
reasonable access to any health facility. Aggregate data at the State level
on the ratio of population per dispensary/clinic range from about 200:1 in
Lagos State to 129,000:1 in Benue State. For eight States it lies between
20,000:1 and 30,000:1 and in 5 States it exceeds 50,000:1. Remedying this
lack of access requires opening facilities in unserved areas, as was
recognized by the BHSS policy framework.
2.11      MCH and Preventive Services.  Where the primary health system is
accessible, MCH services, including immunizations, family planning, health
education and environmental sanitation services -- essential to reduce
mortality and morbidity -- are often not available. This inadequate service
mix means that a smaller proportion of mothers and children, particularly in
rural areas, benefit from appropriate primary health care than the total
number of facilities would indicate. For example, less than 5% of pregnant
women are inoculated against tetanus, a major cause of neo-natal mortality,
only about 20% of deliveries are supervised in health facilities and less
than 30% of pregnant women receive ante-natal care. A contributing factor to
the limited provision of MCH services is a continued shortage of midwives,
particularly in the northern States where cultural patterns and low female
education standards have resulted in very few local candidates for training
programs. Nigeria is firmly committed to an expanded program on immunization
(EPI) against the six communicable childhood diseases (measles, diphtheria,
pertussis, typhoid, polio and tuberculosis) as an essential component of MCH
care. Efforts to deliver immunizations have been constrained by technical
factors, most importantly the difficulty of maintaining a fully reliable and
uninterrupted cold chain system and by administrative weaknesses in
organizing and supervising immunization programs. As a result, the number of
children who are fully protected against these diseases is low, probably less
than 30% of the target population nationally with lower figures in northern
and central areas.
2.12      Family Planning.  The Government is aware of the implications of
high population growth to development, but, given the sensitive nature of the
population issue in Nigeria and the cultural diversity of the country, it has
not yet developed a population policy with explicit demographic objectives.
The mandate of its National Population Bureau principally includes only the
enumeration of population, demographic studies and registration of vital
statistics. Coordination and delivery of family planning services are
accepted as an integral and essential component of MCH care and fall under
the responsibility of FMOH within the context of PHC. The approach to family
planning remains cautious and the Government has yet to develop a national
family planning program. Nevertheless, in the past few years, there has been
an increasing awareness of the need to regulate the size of families and the
Government has given increasing support for family planning and encouragement
to the private sector. At present, the number of family planning acceptors
remains low and is mostly limited to urban areas. It is estimated that only
about 14% of married women of reproductive ages have ever used any form of
contraception, whether modern or traditional, including abstinence. This low
acceptance may be attributable to the low education of women, high infant
mortality, inadequate MCH/FP services, and cultural and religious traditions
which frown upon the use of modern contraception. The impact of cultural and
religious traditions is particularly strong in Northern Nigeria. It is
expected that the strategy of introducing MCH services at the primary level



-11-
health facilities, the training of community health workers and traditional
birth attendants (TBAs) on family planning will help set the stage for the
gradual introduction of a nationwide delivery of modern family planning
services during the next few years.
2.13       Efficiency of Service Delivery.  Although great emphasis has been
placed on increasing the number of health workers, FMOH now recognizes the
need to improve the quality of their services as a matter of national
priority to increase their impact on health conditions. Efforts are, there-
fore, being undertaken by the State Ministries of Health to develop: (a)
technical supervision as a means of ensuring that knowledge acquired during
training is properly applied on the job and that diagnostic and treatment
skills are developed; (b) regular in-service training programs to provide
health workers with professional growth opportunities; and (c) evaluation
programs to assess the quality and effectiveness of services and training.
Improving the quality of care will lead not only to greater cost-effective-
ness in the health system but also to increased credibility of modern health
services.
2.14       One of the other factors affecting the efficiency of health service
delivery is poor logistics, including transport, particularly in the southern
States where the road network is in poorer condition. The vehicles of the
Ministries of Health are often old and lack regular maintenance. Because of
prevailing conditions, the average life expectancy of vehicles is only about
three to four years.
C. Bank Role
2.15       Bank Involvement.  Bank involvement in the health sector in Nigeria
started in 1978 with a request to include health components in the agricultu-
ral development projects for Kaduna and Sokoto States. Components to improve
access to basic health services by creating small dispensaries at farm
development centers were identified and prepared. The first project did not
immediately materialize while in the case of Sokoto State, involvement in
preparation activities led to a decision to upgrade the component into a
freestanding health project. A minor dispensary construction component was
included under the First Urban Project in Bauchi State (Loan 1267-UNI), and a
health education/hygiene promotion component under the Anambra State Water
Supply and Sanitation Project (Loan 2036-UNI). Implementation of these
components is proceeding satisfactorily with only minor delays. In addition,
government policies, performance and issues in the population, health and
nutrition sectors were studied from the standpoint of basic needs satisfac-
tion as part of the Basic Economic Mission carried out in 1979-80 (Report No.
3341-UNI).
2.16       In 1980, FGN requested Bank assistance for a freestanding Health
Project. The FGN and the Bank subsequently agreed to: (a) upgrade the health
component of the Sokoto Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2185-UNI) into
a freestanding health project that would help address major issues in
providing PHC and (b) provide technical assistance to FMOH to strengthen its
national planning and program evaluation capacity. The selection of Sokoto
State as the Bank's entry point in the health sector was justified by the
State's poor health status and its relative shortage of trained personnel and
health infrastructure as well as its long experience with pilot health



-12-
projects and the interest shown in preparing the health component under the
agricultural project.
2.17      As a complement to the Bank's involvement in the health sector,
progress had been made in the Bank's dialogue with the Federal Government on
population issues. As mentioned in para. 2.12 above, Nigeria does not have
at present an explicit population policy with demographic objectives.
Furthermore, until very recently, the Federal Government was not receptive to
discussing population and family planning issues because of their political
and cultural sensitivity. However, there has been a gradual change in
attitude in recent years as a result of a growing awareness among senior
government officials of the impact of rapid population growth on future
economic development and on public sector financing requirements.
Consequently, during a population reconnaissance mission to Nigeria in March
1983, wide-ranging discussions were held with the National Population Commis-
sion and responsible Federal ministries. Based on these discussions, it was
proposed to FGN the possibility of Bank support for a first phase of
assistance to the population sector, and this is being followed up with the
Federal Military Government (FMG). During the follow-tip mission in November
1984, a population/health project in another state was discussed. Possible
areas for Bank assistance include strengthening the population planning
capacity of the existing Federal agencies, developing the demographic and
family planning data collection, processing and monitoring capacity of the
Federal Government and providing central support to national efforts to
promote and support delivery of family planning services by both the private
and public sectors. Further support of family planning activities is also
envisaged as part of future State-level health projects.
III.  THE PROJECT AREA
A. General Background
3.01      Sokoto State is located in the Northwestern corner of Nigeria and
has a land area of approximately 101,050 sq km. It was created in 1976 out
of part of the Northwestern State. It consists of 19 LGAs. The 1983 popula-
tion of Sokoto State is officially estimated at about 7.8 million by extra-
polating the 1963 census data and is estimated to be growing at 3.0% per
annum. Annex I, T-7 presents a breakdown of the population by LGA. The
rural population (78% of the State's total) mostly live in small and highly
dispersed settlements. Population density averages 71 inhabitants per sq km
and ranges by LGA from 16 to 330 inhabitants per sq km.
3.02      Agriculture and livestock are the mainstays of Sokoto's economy.  A
Statewide Agricultural Development loan (Ln. 2185-UNI) was approved by the
Bank in June 1982 to help Sokoto State develop its agricultural potential and
raise farm production levels. The trumnk road network is relatively well
developed, allowing for adequate access to all LGA headquarters and within
most of the more densely populated areas. Access to electrical power and
treated water systems is still low, although improving due to recent govern-
ment efforts. Sanitation systems are rudimentary. Despite great efforts to
expand the education system, school enrollments remain low and constrain
recruitment of natives of Sokoto State for health training programs: 62% of
boys and 30% of girls are enrolled in primary schools and 4% of boys and 1%
of girls in secondary schools. Additional background information on Sokoto
State is presented in Annex II.



-13-
B. The Health Sector
3.03      Mortality and Morbidity.  The mortality and morbidity patterns in
Sokoto are similar to those in the country as a whole (paras. 1.06-1.07 and
Annex I, T-2 and T-3). Measles is the leading cause of death, followed by
pneumonia, tuberculosis and tetanus, reflecting the inability of the State's
health programs, particularly EPI, to cope with the situation. Mortality
levels are high: infant mortality rate is estimated at about 140/1,000 live
births, and maternal mortality rate probably significantly exceeds the
reported figure of about 10 deaths for every 1,000 institution deliveries.
3.04      The population still suffers from a number of endemic diseases
(notably malaria, leprosy and schistosomiasis), environmental health
problems, communicable and infectious diseases, maternal and child health
problems, and malnutrition. Malaria is the most frequently reported disease,
accounting for about 58% of reported cases, followed by dysentery, measles,
pneumonia, gonorrhea, whooping cough, and meningitis. Over 190,000 leprosy
patients, including about 4,500 new patients, were registered in 1980.
Parasitic and respiratory diseases accounted for over 50% of outpatient
visits in Sokoto in 1980 (Annex I, T-8). There is no reliable data on the
nutritional status of the population, although it is generally believed that
it is low and that protein calorie malnutrition is a significant problem.
Lack of knowledge among mothers on nutrition, improper dietary habits, lack
of food, prolonged unsupplemented breastfeeding, abrupt weaning and high
incidence of diarrheal diseases are implicated in poor nutritional status.
3.05      Organization of the Health Sector.  The Sokoto State Ministry of
Health (SMOH) has overall responsibility for the health sector. It is headed
by a Commissioner for Health. It is organized into eight main departments
(see Chart C-2). SMOH's principal responsibilities follow the national
pattern (see para. 1.10). In 1979, a Health Services Management Board (HSMB)
reporting directly to the Commissioner of Health was set up to take over from
SMOH the functions of operating the larger health facilities including
hospitals, health centers and urban clinics (see para. 1.11). However, the
mandate of the Sokoto HSMB does not extend to the dispensary and rural
clinics network which is operated by the LGAs. The health activities and
budgets of the LGAs are coordinated by the Ministry of Local Governments
(SMLG). In practice, SMOH has been required to provide extensive technical
and financial support to the LGA-operated health system.
3.06      Health Infrastructure.  Organization of the health delivery system
in Sokoto State conforms to a three-tiered system. Tertiary level care is
provided through a network of 10 general hospitals with 1,352 beds. Six of
these hospitals with a total of about 500 beds were constructed since 1976.
By national standards, population coverage is still low: in 1981, the popula-
tion per hospital bed was about 5,300:1, three and a half times the national
average. It will decline to about 3,750:1 when construction of the teaching
hospital attached to the University of Sokoto is completed in 1984. All
hospitals provide outpatient services that are heavily utilized, In 1981, an
average of 150-600 hospital outpatient visits were reported daily and about
600,000 visits for the year for all hospitals.



-14-
3.07      Secondary level care is provided through a network of 16 health
centers with an in-patient capacity of about 30 beds each. Half of these
centers were constructed since 1976. They are headed by a medical doctor and
include an MCH/maternity section providing for institutional deliveries,
ante- and post-natal care and immunization. In order to improve population
coverage, construction of twenty new health centers is underway and eight
more are planned by 1985, bringing the total number of health centers to 44,
or about 1 health center for every 130,000 rural inhabitants. Utilization of
the existing health centers is high, each averaging 100-250 visits daily and
20-80 deliveries monthly. The health center acts as the referral center for
the primary level facilities. Although self-referral is the rule, an average
of 20-40 patients daily are referred to the health center by lower level
facilities.
3.08      Primary level care is provided through 288 dispensaries and clinics
providing an average coverage of one primary level facility for every 25,000
inhabitants. This results from a major effort between 1976 and 1981 to
expand the primary level network through the construction of about 170
dispensaries and clinics. The distribution of the primary health network is
still relatively skewed, with population coverage by LGA varying from 1
facility per 42,000 persons in Anka LGA to 1 facility per 8,600 persons in
Yauri LGA. Furthermore, about 70 dispensaries are over 25 years old. As a
consequence, the size of the population they serve has often more than
doubled, leading to overcrowding and deterioration of facilities beyond the
point of economic repair.
3.09      MCH services are offered at hospitals, health centers and urban
clinics. In Sokoto Town, there is also a clinic specifically for women and
children. MCH services are not presently available at the dispensaries that
are the basis of the health service network. Major limiting factors are the
unavailability of trained female staff -- for cultural reasons, prevailing in
the State, only female workers can provide MCH services -- and inadequate
facilities. The SSG has adopted a three-pronged approach to address these
issues and gradually introduce MCH services at all first level facilities to
reduce infant, child and maternal mortality. First, it has begun to retrain
existing dispensary female personnel in MCH care and encourage qualified
women to follow health worker training courses. Second, it proposes to cons-
truct MCH annexes for all dispensaries. And third, recognizing that at least
80% of deliveries are carried out by TBAs, the SSG plans to broaden and
strengthen the TBA training and supervision systems developed with assistance
from UNICEF and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA).
3.10      Other public health programs include state-wide control activities
for malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy and cerebro-spinal meningitis (CSM). The
malaria program is part of a national effort and run jointly by FMOH and
SMOH. Treatment of malaria cases is provided at all health facilities.
Tuberculosis cases are treated through the regular health system and leprosy
through a network of about 256 leprosy service points. Until very recently,
CSM epidemics were a leading cause of mortality in Sokoto State. Since 1979,
SMOH has introduced mass vaccination campaigns statewide, immunizing 4.3
million people or 60% of the total population between 1979 and 1981. The
campaign, organized by the Epidemiological Unit with staff and logistical in-



-15-
puts from the LGAs, has been very effective, reducing reported cases by 90%
to 95% and reported deaths from CSM from annual levels between 75 and 600 to
the 7 and 10 deaths reported in 1981 and 1982.
3.11      Health Manpower.  Until the last decade, Sokoto State faced a
severe shortage of trained health manpower, with ratios of various categories
of manpower to population well above national averages. The gap has now been
substantially reduced, although Sokoto still falls far short of national
averages in all categories (see para. 1.15). As of 1980, Sokoto State had
108 registered practitioners and 15 pharmacists resulting in a ratio of 1
medical professional per 31,000 inhabitants. The number of registered nurses
and midwives has increased significantly, rising from about 79 in 1971 to 353
in 1980, or about 1 nursing person for every 20,000 inhabitants. The number
of auxiliary health personnel in the State also rose substantially from about
98 in 1971 to about 525 in 1980, or 1 for every 13,500 inhabitants.  While
these ratios reflect inadequate population coverage, deployment patterns are
favorable and sufficient new health workers have been trained to allow the
recently-constructed health facilities to be staffed with the minimum
personnel required for their operation. In addition to the shortage of
health workers compared to national averages, SSG is concerned by the low
proportion of female health workers who constitute fewer than 50% of nurses,
10% of CH assistants and 20% of CH aides, and is actively seeking to
encourage women to apply for health training programs.
3.12      Health Manpower Training.  Four institutions offer training for
health personnel. A College of Health Sciences, a federal institution
attached to the University of Sokoto, was opened in 1980 to train doctors,
dentists, pharmacists and (BSc) nurses. About 75 medical students are
presently enrolled in three classes. The SMOR operates a School of Nursing,
a School of Midwifery and a School of Health Technology (SHT), all located in
the vicinity of the Sokoto General Hospital. The Schools of Nursing and
Midwifery were created in 1971. Their current annual output varies between
150 and 180 registered nurses and 40 to 60 midwives, which is sufficient to
meet the immediate needs of the health system for these categories of
personnel. In addition, the one-year course for registered nurses to cross-
qualify as registered midwives is also offered. SHT was created in 1977, as
part of the national BHSS program. It replaced a Medical Auxiliary Training
School established in 1971.  SHT currently produces annually about 150 CH
aides and about 60 CH assistants who receive formal training programs of 12
and 24 months duration respectively and must pass national accreditation
examinations administered by FMOH. SHT also offers training for public
health superintendents, nursing assistants, nursing aides, leprosy aides,
laboratory assistants and pharmacy assistants. As a transitional measure it
has provided special courses to retrain existing LGA health workers as CH
assistants and CH aides. In its present buildings, SHT can handle the
anticipated need for CH workers over the next few years.
3.13      Private Sector.  As of 1981, there were four private outpatient
clinics in Sokoto State, three in Sokoto Town and one in Gusau. Little
information is available on the other private sector activities. However,
the private sector plays a major role in drug distribution. A fairly



-16-
widespread network of pharmacies exist, providing adequate acess to basic
drugs at reasonable prices in most towns. This network is complemented by
numerous drug peddlars in the market places.
3.14       Health Programs.  Since the State's creation in 1976, the health
policies of SSG have closely followed national policies. Development of the
health system has been focused on four major programs: (a) implementation of
the pilot phase of the BHSS program; (b) expansion of the secondary and
tertiary levels of the health system; (c) expansion of health worker training
programs; and (d) a mass immunization campaign against CSM. Details on the
BHSS and the health network expansion programs are presented in Annex III.
The major aspects of the training and CSM programs have already been dis-
cussed in paras. 3.10 and 3.12. In addition to the above, SSG has attached
importance to and been largely successful in improving the availability of
basic drugs and supplies both in government health facilities and by
encouraging the private sector. In particular, the supply to dispensaries
which is channelled through the LGAs has improved notably and most LGAs have
been able to obtain sufficient drugs and supplies from the SMOH medical
stores, or from private sector suppliers.
3.15       Health Expenditures.  Data on budgeted and actual health expendi-
tures by SMOH, HSMB and the LGA are presented in Annex I, T-9. This annex
also shows the share of FMOH expenditures (except for national public health
programs) incurred in Sokoto State. At the State level, capital expenditures
for health rose sharply from N 1.24 million in 1975/76 to N 4.03 million in
1978/79 and, for the six-year period 1975-1980, actual expenditures amounted
to N 14.8 million, about 4.0% of SSG's total capital expenditures. For 1981
and 1982, although significantly higher investment allocations were budgeted,
capital expenditures temporarily rose to N 8.5 million in 1981 but declined
to N 2.2 million in 1983 as a result of the austerity measures undertaken by
SSG. Recurrent expenditures for health (e.g. SMOH plus HSMB after its
creation in 1979) rose steadily between 1975 and 1982, from about N 5.0
million to N 19.0 million, a nominal growth rate of about 20% per annum,
about 10.5% per annum in real terms. Between 1978 and 1982, the average
annual growth rate was more rapid, about 30% in nominal terms and about 24%
per annum in real terms; the largest increases were for training expenses,
drugs, vaccines, and supplies. At the LGA level, health investments of about
N 1.5 million were budgeted between 1975 and 1980 and an estimated N 0.8
million expended on health infrastructure.  Since 1980, LGA investments for
health have been negligible due to resource constraints. Recurrent
expenditures for health by the LGAs have risen from about N 3.5 million in
1978 to about N 8 million (N 1.15 per capita) in 1981 and 1982. They
currently represent about 10% of total LGA recurrent expenditures.  Overall
for Sokoto State, at current levels of funding, total per capita public
sector capital expenditures for health can be estimated at US$4.70 and
recurrent expenditures at US$6.20. The level of health expenditures by SSG
and the LGAs and its steady increase over time reflect the priority attached
to strengthening health service delivery.
3.16       Over the period 1977-1981, the capital expenditures of the FMOH
served to fund the construction of an extension of the School of Health Tech-
nology, the construction and equipment of 12 primary health clinics as part
of the BHSS scheme, the College of Health Services in Sokoto and a start to
the construction of a 600-bed teaching hospital. State-level capital



-17-
expenditures in the health sector served to construct and equip six 72-bed
general hospitals and six urban clinics, as well as seven projects to upgrade
existing health facilities. In addition, the State provided subventions
covering almost half of the cost of constructing 150 LGA dispensaries. A
breakdown of the 1981 SMOH and HSMB recurrent budgets by activity reveals a
marked bias to curative care: over 75% of expenditures are incurred by the
hospitals and health centers which provide mostly curative services. Less
than 10% and 5% respectively were allocated for training and public health
activities. Broken down by expenditure category, a much more satisfactory
pattern emerges: about 45% goes to wages and salaries, about 30% to medical
equipment, drugs and supplies, about 15% to building operating and
maintenance expenditures, and about 10% to transportation and miscellaneous
administrative expenses. At the LGA level, curative care activities were
allocated about 50% of the health budget. Preventive care, environmental
sanitation and administration received about 15% each, and social welfare the
remaining 5%. Allocations by expenditure category are also satisfactory at
the LGA level: salaries and wages accounted for about 55% of the total
expenditures and drugs and dressings about 22%. From this data, it is
apparent that adequate funding is being provided for the purchase of drugs,
dressings and small equipment, the lack of which often constrains the
operations of the health system in other countries.
C. Key Constraints to Health Service Delivery
3.17      The major health constraints to health service delivery in Sokoto
State are similar to those faced by Nigeria as a whole (see paras. 2.09 to
2.14). They include: (a) insufficient access to primary health facilities;
(b) limited capacity to deliver MCH/FP services and immunizations; (c) low
quality of care due to weak technical supervision and in-service training
systems; and (d) gaps in the institutional framework for directing and
coordinating State and LGAs health programs.
3.18      Despite a rapid expansion of the network of health facilities,
notably through the construction of about 150 dispensaries and clinics
between 1976 and 1981, about one third of the population does not have access
to primary health facilities. A mapping exercise carried out as part of
project preparation led to the identification of about 60 underserved rural
areas with a catchment population of 8,000 to 15,000 people each. SSG is
committed to constructing clinics in these areas, thereby providing
reasonable access to health services for the first time to some 700,000
inhabitants and increasing the proportion of rural population with physical
access to the health system from about 65% to 80%. The remaining rural
population is too widely dispersed to justify the creation of health
infrastructure. In addition, high utilization rates in some established
dispensaries have led to overcrowding that discourages some of the potential
users of these facilities (see para. 3.08).
3.19      Although physical access to the health system is improving,
delivery of key preventive services, particularly MCH and immunization
services that can significantly reduce the incidence of deaths and diseases,
are not delivered at many primary facilities due to a shortage of suitably
trained female health workers, and in the overcrowded facilities, to a lack
of space to hold MCH consultations. Until 1980, provision of ante- and
post-natal health care and institutional deliveries was limited to hospitals



-18-
and rural health centers that could be staffed with nurses and midwives. SSG
now attaches a high priority to providing appropriate MCH care at all levels
of the health system. However, despite its training efforts (see para.
3.09), attainment of this objective is likely to be constrained by low female
enrollment ratios in primary and secondary schools.
3.20      The immunization coverage of the children in Sokoto State is still
low (Annex I, T-10). It is presently estimated that about 10%-20% of
children have been immunized against the six major childhood diseases.
Protection against specific diseases vary, ranging from about 25% for measles
to about 10% for tuberculosis and polio. This low coverage is due to weak
technical programming and control by SMOH; unreliable supplies of vaccine;
insufficient number of delivery points; and low public awareness of the need
for immunization. In order to reduce infant and child mortality and
morbidity from communicable and infectious diseases, the SSG has committed
itself to an expanded program on immunization (EPI) and set the goal of
increasing immunization coverage to about 50% by 1988.
3.21      Given its strong cultural and religious traditions, SSG's approach
to family planning is more cautious than in other parts of the country. In
particular, the Government does not advocate a transition to a small family
norm and has made limited use of the mass media and other channels to inform,
educate and communicate family planning and related population messages to
the public. Rather, family planning is viewed as a component of MCH services
but is only available in hospitals and urban clinics and provided only for
health reasons. The services offered are not fully satisfactory, however,
because they do not reach all those who could use them and the methods are
limited. Abortion and sterilization for fertility control are strictly
prohibited. Contraceptive pills is the preferred method; however, Government
supply is inadequate and the cost of pills available from the private sector
is prohibitive.  It is estimated that only about 1% of women who attend the
Sokoto Town MCH clinic are family planning acceptors.  It is believed,
however, that traditional methods of birth control are fairly widely
practiced and those who can afford it, use the services of the private
sector.  Awareness by the SSG officials of the need for family planning is
increasing. SSG has recently reached agreement with UNFPA to extend a
$345,000 Family Health project. Its major components are the provision of
contraceptives; training of midwives, primary health workers and TBAs in
family planning techniques; and the development of family planning manuals.
It is expected that these activities will facilitate the introduction of
family planning services at primary level facilities. In addition, increased
efforts to train female health workers will support a broader based delivery
of family planning during the next years.
3.22      The quality of care delivered at the primary level of the health
system could be significantly improved and its effectiveness increased if
greater efforts and resources were allocated to raising the technical know-
ledge and skills of health workers. Among the key constraints identified by
SSG are the absence of a systematic approach to technical supervision and
regular in-service training. The need for supervision and training opportu-
nities are greatest for health personnel deployed to primary facilities in
rural areas because they work under conditions of relative isolation.
Progress has been constrained by a lack of technical expertise required to
develop an in-service training program, an absence of supervisor training



-19-
programs, and the need to develop an institutional channel for SMOH to
provide technical support to the dispensary/health clinic network. As a
result, much of the present training and supervision activities are ad-hoc
and limited to administrative aspects of running a facility rather than the
technical and practical aspects of providing better health care.
3.23      Institutional Relationship between SMOH and the LGAs.  Delivery of
basic health care is primarily handled by the LGA dispensary/clinic network.
In Sokoto State, as in most of Nigeria, the LGAs are weak institutions with a
limited financial and human resource base that constrain their administrative
capacity. Conseqtlently, SMOH, within its limited resources, has been
providing the LGAs with financial and technical support. This assistance,
however, has been irregular and limited to addressing short-term problems in
view of the absence of an effective institutional mechanism which would
facilitate the coordination of and support to the LGA health facilities. The
SSG is aware of this limitation and has now recognized the need to establish
a stable institutional linkage between SMOH and the LGA through the creation
of zonal health offices. It is anticipated that these offices could form the
nucleus of a rural health services management board (comparable to the HSMB
at the State level) with the responsibility for running the primary level
health facilities. The need for such an institution is widely recognized.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01      The health project is the first in Nigeria to have been prepared by
a State Government within the new framework of PHC policies. It seeks to
implement these policies and address priority issues in a manner that is
adapted to local needs and consistent with local resource availability. It
has two major parts with distinct objectives:
First, under Part A, it aims to assist SSG in its efforts to reduce
mortality and morbidity from preventable and infectious diseases by focusing
on the first level of health care provided through the dispensary system of
the LGA in Sokoto State. In particular, it aims to increase access to and
improve the quality of primary health care by supporting: (a) an expansion of
the health network; (b) the strengthening of MCH service delivery, including
family planning; (c) expansion of the immunization program against childhood
diseases; and (d) the development of regular technical supervision and in-
service training programs. In addition, through the establishment of a zonal
management system, the project will support the development of institutional
mechanisms for SMOH to provide LGAs with technical support and to better
coordinate public sector health activities.
Second, under Part B, the project aims to strengthen FMOH's tech-
nical advisory capacity for sector planning and programming and to develop a
lasting capability for the replication and promotion of State health
activities for PHC.



-20-
B. Project Composition
4.02      In summary, the project will consist of:
Part A. Sokoto State Activities
(a) Primary Health Services Development
(i)  The expansion of the health network through the construction
of about 60 health clinics and the provision of equipment and
incremental staff.
(ii)  The development of MCH/FP services at the primary level
through the construction of about 120 MCH annexes to existing
dispensaries and provision of equipment and incremental staff.
(b) Expanded Program on Immunization
The expansion of the statewide immunization program against
communicable childhood diseases by provision of vaccines,
equipment, vehicles, technical assistance, training expenses
and funds to cover incremental operating costs.
(c) Training and Supervision
(i)  The training of about 250 female community health aides and
about 50 female community health assistants.
(ii)  The improvement of the capabilities of TBAs by training about
600 and retraining about 1,050 TBAs.
(iii) The establishment of a system for delivering regular in-
service training programs for primary health workers through
the provision of equipment, vehicles, technical assistance,
and funds to meet the incremental operating costs of a
Training Resource Center.
(iv)  The strengthening of the existing primary health worker super-
vision system through the training of about 60 LGA supervisors
and provision of funds for supervision activities.
(d) Institutional Development and Monitoring and Evaluation
(i)  The establishment of a zonal management system to strengthen
health sector management through the construction of four
zonal health offices and a project headquarters and the
provision of furniture, equipment, staff housing, vehicles,
technical assistance, funds for studies and incremental
salaries and operating costs.
(ii)  The development of a health project/program monitoring and
evaluation system through the provision of consultant
services, study funds and incremental operating costs.



-21-
Part B. Federal Support Activities
The strengthening of the technical advisory capacity of FMOH
for sector planning and programming and of its role in
fostering the preparation, implementation, evaluation
and replication of State health projects/programs through the
provision of technical assistance, equipment, vehicles,
fellowships, and study funds.
C. Detailed Features
Part A: Sokoto State Activities
Primary Health Services Development
4.03      Establishment of New Health Clinics.  As mentioned in para. 3.18,
insufficient access to primary health facilities remains a key constraint
facing Sokoto's health system. The project will, therefore, assist the SSG
in its effort to expand the coverage of health services by providing for the
construction of about 60 new health clinics which will be located in unserved
rural areas. The location of the new health clinics was based on a mapping
exercise that identified unserved areas. Each clinic will cover between
8,000 and 15,000 people living within a radius of 6 km of the proposed clinic
location.
4.04      Each health clinic will follow a standard modular design which has
been reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable. It will have a floor space
of about 150 sq m., comprising a consulting room, an MCH consulting room with
simple laboratory facilities, a waiting area which can be used for health
education and demonstration purposes, a small office space and a storage
area. The health clinics will be constructed on government land with access
to a reliable source of water. Electricity supply is of minor importance for
the functions of the clinics.
4.05       Ideally SSG desires to staff each health clinic with at least one
female and one male CH assistant, one female and one male CH aide, and two
ancillary staff. However, taking into account the shortage of female health
workers and financial constraints, the following more modest staff pattern
will initially be used for the project facilities: one CH assistant, two CH
aides (of which at least one female), and one ancillary staff. This staffing
pattern is consistent with the key functions and expected patient load of the
clinics. In line with present SSG policies, each CH assistant will be
provided with a staff house.
4.06       Upgrading of Dispensaries to Health Clinics.  As mentioned in
para. 3.19, MCH services are practically non-existent at the primary level
because of lack of trained staff and inadequate facilities. Consequently, it
is estimated that only about 30% of mothers and children in rural areas are
presently covered. The SSG recognizes this as a limitation of its rural
health service delivery. The project, as designed, will help introduce
regular MCH and family planning services at the dispensary level by providing
for the construction of MCH annexes to upgrade about 120 existing
dispensaries to health clinics. Each annex will be staffed by at least one
female CH aide to be trained under the project (see paras. 4.16-4.17).



-22-
4.07       The MCH annexes will follow a standard design which has been
reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable. Each annex will have a floor
space of 30 to 70 sq.m. depending on the type of existing dispensary. The
construction of these 120 MCH annexes is intended as the first phase of the
progressive upgrading of all dispensaries. The number included under the
project reflect the absorptive capacity and availability of incremental staff
over a five-year period.
4.08       The health clinics and upgraded dispensaries will provide key pre-
ventive PHC services, including regular ante- and post-natal care, nutrition,
health, sanitation, personal hygiene and family planning services. Immuniza-
tions against childhood diseases will be delivered at the clinics according
to a regular schedule.  Basic curative services will also be provided,
including first aid, diagnosis and management of simple infections, treatment
for fever, diarrhea, dehydration, cough, colds and wounds, and the referral
of more serious cases to health centers or hospitals. Services will be
provided both in the clinics and through community meetings and house visits.
4.09       The proposed clinics and upgraded dispensaries will cover most of
the immediate infrastructure needs at the periphery of the health system.
This will result in an estimated 80% of the rural population having physical
access to the health system compared to the present coverage of 65%. The
proportion of the population effectively using health services is expected to
increase from 30% to 60% due to improved service delivery, and for MCH
services from 30% to 50% in the catchment areas of the project facilities.
Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI)
4.10       As mentioned in para. 3.20, the SSG has now set the goal of
increasing immunization coverage from the present 10-20% of population at
risk to about 50% by 1988. Immunization forms part of regular MCH services;
however, it requires special attention and the full support of health
authorities if the stated EPI goals are to be rapidly achieved. This need is
recognized as well by WHO which itself has established an international sup-
port program for EPI within the context of PHC. The project design reflects
SSG's concern to focus on EPI as a priority program requiring special techni-
cal support. The project will assist SMOH implement an integrated statewide
immunization program by increasing the number of static vaccination points,
supporting the existing mobile units, establishing and maintaining an
effective cold chain, and strengthening management and supervision.
4.11       To increase the immunization coverage, the project will establish
static vaccination delivery points in about 240 health facilities throughout
the state over a five-year period. These services will be provided at
hospitals, health centers, and clinics. About 80 delivery points will be
established during the first year and about 40 more points each year
thereafter. The project will provide vaccines to augment the presently
inadequate and irregular supply from the federal government. Vaccinations
will be given by existing facility staff who will receive additional training
in vaccination procedures.   The vaccination schedule has been reviewed by
the mission and found satisfactory. In addition to the static delivery
points, the existing four zonal mobile units will be strengthened to provide
regular immunization services to the population living in areas remote from
static points. Each mobile unit, presently consisting of a team leader,



-23-
three vaccinators and one driver, will be provided with a vehicle. The
schedule of each mobile team will provide for sessions at regular intervals
not more than three months apart. The number of vaccinations performed by a
team is estimated to average 300 a day. The areas of coverage of the four
mobile teams will gradually decrease as static delivery points become
operational.
4.12      To ensure that potent vaccines are readily available at all vacci-
nation points, a cold chain will be established consisting of a State store
to be located at the EPI Headquarters and four zonal stores. To help
organize the operation of the cold chain and develop a system for its
maintenance, about six man-months of technical assistance will be provided.
Additionally, two cold chain officers will be appointed who will be
responsible for monitoring and repairing the cold chain equipment. They will
make monthly visits to vaccine stores and be responsible for training and
supervision of storekeepers and for repair or replacement of equipment. One
maintenance technician for each of the zonal stores will be trained and
appointed under the project.
4.13      To implement the program, the small existing EPI sub-unit in SMOH
will be expanded into an EPI Headquarters, and four zonal EPI units will be
established. The EPI Headquarters will be provided with equipment, incre-
mental staff, three vehicles, and about ten man-months of consultant services
to enable it to effectively carry out the following tasks: (a) statewide
planning and coordination; (b) procurement of cold chain equipment; (c)
organization of staff training, reporting, surveillance, and health informa-
tion activities; (d) training of all EPI supervisors; and (e) operation of a
State EPI store. The staff will be located at the project headquarters in
Sokoto (see para. 6.C4) and will comprise an internationally recruited chief
EPI coordinator, one assistant EPI coordinator, one statistician, one
storekeeper, and support staff.
4.14      The four new zonal EPI units, which will form part of the Zonal
Health Offices (para. 6.04), will be responsible for the implementation of
the EPI in their respective zone. They will (a) obtain vaccines from the
State store and distribute them to health facilities in the zone; (b)
initiate the gradual establishment of static vaccination points and subse-
quently supervise vaccination activities at these points; (c) train clinic
staff in vaccination procedures; and (d) operate the mobile team assigned to
the zone. Each zonal unit will be provided with equipment, two vehicles, and
funds for training and incremental salaries and operating expenses. Each
will be staffed by a zonal EPI coordinator, two zonal EPI supervisors, one
storekeeper, a maintenance technician, and three drivers.
Training and Supervision
4.15      As discussed in para. 3.22, the SSG recognizes that its goals of
increasing the coverage of primary health services and broadening and expand-
ing its scope will be difficult to attain without a sufficient number of
adequately trained staff. Accordingly, the SSG is taking steps not only to
increase the number of its health staff but to improve its quality, as well.
To these ends, the training and supervision component of the project will
consist of: (a) pre-service training of female CH assistants and aides; (b)
training and retraining of traditional birth attendants; (c) development of a
technical supervision system for the primary health network; and (d)
in-service training of trainers, supervisors and clinic staff.



-24-
4.16      Community Health Assistants and Aides.  The operation of new health
clinics and MCH annexes will require additional health staff, particularly CH
assistants and aides. As discussed in para. 3.09, given the cultural prac-
tices in Sokoto, most MCH and family planning services can only be delivered
by female workers. Appropriately trained female health workers, however, are
in short supply. To address this problem and to help staff the project faci-
lities, the project will reimburse the LGAs for the cost of the pre-service
training of about 50 female CH assistants and about 250 female CH aides.
While these numbers will not bring the required female staffing to full
strength (i.e. one female CH assistant and one female CH aide per PH clinic),
they represent a realistic estimate of what can be achieved through a
concerted effort to recruit candidates for each course. A list of candidates
will be drawn up by each LGA and students will be selected on the basis of
the standard admission criteria of the Sokoto School of Health Technology
(SHT) where the courses will be held. The course will last two years for the
CH assistants and one year for the CR aides. The curricula and SHT's
training capacity were reviewed by the mission and found satisfactory.
4.17      After completion of training, these CH assistants and aides will be
posted at the PH clinics. The CH assistant will be expected to provide ante-
and post-natal care and immunization, advise mothers on breast feeding,
family planning, health education, and nutrition. The CH aide will assist
the CH assistant in clinic work and will carry out homevisiting to identify
malnourished children, inform mothers about immunization needs, identify
cases of infectious diseases, and provide health and personal hygiene
education and advise mothers on family planning.
4.18      Traditional Birth Attendants (TBA).  Since the majority of births
are and, for the foreseeable future, will continue to be assisted by TBAs, it
is essential to improve their skills and knowledge. The project will,
therefore, support SSG's ongoing program to train 600 additional TBAs and to
provide refresher training to 1,050 TBAs already trained. The training
programs are envisaged as a continuous effort to improve the skills of TBAs,
to keep them in regular contact with health clinics to facilitate referrals
and health education in the community, and to replenish TBA delivery kits.
Through this training, the role of the TBA will be expanded to promote
utilization of MCH/family planning services and community health programs.
4.19      The basic training will last for two weeks and will be conducted at
the zonal training units by a midwife and a CH assistant who have already
been previously trained as TBA trainers. Refresher training will last two
days and will be conducted at the health clinic by the CH assistant and the
CH aide. Each TBA will receive refresher training at least once a year.
Specifically, the project will provide support for training materials,
delivery kits, and training expenses.
4.20      In-Service Training.  Although the SSG recognizes that in-service
training is necessary to improve the efficiency and quality of health
services, it does not have adequate resources for a full-fledged in-service
training program for all health staff. As a consequence, most of the primary
level health staff in Sokoto remain in post for many years without receiving
any in-service or refresher training. Many are also without adequate
knowledge of PHC and family planning services and techniques. To develop a



-25-
cohesive and comprehensive in-service training program, the project will
establish four zonal training units and a training resource center (TRC).
The TRC will design and organize the in-service training system and train the
trainers and supervisors. It will also be responsible for the preparation and
production of training materials and for the evaluation of training
activities. The TRC will be staffed by a chief training coordinator, to be
internationally recruited, an assistant coordinator, a graphics officer, a
communications officer, and support staff. The center will be provided with
adequate office space, a training room and facilities for the production of
training materials at the PMU headquarters (para. 6.04). The TRC staff will
largely be recruited from the experienced SMOH staff as well as from the
faculty of the College of Health Sciences and the paramedical schools in
Sokoto. Specifically, the project will finance vehicles, incremental
salaries and operating expenses.
4.21      The zonal training units, with guidance and support from TRC, will
provide regular in-service training for LG supervisors, CH assistants, CH
aides, dispensary attendants, dressers and other paramedical staff (Annex I,
T-11). The TRC will develop and produce health, family planning and
nutrition education materials to inform and educate Government officials,
village leaders and the general public about prevailing health and nutrition
problems, methods of identifying, preventing and controlling diseases and
malnutrition, and to enhance awareness of the importance of family planning.
Special courses on vehicle and equipment maintenance will also be given to
relevant staff.  The aim of the in-service training will be to impart new
skills, maintain interest, motivate and reinforce skills already learned, and
develop teamwork. The ZHO trainers will be drawn from the supervisory staff
of the LGAs (para. 4.18). Each zonal training unit will be staffed by a
training coordinator, a training officer, an administrative officer and
support staff. As mentioned in para. 4.19, a midwife, a CH assistant and a
CH aide responsible for TBA training will also be based in the ZHO. No
difficulties are anticipated in recruiting these staff. The zonal training
units will form part of the zonal health offices (para. 6.04).
4.22      Supervision System.  The establishment of an efficient and
technically oriented supervision system to complement the regular in-service
training program is regarded as critical to improving the effectiveness of
the health system. As mentioned in para. 3.22, the LGA supervisors are
presently not adequately trained to supervise the operations of health
clinics, particularly the MCH, family planning, and community and household
visiting activities, nor do they have the knowledge and teaching skills to
undertake in-service training of clinic staff. Consequently, present
supervision activities tend to be irregular, superficial and focused mainly
on administrative matters.
4.23      To reorient and strengthen the LGA health supervision system, the
existing LGA supervisors will be trained in management and supervision
methodologies and a selected number of technical topics by TRC staff. An
additional 60 LGA supervisors will be recruited from existing rural health
superintendents and CH assistants with field experience of at least two
years. To qualify them as LGA supervisors, they will be given a one-year
formal training at one of Nigeria's medical schools. The curriculum and
capacity of these institutions have been found to be satisfactory. Upon
completion of training, the LGA supervisors will oversee the programming of
work at the LGA facilities, timely provision of necessary equipment and



-26-
supplies, drugs and collection of monthly statistical reports. A ratio of
one supervisor to eight facilities will allow regular visits to health
facilities to be scheduled at least twice a month.
4.24      About 18 man-months of short-term consultancy services will be
provided for the preparation of detailed training and supervision materials
and for program evaluation.
Institutional Support
4.25      Institutional Development.  To strengthen the SMOH's coordination
and project implementation capacity, the project will introduce a zonal
management system and establish four zonal health offices (ZHO). These will
be supported during the project implementation period by a project management
unit (PMU) within the SMOH. The institutional development features of this
component are discussed in detail in Chapter VI of this report. Specifically,
the project will provide for the construction, furnishing and equipping of
four ZHOs, a PMU headquarters, staff housing, about 22 vehicles and
incremental salaries and operating expenses. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that maintenance arrangements satisfactory to the Bank will be
applied by PMU for the operation of vehicles provided under the project.
4.26      Monitoring and Evaluation.  To evaluate the project's progress and
impact and to provide adequate data for health planning, the project will
establish a state-level monitoring and evaluation capability within PMU which
could form the basis for a State-wide management information system for the
health sector. Specific project investments will include the services of an
evaluation specialist and an epidemiologist (about 24 man-months),
incremental salaries and funds to carry out sample surveys. Sample surveys
will be undertaken to determine inter alia actual vaccination coverage,
changes in prevalence of tracer diseases such as neo-natal tetanus, and
validation of data obtained from routine reporting. Annex I, T-12 shows the
key evaluation indicators envisioned.
Part B: Federal Support Activities
4.27      Although the basic policy framework for developing the health sys-
tem and increasing its operational efficiency to attain Nigeria's objective
of providing universal access to PHC has been in place since 1976, progress
towards realizing it has been slow. This may, in part, be attributed to the
limited capacity of FMOH to support the State-level health sector planning
and programming process with appropriate guidelines, technical assistance and
practical advice. To help FMOH fill this gap and to support and accelerate
the development and operationalization of PHC programs by the 19 States, the
project will strengthen the PHC planning and program evaluation capacity of
FMOH through the provision of about 120 man-months of long-term technical
assistance and about 60 man-months of short-term consultancies.
4.28      The long-term advisors will include a health planner, a health
economist and a statistician and the short-term advisors will be sought for
project evaluation, logistical systems, health manpower planning, and PHC
implementation. Since FMOH will be providing technical support it is
important that highly trained and experienced staff be recruited. With the



-27-
exception of the statistician, it is expected that all the above advisors
will be internationally recruited. The major tasks of the team consisting of
the health economist, the health planner and the statistician will be to help
FMOH develop methodologies for estimating and comparing the costs of
providing various types of PHC at the State level. As mentioned in para.
1.19, the public sector health system is almost entirely financed out of
budgetary resources, despite evidence of considerable willingness and ability
to pay for health services. In the face of growing economic constraints, the
health sector will undoubtedly be confronted with a key issue of finding
sufficient funding for its primary health care program. One of the first
tasks of this team will therefore be to carry out a study of health financing
and possibilities for increased cost recovery in the health system. Draft
terms of reference for this study were agreed upon during negotiations and
assurances obtained that it will be completed by May 31, 1987. The health
manpower advisor will play a role in examining the scope for streamlining the
health manpower system, the need for modifying existing training programs and
national accreditation standards to reflect experience gained in the
deployment of the community health assistants and aides. The evaluation
advisor will focus on assisting FMOH develop criteria for States to evaluate
the health impact of their ongoing health programs, particularly at the
primary service level. He will also help develop materials to inform policy
makers of actions and programs in other sectors that can have a significant
health impact. Draft terms of reference for these consultants were agreed
upon during negotiations.
4.29      In order to support and institutionalize the knowledge and experi-
ence that will be provided through the advisory services, FMOH has agreed to
assign staff to work closely with the advisors. Vehicles and office equip-
ment as well as funds for workshops for State health officials are included
in the project, as are six fellowships for overseas training in health plan-
ning, economics and evaluation methodologies. The project will also provide
funds to help States prepare future health projects and to prepare a strategy
for creating within FMOH an institutional capacity to provide technical and
financial assistance for projects meeting federal guidelines and standards.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      The total project cost is estimated at US$53.0 million equivalent
(including taxes estimated at US$1.6 million), of which about US$20.7 million
(39%) is the foreign exchange component. Total project costs include US$10.8
million in incremental operating costs that will be incurred by the State and
local health authorities of Sokoto State over the implementation period. A
summary project cost-table is presented below. Detailed cost tables are
presented in Annex I, T-13.



-28-
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(NAIRA '000)                  (USS '000)             Z o
- ------------------   -         ------------------        Furuibl   % of Tot.l
Local   Foruign   Total    Local   Forvimk,   Total   Egclqui Saw Co-tt
A. SOKOTO STATE
1. PRIMARY HEALTH SERVICES
NEU HEALTH CLINICS                                                   2,813.4  1,243.2  4,056.6  4t218.0  1,863.9  6,081.9           30.6        15.5
UPGRADED CLINICS TYPE A                                                454.8    277.2    732.0    681.9    415.6  19097.5           37.9          2.8
UPGRADED CLINICS TYPE 3                                              1,922.1  1P184,4  3,106.5  2,891.7  1.775.7  49657.4           38.1         11.8
STAFF HOUSING                                                        1,570.8  1,047.2  2,619.0  2031.0  1.570,0  3,925.0            40.0         10.0
Sub-Total PRIMARY HEALTH SERVICES                                        6,761.1  3,752.0 10,213.1 10i136.6  5,625.2 15,761.8           35.7        40.0
2. STAFF TRAINING                                                        2o671.6    782.0  3h453.6  4,005.4  1,172.4  5,177.8           22.6        13.2
3. EXPANDED PROGRAN OF IMMUNIZATION                                      1,152.3  1,796.4  24948.7  1i727.6  2.693.2  4,420.8           60.9        11.2
4. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT , IONITORIN6 AND EVALUATION
FROJECT MANAGEMENT HEADOUARTERS                                      2,582.8  2,641.1  5,223.9  3i872.2  3,959.7  7,831.9           50.6         19.9
ZONAL HEALTH OFFICES                                                   963.2    782.4  1,745.6  1,444.0  1,173.1  2,617.1           44.9          6.6
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT, MiONITORING AND EVALUATION              3,545,9  3,423.5  6,969.5 5  316.3  5.132.8 10,449.0           49.1        26.5
Sub-Total SOKOTO STATE                                                     14,131.0  9,753-9 23,884.9 21,185.9 14,623.5  2,809.4           40.8        91.0
D. FEDERAL MINISTRY OF HEALTH
1. NATIONAL HEALTH PLANNING AND EVALUATION                                 089.4  1i481.8  2,371.2  1.333.4  2t221.6  3.555.0           62.5         9.0
Sub-Total FEDERAL MINISTRY OF HEALTH                                          889.4  It481.8  2,371.2  1,333.4  2,221.6  3,92.0            62.5         9.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                         15,020.4 11,235.7 26s256.1 22X519.4 16,845.1 39.361.5           42.8       100.0
Phosical Contingencius                                                       648.2    432.2  1,090.4    X71.9    617.9  1X619.8           40.0         4.1
Price Contingencies                                                        5.8s508  2,072.7  7,926.5  8P771,8  3.212.0 11983.8            26.2        30.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                          21,519.5 13,743.5 35,263.0 32,263.1 20,705.0 52,968.1           39.0       134.3
-    ,= -----   -  ,,=  -     ------==,   - -- - ----------- :-    ------- -   ----. .=-:-
5.02                  Project costs are expressed in December 1983 prices.  Cost esti-
mates for civil works are based on recent contract awards for similar works
in Sokoto State.  Building space allowances and construction standards were
reviewed to ensure that functional requirements were met at least cost,
taking into account locally prevailing conditions in the construction sec-
tor. Medical equipment lists and costs are appropriate based on comparisons
with standard lists and prices developed by UNICEF, The costs of in-service
training programs are based on prevailing SSG allowances for local travel and
per diem, plus the estimated cost of materials. Other incremental operating
costs were derived from budgeting standards applied by SSG which were
reviewed and found acceptable. The contingency allowance of US$13.5 million
includes: (a) physical contingencies of 10% on the base cost of civil works;
and (b) price contingencies obtained by applying the following annual infla-
tion rates: on foreign costs, 3.5% in 1984, 8% in 1985, and 9% thereafter;
and on local costs 22% in 1984, and 14% thereafter.
B. Project Financing
5.03                  The proposed Bank loan of US$34.0 million will finance 66% of total
project costs net of duties and taxes. It will cover the full foreign
exchange component of the project and about US$13.3 million equivalent or 41%
of the local costs. The overall financing plan would be as follows:



-29-
Financing Plan (in US$ millions)
FMOH         SMOH        LGA         Loan
Project Component          Amt.  %      Amt.  %      Amt.  %    Amt.   %   TOTAL
Part A - Sokoto State        9.4  20     2.8   6      3.7  8    31.1   66   47.0
Part B - Federal             1.5  34      -            -          2.9   66    4.4
TOTAL (net of taxes)       10.9  21     2.8   6      3.7  7    34.0   66   51.4
Taxes                         -   -       1.6   -      -   -       -    -      1.6
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the FMG shall make adequate
budgetary provisions for its contributions to Part A of the project.
Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that SSG shall cause the
LGAs to make adequate budgetary provisions for its contributions to Part A of
the project.
5.04      The proposed Bank loan of US$34.0 million will be made to the
Federal Military Government (FMG). Of this amount, US$31.0 million
equivalent will be on-lent by FMG to the SSG on the same terms and conditions
as the Bank loan under a subsidiary loan agreement between FMG and SSG. The
FMG and SSG would share the foreign exchange risk on a pro rata basis. The
execution of this subsidiary loan agreement is a condition of loan effective-
ness. Retroactive financing up to US$0.2 million is recommended to help
cover eligible expenditures incurred after December 31, 1984 to facilitate
start-up activities, such as the recruitment and posting of key expatriate
project staff (which are necessary and time-consuming preconditions for
project implementation).
C. Procurement
5.05      Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in the
table below:



-30-
Type of Procurement
(in US$ millions)
Type of Procurement              Total Cost
including
Project Element            ICB        LCB      Other       N.A.      Contingencies
Land Acquisition            -           -        -         0.1              0.1
Civil Works                           22.2       -          -              22.2
(-)      (18.9)       -          -            (18.9)
Vaccines, Vehicles,
and Equipment           2.0         2.8       0.3         -              5.1
(2.0)      (2.4)    (0.2)        (-)            (4.6)
Advisory Services and       -           -         -        3.8              3.8
Fellowships              (-)        (-)       (-)       (3.8)           (3.8)
Studies, Training and
Recurrent Cost            -          -         -        21.8            21.8
(-)   (-)    (-)       ~~(6.7)         (6.7)
Total                      2.0        25.0       0.3      25.7             53.0
(2.0)     (21.3)    (0.2)    (10.5)            (34.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts that would be
financed by the bank loan.
5.06       Civil Works.  Civil works contracts amounting to US$ 2 million or
more will be let following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures
and others will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB)
conducted according to current Government practices which are acceptable to
the Bank. All civil works contracts under the project, totalling about
N 10.8 million (or US$16.2 million), are small and widely scattered
geographically and over time. The average value of the contracts will be
about US$400,000; only one contract will be over US$1 million.
5.07      Goods.  Contracts for the supply of equipment, vaccines,
and vehicles for US$300,000 or more will be procured through ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines. LCB in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank will be employed for contracts estimated to cost
US$60,000 or more but less than US$300,000. For contracts of less than
US$60,000, local competitive shopping will be used. Items for procurement
will be bulked to permit optimum use of competitive bidding. Domestically
manufactured goods would be allowed a 15% preference or the applicable import
duty, whichever may be lower, when comparing bids with those of foreign
manufacturers in procurement under ICB.
5.08       Technical Assistance.  Approximately 420 man-months of long-term
and 112 man-months of short-term consulting services will be required to
assist in specific areas where local skills are unavailable, or where there
is a need for short-term consultants (paras. 4.26, 4.28, 4.29, and 6.05).



-31-
The consultants will be hired individually or through firms. It is expected
that international consultants will provide the main input, but efforts will
be made to encourage local firms to participate, wherever skills are
available in the country. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
consultants will be engaged with qualifications, experience and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
5.09      Contract Review.  The threshold for the Bank's prior review of
civil works contract documentation and award recommendations will be set at
US$400,000. All civil works contracts below this amount will be subject to
post award review by the Bank. Contracts for items to be procured through
ICB (US$2.0 million) will be subject to the Bank's prior review of docu-
mentation and award recommendations; all other contracts will be subject to
review by the Bank after contract award.
D. Disbursements
5.10      The Bank loan will be disbursed as follows:
Category I      90% of the cost of civil works (US$14.6 million);
Category II(a) 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expendi-
tures for equipment, vehicles, vaccines and other
supplies for Part A (US$4.1 million);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expendi-
tures for equipment and vehicles for Part B (US$0.1
million);
Category III   100% of the cost of salaries and allowances of inter-
nationally recruited staff and of consultant services
for Part A (US$3.2 million);
Category IV    100% of the cost of consultant services and fellowships
for Part B (US$2.6 million);
Category V      60% of the local expenditures for training, incremental
staff salaries and operating costs for PMU and 4 ZHOs
(US$5.1 million); and
Category VI    Initial deposit into Special Account (US$1.0); and
Category VII   An unallocated amount of US$3.3 million.
Disbursements against Category V will be on a declining scale. Disbursements
for expenditures under all categories will be made against full
documentation, except for expenditures under Category V which will be made
against statements of expenditures certified by the PMU. The supporting
documentation will be retained by PMU but made available for inspection by
the Bank. A schedule of Bank loan disbursements is given in Annex I, T-14.
E. Budgeting, Accounts, Audit and Reporting
5.11      Project Accounts.  As many projects in Nigeria have suffered from
inadequate and late inflows of funds, the following arrangements will be
made. The SSG will establish a special project account with a commercial



-32-
bank for Part A of the project. SSG and FMG will each pay their respective
contributions into this account quarterly and in advance, in accordance with
the approved annual budgets.  In the event that the project does not receive
timely funding from SSG, FMG will be authorized to pay directly to the proj-
ect's commercial bank account that part of the State's statutory allocation
corresponding to its agreed financial support for the project. The PMU will
also be authorized to establish overdraft facilities of N 0.5 million,
guaranteed by SSG. A revolving fund equivalent to the anticipated amount of
Bank disbursements during the ensuing three months, but not exceeding US$1.0
million equivalent, would be paid into a special account to be opened by SSG
in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The
Bank reimbursements will be paid directly into the special account. The
Bank, however, may refrain from making further deposits into the revolving
fund upon failure of SSG and FMG to pay their respective contributions to the
project account. The opening of the project account and the guaranteed
overdraft facilities will be conditions of loan effectiveness. In addition,
the FMG will also establish a similar account with the Central Bank of
Nigeria for Part B of the project.
5.12      The PMU and FMOH will maintain separate accounts for all project
expenditures in respect of each Part of the project. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the accounts for each Part of the project will be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that
copies of the audited accounts will be submitted to the Bank not later than
six months after the end of the Government's fiscal year. The auditors will
also check the reliability of the statements of expenditures and include a
statement to that effect in the annual audit reports. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the PMU and FMOH will submit at regular
intervals progress reports to the Bank consisting for each component of their
respective Part, budgeted and actual expenditures and statements of progress
achieved.
VI. PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
6.01      Part A of the project will be implemented by SMOH and Part B by
FMOH. The administration and implementation of each Part will be the
separate responsibility of the respective agencies. The project has been
designed so that the FMOH activities (Part B) will complement and help repli-
cate the experience gained under Part A of the project, thereby strengthening
institutional linkages in the health sector.
A. Organization and Management of Part A
6.02      Project Coordination.  SMOH will have overall responsibility for
implementation of Part A of the project. However, operation of the project
health facilities will be carried out by the LGAs under the supervision of
the SMLG. It is important therefore to ensure proper coordination between
these agencies and to establish an effective mechanism for policy guidance
and implementation monitoring that actively involves the local government
system. For this purpose, SSG will establish a high level Project Executive
Committee (PEC) that will replace the steering coimmittee established in 1981
to oversee the preparation of the project. The PEC will be chaired by the



-33-
Commissioner of Health and include as members the Permanent Secretaries of
SMOH, SMLG, the Ministries of Economic Planning and Finance, the project
managers of the project and the Sokoto Agricultural Development Project, as
well as four representatives of the LGAs. The PEC will be responsible for:
(a) determining operational policies in respect of project execution,
particularly to implement PHC, (b) coordinating relevant activities between
entities involved, (c) reviewing project implementation and approving annual
action plans and budgets, (d) approving contracts exceeding N 100,000, and
(e) appointing senior project staff.
6.03      The PEC will be empowered to form technical sub-committees as
required for project implementation, including a permanent sub-committee on
staff recruitment and deployment comprising the project manager and a maximum
of four other members to advise on the selection and appointment of all
project staff and to review disciplinary actions and labor disputes.
6.04      Project Management.  The project will be managed by PMU functional-
ly integrated into the SMOH's structure and working through four ZHOs to be
established. As shown in Chart C-3, the PMU will comprise four sections: a
general administration unit, a construction unit, a training resource center,
and an EPI center. Each ZHO will serve about 4-6 LGAs and will be res-
ponsible for: (a) the coordination of all health activities of the LGAs under
its jurisdiction; (b) the development and implementation of an in-service
training program; (c) the development of a technical supervision system for
LGA health facilities; (d) the implementation and technical supervision of
immunization activities, including the supply and distribution of vaccines.
The zones were delineated based on population size, the number of health
facilities and easy road access within the zone. The delimitation of the
zones and the locations of the ZHOs are given in Annex I, T-15 and shown in
Map M-1. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the ZHOs will be
established and fully staffed by May 31, 1986.
6.05      As in other parts of Nigeria, staff with experience in managing
development programs are in short supply in Sokoto State. Experience from
ongoing agricultural projects suggests that the shortage is most pronounced
for senior and middle managers. The project has therefore been designed in a
manner that limits recruitment of new project management staff to a maximum
of 13 positions (Annex I, T-16). Of these, the project manager, the
financial controller, the chief architect, the EPI coordinator and the
training coordinator may need to be recruited internationally. The
appointment of the project manager, the deputy project manager and the
financial controller is a condition of loan effectiveness. Based on
experience, SMOH is likely to face little difficulty in identifying and
recruiting suitable candidates. The internationally recruited staff and
consultants will be engaged with qualifications and experience and according
to terms of reference and contract satisfactory to the Bank. Detailed job
descriptions for senior staff have been developed and were found
satisfactory.
6.06      By the end of the project, the technical capacity of PMU will have
been strengthened and a pattern of coordinated operations established. At
that time it is anticipated that the technical functions of the TRC and
Construction Unit will be effectively continued as part of SMOH's regular
structure. The PEC, the remainder of the PMU and the four ZHOs are expected
to form the nucleus of a proposed rural health services management board



-34-
(RHSMB) with responsibility for managing the LGA health facilities not
covered by the existing HSMB. The formal mechanisms for the transfer of
responsibilities and the specific institutional arrangements under which the
RHSMB will operate will be determined during project implementation, taking
into account both developments in the rapidly evolving LGA system and
experience under the project in implementing the zonal management system. By
project completion, it is also anticipated that the senior Nigerian staff of
the PMU will have acquired sufficient on-the-job training and experience to
take over from the international staff provided under the project.
B. Organization and Management of Part B
6.07      The Permanent Secretary of FMOH will have overall responsibility
for implementing the technical assistance component. He will be responsible
for approving budgets and work programs, overseeing implementation, and, as
Accounting Officer for FMOH, approving the award of all contracts. He will
also operate the subproject account into which the FMG contribution and loan
disbursements will be paid. The National Health Planning Directorate and the
Primary Health Care Coordination Unit will each be responsible for preparing
a detailed budget and work program for recruiting the advisers to be attached
to them and for selecting the recipients of the overseas fellowships.
6.08      To facilitate the recruitment and to attract qualified staff for
the advisory positions, UNDP has agreed to act as the administrative agent
and service the contracts under prevailing arrangements that include the
provision of housing and the purchase of vehicles and office equipment.
Responsibility for the technical supervision will remain with the FMOH. The
advisers will be recruited with qualifications and experience and according
to terms of reference and contracts satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Project Implementation
6.09      The project will be implemented over a five-year period (Annex I,
T-17). Project implementation arrangements are already underway. Draft
terms of reference for the key staff to be recruited internationally have
been agreed upon. Preliminary sketches for the project headquarters, the
four zonal health offices and the MCH annexes and standard architectural
designs for the health clinics and staff housing are available and have been
reviewed. SMOH is already in possession of the site for the project head-
quarters. No difficulties are foreseen in obtaining appropriate sites for
the ZHOs and the clinics. The project is expected to be completed in
July 1990.
6.10      The civil works component will be managed and supervised by the
construction unit of PMU. This unit will prepare plans, tender documents and
contracts, and will supervise construction. To carry out construction super-
vision, a site inspector and a construction supervisor will be assigned to
each ZHO. The shortage of qualified construction firms willing to work on
small dispersed works, the absence of private firms capable of assuring
adequate work supervision and control and an over-extension of the Ministry
of Works and Transportation staff whose responsibilities extend primarily to
much larger scale works accounts for the decision to create a small construc-
tion supervision capacity under the PMU.



-35-
VII. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      Justification.  The proposed project directly addresses two of the
most pressing problems facing the health authorities in Nigeria: (a) the
development of an affordable, widely accessible and efficient system to
deliver the basic health services that could accelerate improvements in the
health status of the population; and (b) the development of FMOH's role in
the preparation, evaluation and replication of State health programs for PHC,
including the Sokoto health project.
7.02      Part A will provide direct benefits to three distinct population
groups. First, by project completion the expansion of the health network
will provide reasonable access for the first time to modern health services
in rural areas with an estimated population of about 700,000 inhabitants.
Second, through improved MCH services and through the training and deployment
of some 300 female health workers, about 450,000 mothers and children under 5
will be able to benefit from basic MCH, family planning, and community health
services (Annex 1, T-18). The number of family planning acceptors at the
health clinics is expected to rise with the training of CH workers and TBAs
in family planning. Third, the expansion of the immunization program will
provide protection to about 50% of children in Sokoto State.  Since deaths of
children below 5 years of age account for about 50% of all deaths, project
impact on infant and child mortality is expected to be substantial.
7.03      Strengthening the supervision and in-service training programs
under Part A is expected to improve the quality and increase the efficiency
of care delivered at all primary level facilities. The benefits of
institutional development to be achieved through the project are likely to be
substantial. One of the more important institutional features of the project
is the introduction, under Part A, of a zonal management system which will
provide a needed institutional linkage between the SMOH and the LGAs and will
strengthen the LGAs' capacity to manage their health programs.
7.04      Under Part B, the technical assistance to the FMOH will strengthen
its capabilities in the areas of health sector planning and programming.
This will eventually help in accelerating the development and operationaliza-
tion of PHC programs.
7.05      Financial Impact.  The very high costs of implementing the pilot
BHSS programs and the prospect of continued pressure on Nigeria's financial
resources result in great importance being attached to the affordability of
the project, both in terms of its capital and incremental operating cost.
This is also a condition of its replicability elsewhere in Nigeria.
Construction and equipment standards were closely scrutinized for possible
cost savings, taking into account the conditions under which the health faci-
lities will be operating. As a result, the design of the clinics have been
scaled down and the base costs of construction and equipping a primary health
clinic are estimated at N 45,000, a 75% reduction over the cost of
implementing the equivalent BHSS clinic. Furthermore, the decision to
upgrade dispensaries to PH clinic level will result in significant savings
over the alternative of constructing new clinics making the project less
expensive and more affordable to SSG than the BHSS program. Standards and
costs for the other civil works, equipment and vehicle components have been
similarly examined. The project designs correspond to the minimum required
for effective implementation.



-36-
7.06      The financial requirements of the proposed investment program on
SSG are modest and affordable: they average N 0.75 million per annum (about
US$0.15 per capita), or about 9% of SMOH's capital expenditures in 1982. The
recurrent cost implications of operating the project facilities and services
are also modest (Annex I, T-19). By Year 6 when the project will have been
completed, total incremental operating costs are estimated at N 1.8 million
per annum (in 1983 prices) of which N 0.7 million will be borne by the LGAs
for the operation of the health clinics, and N 1.1 million by SSG. The
incremental recurrent cost burden for the LGAs corresponds to about 9% of
their total recurrent expenditures in 1982. The incremental recurrent cost
burden to SSG corresponds to about 6% of the 1982 State level recurrent
expenditures on health. These increases in recurrent expenditures are
reasonable, even under conservative projections of Nigeria's likely resource
availability.
7.07      Risks.  Timely project implementation could be constrained by two
factors. First is the risk of insufficient counterpart funding which has
affected a number of ongoing projects receiving Bank support, including the
SADP. The problem stems in part from inadequate financial management on the
part of the State Governments and has been exacerbated by the drop in
Nigeria's oil revenues. This problem and possible measures to limit its
impact in the future have been discussed with FGN and the State Governments,
and corrective measures have been and are being taken. To minimize this
risk, project proposals have been scaled down and reviewed with the objective
of cost-minimization. The financial requirements of the project on SSG and
the State LGAs are considered affordable and have also been discussed in
detail with and accepted by SMOH, SMLGA, SMOF and SMEP, including the projec-
tions of the incremental recurrent costs falling to the LGAs. Second, the
attainment of some of the MCH objectives could be constrained by a shortage
of qualified female health workers. The Sokoto health authorities are
conscious of this risk and are taking measures to encourage enrollment of
female students in SHT and to retrain all present female health workers to
BHSS standards. The financial support provided by the project for training
female workers is aimed at reducing this risk.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
8.01      The following assurances were obtained from the FGN and SSG as
conditions in the Loan and Project Arrangements:
(a)  PMU will make vehicle maintenance arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 4.25).
(b)  The FMOH will have completed a study of health financing and
possibilities for increased cost recovery by May 31, 1987 (para.
4.28).
(c)  The FMG shall make adequate budgetary provisions for its
contributions to Part A of the project (para. 5.03).



-37-
(d) SSG will cause the LGAs to make adequate budgetary provisions for
its contribution to Part A of the project (para. 5.03).
(e) The procurement (paras. 5.06 and 5.07), budgeting, audit and
reporting (para. 5.12) requirements will be satisfactory to the
Bank.
(f) Consultants (para. 5.07) and senior PMU staff (para. 6.05) with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, will be
appointed on satisfactory terms and conditions, and according to
agreed recruitment procedures (para. 6.08).
(g) Should SSG fail to provide adequate and timely financing, FMG shall
deduct necessary State contributions from federal statutory
allocations to Sokoto State (para. 5.11).
(h) The four ZHOs will be established and fully staffed by May 31,
1986 (para. 6.04).
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(i) A subsidiary loan agreement between FMG and SSG, acceptable to the
Bank, will have been executed (para. 5.04), under which FMG will
onlend the equivalent of US$31.0 million to SSG on the same terms
and conditions as the Bank loan.
(j) SSG will have appointed the Project Manager, the Deputy Project
Manager and the Financial Controller (para. 6.05).
(k) SSG will have opened a project account in a local commercial bank
and have established overdraft facilities for PMU, guaranteed by
SSG amounting to N 0.5 million (para. 5.11).
Recommendation
8.02      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$34.0 million, with a 20-year maturity,
including a grace period of 5 years.



- 38-                                    ANNEK I
T-1
NIGERIA
SCKOTO HEALTH PROJECr
CmpuartLw Socio-&'Exdc I?xlcators 1/
Middle Incane
Ivory   Upper            Oil Exportirg
Nigeria   Caneroon  Ghana   Coast   Volta   Kenya    Countries
Total Population (Millions)         90.6       9.3      12.2    8.9       6.5     18.0      521
Urban Population (%)                 21        36       37      41        11      15         40
Crude Birth Rate                    50        46        49      48       48       55         38
Crude Death Rate                    16        15        13      17       21        12        12
Average Annual Growth
Population (1970-82, in %)         2.6       3.0       3.0    4.9       2.4      4.0        2.7
Total Fertility Rate                6.91/    6.5        7.0     7.0       6.5      8.0        5.3
Infant Mortality Rate              109        92        86     119      157       77         90
Child Death Rate                    20        16        15      23       36       13         12
Life Expectancy at Birth             50       54        55       48      45       56         57
Pop. per physician (1980)         12,550     13,990    7,630   21,040   48,510    7,890    6,997
Pop. per nursirg person (1980)    3,010       1,950      780   1,590    4,950     550       1,966
Access to Safe Water                 ..       26        35       19      25       17         42
Daily Per Capita Calorie Supply
as % of Requirement (1981)        91        102       88     112       95       88         108
Adult Literacy Rate (%)              34       ..        ..      35        5       47         58
Per Capita Inccme                    860      890       360    950       210     420        1,250
Ave. Growth GDP 1970-1980 (%)        6.5      5.6     -0.1      6.7      3.5    6.5          3.3
Annal Health Budget (1980) (%)    12.5        4.0      3.0    ..          1.0    5.0         9.0
1/ For 1982, unless otherwise indicated.
2/ Results of the World Fertility Survey, 1980 indicate national average TFR of 6.3.
Source: World Development Report, 1984.



- 39 -
ANNEX I
T-2
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Distribution of Deaths from 8 Principal Notifiable Diseases
Nigeria and Sokoto State '
Nigeria                Sokoto State
1977       1981           1977       1980
1.  Measles                          31.9       30.6           40.0       47.1
2.  Pneumonia                        14.2        19.7           8.9       18.5
3.  Meningitis                       21.6         1.8          32.3        3.4
4.  Malaria                          10.8       20.6           15.1        2.4
5.  Tetanus                           9.9       11.6            0.8        8.7
6.  Diarrhea (all types)              4.8        7.9            0.8        2.4
7.  Tuberculosis                      6.0        5.2            1.7       15.5
8.  Infectious Hepatitis              0.8        2.6            0.4        2.0
TOTAL                       100.0       100.0          100.0     100.0
1/  The data on this table are based on reported deaths from notifiable
diseases. The figures presented should therefore be interpreted with
great caution as the coverage of the reporting system is very low and
diagnostic capacity very inadequate. In particular, all figures for
meningitis, tetanus and dysentery are questionable as are the 1980 Sokoto
State figures for tuberculosis and malaria.
Sources: Federal Ministry of Health
Sokoto State Ministry of Health



- 40 -
ANNEX I
T-3
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Disease Patterns for Notifiable Diseases - Nigeria and Sokoto State
Nigeria                Sokoto State
Diseases                       1975-1979          1975-1979    Cases 1979
1.  Malaria                             58.8               57.6         87,312
2.  Diarrhea (all types)                13.0                13.1         17,657
3.  Measles                              9.4                 8.8        12,280
4.  Pneumonia                            4.9                 5.4          6,579
5.  Gonorrhoea                           3.4                 4.7          4,462
6.  Whooping Cough                       2.2                 3.9         4,511
7.  Chicken Pox                          1.5                 0.6            636
8.  Filariasis                           1.4                 0.1             26
9. Schistosomiasis
(all types)                         1.2                1.2            671
10.  Tuberculosis                         0.8                 0.4            455
11.  Meningitis                           0.7                 2.5          1,293
12.  Onchocerciasis                       0.5                  -             -
13.  Infective Hepatitis                  0.4                 0.2            343
14.  Trachoma                             0.4                 0.2              5
15.  Leprosy                              0.3                 0.9            471
16.  Ophthalmia Neonatorum                0.3                 0.2             -
17.  Viral Influenza                      0.2                 0.1             10
18.  Syphilis                             0.2                 0.3            184
19.  Food Poisoning                       0.2                 0.0            NR
20.  Tetanus                              0.2                 0.0             44
21.  Trypanosomiasis                      NR                  NR               4
22.  Yaws                                 NR                  NR               5
23.  Typhoid/Paratyphoid                  NR                  NR              36
24.  Poliomyelitis (acute)                NR                  NR               7
25.  Relapsing Fever                      NR                  NR              15
NR = Not recorded.
Sources: Federal Ministry of Health
Sokoto Ministry of Health.



- 41 -
ANNEX I
T-4
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Health Establishbents, 1981 - Nigeria and Sokoto State
Nigeria           Sokoto State
Institutions                       No.       Beds       No.      Beds
Hospitals                                     786   54,978         13    1,332
- Teaching Hospital                           7    4,736         _1/      -
- Specialized Hospital                       56    3,879          2        72
- General Hospital                          705   44,773         10    1,220
- Maternity, Paediatric Hospital             18    1,590          1        40
Health Centers                              3,008   17,874         77       320
- Medical Health Center                     688    3,561         45       320
Maternity Home                         1,021    5,495          -       -
M aternity Health Center                  1,299    8,818         32       -
Clinic and Dispensaries                     3,505       344       286       -
Others                                      2,909    4,357        333       314
- Leprosarium and Clinic                  2,878    1,389        332        64
- Armed Forces Medical
Reception Station/Prisons                31    2,968           1      250
TOTAL                           10,208   77,553        709    1,966
POPULATION RATIOS                                         Nigeria        Sokoto
- Population per hospital bed                             1,540         5,330
- Population per health facility bed                      1,092         3,611
- Population per maternity home/center bed                5,917           -
- Population per health center                           28,158        92,207
- Population per health clinic, dispensary               13,009        19,452
1/ A 600-bed Teaching Hospital is under construction in Sokoto.
Source: Federal Ministry of Health



- 42 -
ANNEX I
T-5
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Typical Staffing Patterns for Selected Health Facilities
A. Health Center
1   Doctor
1   Community Health Officer
1   Public Health Nurse
2   Midwives
1   Nurse
1   Asst. Nurse
4   CH Assistants
4   CH Aides
1   Dental Nurse
1   Pharmacy Assistant
1   Laboratory Assistant
1   X-Ray Technician
B. Health Clinic
2   CH Assistants (1 male and 1 female)
2   CH Aides (1 male and 1 female)
1   Dresser
C. Dispensary
1   CH Assistant
1   CH Aide
1   Dresser
Source: Sokoto State Ministry of Health



NIGERTA
SOKAYO HFALTH PROJFCT
Federal Ministry of Health - Planned, Budgeted and Actual Expenditures
1975-1980                1981-1985                  1981                            1982                  1983
%  of                % of                          %  of                          %  of
Planned   Actual   Total    Planned   Total    Budgeted   Actual   Total   Budgeted    Actual   Total    Budgeted
INVESTMENT EXPENDITURES
Hospital Programs                   523,500   231,448   62.8       888,400   74.0    118,200      82,750   58.2   151,200    137,189    87.3    126,000
- Teaching Hospital                450,000   215,728   58.5      610,000   50.8       80,000     71, 819   50.5    70, 000     93,495    59.5    100,000
- Neuro-Psychiatric Ilosp.          15,000     2,855    0.8        44,000    3.7       9,000      2,723    1.9       6,000      2,593      1.6       4,000
- Orthopedic Hosp.                  14,800     7,323    2.0        31,000    2.6      11,000      1,614    1.1       6,000      1,845      1.2       4,000
- Children's Hosp.                    -         -         -       150,000   12.5       3,000        695    0.5       6,000         320     0.2       6,000
- Others                            43,000     5,542    1.5        53,400    4.4      15,200      5,899    4.2    63,2001/   38,9361/  24.8         12,000
Publtc Health Programs              152,160   113,771   30.9       161,100   13.4      41,100     52,423   36.9    17,752       13,540      8.6      30,800
- Malaria                           20,000      1,149    0.3       20,000    1.7       2436    0.3                   1,000         427     0.3       2,000
- EPI (DC)                          20,000     3,429    0.9       20,000    1.7        3,000         176    0.1      3,000      1,835      1.1       3,000
- Onchocerciasis, Leprosy,
Tuberculosis                       -         -         _       18,000    1.5       4,000         400    0.3      2,552         272      0.2       4,000
- PHC (BHSS)                       111,500   109,154   29.6       100,000    8.3      30,000     50,852   35.8    10,000       10,898      6.9      20,000
- Port Health                          660         39    0.1       31,000    0.3       2,100         559    0.4      1,200         108     0.1       1,800
Training                             39,200    13,702    3.7        40,000    3.3      10,000      4,608    3.3       6,000       2,194     1.4       5,700
Supporting Institutions              24,900     9,709    2.6       110,500    9.2      14,100      2,321    1.6    11,000        4,204      2.7       7,500
- Laboratories                      16,600      5,326    1.4       46,500    3.9       7,200      1,458    1.0       5,900      3,388      2.2       4,760
- Blood Products                      -         -         -        50,000    4.2       1,000       -         -       3,000          28.    0.0       1,000
- Other Institutions                 8,300     4,383    1.2        14,000    1.2       5,900         863    0.6      2,100         788     0.5       1,740
TOTAL FMOH - INVESTMENTS              739,760   368,630  100.0   1,200,000  100.0    183,400    142,102  100.0   185,952    157,127   100.0    170,000
Reserve2/                                                                              128,380                       146,666                         119,000
% of Total Federal Investment
Expenditures                        2.18%     1.65%               2.82%               2.02%      1.77%             2.43%       2.80X                2.36%
1/  Includes special allocation of N 55 million for hospital equipment, boreholes, generators and drugs; and expenditures amounting to N 30 million
representing grants to Teaching Hospitals for these purposes.
2/  Reserved allocations for all years were not released.
Source:  Federal Ministry of Health; Approved Estimates (Budgets) for the Federal Government of Nigeria, Federal Ministry of National Planning.                          o



NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Federal MnieLtry of Health - Planned, Budgeted and Actual Expenditures
19801/                        1981                           1982                   1983
%  of                          %  of                          %  of
Budgeted    Actual Total   Budgeted    Actual   Total Budgeted    Actual    Total   Budgeted
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
I. FMOH Persornnel                                        12,015      9,151    6.3       12,976    11,973    7.8    13,164        10,987      7.2       11,077
II. Grants and Subventions                               127,451    127,451   87.5        97,767   135,015   88.0   135,083    135,026    88.7          123,500
- Teaching Hospitals                                 102,933    102,933   70.7       78,200   109,100   71.1   109,200    109,200    71.7           98,322
- Neuro-Psychiatric Hosp.                              8,000       8,000    5.5        6,000     8,600    5.6       8,600       8,600      5.7       8,910
- Orthopedic Hosp.                                    12,880      12,880    8.8        9,660    13,400    8.7    13,400        13,400      8.8       13,203
- Other Hosp.                                           1,067        976    0.7          800        590    0.4        750         693      0.5        1,062
- Laboratories & Research                                 140         140    0.1         105        105    0.1        130         130      0.1          117
- Training Institutions                                   559        559    0.4          419        637    0.4        677         677      0.4          609
- Othier Stupport Inst.                                1,963       1,963    1.3        2,583     2,583    1.7       2,327       2,327      1.5       2,443
III. Other Operating Expernditures                          15,802       9,065    6.2       8,569      6,448    4.2      8,539       6,195      4.1        7,911
- Transport & Travel                                    1,213      1,455    1.0        1,180      1,208    0.8      1,400       1,599      1.1        1,260                    l
- Maint. vehicles, assets                                 400         426    0.3         475        351    0.2        500         330      0.2          450                   4-
- Utilities, Stationery, Office Maint.                    520         465    0.3         421        354    0.2        475         542      0.4          504
- Consultarcies                                     )-                       -           -          -      -          300          70      0.0          225                    l
- Training/Staff Div.                               )               1,499    1.0       1,325        861    0.6      1,325         603      0.4          810
- Health Supplies Logistics                         )              1,801    1.2   )                 905    0.6        923         377      0.2          720
- Health Services Programs (FMOR)                   ) 13,699       2,802    i.9   )              2,262    1.5       2,595       1,938      1.3        2,115
- Health Training Programs                          )                 245    0.2   )  5,168         141    0.1        485         405      0.3          612
- Vehicle Advances                                  )                 -      -                      -      -          -           -        -            766
- Miscellaneous                                     )                 372    0.3   )                366    0.2        536         331      0.2          449
TOTAL FMOH - RECURRENT EXPENDITURES                        155,268    145,667  100.0    119,312   153,436  100.0   156,786    152,208   100.0            142,488
% of Total Federal Recurrent Expenditures                   4.22%       3.41%              3.25%      3.46%             4.51%       3.34%                 4.15%
TOTAL FMOH EXPENDITURES BUDGETED                           302,138    249,124             247,692   295,538            303,452    309,335                261,488
(excluding reserved amount)                                       l
Per capita (Naira)                                    3.65        3.03           j 2.92          3.49              3.48         3.55                2.91
1/ FY1980 covered only April 1 - December 31, 1980: figures given in table have been adjusted to 12-month basis.
Source: Federal Ministry of Health; Approved Estimates (Budgets) for the Federal Government of Nigeria, Federal Ministry of National Planning.
0 X
o 3



- 45 -
ANNEX I
T-7
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Population, Area and Population Density of Sokoto State
by LGA Area, 1981 1/
Population            Population
LGA Area            Area (sq km)          (1,000)          Density per sq km
Anka                       7,645                 126                   16
Argungu                    8,052                463                    57
Bagudo                     6,910                267                    39
Bodinga                    4,160                346                    83
Birnin-Kebbi               2,033                300                   148
Bunza                      3,090                299                    97
Gummi                      9,355                 256                   27
Gusau                      7,164                 623                   87
Gwadabawa                  3,388                 530                  156
Isa                        5,255                393                    75
Jega                       2,466                315                   127
Kaura Namoda               4,939                480                    97
Silame                     6,760                290                    43
Sokoto                     1,647                544                   330
Talata-Mafara              6,763                496                    73
Wurno                      3,989                507                   127
Yabo                       4,025                406                   101
Yauri                      5,584                 181                   32
Zuru                       7,823                321                    41
TOTAL             101,048               7,145                    71
1/ 1984 LGAS with 1981 population.
Source:  Sokoto State - Ministry of Economic Planning



- 46 -
ANNEX I
T-8
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Disease Pattern: Outpatient Visits and Hospital Admissions
Sokoto State, 1980
Outpatient      Hospital
Diseases                              Visits       Admissions
1.  Infective and Parasitic Diseases                    38.2           31.3
2.  Pregnancy and Child Birth                             NR            23.1
3.  Respiratory Diseases                                 12.7            9.8
4.  Diseases of Nervous System and Organ                  9.9            3.3
5.  Ill Defined Conditions                                9.2            3.2
6.  Skin Diseases                                         8.4            2.4
7.  Gastro-Intestinal Diseases                            4.7            5.0
8.  Accidents                                             3.1            5.3
9.  Muscles and Skeletal Diseases                         2.9            NR
10.  Genito Urinary Diseases                               2.7            5.8
11.  Blood Diseases - Anemia, etc.                         2.5            3.0
12.  Nutritional and Metabolic Diseases                    1.8            2.8
13.  Others                                                3.9            5.0
TOTAL                                        100.0          100.0
NR = Not recorded.
Source: Sokoto State Ministry of Health



- 47 -
ANNEX I
T-9
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Sokoto State Health Budgets and Expenditures. 1979-1983
(in Thousand Nairas)
1978/1979               1981                  1982                    1983             1984
Budgeted   Actual   Budgeted   Actual   Budgeted   Actual   Budgeted   Actual   Budgeted
1. INVESTMtENT EENDITURES
A.  Federal Ministry of Health 1/               n.a.         900      n.a.      10,480    13,500    16,356    12,800             .a.       n.a.
1. BHSS                                    n.a.         890      n.a.        2,034        500        400        800
2. Teaching Hospital                       n.a.          -        n.a.       8,436     13,000     15,946     12,000
3. Others                                  n.a.           10      n.a.          10       -             10      -
B.  Sokoto Ministry of Health                  6.715       4.029    25,895       8,562    35,597        5,555    14,382       2,182         789
1. Hospital Facilities                    5,535       2,621       6,795      2,099    27,351         277       1,282        186         -
2. Other Health Facilities                   120         148    16,700       4,851      5,947      5.278     10,800       1,694        500
3. BHSS Pilot Program                     1,000          -        1,200        467       -           -          -           _
4. Others                                    60        1,260      1,200      1,145      2,299         -        2,300        302        289
C.  LGAs 2/                                      200         200        -           -         -                     -
TOTAL INVESTIDMT                               n.a.       5,129      n.a.      19,042    49,097       21,911     27,182
Total per Capita   (Naira)                 n.a.         0.85      n.a.       2.68       6.73       3.03        3.67
Federal per Capita (Naira)                 n.a.         0.13      n.a.       1.48       1.85       2.27        1.76
State per Capita   (Naira)                 0.97         0.62      3.48       1.20       4.88       0.76        1.91
Local per Capita   (Naira)                 0.10         0.10      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Federal Share (A) of FMOH Total                 r.a.        1.6%      n.a.       7.4%        7.3%      10.4%       7.5%
State Share (B) of Sokoto State Total           4.0%        n.a.      6.6%       n.a.       8.7%        n.a.       4.9%
LGA Share (C) of LGA Total                      8.0%        n.a.       _         n.a.         -         0..         -
11. RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
A.  Federal Ministry of Health                                        2,000      2,000       2,000      h2,OO      2,880       n.a.        n..
1. Teaching Hospital                         _          _         2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000      2,880
B.  Sokoto Ministry of Health                   7,024       n.a.    12,381       7,807       9,681      8,172      9,306      9,121      9,205
1. Personnel                               3,709                  3,190      3,058      4,074                 4,705      (4,991)   (4,052)
- Administrative                         (556)                  (469)                 (660)                 (770)       (770)      (415)
- Services                             (2,896)                  (974)                 (536)                 (597)       (597)   (1,289)
- Training                               (215)               (1,369)                (2,641)               (3,143)   (3,429)   (2,018)
- Allowances                              (42)                  (378)                 (237)                 (195)       (195)      (330)
2. Drugs, Vaccines and Dressings           2,000                  7,300      3,591      5,481      4,537       3,340    (3,340)    4,115
3. Others                                   1,315                 2,641      1,158      1,687                  1,255       (790)    1,038
C.  Health Services Management Board                                  8.000       8,011    11.0003/  10,832       11,000        n.a.       n.a.
1.  Personnel                            (Did not                 4,175      4,919      5,8103/
- Administrative                      exist yet)               (566)               (1,665)
- Services                                                  (2,867)   (4,203)   (2,838)3/
- Allowances                                                   (742)      (716)   (1,307)
2.  Other                                                         3,825      3,092      5,190
D.  LGAs                                        4,000       n.a.      8,100      8,000       9,600      8.000      9,100       n.a.        n.a.
1.  Personnel                                                    4,400                  5,215
2.  Drugs and Dressings                                           1,700                 2,015
3.  Others                                                        2,000                 2,370
TOTAL RECURRENT                               11,024       n.a.    30,481      25,813    32,281       29,004    32,286
Total per Capita   (Naira)                  1.60        n.a.      4.29        3.64      4.42       3.97       4.25
Federal per Capita (Naira)                  -            _        0.28        0.29      0.27       0.27       0.38
SMOH per Capita    (Naira)                 1.02        n.a.       1.74        1.10      1.33       1.12        1.22
HSMB per Capita    (Naira)                  -            -        1.13        1.13      *1.51      1.48        1.45
LGA per Capita       (Naira)               0.58         n.a.      1.14        1.13      1.11       1.10        1.20
Federal Share (A) of FMOH Total                  -           -        1.7%         1.3%      1.3%        1.3%      2.0%
State Share (B) of Sokoto State Total           4.3%        n.a.      3.8%         n.a.      4.7%        n.a.      n.a.
LGA Share (C) of LGA Total                      8.5%        n.a.    10.0%          n.a.      9.7%        n.a.      O.R.
1/  Excludes share of National Public Health programs that cannot be estimated.
2i  Out of own resources, excludes State Government Grants to LGAs.
3/  Includes Adjustment of N 5.5 million to cover federal grants to Sokoto Teaching Hospital through 1982.
Without this adjustment HSMH total would have been N 16.5 million, total personnel expenditures N 11.3
million and services personnel N 8.4 million.
Sources: Federal Ministry of Health, Sokoto State Ministry of Health, Sokoto State Ministry of Finance.



- 48 -
ANNEX I
T-10
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PRDJECT
Ebtisted and Igftted l11mizatim Cbverage in Sdkoo State
ACX&                                  PaLB
Vaccination              1980             1981          1984     1985     1986         1987
Est.             Est.
Target           lb. of  Wastage   No. of  Cover-  No. of  Cover-   No. of   No. of   No. of   No. of  Cover-
Group   Type    Dbses  Factor    Doses  age 1/   Doses  age l/    Dbses    DDses    Doses   Dbses   age
Infant   DPT        3      1.6    85,000  10-15%  110,000  10-20%   140,000  210,000 350,000 420,000   5C%
Infant  BOG         1      2.5    24,000  10-15%   38,000  10-15%    60,000  110,000  146,000  180,000  5CRo
Infant  Polio       3      1.6    72,000  10-15%   81,000  10-20%   120,000 210,000 350,000 420,000   5G%
Infant  Measles    1       1.6    84,000  15-207%  138,000  20-307%  150,000  180,000  180,000  210,000  5C7y
Mother   Tetanus    2      1.6    20,000            20,000            40,000   60,000  100,000  120,000
1/ As % of cobort of children to be vaccinated (approximately 4% of total population).
Sources: Sokoto State Ministry of Health.
Mission Estimates.



NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Expected TrininEg Load for Inr-Service Training
Number to be trained
Course
Year Year Year Year Year                                  Participants   Training   Per Year
Category of Personnel         1     2     3     4     5      Duration    Frequency      per Course       Site     Per Site
LGA Supervisors              -      60    70    90    110     2 days      Quarterly       10-15           ZHO        6-10
CH Assistants                -    300   400   450    550      2 days      Quarterly       15-20           ZHO      30-40
CH Aides                     -    600   700   800    900      2 days      Quarterly       20-25           ZHO      30-40
TBAs
- Initial Training          -    150   150   150    150    14 days         n.a.           5-10           ZHO        2-4
- Retraining                -    250   265   265    270      2 days       Annual          5-10       PH Clinics    7-15
Source: Mission Estimates.
l 
I-m



- 50 -
ANNEX I
T-12
NIGERIA
SOKOTO IEALTH PROJECT
Key Project Indicators
Actual                Targets
Principal Objectives                         Key Indicators                 1982       1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
A. Primary Health Services Development
To provide a more adequate network          - No. of health clinics
of basic health services through:              constructed                                      6    21    17    16
- construction and equipping                - No. of MCH annexes                                0    40    40    40
60 health clinics                         - No. of facilities staffed
- constructing and equipping                   and in operation                     288        294   315   332   348
120 MCH annexes in existing              - No. of facilities
dispensaries                                 offering MCH services                25         25    65   105   145
- No. of consultations:                       )
. ante-natal                              )
children 0-4                             )  to be determined annually
. adults                                   )
- No. of deliveries per TBA                   )
- No. of FP acceptors                         )
B. Expanded Program on Immunization
To expand the coverage of existing          - No. of vaccination points
immunization program through:                  established                                )
- establishment of cold chain               - No. of children vaccinated                  )
- provision of vaccines, vehicles              per static point per month                 )  to be determined annually
- provision of technical assistance         - No. of vaccinations per
- salary support for incremental               mobile unit per month
personnel                                - % of children 0-4 covered              10    )
- funds for incremental operating
C. Training and Supervision
To improve quality of basic                 - No. of CR aides trained                          -      60   120   180   250
services through:                          - No. of CH assistants trained                      -      15    30    45    50
- training of 250 female CH                 - No. of staff who have
aides and 50 CH assistants                   received in-service
- establishing a regular in-                   training by category                            - to be determined annually
service training program                 - No. of LGA supervisors
for primary health workers                   formally trained                                -      20    40    60
- training of 60 LGA supervisors to         - No. of TBAs trained                   600       600   750   900  1050  1200
strengthen supervision system            - No. of TBAs retrained                   0          0   250   515   780  1050
- training of 600 TBAs and re-
training of them and about 600
already trained



- 51-
ANNEK I
T- 13
NIGERIA                                                         Page 1 of 10
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Primary! Health Services
(Detailed Cost Table)
(NAIRA '000)
Drv.A6.aa. of TaL.h lagI. Co
batlta                                   Lwi Co.tu                           Tvtel, I,wlo.Ji.i Cw,tal.i.lou          ---------------- 
ulOut    1  2  3   4         Totel Cuut  1        2       3       4     5     Total    1        2       3               3    loat!   For. Echd.   la.60       Taoao
I. IIMSINENI COSTS
A, MNHEWALTH.1 CLINICS
1. LARD                         No.,     620  17 ItA            60  0.2   1.0   10.5    8.3    8.0         -     30,0   3.2   12.9   10.8   12.1                40.3          -         60.4        -
2. CIVIL CAD                    NO.      6 21  17 16    - t6044.3  263.8  930.2  7531.   700.3                2,650.0  110.6 10,09.1 1,063r.2 1,127.7     -3,732.0   2,079.6         3,i79,9    3387
3, FIMAITUIE AND El linEAT      No.      6 20  17  1t          to6   3   30.0  103,0   83.0   00.0         -    00.0  31.6  120.0  108.2  0111.3          - 372.?         320,1        205.4    33.3
Seb-Total NEU HEALTH CLINICS                                               298.8 1,043.01  846.6  796.9       -2,100.0  344.8 1,343.0 1.203.2 1,231.5           4,143.2   2.300,7       3.443,7    369.0
8. 1109314  TYPE I CLINICS
I. CIVIL MORS                   NO.      -30  30  30       - 90 25.4        -   762.0  762.0  762.0        -2,206.0       -   190.4 1.098.0 1,202.4       -3,300.0   2,825.2         2.826.6   296.8
2. FWOAITLES MID ED 0194(E9T                30  30  360        90   3       -  130.0  130.0   030.0        -    130.0      -   174.0  191.0  208.7         - 371.6        490,0        110.3    38.4
kub-Total UP1506115 TYPE B CLINICS                                                 912.0  912,0  912.0        -2,736.0        -1,164.4 1,209.0 1.4201.       - 3,874.4    2.315,2       3,045.0   348.5
C. UPGRADING TYPE A CLINICS
1. CIVIL MIRS                   No.      - 10  10  00a         30 15.6      - 160 156.0  156,0  -o   468,0                 -  202.8  224.8  248.2         -   673.8       373.7        570,7    66.8
2. FMEITORE tAN  EQ U19481                  0 10   10 -o  30   5            -    0.0   30.0   30.0         -    030.0      -   1.0   63.7   69.6          -    190.2      16.1.        006.2    17.2
Seb-Total UPGRADING TYPE A CLINICS                                             -  206.0  206.0  206.0              600,0      -  260.7  200.4  317.0         -   067.0       537.0        614.8    13.0
8. CLINIC S1AFF HNOJINO
1. CIVIL SORS                   No.      6 21 32  41   10  110 23.8  142.8  499,8  761.6  975.0  210,0  2,6180D  166.5  649.6 1,097.2 1,5312.6  403.7  3,879.8   2,120,6             3,339.2   3490
Seb-Total CLINIC STAFF 000550                                              242,8  499.8  760.6  975.8  230.0  2,610.0  166.5  649.6 1,097.5 1.552,6   403,7  1,879,81   2,120.6         3,319.2   349.N
Total INVESIMNTN COSlS                                                        440,6 2,663.6 2,726.2 2,DTO.6  218.0  0,960.0  511.3 3,418.4 5,800.1 4,542,9   413,7 12,766,4    73080.3    10,614.8  1,144,8
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A, NEW HEALTH0 CLINICS
I, SALARIES
CH0 AS5151081              SINFFYEAR -  6 27  44   60  137  2.4            -   14.4   64.8  005,6  144.0   328.8              1 7.6   89.7  164.4  240,7   520,4            -        780.1        -
CH AIDE                  ITAFFVEAR     12 34 88  120  274  1.9          -   22.0  002.6  167.2  228.0   520.6         -    27.9  142.0  260.1  373,7   823,9              -      1,235.2       -
ANCtILLARY               STAFF9EAR -  6 27  44   60  037  1.6           -    9.6   41.2   70.4  96.0   219,2           -    10.8   59.8  009.6  165.8   346,9             -         20.0  
Se-Total SALARIES                                                          -    40,8  210.6  342.2  460.0  1,068.6            57.1  291.1  114.2  800.2  10,61.2             -      2,535.3 
Stb-total NEU HEALTH CLINICS                                                  -    46.1  210.6  342.2  460,0  1,020,6            37.3  291.3  234.2  800.2  1,69.2              -      2,535.5 
8. UPGPA1IN8 TYPE I CLINICS
1. SALAIES
CHI AIDE                 STAFFOENI-     30  65  IDA   095  1.9          -            57.0  121.3  190.0   370,3        -            78.9  192.2  3.20.1   399.2           -       01.4         -
Seb-Total SALAIES                                                          -             7,0  123.3  090,0   270.3        -70.9  192.2  328.0 1 5.2                          -       898.4        -
Sub-Total WENDING TYPE I CLINICS                                              -             7.0  121.3  090.0   570.3                    70.9  192.2  320.1   599,2             -       898.4        -
C. UPGRAD1NG TYPE A CLINIC
1. SALARIES
CA AIDE                  STOFFYRAR       - 10 20   30   66  1.9         -       -    19.0   38.0  57.0   114.0         -           26.3   30.1   90,4   1813.9            -        275,7       -
Seb-Total SALARIES                                                         -       -    19.0   30.0  37.0   014.0         -      - 26.1   39.1   90,4    081,9               -        275.7        -
Seb-Total UMA96IN1 TYPE A CLINIC                                                           1  9.0   30.0  57.0   114.0       -      - 2L.3   59.1   90,4   183,9                -        275.7       -
Total DECURREAS COSTS                                                             - 46.8  206.6  104.7  713.0  153.311,              37.3  396.6  785.6 1,234.7  2,474.3            -      3,709.3       -
TeSUI MSELINE COSTS                                                            440.6 2,700.4 3,012.8 3,301.1  952.0 30,5312.   321.3 2.075.1) 4,276,7 532,12.  16408.4 13,200.7   7,386.5    14,324.1  3,144.8



- 52-
ANNEX I
NIGERIA                                                                  Page 2 of 10
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Staff Training
(Detailed Cost Table)
(NAIRA 1OOO)
unit      1     2      3     4     3    TOIltasIl             2       3      i      3    ToLl       1       2       3        4       5    TotalIFoq,Eib.
I. IMBKNShIT COSTS
KM00                                                  N.          1-o                               19.2    9.2         -                             .2    9.7       -       -        -       -     9.7        13.8
31319                                                K,:         S                          -      58        42.       -                           42.5   44.4       -       -       -        -    44,6        46.4
PICKUP                                                 K,         4 .                                  23. 24.0         -       -      -      -     34.0   32.7       -Is-                     -      37        v17.
M~-Total MCIMES8                                                                                                 82.7      -                      -    3.7   89.9        -       -        -       -     89.9       35.5
3. C58A1KN 98E03I10
IRA4181K MD3 811 ISI35N rAM136.                    MONTHSiT 38239  6    6      6     -       -     18    7 42.0   42.0   42,0-4                    126.0   44.1   48.5    52.0        -1 45,6                  16.17
sub-Total CSOSLTIKS 1189111                                                                                      42.0   42.0   42.0       -       - 126.0   44.1   48.5    33.0           -       - 145.6         113.7
C. TRAINING 86813F
71E8.E CH A5S1STMITS                                  No.         5    18    35    20        -     30  3.3   17,3   33.0   22.5   70.0             173.0   18.8   42.?    72.7   109.0         -   243.3-
1EML! CH 61811                                         Ko.       25   40    60    73        30    230  0.5   27.5   60,0   90.0  112.5   73.0   375.0   40.3   73.5   124.6   173.1   129.5   343.0-
L6 UPEMIV U                                           No.         -    10    20    20       10     60    7       -   70.0  140,0  140.4   70.0   420.0        -   03.7   193.8   217.0   020.9   618.3-
Sut-Total 086181K6 810T1                                                                                         33.0  316.0  20.3  332.  15 US       770.0   37. 1  202,1   391.0   502.0   230.4 1,404.6-
I8.INSEOVICE TRAIING E3881S
CHAISTIT005060                                         W.         - 309   400   430    VA0  1,700 0.12           -   36.0   41.0   54.0  66.0   204,8         -   43.0    631,    79.9   107.1   293.9         880.9
CH 83818                                               K.D        -   600   700   200    900  5,000 0.12         -   72.0   84.0   96.0  1080 36.0  -.   86.0   111.9   142.0   173.3   515.2                  268.3
LS0 SUPE6IS8S                                          Ko.        -     60    70    90    110    330 0.12        -     7.      .4   10.8   13.2    39,6       -      .6    11.2    16.0    21.4    57.2         25.7
TB  TRAINING                                           NO.      100   130   830   100    100    600 0.03    0.0   12.0   12.0    8.8    0.0    48.0    0.4   14.           13,4    11.2    12.2    61.1         12.4
08M  RETRAINING                                        Ko.      100   300   530   800  1.030  2,300 0.01    1.0    3.0    5.530.0   10.5    20.0    M.    3.7               7.6    12.3    10.1    42.9            -
Sut-Total 180A0ICE TRAINI1K 0988S                                                                                9.   130.2  137.9  176.8  202.7   679.6    9.5  1S2.2   210.0   201.3   334.2   970.1           196.6
Iota 1I80181T COSTS                                                                                                191.7  337.2  412.4  499.3  330.7 1,861.3  202.6  403.8   653.9   763.5   304.6 2.610,4           633.3
11. RECISIT COSTS
A. MAIES
1. 106181  810(63C  UtOER
CHIEF TRAINING CONIMOTK                        STA0FYEAR      1     1      I     1       1      373.2   73.2   73.2   73.2   73.2   73.2   366.0   76.4   83.0    89.9    96.9   103.7   449.8             397.9
ASS18TANT 78ININK  C0813MT81                   STAFF0EAR      I     1      1     1       1      5  7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.       7.3    36.3    7.8    8.9    10.1    11.        12.6    30.9           -
EVOICS OFFICE18                                S06FFYE0R   0.5      I      1     1       1    4.3  7.3    3.7    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3    32.9    3.9    8.9    10.1    11.4    12.6    46.9 
C083JICATI03  OFFICER                          5TA7F0E0R   0.5      I      I     1       1    4.3  3.?    2.0    M.      3.7    3.9    3.9    07.6    2.0    4.8        5.4     6.1      6.7    23.1-
SECRETARY0 I TWPIST                            STA877E8R      1     2      2     2       2      9    2    2.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    10.0    2.1    4.9         3.3     6.2      6.9    23.7-
811980                                         516771EAR      2     2      2     2      2      10  8.8    3.6    3.6    2.6    3.6    3.6    10.0    3.9    4.4         5.0     3.6      6.3    25.01
NESOOEffO                                      1067F9EAR      -     3      3     3       3     12  1.7       -    3.1    5.1    5.1    3.1    20.4        -    6.2      7.1     7.9      0.8    36.0-
Stb-Total 0860N3NK RESORCE CENERh                                                                            91.7  304.4  104.4  104.4  104.4   309,2   96.3  121.3   113.0   145.3   157.6   653.3           397.9
2. Z066 CIFICES
TRAIING t11136081                              518777EAR      4     4      4     4      4      20  8.7   34.8   34.8   34.8   24.3   34.    174.0   37.4   42.6    48.2    54.2    60.1   242.5                -
MININGK WFIEEl                                 57T77068       -      4     4     4       4     16  7.3       -   27.2   27.2   29.2   29.2   114.8        -   3M.      40.4    45.5    50.4   172.1-
A861N1STR0TI9E OFF1C 8O13T7016E0                              4     4      4     4       4     20  4.9   19.6   19,6   19.6   19,6   19.6    78.0   21.1   24.0    27.1    30.5    13.8   156.6-
MIDWIFE                                        STAFFYEIR      -     4      4     4       4     16  4.08      -   19,2   19.2   19.2   19.2    76.8        -   23.5    26.6    29.9    55.2   113.1-
ER ASSISTANT0                                  51TA71Y9AR           4      4     4      4      16  2.4       -    9.6    9.6    7.6    9.6    38.4        - 11.8    13.3    14.9    16.6    56.6-
OK 0031                                        80677F1E8R           4      A  4      4  4      0   0.9            7.6    7.  1.6    7. 6 57.4 -0                 9.3    10.3    01.0    11.1    44.8-
SECRETARY / TWISBT                             8007F7EA*      4     8      3     8       B     36    2    8.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   36.0    72.0    8.6   19.6    22.1    24.9    27.6   102.9-
8ESSE3801 LAMME                                86770808A      -    12    12    12       32     48  1.7       -   20.4   20.4  2.0.4   20.4    01.6            23.0    28,2    31.8    35.2   120.2-
St-Total 2INK  OFFItES                                                                                      62.4  126.4  156.4  136.4  126.4   608.0   67.1  191,6   216.2   243.4   270.1   988.6                -
060-Total 136.8811                                                                                             334.1  360.8  260.8  26.0.  260.3 3,197.3  163.4  312.7   349.3   300.9   427.6 1.642,1           597.9
8. 9E010.1 W78611O0                                      Ko.        8      8     8     9       B     40     3   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   020.0   25.7   29.2    32,0    36.7    40.6   165.0            21.8
C. OPCO
0. 186131K R3850fCE tENTh                          L18F38        1      1     8     1       1      5   33   33.0   33.0   25.0   33.0   33.    173.0   27.3   41.8    46.6    31.8    36.8   234,2 3             .
2. 20340 9840.1  OFlIMS                             6.9518       4      4     4     4       4     20    35   0.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   100.0   21.2   22.9    26.6    39.6    32.3   133.9             54.4
Sub-Total WCOST                                                                                                 33.0   33.0   35.0   33.0   33.0   273.0   SOS5  65.7    73.3    81.3    89.3   360.1            149.7
Total 80018881 COSTS                                                                                               233.1  329.8  337.8  339.8  339.8 1.392.3  247.6  407.6   453.5   507.0   537.5 2.175,2            769.4
Total I601.3ff COSTS                                                                                                424.8  677.0  822.2  837.1  600.3 3,455.6  430.3  813.3 1,109.5 1,270.4 8,142.1 4,703.6    I,4K1.4



- 53 -                                                                   ANNEX I
T- 13
NIGERIA                                                                  Page 3 of 10
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Expanded Program of Taunization
(Detailed Cost Table)
(NAIRA  '000)                                                                                 18r@i6mS at Toutas [owl.
hajotlto                          Lao.~~~~~~14   Costs              Totaih  1,lodlirw Castiraooclo                      Local
IHit     1    2      3     4     5   TotalCoot   1         2      3       4      5    Total      1      2       3      4       S    Total   For.,Excb. Taxosl   Taoes
1. INV0STOENT COSTS
A. FURNITURE1 MD EUIOP4ENT
ICE-LINING FREEZER/REFR1GERATOR             00.      -      a    10    60           83  0.5       -    4,0    5.0   32.5       -    41.5            4,5    1.1   42,5        -    53,1        71.1     3.7       4,3
GAS FREEZER/REFR1IEE400R                    NO.                  10t                10l  0.0             -    8.0       -       -     3.0              .    9,7          -         9,7        13.1     0.7       4.9
ICE-PAIR FREE0ER/REFRIOE0ATON               N0.             2     A                  8a0.5        -    1.0    3.0       -              .0      -    1,13.7           -       -     4.8         0.4     0.3       4.4
OTHER EQUIPMENT                             NO.--    5.0    2.0    7.3   14.7    25.7                                                                5.6    2.4   10.2   15.2    33.5         44,8      2.4      3.4
SPORE PARTS                                 No,--    IT                                                        1.4    4.7       -     7.0            1.0    1.7    6.2             8,.9       11.9     0.6       4.8
OFFICE E2U1PNEENT                           00-                                                27.0      -       -          -        27.0   20.'- -                   .           28.3        21,6     8.3       2.5
Sob-Total FURNITURE AND0 EQUJIPMENT                                                               27.3   10.9   10.4   45.0   10.9   112.2   2G.3   12.2   22.6   56.9   15.2   130,3           178.9    16.0      12.4
I. VEHICLES
1E3AM                                       No.      5      -     -     -      -     5  9.2   43.0       -                           i    6,0   4C.3   -      -      -       -    OR.         50.2    17.8       4.3
5T4T100 04304                               No.      2      -     -     -      -     2 I11   22.0        -       -      -      -     22.0   23.1       -      -      -       -    22.1        24.0     8.5       2.1
FP509 - WHIEEL DR1VE                        00.      8      -                          11.5  140,0       -              -      -    4.0  105.2                                   IS  - 85.2  161.5    57.2      14,0
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                               216,0       -      -      -           216.0  226.4                                 226.6       235.8    03.6      20.4
C. 00D1IS9 SERVICES
COLD CHA14 OPERATION                     0004001H0   6                               6    7 42,0         -       -      -       -    42.0   44.1       -                           4.1        45.8    20.3
PREPARATION CF IPERAYlON. PLAN4         PANOONTAS   4-        -     -     -           -     -..0          -             -       -     00   29.4 i                                 29.4        30.6    13.3         -
Sob-Total ADVI1SORY SERVICES                                                                      70.0       -      - -7         0,700   7U.5             -      -       -      -    73.0        76.4    32.0         -
0. VACCINES                                  0050T       1     I      1        1I       5  146  146,0  146.0  146.0  146.0  846.0   720.0  121.0  164.0  176.7  189,5  201.8   803.7    1,324.9              -
E. TRAINING EXPEN1ES
1, PRE - SERVICE TOAIOO                     NoR.      - 102   102   182   182   728  0.1          -   18,2   18.2   11.2   18.2    72.08           21.7   24.2   26,9   29.5   102.4          41.0   112.5         -
2. MANAUREHET T0010040                      No.       -    30    30    30      -    90    2           00.0   60.0   60.0       -.  180.0       - 71.7   79.9   08.7          -   240,3        980.   262.3         -
3. COLD 04614                               No,            40    30    20    30   130  0.1        -    4.0    3.0    2.0    2.0    12.0        -    4.0    4.0    4.4    0.9    18.1           7.2    17.8  
4. 10010000 00E140DS                        N0.      -     30    30    30      -    90  0.1       -    3.0    3.0    1.0       -      9.0      -     3.6    4.0    4.4       -    182,0        4.9    13.1         -
12b-Total T8610100 EXPENSES                                                                          - M8.2   14.2   84,2   21.2   224,8          -  00.8  112.1  124.5   34.4   3)2.8          151.2   407.8         -
Total INUESTN1N1 ClSTS                                                                             4009,0  242.1  249.6  215.2  171.1 0,404,0  410.2  270.0  312.4  372.7  251.4 1,695.0    1,967.2   541.2           32.8
II. RECURRENT COSTS
N. IHCREHEHTAL SALARIES
I. EPI CENTER
CHIEF IM14NIZAT1DN CDORDINATOR      STAFFYEAR   0       1     1     I      1     5 73.2   73.2   72.2   73.2   73.2   73.2   304.0   76.4   83.0   89.9   96.9  803.7   449.0           S97,9    76.5          -
COLD 0H010 OFFICERS                  OTRFFTENR   1      2     2     2      2     9  3.9    3.9    7.8    7.0    7.1    7.8    30.1    4.2    9.6   10.8   12.1   03.  530.2                  -    75.2         -
STOEEKEEPER                          STAPPOEAO    I     1     1     1      I     5  2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    12.0    2.6    2.9    3.3    2.7    4.1    16.7-    25.1                         -
50R31R0                              STAFF900R   1      3     3     3      3    13  I.E    0.8    0.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    23.4    1.0    6.6    7.3    0.4    9.3    13.8-    50.6                         -
SECRETARY / TYPIST                   STAFFTEAR   l      2     2     2      2     9    2     2.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    10.0    2.1    4,9    0.5    6.2    4.7    25.7               -    30.6 
Sub-Total EPI CENTER                                                                          83.3   72.8   12.0   92.8   72.8   434.0   87.2  107.0  117,0  127.4  137.5   526.1           597.9   265.9         -
2. 0000AL HE0L14 OFFICES
00002. EPI COORDINATORS             STNFFYEAR   4       4     4     4      4    20  7.3   29,2  21.2   29.2   21.2   29.2   146.0   31.4   35.0   40.4   45.S   50.4   203.4                 -   505.0         -
ZONAL. EPI O1IWERV1SORS              ST3191EA0   4      8     8     8      0    363.1   13,6   31.2   31.2   21.2   31.2   140.4   13.5   30.2   43.2   48.6  52.9   210.6                       300.8 
STOREKEEPER                          STAPFTFOA    4     4     0     4      4    20    2    0.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    0.0    40.0    8.6    9.8   11.1   12.5   13.8   3557                 -    83.6 
NAINTEHANCE TECIHNICIAN             STAIPTEAO   4       4     4     4      4    20  2.4    0,3    9,3    9.6    9.6    9.6    48.0   10.3   11.0   13.3   14.9   16.6    66.9                - 100.3  
501VER0                              STAFFYEIR    0    12    12    12    12    061.8   14.4   21,6   21.6   21.6   21.6   100.0   10.5   23.5   29.9   33.6   37.0   142.8                   - 214.0           -
Sub-Total Z0ONAL HEALTH OFFICES                                                               76,0   99.3   99.6   99.6   99.6   475.2   02.6  122.0  127.8  155.0  172.0   639.4               - 1.00,.6         -
lob-Total INCREMENTAL SALARIES                                                                  164.1  192.4  112.4  192.4  192.4   723,7  069.3  229.0  25i4.0  202.4  305.5 1.245.5          S97.9 1,269.5         -
8. VEHICLE OPERATISO
ARTORIIILES                                No0.     7    85    15    15    IS    67      5   31.0   75.0   75SO    75.0   75.0   335.0   36.6   83.8   3.4  111,2  108.8   425.8           494,6   143.8         -
So-Total VEHICLE OPERATION                                                                       32.0   72.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   430.0   36.6   82.0   73.4  1010.2  108.8   425,8          494.6   143.8
C. COLD CHAIN MAINTENANCE                   LUIIPSEII    -    I     I      I     I     4         1.0,-                    -       -    15. 105.8         -      -                    5.8        14.0     9.7         -
0. OFCIST
EPI CONTER                               L.40SU0     1     I     1      1     1     5   33   33,0   32.0   33.0   32.0   33.0   115.0   5.1   79.4   44.0   48.8   53.6   220.9             89.8   241.3         -
0Z0NAL HEAL14 OFFICES                                4     4     4      4     4    20    5 20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   150.3   21.3   23,9   26.6   29.6   22.5   133.9               54.4   146.2         -
Sob-Total OFCOST                                                                                 33,0   53.0   52'.0   531.0   52.0   263.0   6..4   63.3   70.6   78.4   86.0   324.7         144.3   387.5         -
Total RECCORRENT COSTS                                                                              263.1  320.4  370.4  320.4  320,4 1,544.7  278.7  378.0  418.8  462.0  504.4 2.041.9    8,250.8 1,810.5              -
Total 045011N1 COSTS                                                                                 722,1  062.3  57.0j  S95.6  415.5 2,940.7  738.J  606.0  731.2  834,9  725.8 3,736.0    3,218.0 2,131.7           32.81



- 54 -
ANNEX I
T-1 3
NIGERIA                                                                              Page 4 of 10
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Institutional Support, Monitoring and Evaluation
(Detailed Cost Table)
(NAIRA '000)
8r..&w, of Totals Inel. Coat
48158 'NO)
baw.tltA                             b~~~~~~~~              ~~aw  coat,     Toat,l,  locl6ira  Cwtoia6saji.,                         LoCal
---    -------------------                       ----------------------                    ---                "8c.C.      i,a
Wilit     8   2   3   4   7  Total Unit Caaat    1          2       3       4      5    TaLIb                2       3        4        5    Tat.l   for. Exck. Taxes)   Taxes    Toal.0
8. 180405989  MOSTS
A. P481 886806TERS
1. LARD                                    8         I --            -        I          5     7 -  -  -  - I  305.0                             7.4       -                                 .4-                8.1          -       8.8
2. CIVIL k'RKS
HEAO8J8TERS                             NO.       I   -   -   -   -        1     737.9   737.9         -      -       -           737.9  800,5         -       -                      800.5       706.2   706,4       77.4  1,2114.1
SR. FOOR 888161  W003                   NO.       2   -   -   -   -       2          69   138.0       -       -       -       -   130.0   160.9         -      -                      100,9        94,7   132,1       34,5    241.3
SR: 94489E KDR00445                     81, M     7   -   -   -   -        7      51.8   302.0        -       -       -           312.6   422.80                                      422.8       248.8   347.1       36.0    613.
A. T418  880DR08 HOUSE                  No:.      7   -   -   -   -       7       29,7 27.                    -       -       -   207.7   242.4        -       -        -        -   242,4        142.6   199.0       21.8    U36.
Sub-Total CIVIL MURS                                                                       1,446,4        -              -        -1,440.4 1,310.7         -                -       -1,686.7         992.3 1,384.7    171.7  2,528.7
3. FURNITURE AND3 E001P44E4T
44E6866TERS                                                                               0        36.2                           .2   143,4        -      -                 - 143.4          127,4    74.6       12.9    215,
SR. FOUR 8008008 4000                             2   - - -               2          25    30.0       -                              0.0    72.6        -      -        -        -     52,6        46,8     27.4       4,7      78.9
SR, THREE 8800ED   010 7OM                       -I                       7          09   133.0       -               -            133.  40.LAM-                                      0400        124,4    72,9       12.6    389.9
JR. THR  EED8O800  HO00                           7   -   -   -   -       7       16.2   113,4        -       -       -       -   113.4   109,4                -        -        -   119.4        106.1    62.1       10.7    179.8
Suab-Toal~ FP86T90E9AND E080P88NT                                                            432.6                -              - 432.6   457.4           -       -        -        - 453.4          404.7   237.1       41,0    4112.7
4. YEHICLES
SEDAN4                                  No0       5   -   -   -   -       5        9.2    4.00        -       -       -       -    46.0    40.3         -      -        -        -    48.3         50.2    17.8         4,3     72.3
ICELIP                                 4W0.       4   -   -   -   -       4        8.5     340                        -              40    35,7        -       -                 -    35,7         37,1    13.2        3.2      73.5
91441800                      110,~~~~~~m  2   -   -   -   -    2                     D, 1.                                7 - -    17.0                17.8                  78         18.6      6,6        1.6     26.7
51.1004  WAG0ON                         we0       1   -   -   -   -        1         11    13.0        -                      -     13.1    113.        -               -        -    11.7         12.1       4.2      I.E       17.3
FOOR - KR401 0R1R                       410.      I   -   -   -   -        I      18.7    18.7 1                                    10.2;    19.                                       1       9.4  20.2     7.2        1,7     29.'1
TRIOO                                   00.       I   -   -   -   -       1         30    30.0                -       -       -    30,0    213.         -      -        -        -    313,         32.7    11.6        2.8      47.
Suab-Total VEHICLES                                                                          I5.U37.5   164.2                                              -       -        --           164.2        370.8    60.7       14.8    246.1I
7. CONULTIHG SERVICES
E061.0TI1N SPEC I81LIST              48A8404170       3   - 3   6    12            9.6         - 21.8         - 20.8   57,6   117.2             -   37.2       -     39.6    85.6   158.4         150.7    80.8           -    237.7
EPIDEMIOLOGIST                       481MH4447S   - 3   - 3   6    12              2.3         -    6.9        -     .9   13.3    27.6               8.7             10.7    23.8    43.0              -    64,5          -     64.5
Suab-Total CO"451T141  SERVICES                                                                   - 33.7         -   3M.    71.4   1912.8          - 41.7          -    570.4   109.4   201.4        150.7   145.3           -     342.0
6. STUDIES
EV8AL06T1ON STUDIRS                   L08850 -            - - - -50.0   70.0   73.0  100.0  170.0   400.0    72.9   50.7   64.9   142.7   233.2   732.3                                           379.1   440.9           -    828.8
00HER STUDIES                         LL1SL508-           - - - -50.0   50,0   70.0   50.0  100.0   300.0    52.9   50,7   84.9    71.4   133.4   403.2                                           278.7   325.9           -    64.5
Suab-Total STUDIES                                                                           100.0  100.0  100.8  170,0  270.0   700.0   105.7  817.4  129,7   214.1   308.6   955.5                 677.8   774.8           -  1,432.8
Sub8-Total P9U HEA880808180                                                                   2,140.5  137.7  100,3  183.7  321.4 2,803.3 2,417.   179.1  129,7   204,4   490,0 3.468,7                2.382,3 2.610,4    207.7  5.2444.2
8. Z106HALT861H OFFICES
1.1.LAND4N0.                                         4 -          -   - -     4          I      4.0       -      -               -      4.0      43 j      -       -        -        -     4.3            -     6.4          -      6.4
2. CIVIL 8000
OFFICES                                 No8.      4   -   -   -   -       4       48.3   193.2                -       -       -   193.2   227.3                -        -        -   225.3        1323.   085.0       20.3    337.8
SR. THR0EE SE08OO  HOUS                 440.      4   -   -   -   -        4      71.7   206.8                -       -       -   206.3   291.2                -        -        -   241.2        140.9   198.0       21.7    361.7
A. THREE BE0800  IGISE                  No0.     12   -   -   -   -    12         29.7   370.4        -       -       -           320.4   415.6        -                -        -   417,6        244.7   341.2       37.4    623.1
JR8. 700 BEDR009 HEES                   80.      24 -   -   -   -    24           23.8   571.2        -                             71.2   606.1                                      666.1       391,9   746.8       59.9    998.
Suab-Total CIVIL W0980                                                                     1,327.6        -       -      -       -1,327.6 1,748.1          -                -        -1,748.1        910.8 1,271.0    139.3  2,321.0
3. P00441T6RE 8AN0 E0UIP8ENT                        44   -   -   -   -        4         40   100.0        -                       .   M.0   103.4          -       -                 -   168.4        149.7    87.7       17.2    252.5
4. VEHICLES
1989038 6M004                                     4   -   -   -   -        44        11    44.0               -       -       -    44.0    46.2         -               -        -    46.2         48.0    17.0        4.2      69.2
PlCK - UP                                         4   -   -   -   -       4        8.7    34.0         -                             4.0    33.7        -                        -     3.7         37.1    13.2        3.2      53.5
Sub-Total URIICLES5                                                                            78.0       -       -              -     78.0    81.8 B                                -    81.8         87.1    30.2        7.4    122.7
Maa-Total ZOHP  HEALTH OFFICES                                                                 1,509.6        1-- 1. 69                6 91,0     302.7       -       -        -        - 1,002.7    1,145.6 1,393.3    161.8  2,782.7
TioUl 89.19858  COTS                                                                              3,788.1  838.7  18.4.  183.7  321.4 4,432.9  4,228.8  859.8  129.7   264.4   498.8 5,371.2    3,521.0 4.60,7    369.2  7.94M2.9



- 55 -
ANNEX I
T-13
Page 5 of 10
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Institutional Support, Monitoring and Evaluation
(Detailed Cost Table)
(NAIRA '000)
Irmeeon of Tgali larl.t  
(UST  bn8i
bIr,tiLw                              8Raw Costs                          t0.ls  .llud,ra Canltirwcivs                          Local
--            ---- .---------------------------               ---------------------------- -                        4E   I. but.  I
11, IEr        CUTm                         Unit     1  2   3  4   2 total U        It Cvt    I    2      3      4    5       ToLsl      1      2       3       4       3    lut.3   For. bi,, Taieo)   Ta.0i    Taal
A. nuW NE681r0
1. INCREhENTAL SALARIES
PR5JECT DIRECTOR                STAFFTEAR   1   1   1   1   1    5         80    80.0  80.0  80.0  E0.0  80.0  400.0   83.5  90.7  90.2  105.9  113.3  491.6                  653.4   83.6         -   737.0
DEPUTY DIRECTOR                ITAFFTEAR   I   I   I   I   I    5        13.5    13.5  13.5  13.5  13.5   1i.5    61.5   14.5  16.5  18.7   21.0   23.3   94.1                    -   141.0        -    141.0
FINNC1IAL CONTROLLER            STAFFYEAR   I   I   I   I   I    S       73.2   73.2  73.2  73.2  73.2  73.2  366.0   76.4  83.0  89.9    96.9  103.7  449.8                  597.9   76.5         -    674.3
CHIEF ACCOWNTANI                STAFFYEAR   I   I   I   I   I    3        8.7     8.7    0.7    8.7    1.7    3.7   43.5    9.4   10.7   12.0   13.5    15.0   60.6               -   90.9         -     90.9
DOOOOEPER                       STAFF0E0R   1  2   2   2   2      9         3     3.0    6.0   6.0    6.0    6.0   27.0    3.2    7.3   8.3          9.3    10.4   30.6           -   57.8         -     57.R
EVAPLATIOE  OFFICER             STAFFTEAR   -   I   I   1  1    4         7.3       -    7.3    7.3   7.3    7.3   29.2          -    0.9  10.0   11.4   12.6   43.0              -   64.5         -     64.5
STAtISTICIAN                    STbFFrEAR   -   I   1  1   1      4       6.3       -    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3   25.2             7.7    3.7    9.3    10.9   37.1             -    55.7        -     5.7
CHIEF ARCHITIECT                STAFFrEAR   I   I   I  I  1    5         73.2   73.2  73.2  73.2  73.2  73.2   3.6.0    76.4   05.0  59.9   96.9  103.7  449.8                597.9   76.5         -    674.3
PhU CONSTRUCT15  SWPERVISOR     STAFFYEAR   1   1   I   1 1       5       7.3     7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3    36.5     7.0   3.9   10.1    11.4   12.6   50.9              -    76.3        -     76.3
Z0 CoNSTRLCTION lNSFECT5RS      STIFFYEAR   4     4     4   4    20         3    12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0   6D.0   12.9  14.7   16.6   10.7   20.7   83.6                     -   125.3        -    125.3
SITE INSPECTIRS                 SIAFFYEAR   4   4   4   4   4   20          3    12.0  12.0   12.0  12.0  12.0   60.0   12.9  14.7  16.6   10.7   20.7   83.6                     -   125.3        -    125.3
hAINTENANCE OFFICER             TAFFYEAR   I   1   1   1   I    5         7.3     7.3    7.3   7.3    7.3    7.3    36.5    7.0    8.9   10.1    11.4   12.6   55.9               -    76.3        -     76.3
PROCUREhENT OFFICER             8TAFFrEAR   1   I 1     1 1       5       7.3     7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3   36.5      7.3   0.9  10.1    11.4    12.6   50.9              -   76.3         -     76.3
hESSENGER                       STAFFYEAR   1   3   3   3   3    13       1.7     1.7   5.1   5.1    5.1    5.1   22.1    1.8    6.2    7.1          7.9    8.8    31.9           -    47.8        -     47.8
DRIVER/MECHANIlC                STAFFIEAR   2   2   2   2   2    10       2.4     4.8    4.8   4.3    4.8   4.8    24.0       5.2    5.9    6.6      7.5     8.3   33.4           -   50.0         -    50.1
SECRETARY                       STAFFYEAR   4   4   4   4   4    20         2    8.0    0.0    0.5   8.0    0.0    40.0    8.6    7.E   11.1   12.5   13.8   55.7                 -    83.6        -     t3.6
DI0ERS                         STAFFYEAR   7  15  15  15  15   67        1.8   12.6  27,0  27.0  27.0  27.0  120.6   13.5  31.1  37.4   42.0   46.S  172.6                       -   25a.8        -    258.8
Sib-Total INCREhENTAL S0.6IES                                                     324.6  359.0  357.0  359.0  359.0 1,760.6  341.0  419.0  461.4  506.1  549.7 2,278.0    1,849.1 1.566.1            -  3,415.2
2. VEHICLE OPOOOTION                  No.      4 14  14  14  14   60           3    12.0  42,0  42.0  42.0  42.0  130.0   12.6  48.0  52.3   55.7    60.9  250.5                 267.5   78.1         -    345.6
3. 0O0ST                            L?PSUh   -    -    -    -    -    -             40.0  60.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  400.0   42.6  72.0  134.1   149,2  164.0  561.9    I06.6   655.8                 -    B42.4
S,*-Totil P4U HEA2ARITERS                                                             376.6  461,0  501.0  501.0  501.0 2,310.6  397.0  549.0  647.8  711,9  774.7 3.070.4   2-303.3 2,300.              - 4,603.2
1. ZINAL HEALTh OFFICES
1. VEHICLE WEERATION                           -     8   8 t  8    32          3       -   24,0   24.0  24.0  24.0   96.0          -   27.4  29.9   32.4   34.8  124.5           144.3   42.4         -    1U.7
2. DFCDST                                      -   4  4   4  4    16           5       -   20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0   80.0           -   23.9  26.6   29.6   32.5  112.6            45.1  123.7         -   06.
8,h-Total 20AL HEALTH OFFICES                                                            -  44.0   44.0  44.0  44.0  176.0           -   51.3  56.5   62.0   67.3  237.1           189.4   166.0        -    3S.5
Total RECUENT COSTS                                                                       376.6  505,0  545.0 545,0  545.0 2,516.6  397.0  590.2  704.3  773.9  841.9 3,307.5    2,492.7 2,466.1             -  4,8.7
T;l .- C. :0            : 8  70 .7 6 .- -.9 -. :   .0  --.4 84 10.  1,=, 8==7:,7  6=,020.6 =641 ::               9.212::
Total MSELINE COsTS                                                                      4,086.7  640.7 6US.0  730.7 E66.4 6,969.5 4.317.0  749.4 834.0 1,038.3 1,339.9 8,578.7    6,020.6 6.471.7   369.2 12,t61.6
:=:=-  ::::: ::::      .:.. .- -    . ;     ---    -:: .            ====:= -zz=  =_::: :::::              = :==== :===



- 56-
ANNEX I
T- 13
Page! 6 of 10
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
National Health PIlanning and NRC Implementation and Evaluation
(Detailed Cost Table)
(NAIRA '000)
Druokdomw of Totals Ilcl. Cast
Ijatita                                   towt Can.t.                         Total, li,clo.1lo  Cw,tiogoxaso                      Local                     99)6.
1t--   ___ w               -   ---           -----------------------     -----                                         (Eol. DSutiesI              Cont.
lncAL    1   2   3   4   5  Total Cst   1          2      3       4       5    Total      1       2      3       4       5    Total   Fot, Exci. Toots)   Toots   Total   Rote
I. IWNESTCNAT COSTS
A. 88011811 SERVICES
HEALTH1 ECCWIONT   MCf                      VAITIE      -   I   I   I   -       3  LisI          115.1  115.0  115.0        - 345.0             IZ13.3  146,2  159.7       - 439,1         406.9   231.4          -   63.3       8
WAM.TH PLANNER , ff                          MANYCORS        I IS   I           I   115      -115.0  115.0  113.0           - 343.0         -133.3  L46.2  139,7           - 439,1         404.9   231.4          - 658.3        a
STATISTICI M  , MC                          08YEA1S 0.5   I   I   1 0.5         4   18    9.0   18.0   18.0   11.0    9.0    72,0    9.7   22,0   24.9   21.0   153.   100.2                   -   150.2          - 130.2 
80E1.I4 961W08   / IWLMtCETATI0N ,PHC   I4YETARS 0.3   I   1 0.5   -            3  115   57.3  115.1  113.0   57.5              345.0   60.5  133.2  140.2   79,8          -   419.8       392.3   230.8          - 629.3        8
LOGISTICS   PKC                             8087EA0  0.5 0.5   -   -   -        1  113   37.5   37,3        -       -       -   11.0   61.5   66,6         -       -       -   127.1       121.2    69.4          -   190.4 
EVALUATION   PK M                             NYEA16S   -   -   - 0.5 0.5       1  113       ---         7.       3    7.5      113.0       -  -        -       79,8   86.4   166.2        150.2    99.1              249.2      8
Sut-Total ADV1SORY SERVICES                                                                 124.01421.5  363.0  343.0   61.5 1,317.0  120.7  480.4  463.4  %07.l  101.7 1,671.5    1,477.7 1,038.2                   -2,335.9
8. STUDIES
PR01CT PREPARATIONLL14                                  -        -    -    -    --30.8   50.0   50.8   30.1   50.1   230.0   32.9   58.7   64,9   71,4   77,7   323.5                      226.9   261.1          - 488,8        8
EV8LLI6TION STUD11S ANDl MlSWS              tORPID- -                  - -100.0  100.0                      -   50.8   20.0   300.0  100.6  119.9          -   79.6   82.0   303.2        131.3   443.2              5 74.5     0
Imt-Total 11881E0                                                                           150.0  130.0   51.0  110.0  lIMO0   550.0  159.5  17B,6   64.9  146,0  159.9   708.7              358,2   704.3          -, 1062.5
C. FELL0MSHIPO                                    NO.      3   3   -   -   -       6   67  201.0  201.0         -      --          402.0  209.0  223.8         -      -       -   434.8       621.9        -    -         631.9     0
8. EQUIPIMEN
TYPEWRITERS                                   NO0,      6   -   -   -   -       6  1.8   10.8-                                   10.1   11.3        -              - -          11.3        11.8      4.2       1.0    17.8      0
IECIOOMCOINES                                 it.       2   -   -   -   -       2    3    6.0                               -     6.0    6.3        -      -                     4.3         4.5      2.3       8.4     9.4      0
DESK CO19UTER                                 No.       2   -   -   -   -       2   13   26.0                       -       -    26.0   27.3        -      --    27.3                       28.4    10.1        2.5    40.9      0
DESK CALCULATORS                              NO.       4   -   -   -   -       4  0.2    0.8                                     0.8    0.8        -      -              -      0.8         0.9      0.3       0.1     1.3 
FILING CABINET$                               NO.       6   -   -   -   -       6  0.3    1.8        -                      -      1.8    1.9       -              -       -     1.9         2.0      0.7       0.2     2.8      a
Sub-Total EOUJIPMENT                                                                         45.4-4.                                         7.6                                   47.6        49.      17.        43    71.4
E. VEHICLES
SEDAN                                         80.       4   -   -   -   -       4  9.2   36.8        -      -               -    36.8   38.6        -      -       -      -    38.4         40.2    14.2        3.5    57.9      8
Itb-Total VEHlICtES                                                                          36.8       -                      -    36.8   30.4        -       -      -       -    38.6        40.2    14.2        3.5    57.9
Total 1601ET14E09 COTS                                                                         537,2  771.2  413.1  463.0  106,5 2,373.2  583.4  832.0  528.2  452.1  261.7 2,921.2    2,577.5 1,794.3                7.8 4,379.4
Total BASELINE8 CMTS                                                                            557.2  771.5  413.0  460.0  166.5 2,371.2  583.4  892.8  529.3  652.9  261.7 2,921.2    2,577.5 1,714.3                7.8 4,379.4



- 57 -
ANNEX I
T-13
NIGERIA                                                      Page 7 of 10
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Summary Account by Time
(NAIRA '000)
Booe Cii'.. +
Price Cont..
C            Corlt.
1       2        3       4        5     TutI l            Aouw)t  (USS '000)  (US1 '000)
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LAND
NEW HEALTH CLINICS                                              3.0    10.5    805       8.0        -      30.0     0.0       0.0          60,4         60.4
ZONAL HEALTH OFFICES                                            4,0       -        -        -       -       4.0     0.0       0.0           6,4          6.4
PROJECT MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS                                 5.0        -       -        -       -       5.0     0.0       0.0           8.1          8.1
Sub-Total LAND                                                    12.0    10,5      8.5      3.0       -      39.0     0.0       0.0          74.9         74.9
B. CIVIL WDRKS
NEW HEALTH CLINICS                                            265.8   S30.3   753.1   708.8         -  2,658.0    40.0  1,043.2        5.086.6      5.595.2
UPGRADED CLINICS TYPE A                                           -   156.0   156,0   156,0         -    468.0    40.0    187.2           921.0     1.013.1
UPGRADED CLINICS TYPE B                                           -   762.0   762.0   762.0         -  2,286.0    40.0    S14.4        4.4S8.8      4,948.7
CLINIC STAFF HOUSING                                          142.8   499.8   761.6   S75.8   238.0  2,618.0    40,0  14047.2          50288,0      5.816.8
PROJECT MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS                             1.446.4        -       -        -       -  1,146.1    10.0    578.6        2,298.7      2,520.7
ZONAL HEALTH OFFICES                                       1.327.6        -        -        -       -  1,.27.6    40,0    531.0        2,110.0      2t321.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                          3.182.6 29348,1 29432.7 2,602.6   238.0 10.804.0    40.0  4.321,6         20,203.3    22,223.7
C. EQOUIPHENT
NEW HEALTH CLINICS                                             30.0   105.0    85.0    80.0         -    300.0    b0.0    180.0          559.1        55971
UPGRADED CLINICS TYPE A                                           -    50.0    50.0    50.0         -    150.0    60.0       90.0        2S6.7        284.7
UPGRADED CLINICS TYPE B                                           -   150.0   150.0   150.0         -    450.0    40.0    270.0          860.0       8E0.0
EXPANDED PROGRAN OF IMMUNIZATION                               27.0    10.7    17.4    15.0    10.9    113.2    85.4         97.8        207.3        207.3
PROJECT MANAGEMENT HEADCUARTERS                               432.6       -        -        -       -    132.6    60.0    259.6         642.7         682.7
ZONAL HEALTH OFFICES                                          160.0       -        -       -        -    160.0    60.0    97.0           252.5        252.5
NATIONAL HEALTH PLANNNING AND EVALUATION                       45.4       -        -       -        -     45.4    70.0       31.8         71.4          71.4
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                              695.0   315.9   304.4   325.0    10.9  1l451.2    62.1  1,025.2          2,919.8      2,919.8
D. VEHICLES
STAFF TRAINING                                                 85.7       -        -        -       -     85.7    70.0       60.0        134.8        134.8
EXPANDED PROGRAM OF INMUNIZATION                              216.0       -        -        -            216.0    70.0    151.2          339.7        337.7
PROJECT MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS                               156.5       -        -       -        -    154.5    70.0    109.5          246.1        246.1
ZONAL HEALTH OFFICES                                           78.0       -        -       -        -     78.0    70.0       5,6        122.7        122,7
NATIONAL HEALTH PLANNING AND EVALUATION                        36.8       -        -        -       -     36.8    70.0       25,B         57.9         57.9
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                               573,0        -       -        -             573.0    70.0    101.1          901.1       701.1
E. ADVISORY SERVICES
STAFF TRAINING                                                 42.0    42.0    42.0         -       -    126.0    70.0       80.2        218.3        218.3
EXPANDED PROGRAN OF IMMUNIZATION                               70.0       -        -        -       -     70.0    70.0       49.0         110.2       110.2
PROJECT MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS                                   -    35.7        -    35.7    71.4    142.8    56.5        80.6        302.0        302.0
NATIONAL HEALTH PLANNING AND EVALUATION                       124.0   420,5   363.0   363.0    66.5  1,3J7.0    61.5    822.2          2.533.9      2,535.9
Sub-Total ADVISORY SERVICES                                      236,0   498.2   405.0   398.7   127.9  1,675.8    62.1  1,040.1          3,166.4      3,166.1
F. FELL0WSHIPS
NATIONAL HEALTH PLANNING AND EVALUATION                       201.0   201,0        -        -       -    102.0   100,0    402.0          651,9        651.9
Sub-Total FELLOWSHIPS                                            201.0   201.0        -        -       -    402.0   100.0    402.0           651.9        651.9
B. VACCINES
EXPANDED PROGRAM OF IMUNIZATION                               146.0   146.0   146.0   146.0   146.0    730.0   100.0    730.0          1,324.9      1,324.9
Sub-Total VACCINES                                               146.0   146.0   146.0   146.0   146.0    730.0   100.0    730.0           Is124.9     1,324,9



- 58 -
ANNEX I
T-13
Page 8 of 10
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Summary Account by Time
(NAIRA '000)
Basoe Costs +
Prive CLuit.
Jo5e Costs                      Foreano  Excldiane   on lose    Total Incl.
- -    -     ------- _-_-__-.....--   --- -------  -   -----     Costs         Co4.t.
1       2        3       4        5     TUtJI       :     MUait  CUSS '000)  (USI '000)
H. STUDIES
NATIONAL HEALTH PLANNING AND EVALUATION                     150.0   150.0    50.0   100.0   100,0    550.0    36.1    200.0          1,02.5     1.062.5
PROJECI MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS                             100.0   100.0   100.0   150.0   250.0    700,0    30,0    350.0          1,432.6     1.432.6
Sub-Total STUDIES                                              250.0   250.0   150.0   250.0   350.0  1P250.0    14.0    550.0          2.495.1     2.495.1
I. TRAINING EXPENSES
PRE - SERVICE TRAINING                                       55.0   165.0   282.5   322.5   145.0    970.0        0.0      0.0       2.105.8     2.105,8
STAFF IN - SERVICE TRAINING                                   9,0   130,2   157,S   176.8   205,7    679,6    30.9    20?.9          11454,8     1.454.8
EXPANDED PROGRAM OF IMMUNIZATION                                 -    85.2    84.2    84.2    21.2    274.8    30.0       32.4         559.0       557.0
Sub-Total TRAINING EXPENSES                                      64,0   380.4   524.6   583,5   371,7  1,724.    15.2    292.3         4,119.5      4,119.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                           5,359.6 4,150,1 3.971.2 4.313,8 1,254,7 19,049.4    46.0  89762.3        35.U57.0    37,877.3
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL SALARIES
NEW HEALTH CLINICS                                              -    46.8   210.6   343.2   168.0  1068.6        0.0      D.0       2,535.5    2,535.5
UPGRADED CLINICS TYPE A                                        -        -    19.0    38.0    57.0    111.0       0.0      0.0         275.7       275.7
UPGRADED CLINICS TYPE B                                         -       -    57.0   123.5   190.0    370.5       0.0      0.0         898.4       89814
STAFF TRAINING                                             154.1   260,8   260.8   260.8   260.3  1,197.3    27.5    J27.4          2.461.9     24161.9
EXPANDED PROGRAM OF IlMUNIZATION                           160.1   192.4   192.1   192.1  I2.4    929,7    35.4    329.4          1867.4      1,867.4
PROJECT MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS                            324.6   359.0   359.0   359.0   359.0  1,760.6    57.9  1.018.8          3.415.2     3,415.2
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL SALARIES                                638.8   859.0 1,098.8 1,316.9 1,527.2  5,440.7    30.8  1,677.6         11,454.1    11154.1
8. VEHICLE OPERATION AND EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
STAFF TRAINING                                              24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    120.0    10.0        12.0         247.4       247.4
EXPANDED PROGRAN OF IMMUNIZATION                            50.0    75.0    75.0    73.0    75.0    350,0    79.1    277,0            662.1       662.1
PROJECT MANAGEMENT IHEADQUARTERS                            12.0    42.0    42.0    12.0    12.0    180.0    80.0    114.0            315.6       315.6
ZONAL HEALTH DFFICES                                           -    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0       96.0    80,0      76.8         186.7       186.7
Sub-Total VEHICLE OPERATION AND EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE          86,0   165.0   165.0   165,0   16J.0    716.0    68.3    509.8          1.441.8     1,441.8
C. OPCOST
STAFF TRAINING                                              55.0    55.0    55.0    55.0    55,0    275.0    30,0        82,5         551.9       551.9
EXPANDED PROGRAM OF IHMUNIZATION                            53.0    53.0    53.0    53.0    53.0    265.0    30.0        79.5         531.8       531.8
PROJECT MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS                              40.0    60.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    400.0    25.0    100.0           842.4       842.4
ZONAL HEALTH OFFICES                                            -    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0      80,0    30.0    24.0           168.8        168.8
Sub-Total OPCOST                                               148.0   188.0   228.0   228.0   228.0  1.020.0    28.0    236.0         2.094.9     2.094.9
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                              872.8 1,212.0 1.491.8 1,709.7 10720.2  7,206.7    34.3  2,473.4        14,970.8    14,790.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                              6t232.4 5,362.1 5,463.0 6,023.7 3,174.9 26,256,1    42.8 11.235.7        509817.7    52,868.1
Physical Contingencies                                           318.3   234.8   243.3   260.3    23.8  1,080.4    40.0    432.2               -
Price Contingencies                                              372.3   970.4 1,773.4 2,841.2 1,949.2  7,726.5    26.2  2,075.7
__--    -   - _ ----   -- -   -   --- --   -   -- --   -- -   ---   -- - ____,-...._  -- - -- -   ---------------__--_--_--_
Total PROJECT COSTS                                               6,922.9 6,587.3 7.479.7 9,125.1 5.147.9 35.263.0    39.0 13,743.5        50,847.7    52.868.1
Taxes                                                            302.6   205.1   233.5   275.4    25.7  1,012.3       0.0       0.0            -      1.562.7
Foreign Exchange                                               3.389,3 2,870.4 2.810.2 3.178.2 1t495.4 13743.5       0.0       0.0            -    20,605.0



- 59 -
ANNEX I
T-13
Page 9 of 10
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Project Component by Time
(NAIRA '000)
Totals Ircluding Cuntingencies.            Total
1       2       3        4       5     NAIRA   (U5$ '000)
A. SOKOTO STATE
_..__ __ _____
1. PRIMARY HEALTH SERVICES
NEU HEALTH CLINICS                                                344.8 140t1.1 1,496.6 19785.7   808.2  5,83L.4    8,750,2
UPGRADED CLINICS TYPE A                                               -   260.7   314.7   376.9    98.4  1,050.8    1.575.5
UPGRADED CLINICS TYPE B                                               - 1,164.4 1,367,9 1,613.3   328.1  4,t73.7    6,707.2
STAFF HOUSING                                                     166.5   b49.6 1,097.5 19552.6   413.7  3,E79.B    5.816.8
Sub-Total PRIMARY HEALTH SERVICES                                    511,3 3,475.8 4,276.7 5,328.5 1,648.4 15S240.7   22t849.6
2. STAFF TRAINING                                                    450.3   813.3 1,109.5 1,270.4 1,142.1  4,785.6    7,174.3
3. EXPANDED PROGRAM OF IMMUNIZATION                                  758.9   656.0   731.2   834.9   755.8  3.736.8    5.602.5
4. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT . MONITORING AND EVALUATION
PROJECT MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS                                 2,814.4   698.1   777.5   976.4 1t272.6  6.538.9    9,803.4
ZONAL HEALTH OFFICES                                            1,802.7    51.3    56.5    62.0    67.3  2,039.8    3.058.1
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT , MONITORING AND EVALUATION        4,617.0   749.4   834.0 1.038.3 19339.9  8,578.7   12,861,6
Sub-Total SOKOTO STATE                                                6,337.5 5,694.5 6,951.4 8,472.2 4t886.2 32,341,8   48,488.5
B. FEDERAL MINISTRY OF HEALTH
1. NATIONAL HEALTH PLANNING AND EVALUATION                           585.4   892.8   528.3   652.9   261.7  2,921.2    4,379.6
Sub-Total FEDERAL MINISTRY OF HEALTH                                    585.4   892.8   528.3   652.9   261.7  2,921.2    4.379.G
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                     6,922.9 6,587.3 7.479.7 99125.1 5,147.9 35,263.0   52,868.1
------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ----- ------ ------ - =  -  ----- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- --- --- =--.----



- 60 -
ANNEX I
T-13
Page 10 of 10
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Project Component by Time
(NAIRA '000)
Base Costi                       Total
1       2       3        1       5     NAIRA   (USS '000)
A. SOKOTO STATE
1. PRIMARY HEALTH SERVICES
NEW HEALTH CLINICS                                                298.8 1,092.6 1,057.2 1.140.0   168.0  4,056.6    6.081.9
UPGRADED CLINICS TYPE A                                               -   206.0   225.0   244.0    57.0    732.0    1,097.5
UPGRADED CLINICS TYPE B                                               -   912.0   969.0 1,035.5   190.0  3,106.5    l,657.4
STAFF HOUSING                                                     142.8   499,8   761.6   975.8   238.0  2,618.0    3,925.0
Sub-Total PRIMARY HEALTH SERVICES                                    441.6 2,710.4 3,012.8 3.395.3   953.0 10.513.1   15,761.8
2. STAFF TRAINING                                                    424.8   677,0   822.2   839.1   690.5  3.153.6    5.177.8
3. EXPANDED PROGRAM OF IMMUNIZATION                                  722.1   562,5   570.0   595.6   498.5  2,948.7    4,420.8
4. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT , MONITORING AND EVALUATION
PROJECT MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS                                 2,517.1   596.7   601.0   686.7   822.4  5.223.9    7i831.9
ZONAL HEALTH OFFICES                                            1,569.6    44.0    44.0    44.0    41.0  1041.6    2.617.1
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT , MONITORING AND EVALUATION        4,086.7   640.7   645.0   730,7   866.4  6,969.5   10,449.0
Sub-Total SOKOTO STATE                                                5,675.2 4,590.6 5,050.0 5,560.7 3.008.4 23,384.9   35.809.4
B. FEDERAL MINISTRY OF HEALTH
1. NATIONAL HEALTH PLANNING AND EVALUATION                           557.2   771.5   413.0   463.0   166.5  2,371.2    3,555.0
Sub-Total FEDERAL MINISTRY OF HEALTH                                    557.2   771.5   413.0   463.0   166.5  2,371.2    3,555.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                    6,232,4 5,362.1 5,463,0 6.023.7 3,174,9 26,256.1   39P36i.5
Physical Continsencies                                                 318.3   234.8   243.3  260.3    23.8  1,080.4    1.619.8
Price Continserncies                                                   372.3   990.4 1,773.4 2841.2 1,949.2  7.'26.3   11,883.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                     6,922.9 6t587.3 7,479.7 9,125.1 5,147.9 35,263.0   52,868.1
Taxes                                                                  302.6   205.1   233.5   275.4    25.7  1042.3    1,562.7
Foreign Exchange                                                     3,389.3 2.870.4 2,810.2 3,178.2 1p495.4 13,743.5   20.605.0
------ ----- -----  ----- ----- ------ -----  ----- ----- --- _------   ----- --_  - ----- ----- ------ ----- ----- ----- -----  -----



- 61 -
ANNEX I
T-14
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements I/
IBRD  Fiscal Year and Semester                      Cumulative Disbursements
US$ 000          %
FY 86:
- First                                         200           1
- Second                                      1,200          4
FY 87:
- First                                        3,100          9
- Second                                       5,100         15
FY 88:
- First                                        7,500         22
- Second                                      10,200          30
FY 89:
- First                                       13,600         40
- Second                                      17,700         52
FY 90:
- First                                       22,400         66
- Second                                      27,200         80
FY 91:
- First                                       31,300         92
- Second                                      34,000        100
1/   Assumed that project will be presented to the Board in March 1985
and that loan will be effective July 1985.



- 62 -
ANNEX I
T-15
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Project Zones
No. of
Population      Project
Zone   Headquarters             LGA Areas                 1981      Facilities
1     Wurno           Gwadabawa, Silame                1,870           41
Sokoto, Wurno
2     Bunza           Argungu, Bunza,                   1,644          61
Bagudo, Jega,
Birnin-Kebbi
3     Gummi           Anka, Gummi, Zuru,               1,636           37
Yabo, Bodinga, Yauri
4     Gusau           Gusau, Isa, Kaura-Namoda,         1,992          41
Talata-Mafara
TOTAL                                            7,142          180
Source: Sokoto State Health Project Feasibility Report.



- 63 -
ANNEX I
T-16
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Incremental Staffing Requirements
Civil Service
Grade Level
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
I. General Administration Unit
1 Project Manager                                     Int. 1
1, Deputy Director                                    GL 16
1  Financial Controller                               Int. 2
1  Chief Accountant                                   GL 12
1 Evaluation Officer                                  GL 11
1  Statistician                                       GL 10
2  Bookkeepers                                        GL 6
8 Subtotal
II. EPI Center
1 Chief Immunization Coordinator                      Int. 2
2  Cold Chain Officers                                GL 5
1  Storekeeper                                        GL 7
5 Subtotal
III. Training Resource Center
1  Chief Training Coordinator                         Int. 2
1 Assistant Training Coordinator                      GL 11
1  Graphics Officer                                   GL 10
1 Communications Officer                              GL 7
4 Subtotal
IV. Construction Unit
1  Chief Architect                                    Int. 2
1  PMU Construction Supervisor                        GL 10
1 Maintenance Officer                                 GL 10
1  Procurement Officer                                GL 10
4  Zonal Office Construction Inspectors               GL 8
4  Site Inspectors                                    GL 7
12 Subtotal
29 TOTAL PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT



- 64 -
ANNEX I
T-16
Page 2 of 2
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Incremental Staffing Requirements
Civil Service
Grade Level
B. ZONAL HEALTH OFFICE
I. In-Service Training and Administration
1  Zonal Training Coordinator                          GL 12
1  Training Officer                                    GL 10
1 Administrative Officer                               GL 7
1 Midwife                                              GL 7
1  CH Assistant                                        GL 5
1  CH Aide                                             GL 3
_ Subtotal
II. Expanded Program on Immunization
1  Zonal EPI Coordinator                               GL 10
2  Zonal EPI Supervisors                               GL 7
1  Storekeeper                                         GL 5
1 Maintenance Technician                               GL 5
5 Subtotal
11 TOTAL ZONAL HEALTH OFFICE
C. TOTAL INCREMENTAL STAFF REQUIREMENTS
PMU       ZHO      Total
INT. 1, 2  )                           5        -          5
) Management
GL 10-16   )                           8         12       20
GL 5-9                                16         32       48
TOTAL                29         44       73



- 65 -
PNEX I
T-17
NIGERIA
s3Koro HEALTH PROJECr
Qiarterly Inplentaim SdEdIle cf Priject Activities
PRE-PICJIT                                1'RJECT LIFE
1 2 3 4  5  6 7 8  9 10 11 12  13 14 15 16  17 18 19 20  21 222324
Planr;ed Loan Effectiveress              XXX
Project Preparation/Coordination
- Establishmernt of PEB                  XXX
- Designation of Coordination Grops      XXX
- Establishwert of Project Acconts       XXX
- Signirg of Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between FN ard SS          XXX
Civil Works
- Selection of Locatiors                 XXX
- Selection of Sites                     XXX          XXX         XXX          XXX
- Workirg Drawirgs, Tenier Dooierts         XXXXXXX
- Bid Period ard Cortract Award                XXXXXX      XXXXX        XXXKK        XX
- Corstruction Period
. EMJ and Staff Houses                          ML
. 71O and Staff Houses                         )00000XX)0(
. PH Clinics                                       XX                          ODG        Q=
EPI
- Appointmert of Key Project Staff          XXXXXX
- Appoirtmert of Consultants                XXKXXX
- Developmert of Plan of Operation                XXX DM
- Purdiase, Installation and
Testirg of Equipment                                       Q
- Procoremert of Vehicles                                XXXXX
- Procureat ot VacuLnes                                  Ax          XXX          XXX          XXX          XXX
- Staff Trainirg                                        XX)COOOX
Training and Supervision
- Pre-service trainirg of
C CH Assistarts                                XXX 
.CH Aides               _                                _                              _QODD
- Training of LGA Supevisors 
- Appointment of Key Project Staff           10000
- Appoitmert of Corsultant                        XXx
- Developmert and Production of
Trairiirg Material                               X.000000 D000000     >000OOD0  Do= 0
- Health Clinic Staff Trainirg                            Z__
- TBA Traintrg
Project Manaement
- Appointmert of Project Manager, Deputy
Manager and Finarrial Cortroller     XXX
- Appointment of Remainirg Staff         XXX
- Project Operational Plan aid
Anmal APs                           0X0       X00        X10          X10
- Procaremert of Vehicles                   XXXXXX
- ZHOs established anid fully staffed             X00
Federal Support Activities
- Appointmert of lorg-term corsultarts       XX0
- Canpletion of study of health
f inancirg                                           XXX
Assungtiors: Loan Effectiverxss = July, 1985
Project Completion Date = July, 1990
LoanClosirg Date = December 31, 1990
Source: Mission Estimates



-66                                                  ANNFX I
T-18
NIGERA
S0KM01  HEALTH PROJECT
Projected Coverage amd Nuber of MC1 ad General Outpatient Services Provided throgh Project Paclities
Data for average
iroject clinic
Year I 1/  Year 2   Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 9          in Year 9
1. ICH SERVICES
A. Ante-Natal Care
- No. eligible wen (000)                96.0         98.9    101.8   104.9   108.0   120.0            600
- Target coverage (Z)                     -          2%       5%      12%       18%      50%          50Z
- No. covered (000)                       -          2.0      5.1    12.6    19.4    60.0             300
- No. consultations (000)                 -          4.0    10.2    25.2    38.8   120.0              600
B. Care for Infants
- No. Infants (000)                     80.0        82.4    84.9    87.4    90.0   100.0              500
- Target coverage (%)                   20%          24%      29Z    35%        42%      70%          70%
- No. covered (000)                      16.0        19.8    24.6    30.6    37.8    70.0             350
- No. consultations2/ (000)              16.0       21.7    30.8    45.9    68.0   210.0            1,050
C. Care for Children aged 1-4
- No. children (000)                    300.0      309.0   318.3   327.8   337.7   375.0             1,875
- Target coverage (%)                   20%           23%      27%    31%       40%      60%           60%
- No. covered (000)                      16.0        71.1    85.9   101.6   135.1   225.0            1,125
- No. consultations2/ (000)              16.0       78.2   103.1   132.1   189.1   337.5             1,688
D. Total MIH Consultations (000)           76.0        103.9   144.1   203.2   295.9   667.5            3,338
E. Inmmizations
- No. children (000)                    82.4        84.9    87.4    90.0    93.0   100.0              500
- Target coverage (%)                    13%        20%      30%      40%      50%      70%           70%
- No. iumnized children (000)            10.7        17.0    26.2    36.0    46.5    70.0              350
II. GENEAL OUTPATIEN  SERVICES
A. Children Aged 5-14
- No. children (000)                   540.0        556.2   572.9   590.1   607.8   675.0            3,375
- Target coverage (%)                   20%          24%      29%     35%      42%       70%          70%
- No. covered (000)                    108.0        133.5   166.1   206.5   255.3   540.0            2,362
- No. consultations (000)               108.0      133.5   166.1   206.5   255.3   540.0             2,362
B. Adults
- No. Adults (000)                    1,080.0     1,112.4  1,145.8  1,180.0  1,215.5  1,350.0        6,750
- Target coverage (x)                   30%         35%      40%      45%      50%       60%           60%
- No. covered (000)                     324.0      389.3   458.3   531.0   607.8  1,080.0            4,050
- No. consultations (000)               324.0       389.3   458.3   531.0   607.8  1.080.0           4.05G
C. Total General Outpatient
Consultations (000)                    432.0        522.8   624.4   737.5   863.1  1,620.0           6,412
III. CQIPOSITION OF TARGET GROUP (000)
- infants                                80.0                                            100.0          500
- children 1-4                          300.0                                            375.0        1,875
- children 5-14                          540.0                                           675.0        3,375
- adults 15-44                           920.0                                         1,150.0        5,750
- adults over 45                         160.0                                           200.0        1,000
1/ Assumes present coverage of 30% for adult outpatient services,
20Z coverage for children and infants, and 13% imunization coverage.
2/ Assumes gradual increase in average number of consultations annually;
includes both well baby and sick baby visits.
Source: Mission Estimates.



- 67 -
ANNEX I
T-19
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Incremental Recurrent Costs of Project Health Services
Constant 1983 Prices
Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year
1      2       3       4       5      6
----------(in Thousand Nairas)----------
I. LGA HEALTH NETWORK
Salaries                                _       47    286    504    715    715
- New Health Clinics                     -       47    210    343    468    468
- Upgraded Health Clinics                -      -       76    161    247    247
TOTAL LGA                                  -       47    286    504    715    715
II.  SMOH HEALTH NETWORK
1.  Training and Supervision              233    340    340    340    340    340
- Salaries                           154    261    261    261    261    211
- Vehicle Operations and
Equipment Maintenance              24      24      24      24     24      24
- Other Op. Costs                      55     55      55      55      55     55
2.  Immunization                          263    318    318    318    318    318
- Salaries                            160    190    190    190    190    170
- Vehicle Operations and
Equipment Maintenance              35      75      75      75     75      75
- Other Op. Costs                      68     53      53      53      53     53
3.  Management & Administration           377    461    461    461    461    461
- Salaries                            325    359    359    359    359    200
- Vehicle Operations and
Equipment Maintenance              12      42      42      42     42      42
- Other Op. Costs                      40     60    100    100    100    150
TOTAL SMOH                                873   1119   1119   1119   1119   1119
GRAND TOTAL                   873   1166   1405   1623   1834   1834
Source: Mission estimates.



- 68 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Sokoto State General Background
1.        Sokoto State is located in the Northwestern corner of Nigeria and
has a land area of approximately 101,050 sq km. It was created in 1976 out
of part of the Northwestern State. The Local Government Edict of 1977
established 19 Local Government Areas (LGA). In [980, the number of LGAs was
raised to 32, but the number reverted to 19 in 1984 under the new Government.
2.     Topography is dominated by a gently rolling plain with an average
elevation of 450 m. The western part of the State is traversed by the wide
and extensive floodplain of the Sokoto-Rima River System. Most of the State
falls into the dry Sudan savannah ecological zone characterised by a semi-
arid climate with a long and severe dry season followed by a rainy season
from May to September. During the winter months (December through March),
cold and dry northeasterly winds known as the "Harmattan" occur frequently.
3.        The 1982 population of Sokoto State is officially estimated at
about 7.8 million by extrapolating the 1963 census data. It is estimated to
be growing at 3.0% per annum. Table T-7 presents a breakdown of the
population by LGA. About 1.6 million live in towns of over 10,000 inhabit-
ants, including about 300,000 in Sokoto Town. The rural population which
accounts for about 78% of the State's total, live in small and highly
dispersed settlements. Unofficial estimates place the number of villages at
over 4,000, most of which contain less than 1,000 inhabitants. There is a
tendency for villages to be clustered along river beds. Population density
averages 71 inhabitants per sq km for the State as a whole. By LGA it ranges
from 16 to 330 inhabitants per sq km. Nomadic or semi-nomadic herdsmen
account for less than 10% of the population.
4.     Agriculture and livestock are the mainstays of Sokoto's economy
contributing about 50% of GDP. About 25% of the State's land area is under
cultivation and Sokoto's cattle stock are the second largest in Nigeria. The
Sokoto Agricultural Development Project (SADP) has been approved by the Bank
to help Sokoto State develop its agricultural potential and raise farm
production levels (Ln. 2185-NIR). The manufacturing sector is very small,
contributing less than 10% of GDP. It consists mainly of small-scale
establishments and in 1980 provided a total of 6,800 jobs. Construction
activity, however, has grown very rapidly giving rise to a proliferation of
small contractors with limited construction skills and experience.
Activities in the service sector have also developed rapidly. Rapid growth
of the civil service employment and commercial activities has taken place.



- 69 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
5.     Sokoto State's trunk road network is relatively well developed with
about 2,500 km of paved or gravel roads, about 1,000 km of all weather feeder
roads, and about 2,700 km of dry season motorable tracks. Sokoto Town is
served by a newly constructed airport with daily flights to and from Lagos.
Electrical power from the national grid serves the 6 largest towns and small
diesel-operated units have been installed in many of the LGA headquarters.
However, these sources are unreliable as demand for electricity far exceeds
generating capacity, leading to wide voltage fluctuations and frequent power
failures. Rivers, lakes, ponds, shallow wells and springs are the main
source of water supply for the majority of the population. Access to treated
water supplies is low, probably covering less than 30% of the urban popula-
tion, and distribution systems are unreliable due to poor maintenance. To
improve access to potable water in the areas of greatest agricultural poten-
tial, the SADP will construct about 1,200 boreholes. Sanitation is rudi-
mentary. Pit latrines are the predominant means of fecal waste disposal.
Shallow, unprotected and poorly maintained earth channels have been
constructed to carry away storm water and sullage water in the more developed
sections of urban areas.
6.     Despite great efforts between 1970 and 1981 to expand the education
system and to raise school enrollments -- primary school enrollments have
tripled to 450,000 -- educational standards in Sokoto State are still well
below national averages. Official figures for 1970/80 indicate that 62% of
boys and 31% of girls aged 6-11 are enrolled in primary schools. About 4,000
girls and 17,000 boys or 1% and 4% of all 12-17 year olds were enrolled in
sec,ondary programs and about 2,000 in post-secondary programs. The percent-
age of females enrolled in post-primary programs is low, reflecting limited
educational opportunities for girls until very recently and traditional and
cultural values that place a high premium on early marriage and confinement
of women within the traditional compound ("purdah"). The internal efficiency
of the educational system is low as result of rapid expansion and a shortage
of qualified teachers. These factors and relatively high national educa-
tional entry qualifications for health training programs -- including
mandatory efficiency in English -- limit the recruitment of female
candidates.



- 70 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Sokoto State: Implementation of the Pilot Phase BHSS
and the Health Network Construction Programs
1.        Since the State's creation in 1976, the health policies of SSG have
closely followed national policies. Development of the health system has
been focussed on four major programs: (a) implementation of the pilot phase
of the BHSS program; (b) expansion of the secondary and tertiary levels of
the health system; (c) expansion of health worker training programs; and (d)
a mass immunization campaign against CSM.
2.        The implementation by SMOH of the pilot phase of the BHSS program
is widely recognized as the most consistent and faithful attempt by any State
Government to carry out the intentions and the letter of the national program
as developed by FMOH. After several cutbacks in the FMOH investment budget
(see para. 2.05), federal funding was eventually provided for: (a) the cons-
truction and equipment of 12 basic health clinics and 4 mobile clinics in the
Kaura Namoda LGA -- selected because its population was least well served by
the existing health infrastructure --; (b) the transformation of the Sokoto
Medical Auxiliary Training School into a School of Health Technology (SHT);
and (c) construction of an extension of SHT in Jega. Implementation of the
training activities proceeded smoothly, and SHT started graduating CH workers
in 1979. The health facility construction program encountered serious design
problems, large cost overruns and delays in equipment delivery that delayed
the opening of the facilities to 1981. The unit cost for a fully equipped
health clinic ranged from N 150,000 - N 250,000 compared with estimates of
N85,000 and a cost of N 25,000 for a fully equipped dispensary. Also, the
mobile units proved to be very costly to operate and prone to frequent
breakdowns. Even though a reduced staffing pattern was initially used,
clinic utilization rates of 1,000-2,000 consultations monthly turned out to
be well below the projected levels and insufficient to justify even the
reduced staffing patterns adopted. MCH service objectives could only partly
be met due to a lack of trained female health workers and great difficulty
was encountered in introducing outreach activities due to a lack of
supervisors with previous field experience.
2.      The experience with the implementation of the BHSS program convinced
SMOR and SSG that major modifications to reduce construction, equipment and
staffing standards were required to the federal blueprints before they could
serve as a rational and cost-effective model for expanding access to PHC.
It also convinced SSG that attainment of PHC objectives at an affordable cost
required giving the highest priority to upgrading and utilizing the existing
health facilities and personnel, abandoning use of mobile clinics, and
strengthening the management and efficiency of the LGA health system.



- 71 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
3.        Since its creation in 1976, SSG has sought to improve the coverage
of health care by expanding and upgrading the health network. While the
principal responsibility for developing the primary level lies with the LGAs
(who received considerable technical and financial support from SMOH), SMOH
concentrated its efforts on expanding the secondary and tertiary level of
care. While previously hospital services were only available in Sokoto Town,
Gusau and Argungu, a network of 10 hospitals now exists after 5 new hospitals
were constructed and 1 health center upgraded. The locations of these
hospitals were appropriately selected taking into consideration population
coverage, accessibility and basic infrastructure considerations. These faci-
lities are now fully operational and well managed and utilized. In addition,
8 new health centers have been constructed and 20 more are under construction
at a cost of N 20 million to provide access to medical referral services in
areas too far distant from hospitals. Staffing, operation and utilization of
these facilities are satisfactory. Once this program is completed, Sokoto
will possess a solid network of referral and hospital facilities, which
reduces the urgency to further develop these levels of infrastructure and
increases the importance to be placed on upgrading and coordinating health
services at the primary level.



- 72 -
ANNEX IV
NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data available in the Project File
1.    Federal Ministry of Health,  A Project For The Implementation Of The
Basic Health Service Program Of The Federal Republic Of Nigeria,
July 9, 1976.
2.    Max 0. Urbahn International Limited,  Management Audit Of The Basic
Health Services Scheme, April 1981.
3.    Moco Nigeria Limited,  Sokoto State Health Project: Feasibility Report,
February 1983
4.    Moco Nigeria Limited,  Techno-Economic Survey Of Sokoto State, Vol. I
and II, September 1981.
5.    Sokoto State of Nigeria,  Sokoto State: Health Statistics, 1982,
January 1984.
6.    World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report: Sokoto Agricultural Development
Project, May 24, 1982, 3304-UNI.
7.   WHO, Rural Health Services, 1974-1980, December 1983.



NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Organization Chart, Federal Ministry of Health
Minister                             National
of  Health                          Health Council
___________________________        State
Commissioners
Permanent Secretary                         of Health
Directorate             Directorate                   Directorate of                 Primary
of National                   of                      Food, Drug and              Health Care
Health               Pharmaceutical                   Laboratory                Coordinating
Planning                 Services                        Services                     Unit
Directorate of               Directorate of                   Directorate of
Medical Services               Public Health                   Administration
and Training                   Services                       and Finance



NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Organizational Chart, Sokoto Ministry of Health
State Commlssionier 
of Health
--          ll~~ospitals
Proposed Sokotoals
Health Project                                                     Managemnent Board     -fl Rural PH Centers.
Permanent Secretary                              4  Urban Clinics
Inspecto r                                    Administrat Lon
Chief Medical Officer
for Health
__ 1 .. , .____.___                                 __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                 I_
Epidemiology    Planring & Statlstics      Nursing         Pharmacy &        Basic Healtlh          Amanawa
_______  -  _Medical Store     Services Scheme      Leprosarium
Sch    of   School of                      Sclhool of
N ursing    Midwifery                 Helth Technology
r-4



NIGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Organizational Chart, Sokoto Health Project
PROJECT EKECUrIVE CODMMITTEE
MINISTRY FOR        __CHAIRMAN:                                                                 4   IITYOF HEALTH|
L OCAL GOVERNMENT                                   COMMISSIONER FOR HEALTHI_
Project Manager
Deputy Project Manager
l General      |       Construction and|                Training    ll                EPI     l
Administration          Procurement Unit             Resource Center                Center
Wurno          BnaGummi                        Gusau
ZoZone          onI            Zone 3          Zone 4
LGA    HEALTH         -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -  -   - 
DEPARTMENTS
Training & Administration|                       E P I
_ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .         ,
LGA SUPERVISORS                    --4      HEALTH. CLINIC






IBRD 17017R1
4o                                    5                                      6'                                    7                                      8
N                I             G                E              R
N IGERIA
SOKOTO HEALTH PROJECT
Proposed:
r  (   @   !  /    y     v      -             )g       \                                    g      Project ManogemLent Unit
AX ~~~~~~~~~~Headquarters
!  -  GwadaX   <  l(2  \                             @   Zonal Offices
Upgraded Dispensaries ond
Primary Health Clincs
17"                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing:
Dispensaries and  Clinics
,   Health  Centers
C     Hospitals
Railocds
/-  B w   Xj  < ,    \              g   +   g                  <             ; @; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i-----i-  Railroads
.  I,P  X  \    i  R   R   i        *    State Capital
~A irpor t
Ipg * fInnKsbbi@ Af   0   ,      ..   - r  : ' .-.     ....            W      \g<_ @ j  tj V  > @    A9j                   -     Rivers
--  Local Government Boundaries
,JA|l/ itw *a?  @ C \ t ---   -   State Boundaries
Q            20~~~~~~~~~~~~/.    R.- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zonal Boundaries
International Boundaries
1t\                                                                                                                                                               (~ .i G 2  g  3 tZ '  \/ Population density per sq kimn
160
/<; } C.ub > < 0 ~~~~~~~~~40
1At \ ' . : t o % '</ , - ..                               . u --...11A1.t.
BURKINA<')K    s
B,,n:Y-o2           NIGER  STATE                           KADUNA  STATE T                                           NIGERIA
z   K  W  A  R  A     >         <    _                            o             2'5            50 MILES                          Z                                           Ic f
Lii  r J                     H}          QKfh,:                                   0 50                       t0 KILOMETERS                      QERS Ltg                               f
S  T A    TE                                           Th,Fp  Thr rr- m-aeen preparedb n g 1e yonUtid.00 rhiee     In, i.e C,i, 5S                             ) CAMEROON
icrreaeroano:n~,ui lhy for Inn ool, Tso  ofie   o ld    k and thl i1t-oaon-1-
F.r   -pn - ther-rron h d ili nod  ,r- ode ong  n on i-sniap do 
ml,'rhepili rho W.oo rank -nd the lnlenh-no Finnc Cr,,o-b-n oily,,g-Nilion  ai.i     O;mo
ell'           4'5                                                                            'EQUATORIAL, OUlNE-A
etj on /lhe SS.04   OIls Sgtiit all, lnn,florr l,r any erde hreiil ors oreaeplnnen of 0UI heoU.furlJhtEC                   1984
DECEMBER 19f84



