Report No. PID6341
Project Name                     China-Accounting Reform and (@)
Development Project
Region                           East Asia and the Pacific Region
Sector                           Financial Sector
Project ID                       CNPE51856
Borrower                         Government of China
Implementing Agency              1. China Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (CICPA)
2. China Accounting Standards Committee
(CASC)
Date PID Prepared                April 20, 1998 (revised November 16, 1998)
Projected Appraisal              October 13, 1998
Projected Board Date             March 15, 1999
Recent Economic Developments
China's current economic situation represents a point of reform
acceleration, with a new government, and a new package of economic stimuli and
reform, ending a period of gradually paced reform designed to bring about a
'soft landing' from the economic overheating of 1993-94. Recent economic
indicators confirm that the 'soft landing' has been successfully achieved,
with real GDP growth in 1997 reported at 8.8 percent, 11 percent industrial
growth and consumer price growth of only 2.8 percent. In addition, China has
earned a $40 billion trade surplus in 1997, with foreign direct investment
growing to $45 billion, and the accumulated foreign exchange reserves growing
to an unprecedented $140 billion. Unexpectedly, export performance has been
sustained over early 1998, despite the relative depreciation in the currencies
of neighboring Asian countries. Exports in the first two months of 1998 grew
by more than 10 percent.
However, there have been indications of a slowdown in GDP growth in the
last quarter of 1997, and a contraction in demand. GDP growth in the last
quarter of 1997 was only 8.4 percent, down from 9.6 percent in 1996, with
industrial growth down to only 8 percent. In the first quarter of 1998, GDP
growth has slowed further, and inflation measures are negative. In the real
sector, growth of electric power demand has been slow and the growth of volume
of transport has been near zero. There is a prospect for a significant
reduction this year of both exports and foreign investment, due to the
regional financial crisis. While restrictions on capital flows have protected
China from externally imposed financial shocks, and sizable trade surpluses
and foreign exchange reserves have provided a cushion against immediate
currency pressures, there is increasing concern about the medium term impact
of the crisis.
In the near term, the impact of the crisis on China is expected to be
manageable. China's exports to the countries most affected by the crisis are
relatively small (4%-), and exports in third country markets are likely to
remain competitive, thanks to China's low labor costs, despite competitor
devaluations. The overall trade balance is however expected to decline, and
this reduction in foreign demand could lead to a reduction in domestic growth



of 1-3 percent. Foreign direct investment from traditional sources such as
Hong Kong, and from the overseas Chinese community in Asia, is also likely to
decline.
Despite concern about the impact of the Asian crisis, China has pledged
not to devalue the yuan, as part of its contribution to restoring financial
stability in the region. This will require careful macroeconomic management.
Moreover, the severity of the crisis has alerted China's leaders to the
vulnerability of some segments of its own economy, and the need to build
urgency into its own reform program. It has clearly increased the urgency with
which top leadership is considering its approach in areas such as financial
sector reform and SOE reform.
Sector Background and Government's Reform Strategy
China has made steady progress in terms of financial sector reforms since
the Bank's Financial Sector Technical Assistance loan of 1992. The Central
Bank law of 1994 confirmed the People's Bank of China (PBoC) as the key agent
of monetary policy, prudential supervision, and the lender of last resort.
China also passed a Commercial Bank law in 1994, which required the banks to
operate on a commercial basis, and mandated the separation of bank and non-
bank financial sector operations. Commercial banks were required to adopt
asset-liability management ratios, introduced at the same time.
Yet, China's banking system is known to be fragile. Non-performing loans
have been conservatively estimated to form 20-30 percent of total loan
portfolios, in the big four state banks which dominate the banking system. In
1994, three 'policy banks' were established which were intended to take over
the policy-based, non-commercial lending of the state banks, thus alleviating
their burden of financing projects, enterprises or sectors known to be
unviable or risky, because of government priorities. But a real transfer of
non-commercial lending away from the state banks has yet to occur. China's
loan loss provisioning methods have been known to be far from satisfactory,
due to the limit of 1 of loans permitted as a write off in any given year.
Attention to financial sector reforms has accelerated, as a result of the
regional financial crisis. A high-level conference of China's top leadership
was held in November, which led to a new round of reform measures. Most of
these focus on the banking system, and are designed to reduce the accumulation
of non-performing loans. Key measures include (i) the abolition of credit
quotas (for both working capital and investment loans) for the four state
banks. From January 1, 1998, the government removed the credit quotas for both
fixed capital and working capital loans for the state banks, replacing it with
the asset-liability management ratios to which other financial institutions
are subjected. (ii) The government has introduced a risk-based loan
classification system, to be adopted by the end of 1998, which divides loans
into five categories; normal, 'special mention', substandard, doubtful, and
lost, following recommendations of the Bank of International Settlements.
Another initiative (iii) is the reorganization of the central bank, to break
the link between local governments and the central bank branches. The PBoC has
already appointed some senior level officials to head the new provincial
branches.
In addition, a special $32.5 billion bond issue was approved on February
28 to strengthen the capital base of the state banks. The recapitalization
plan will be implemented in three steps, with a reduction in banks' reserve
requirements, which then permit the banking system to use the freed up
resources to purchase the special bonds. The government will then use the
proceeds from the purchase to strengthen the capital base of the banks.
China's strategy for SOE reform has accelerated, as the performance of
-2 -



state enterprises in the Chinese economy has deteriorated. Once contributors
of over 80 percent of industrial output, the share of SOEs has now declined to
less than a third, and SOE losses now exceed profits. A number of pilot
programs in mergers, divestiture, bankruptcy, governance and ownership reform
have now begun to expand to nationwide implementation. Success will depend on
whether GDP growth rates can support the absorption of large scale layoffs,
and also on the extent to which large enterprises can adapt to a new profit
driven management culture and governance structure. The number of laid-off
workers who retain links to SOEs but have yet to find alternative jobs rose to
12 million in 1997, and is expected to rise further to 15 million in 1998.
Recently announced initiatives suggest a further increase in layoffs--the
textile sector alone is estimated to add 12 million layoffs in the next three
years.
The core of China's present strategy is to support the large SOEs, with
resources saved from cutting links from the small SOEs. That is, resources
will be concentrated on those large SOEs considered strategic for national
development. The approach is supported by the superior performance and
profitability patterns observed in many large SOEs in coastal regions
especially those owned by the central government. Eventual privatization is a
possibility, and some small-scale divestiture has already begun. The present
strategy embraces a variety of corporate forms and stock/share ownership
vehicles.
Rationale for Bank / IDA Involvement
The World Bank committed itself to supporting reform of China's
accounting system some years ago, with the FSTA-I project of 1992. Good
progress has been achieved under this project. The present project would
acknowledge this progress, building further upon the success already achieved.
It would reinforce our role as a supporter of financial infrastructure in
China, complementing our role in the development of payments systems.
Project Objectives and Description
The project comprises two related components. The first component would
support government efforts to familiarize, on a large-scale, existing
accountants with accounting, auditing and business administration principles
and practices that are generally accepted in market economies. The approach to
be adopted is to establish a large residential continuing education facility
in Beijing which would offer a wide selection of short courses on specific
accounting and business topics and issues. Such courses would include, for
example, accounting practices, auditing techniques, taxation, professional
ethics, computerized management systems, and various functional management
topics. The facility envisaged can accommodate 1,500 persons at a time. Based
on courses of around 2 weeks, average, the throughput of the institution will
be around 25,000 persons per year.
The second component would consist of continuing support of the government's
ongoing efforts to develop and promulgate accounting standards predicated upon
internationally accepted accounting standards. The principal vehicle through
which this is to be effected is the China Accounting Standards Committee
(CASC), the formation of which was approved by the State Council in February
1998. The Committee was formally established on September 16, 1998, and on
October 6, 1998, an official circular of the MOF was sent to all relevant
agencies, informing them of the new Committee. The committee, intended to be
a permanent body, has been charged with a series of tasks which include the
researching, drafting review and evaluation of accounting standards;
- 3 -



coordination of accounting activities with international accounting bodies;
and responsibility for the proposed World Bank accounting project. The
secretariat of the CASC includes some staff from the former Accounting
Standards Task Force of the Accounting Department of MOF; but additionally has
a Board with external experts, and enjoys greater independence. Assistance to
the CASC would comprise: the development and publication of a series of
accounting standards, additional to those already undertaken (including basic
accounting standards, reporting standards, and selected sector and business
standards); maintenance and revision of existing standards, development of an
advisory/ best practice service for users (including a website), development
of a staffing and training program, and supporting equipment and training
materials.
Project Finance
Under the CICPA component, it is proposed that the Bank would finance
those parts of the training center that relate to the provision of training,
such as classroom equipment, teaching materials, as well as consultant inputs
for curricula design, preparation of course materials, and the provision of
instructors in the startup period, and provision of overseas training for
Chinese trainers.
The Bank does not propose to finance costs related to land, buildings, or
their associated general equipment and infrastructure. Such costs would be met
entirely through local counterpart funds.
Under the Accounting Standards component, the Bank proposes to finance
costs related to the preparation, finalization, dissemination and monitoring
of new accounting standards, and training for the members of the Accounting
Standards Committee.
Project Implementation
The CPA training institute component will be executed by the China
Institute of Certified Public Accountants in close cooperation with Beijing's
leading universities. The CICPA (which is currently closely associated with
and subject to the supervision of the Ministry of Finance) plans to draw upon
world wide resources for professional educational materials, courses and
instructors. This would include the resources such as the American Institute
of CPAs (AICPA), major international CPA firms, and international universities
for accounting and business.
The China Accounting Standards Committee is responsible for the
implementation of the Accounting Standards component.
Coordination with Other Donor Assistance
As far as known, no other donor agencies are providing China with
assistance in the area of accounting reform.
Lessons From Previous Bank Experience
The Bank has had a limited number of past projects dealing with
accounting reform. The one related Bank financed project in China took place
six years ago. Two projects with similar components have been financed by the
Bank in other client countries, which offer some useful lessons. In all three
projects, the accounting components are small parts of larger projects. The
principal prior projects are:
1. China - Financial Sector Technical Assistance loan (1992). The overall $60m
project was broad based in scope and covered a number of areas in the
financial sector. One component ($2.4 million) was for accounting standards
- 4 -



reform. This component is largely disbursed. A series of 25 new standards have
been drafted but not finalized.
2. Indonesia - Second Accountancy Development Project, 1995. The scope of this
project included government accounting systems, accounting standards setting,
preparation and administration of professional qualifying exams for accounting
professionals. The project also had components for capital markets
regulations. The project is currently about half-way through in terms of
execution. A mechanism has been set up for the preparation of accounting
standards, and a number of standards have been issued.
3. Russia - Financial Institution Development Project (1994; $200 million).
One component of this project amounting to $2 million, was allocated for
enterprise accounting reform. The project is currently under implementation.
The accounting component has had a slow start. Under the project, an institute
of professional accountants has been set up, independent of the government,
and aided by an expert counsel for assistance for the preparation of TOR for
the drafting/review of standards
From these projects, the first lesson which emerges is that the drafting
of standards is not enough; the project should include in its scope the
finalization and dissemination of new standards. Most of the 25 draft new
accounting standards have yet to be officially issued. Only one standard has
been issued so far, in 1997. Widespread general acceptance of the new
standards also requires the provision of public information and guidelines on
application, as well as the appropriate follow-up training of practicing
accountants and auditors. The present project incorporates these lessons by
giving a role to dissemination and roll-out; both through programs of
seminars and public knowledge in the first component, and through the CICPA
training component.
A second key lesson is the value of practical international experience in
the development of accounting standards. The present project takes this into
account by providing for overseas training for the newly formed China
Accounting Standards Committee, and interchanges with associated international
bodies, in addition to consultancy advice. The project team will also
emphasize to its counterparts the value of adequate international
consultation for the design of the training center and its curricula.
Benefits
Benefits of component (l)--support to the China Institute of Certified
Public Accountants' training center: China has a large reservoir of
accountants, reasonably well trained, but in the traditions of a planned
economy. The aim of the training imparted at the CICPA facility is that it
would (i) help such persons to be able to familiarize themselves with the many
facets of new accounting, auditing and business administration principles,
appropriate to a market economy; (ii) acquaint these accountants with the new
accounting norms and standards developed under the first component (which
would comprise a small but important part of the total curriculum); and (iii)
provide ongoing training to professional accountants to keep abreast of new
developments in their field, following the practice of continuing professional
education for accountants adopted in other market economies. The target
population for this component would include persons currently practicing as
accountants in state-owned enterprises as well as accountants in public
practice in accounting firms and finance bureaus.
- 5 -



Benefits of component (2)--support to the China Accounting Standards
Committee: The accounting reform envisaged in the government's program has
potentially far-reaching benefits. The reforms suggested under the present
project form an important basis for having consistent, comparable and reliable
enterprise financial statements, to be used by a vast 'target population' of
managers, individual and professional investors, bankers, regulators and other
interested parties.
Risks
Demand for training and occupancy of the training institution. The most
sensitive variable, for break-even, in total costs, is expected to be the
degree of throughput or overall utilization of the institute and its
facilities. There is a risk that due to scheduling inadequacies, the
institution is not utilized to its fullest. In order to guard against this
risk the project team has (i) made detailed demand estimates, (ii)
investigated the requirements for continuing professional education, and (iii)
conducted a break-even cost analysis which shows that at 50-60w capacity,
there will be cost recovery.
Course fees for the training institute. Low fees would attract broad
utilization, but may be too low to cover operating costs of the training
center. This issue was investigated at pre-appraisal and revisited at
appraisal. Based on a comparison with the European Institute of Management at
Shanghai, it appears that the proposed fees are affordable by institutional
employers.
Establishment of the China Accounting Standards Committee. The extent to
which the newly constituted body will be able to recruit and retain skilled
staff is not known, and its future institutional capacity to carry out its
mandate is hard to predict.
Program Objective Category
The program objective categories are, macroeconomic strengthening,
financial sector development and enterprise reform, through the reform of the
accounting system and training of accountants.
Poverty Category
The proposed loan is not part of the World Bank's poverty category
program.
Environmental Aspects
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessments (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed loan is placed in environmental
Category C. The project will have no discernible environmental impact. The
World bank does not propose to finance any land acquisition or building
construction.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager: Anjali Kumar,
- 6 -



Sr. Financial Economist
Telephone (202) 458-0004
Fax (202) 522-3454
E-mail: akumar@worldbank.org
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 18, 1998.
Ministry of Finance, P.R. China. Contact: Dong Xiao Chao, Vice Secretary
General, Tel: (86-10) 6841-5511/2514,
Fax: (86-10) 6847-4986
Ministry of Finance, P.R. China. Contact Mme Shen Xiaonan, Vice Director
General, China Accounting Standards Committee,
Tel: (86-10) 6851-6007/6028; Fax: (86-10) 6855-6015.
- 7-



