Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18312-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$27.3 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 4.1 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR AN
ACCOUNTING REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 1, 1999
Financial Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



Page ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rates as of end October 1998)
Currency Unit = Yuan
Yuan I   US$0.12
US$1.00 = Yuan 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDP -         Accounting Reform and Development Project
AICPA -        American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
CAS   -        Country Assistance Strategy
CASC  -        China Accounting Standards Committee
CACPA-         Chinese Association of Certified Public Auditors
CICPA -        Chinese Institute of Certified Public Accountants
CPA   -        Certified Public Accountants
FSTA  -        Financial Sector Technical Assistance loan (1992)
HKSA  -        Hong Kong Society of Accountants
ICB    -       Intemational Competitive Bidding
IBRD  -        Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA    -       Intemational Development Association
MOF   -        Ministry of Finance
NAI   -        National Accounting Institute
NPC   -        National People's Congress
PID    -       Project Infonnation Document
PIP    -       Project Implementation Plan (Borrowers)
PP     -       Procurement Plan
SOE   -        State Owned Enterprises
SoEs   -       Statements of Expenditure
TA     -       Technical Assistance
TOR   -        Terms of Referenice
VSG   -        Vice Secretary General
Vice President:      Jean-Michel Severino
Director:             Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:      Jacques Loubert
Task Manager:         Anjali Kumar



Page iii
CHINA
Accounting Reform and Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective ...................................................................                                                                   2
I. Project development objective and key performance indicators  (see Annex  1): .... .                                           .......................................- 2
B: Strategic Context ...................................................................                                                                               2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex  1): .......................2
2. Main sector issues and Governnent strategy: ......................................................................... 2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices: ...................................................................... 3
C: Project Description Summary ...................................................................                                                                     3
1. Project components ........................................................................                                                                     3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project: ........................................................................  5
3. Benefits and target population: ........................................................................ 6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements: ........................................................................ 6
D: Project Rationale ...................................................................                                                                               9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection: ................................................                             ........................ 9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .............................................. 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design: . ........................................................................ 10
4. Indications of borrower conmmitmnent and ownership: ................................                                 ........................................ 11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project: ........................................................................ 11
E: Summary Project Analysis ......................                                                                                                                    12
1. Economnic (see Annex 4): ........................                                                                                                              12
2. Financial (see Annex 5): ........................ 12
3. Technical .......................                                                                                                                               12
4. Institutional .......................                                                                                                                           13
5. Social ........................                                                                                                                                 13
6. Environmental ........................13
7. Participatory Approach: ....................... 14
F: Sustainability and Risks ......................                                                                                                                   14
1. Sustainability: ........................14
2. CriticalRisks: ........................15
3. Possible Controversial Aspects (Project Alert System): Not applicable .......................................                                     .............. 15
G: Main Loan Conditions ..................................................                                                                                            16
1. Negotiation Conditions: ...................................................... 16
2. Effectiveness Conditions: .....................................................                                                                                 16
3. Other (suggested dated loan / credit covenants): ...................................................... 16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ..................................................                                                                                   17



Page iv
Annexes
Annex 1 Project Design Summary ................................................                                                                                   18
Annex 2 Project Description ................................................                                                                                       19
Annex 3a Estimated Project Costs by Component ................................................                                                                    25
Annex 3b Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure Account ................................................                                                          26
Annex 4 Cost Benefit Analysis Summary ................................................                                                                            28
Annex 5 Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities ................................................                                                   29
Annex 6 Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ................................................                                                                30
Annex 7 Project Processing Budget and Schedule ................................................                                                                   35
Annex 8 Documents in the Project File ................................................                                                                             36
Annex 9 Status of Operations in China ................................................                                                                            37
Annex 10 China at a Glance ................................................                                                                                       39
Annex 11 Financial Management Tables ................................................                                                                             41
Annex 12 Procurement Plan ................................................                                                                                        48



Page 1
China
Accounting Reform and Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Financial Sector Unit
Date: February 1, 1999                                Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Anjali Kumar
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang                 Sector Manager/Director: Jacques Loubert
Project ID: 51856       Sector: Financial Sector      Program Objective Category: FSD/ PSD
Lending Instrument: SIL - IBRD Loan / IDA Credit       Program of Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [ x] No
Project Financing Data        [x ] Loan     [x I Credit        [  Guarantee        [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): (IBRD Loan: $27.4 million); (IDA Credit: SDR 4.1million)
Proposed terms: IBRD (IDA)                    x]  IDA:              [x] IBRD: Single currency: US$
Multicurrency:
Basket (SDR)
Grace period (years):          5 (10)        [    Standard Variable  []  Fixed           [x   LIBOR-based
(for IBRD)
Years to maturity:             20 (35)
Commitment fee:                0.75 (0.5)%
Service charge:                (..), (0.75)%
Front-end fee:                 1%
Financing plan: (US$m)
Source                                                       Local                Foreign          Total
Government                                                   37.87                 14.13            52.00
Cofinanciers
IBRD (including front end fee)                                2.84                 24.48            27.33
IDA                                                           1.23                  4.38             5.61
Other
Total        41.95                 42.99            84.94
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agency (ies): Ministry of Finance: Intemational Affairs Department; China Accounting Standards Committee;
Chinese Institute of Certified Public Accountants
Estimated disbursements         1999      2000        2001         2002         2003        2004
(Bank FY/US$m):
IBRD 1% Front end fee    0.27
Annual    3.13       13.26     12.70         2.83          0.50        0.25
Cumulative    3.40       16.65     29.36        32.19        32.69        32.94
For Guarantees: Not applicable                         Partial credit      [  Partial risk
Nature of underlying financing:
Financing available without guarantee?:               [    Yes                 [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: January 1999-December 2003 Expected effectiveness date: May 31,1999
Expected closing date: December 31, 2004



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The overarching objective of the project is to assist the modernization of accounting in China. Bank
assistance to China's accounting modernization program began with an earlier Bank project, the Financial
Sector Technical Assistance (FSTA) loan (August 1992), which had a component for accounting reform. The
present project builds upon and extends the work initiated in the FSTA project, in terms of the development of
new accounting standards. It adds a major component which focuses on the establishment of a training
institute for China's Certified Public Accountants and other financial professionals for continuing professional
education.
Key performance indicators for the present project for the Development and Dissemination of
Accounting Standards component would be (i) the preparation, finalization and publication of new accounting
standards, (ii) the holding of dissemination seminars to foster the application of the new standards; (iii) the
creation of a website to disseminate and publicize the standards and monitor their application; and (iv) study
tours and training of members of the new Accounting Standards Committee. Performance indicators for the
Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals component would be (i) the
establishment of the proposed National Accounting Institute; (ii) the development of training curricula for
teaching courses at the Institute; (iii) the number of accounting and finance professionals attending courses at
the National Accounting Institute in the initial years of its operation.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1).
CAS document number: CAS 1632 1-CHA; February 25, 1997.
Date of latest CAS discussion: May 28, 1998 (Board document R 98-107)
As detailed in both the CAS document of 1997 and the progress report of 1998, the foremost aim of
the China Country Assistance Strategy has consistently been to ensure macroeconomic stability with growth.
Key vehicles for achieving these objectives have been identified as (i) support to reforms in the financial
sector; and (ii) acceleration of reforns in state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which have long constituted a major
drain on the banking system. The proposed project, which focuses on the strengthening of accounting
standards used by enterprises, and the training of accountants and other financial managers, supports both
financial sector reform and the SOE reform agenda.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy.
Accounting reform straddles a number of sectors; financial institutions as well as enterprises in all
sectors of the economy. The lack of transparency in accounts, against an ill-defined accounting framework, has
been a pervasive problem in financial institutions as well as in the real sector. Attention within the government
to financial sector reform has accelerated, as a result of the regional financial crisis and the fear of contagion.
While restrictions on capital flows have insulated Chinese financial institutions from external shocks, the crisis
has served to alert authorities to the vulnerable condition of these institutions, and the need for their
strengthening. It is estimated that there is a high proportion of non-performing and possibly non-recoverable
loans. A high level conference held in November 1997 led to the formulation of a series of new reform
measures for the financial sector. Most of these have focused on the banking sector, and include the adoption
of risk-based loan classification (from end-1998) and the recapitalization of large state banks through a special
bond issue. The measures also include strengthening the central bank (through the reorganization of provincial
offices of the central bank to break the link between provincial governments and central bank branches); and
ending quota-based credit allocation through the Credit Plan.
Key to the improved performance of China's banks is the use of a more transparent system of
accounts in China's enterprise sector, which will permit financial institutions to be better aware of the
borrower's debt servicing capacity. With the abolition of the credit plan, the banks will finally have to



Page 3
assume the responsibility of making sound lending decisions. Accounting reforms are also vital for
improving the governance of China's enterprise sector. The government's present strategy for SOEs is to
concentrate resources on improving the performance of a limited number of large and strategic SOEs, while
letting go of the remainder, through a variety of mechanisms, which include divestiture, bankruptcies, mergers
and restructuring. The present policies, described as 'Seize the Large and Let Go of the Small' includes, for the
large enterprises, piecemeal conversion to modem corporate govemance structures and eventually, more
diversified ownership structures. For smaller enterprises, more immediate divestiture is envisaged, through a
combination of worker-management buyouts, listing on the exchanges, and individually structured private
placements.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(i) For the government's financial sector and enterprise reform measures to be successful, it will be
critical to have accounting standards and practices which enable the value and the performance of enterprises
to be accurately assessed, and also a cadre of professional accountants and auditors, who are able to ensure
that accounts prepared at the enterprise level reflect the new standards.
(ii) If banks are to evaluate potential borrower's creditworthiness, they will require accounts which
meet clearly defined criteria.
(iii) If the program of enterprise restructuring and divestiture is to be successful, meaningful and
credible financial statements are essential to clearly chart enterprises' strategy, and to gain the confidence of
potential buyers. It is not surprising that a major proponent for accounting reform in China is the Securities
Regulatory Commission, which realizes the importance of uniform and transparent accounting standards in
China for the listing of companies.
Accounting reform which builds grass roots capacity takes a long time to implement. While the
present project emphasizes the building of such long term capacity, one strategic choice to be considered is
whether the project has too long a time horizon to build the short term capacity which the government may
need to address its more immediate needs especially for SOE reform. If required, the Bank could consider
supplementing the present project with more short term assistance to build immediate capacity, if requested by
the Borrower, through increased consultancy services. The immediate requirements, for transparency in the
area of enterprise accounting, are also being investigated through an independent examination of China's state-
owned enterprises and their restructuring needs and requirements. The scope for Bank involvement in this area
is therefore being separately evaluated.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components
(see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
The project comprises two related components. The first component would support the continuing
professional education of China's Certified Public Accountants (CPAs), and other finance managers and
professionals, to familiarize them, on a large scale, with new accounting, auditing and business administration
principles and practices that are generally accepted in market economies. The approach to be adopted is to
establish a large residential continuing education facility in Beijing, the National Accounting Institute (NAI),
which would offer a wide selection of short courses on specific accounting and business topics and issues for
continued professional education. Such courses would include, for example, accounting practices, auditing
techniques, taxation, professional ethics, computerized management systems, and various functional
management topics. The facility envisaged could accommodate 1,500 persons at a time. Based on courses of
around a week on average, the throughput of the institution would be around 350,000 student-days per year.
It is proposed that Bank support would not include costs related to land, buildings, or their associated
general equipment, some locally available fumiture, and infrastructure. Such costs (both local and foreign)



Page 4
would be met through local counterpart funds. Bank assistance would focus on the provision of the educational
and training equipment and materials, the design of the curricula, financing of high level trainers who can help
build local training capacity, and provision of overseas training for trainers.
This component would be managed by the Chinese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (CICPA)
which has been entrusted by the Ministry of Finance to establish the NAI. It is envisaged that the NAI will
eventually be an institute under the State Council, entrusted to MOF. NAI is yet to be formally established.
Qinghua University will provide help with the management of its teaching affairs. The Bank would also
provide support to the Chinese Institute of Certified Public Accountants, to enable them to fulfill their
responsibilities towards the setting up of the NAI and help develop their professional capacity. Bank support
would take the form of additional office equipment.
The second component would consist of continuing support of the government's ongoing efforts to
develop and promulgate accounting standards predicated upon internationally accepted accounting standards.
The principal vehicle through which this is to be effected is the China Accounting Standards Committee
(CASC). The establishment of this body was approved by the State Council in February 1998, and it was
formally set up in September 1998. On October 6, 1998, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) issued a Notice of
Establishment to all concerned institutions (No: MOF-K-(1998)34). The Committee is a permanent body,
charged with a series of tasks which will include the researching, drafting review and evaluation of accounting
standards; coordination of accounting activities with international accounting bodies; and formal responsibility
for the proposed World Bank Accounting project component. Its first Chairman is a Vice-Minister of Finance.
Around eight committee members are envisaged. Around eight members are envisaged. Six members have
been appointed. They represent key bodies concerned with accounting development in China, including
financial research institutes, universities, accounting firms, financial regulatory bodies and Government. The
two remaining appointments will represent enterprises and professional accounting associations. The
Secretariat is headed by the Secretary-General, who is also a Government representative, supported by two
senior MOF staff members appointed as Vice Secretary-Generals. These two persons were participants in he
MOF Accounting Standards Group throughout the implementation of the FSTA project. The CASC will
comprise four divisions, namely, the Comprehensive Management division, the Research division, the
International Affairs division and the Dissemination and Training division. The Secretariat proposes to engage
40 staff, of whom about half are expected to comprise the existing Accounting Standards group of the
Accounting Department in MOF. The remainder are under recruitment from external sources. Around half the
staff of the CASC are currently in place. CASC has established its constitution, following reviews of the
constitutions of standards setting bodies in a number of countries, provided by the World Bank.
Assistance to the CASC under the project would comprise: (i) finalization, issue and dissemination of
standards developed under FSTA; (ii) development and publication of new accounting standards, additional to
those already undertaken (including selected sector and business standards), and their dissemination to high-
level officials (such as officials from provincial finance bureaus responsible for application and use of
standards); (iii) monitoring of the application of standards and development of an advisory/best practice
service for users (including a website); and (iv) development of a study tour and training program, and
supporting equipment and training materials.



Page 5
Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals and
Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standardsa
Component                  Category            Costs Incl.   T  % of    Bank-financing    % of Bank-
Contingencies    Total       (US$m)        financing
|___ _   (US$m)    l                        (IBRD +IDA)
A.      Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals
A 1. National Accounting    Materials and equipment  $79.06 million   93.1%    $27.05 million   82.1%
Institute               (curricula purchase,
teaching equipment,
classroom equipment,
etc.); consultant services
for curricula design and
adaptation; domestic and
overseas staff training.
A 2. Institutional support to    Equipment           $1.27 million     1.5%     $1.27 million    3.9%
the CICPA
B. Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards
Consultant services for    $4.34 million  5.1 %     $4.34 million    13.2%
development and
dissemination of
standards; services and
equipment for website
design; office equipment,
training and tours for
institutional
development.
Total                                     $84.67 million             $32.67 million
Front End Fee                                 $0.27million      0.3%      $0.27 mnillion    0.8%
(1% of IBRD)
Total incl. Front end fee                          $84.94 million    100%     $32.94 million   100%
aMinor differences may arise relative to disbursement figures in the Credit/Loan agreements due to US$/SDR exchange rate
adjustments, and rounding of numbers, at negotiations.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
1. Assisting China in its efforts to develop a cadre of professional Certified Public Accountants and other
finance professional, trained to prepare, evaluate and audit enterprise accounts according to updated
Chinese practices..
2.  Strengthening the framework for accounting in China and helping to align China's accounting practices
with international standards. Ensuring that new professional standards are promulgated, disseminated and
adopted, and ensuring that information on the new standards is widely available and accessible.
China's attempts to help establish the accounting profession have accelerated over the last five years.
In 1985, China issued its first Accounting Law. Shortly after, the Chinese Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (CICPA) (November 1988) and the China Association of Certified Public Auditors (CACPA)
(September 1992) were established. In 1993, China amended and strengthened the Accounting Law, laying
the framework for a modem accounting profession, and promulgated a Certified Public Accountant Law
(October 1993) which specified the role and defined the functions of the CICPA. The CICPA is a nationwide
society, responsible for the professional certification of CPAs, organizing examinations for this purpose and
undertaking their professional registration. The stature of the institution has grown since 1995, when there was
a merger of the CICPA and the CACPA, and a new charter was adopted for the merged CICPA. The present
project seeks to support this professional body, support the establishment of a new training center for finance
professionals, and support the creation of a new cadre of accounting and finance professionals (See Annex 2
for details).



Page 6
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits of component (1) CICPA/NAI Training Center: Training imparted at the NAI facility would
(i) help China's accountants and other finance professionals with the many facets of new accounting, auditing
and business administration principles, appropriate to a market economy; (ii) acquaint them with the new
accounting norms and standards developed (which would comprise a small but important part of the total
curriculum); (iii) provide them ongoing training to keep abreast of new developments in their field, following
the practice of continuing professional education for accountants adopted in other market economies. China's
large reservoir of accountants, reasonably well-trained but in the traditions of a planned economy, form the
target population for this component.
Benefits of component (2) Accounting Standards Reform: By making accounts more transparent,
reliable, consistent and comparable, the accounting reform envisaged in the government's program will benefit
(i) the enterprises themselves, (ii) their bankers, (iii) the government and regulatory agencies, and (iv)
individual and institutional investors; and (v) prospective foreign investors.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1 Project Implementation Structure
Project implementation arrangements have been discussed with the borrower and there is broad
agreement on the three-pronged structure of oversight described in the diagram below. There will be an overall
project manager in the MOF's Intemational Department, who will play a coordinative role and who will be the
principal point of contact with the World Bank. The overall project manager will be supported by a project
accountant, who will maintain the accounts for the entire project. A manager has been appointed for each
component, situated respectively in the CASC and CICPA. Each manager will have substantive responsibility
for their relevant components, and will provide reporting inforrnation on project monitoring indicators, project
accounts and procurement to the overall project manager and project accountant. Due to the complexity of the
CICPA component, the CICPA component manager has coordinators, for NAI staffing and curricula, and for
equipment procurement. A third coordinator is also included, for the land, building and facilities development
which are an integral part of the project, although not financed by the World Bank.
The Chinese Institute of Certified Public Accountants would execute the 'Strengthening of Certified
Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals' component, in close cooperation with one of China's
leading universities: the Qinghua University. It plans to draw upon world wide resources for professional
educational materials, courses and instructors for the proposed National Accounting Institute. This would
include the resources such as the American Institute of CPAs (AICPA), major international CPA firms, and
intemational universities for accounting and business. The CICPA, since its inception, has been subject to the
supervision of the Ministry of Finance. Although it is also registered with the Ministry of Civil Affairs as a
legal entity, its license is limited to conducting CPA examinations and to association with fee-paying
members. In April 1998, the MOF issued a circular entrusting the CIPCA with the responsibility for
overseeing the establishment of the NAI.' It is proposed that the CICPA enter into an implementation
agreement with the Intemational Affairs Department of MOF, whereby its obligations regarding project
implementation are established in detail.
The China Accounting Standards Conrmittee, set up by the Ministry of Finance, will be responsible
for the implementation of the Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards component. The
establishment of the Committee was approved by the State Council in February 1998, and a formal
l In July 1998, the State Council approved the establishment of the NAT as an institution directly under the State Council,
but entrusted to MOF and with its educational activities managed by Qinghua University. NAI is yet to be formally
established, although it is hoped that this will be achieved by year end. Its board of directors will then be appointed and
they are expected to include representatives of various state agencies and ministries (including inter alia the Ministry of
Finance, State Development and Planning Commission, the State Economic and Trade Commission), as well as the
president of Qinghua University and a vice-mayor of Beijing.



Page 7
constitution was adopted on September 16, 1998. On October 6, 1998, the Ministry of Finance issued a Notice
of Establishment to all relevant government agencies announcing the new Committee and its role. The
CASC's VSGs will be responsible to the Secretary General for relevant subcomponents, and for providing
reporting information on project monitoring indicators, project accounts and procurement to the overall project
manager. The Committee would be assisted by one or more experienced accounting consulting firms engaged
to identify and provide skills for research materials relating to standards under development and their
discussion and dissemination within China.
Oversight to both components will be provided by the International Department, Ministry of Finance.
With the recent government reorganization, the configuration of departments within the ministry has changed
substantially. The World Bank department, Ministry of Finance, which was previously entrusted with the
responsibility for this project, has been merged with the International Department.
At the appraisal mission, specific individuals were nominated for all key responsibilities, except the
project accountant. Given that there is abundant availability of accountants at the CICPA, the lack of a specific
nomination for this position is not viewed to be a problem.
China: Accounting Reform and Development Project: Project Management Organization
MOF Accounting Dept: CASC  i MOF: International Affairs        MOF: Chinese Institute of Certified Public
Standards component   , Department/ TA Division   .         Accountants: NAI / CICPA Component
Project
Assistant _  Manager
[   _ .              Proj~~~~rect
Manager,                      Accountant
Accounting                                                anager,
Standards  !                  < _ _                      NAI /
Assistant _Component                                    Asstn_ CIP
<   v                  .                  c~~~~~~~~~~~omponent
.Coordinator:    CoordinatoT:   Coordinator:
Land, Buildings  NAI Staffing  Equipment
.and Facilities  Curricula    Purchase       Procurement|
.          ~~~~Development   Procurement _Assistant|
4.2 Project Accounting, Reporting and Auditing
Financial reporting formats have been discussed and agreed with the borrowing agencies and approved by
the Bank's regional Financial Management Specialist. The financial reporting forms conforrn to the forms agreed
between the Government and the World Bank by exchange of letters in December 1998/ January 1999.
Under the proposed procedures, the borrowing agencies, through the government, will submit to the
Bank, on a semi-annual basis, a set of financial reports covering all components of the project. The reports
will comprise:



Page 8
1. Balance Sheet for the NAI, once established.
2. Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component. Sources (IBRD, IDA and government) of
funds, and uses (assets, work in progress, and other expenditures) of funds will be reported on a cash basis
for the period and for each component of the project to date.
3. Statement of Implementation of Credit Agreement. The expenditures will be classified according to
project categories, and will report current and cumulative withdrawals for loan and credit proceeds.
4. Special Account Statement. A cash reconciliation report for the special account will be prepared.
The ClCPAINAI and CASC have prepared and agreed to maintain required project records, including
a project general ledger and cash disbursement journal, which are needed to facilitate the systematic recording
of project transactions in a way that will enable the required project financial reports to be prepared in a timely
and reliable way. The project agencies have also prepared written procedures for the vendor payables/cash
disbursement function in the project office, as well as procedures and records for property control related to
the large quantity of equipment to be acquired under the project. These procedures and records reflect a sound
system of internal controls. The project office has the necessary staff skills to reliably execute the established
procedures and maintain the project records. Annual project financial statements will be audited by the Foreign
Funds Application Department of the State Audit Administration.
Finally, while there are no special formats for procurement reporting, procurement will be reviewed
on a semi-annual basis by the CICPA/NAI and CASC project office, using as reference the project cost tables
(Annex 3) and GANTT Chart (Annex 12).
4.3 Project Monitoring Indicators
Monitoring indicators have been discussed with the borrower, and the list of performance indicators
below is largely based on suggestions presented in the borrower's Project Implementation Plan. Final
agreement on performance indicators consists of:
Input indicators are:
e  Total project cost (including front end fee)
* IBRD Loan (including front end fee)
*  IDA Credit
i  Counterpart funds from government
Output indicators are:
(i) for the Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals
*  Establishment of the NAI and its adoption of a Strategic Plan (by June 30, 1999)
*  Development of an overall curriculum design (by June 30, 2000)
*  Completion of purchase of courses and completion of course adaptations (by June 30, 2001).
*  Completion of course building (by December 30, 2002).
*  Training achieved by the NAI (student days per year or % occupancy rates) (end-2000: 35,000
or 10%; end-2001: 70,000 or 20%; end-2002: 160,000 or 45%; and end-2003: 210,000 or
60%).
(ii) for the Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards
*  numbers of old (25) and new (17) standards issued, and dates by which issued (7 per year
between 1999 and 2002), and 7 or any remaining standards under the program issued by end-
2003.
*  number of high-level seminars held for dissemination of completed standards (3 by end-2000,
3 more by end-2002 and the last 2 or any remaining by end-2003).



Page 9
Outcome indicators are:
(i) for the Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals:
* More finance professionals in China trained in modem accounting and financial practices
(ii) for the Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards:
*  Strengthened accounting standards in line with intemational standards
*  Improved knowledge of new standards among finance professionals in China, and accelerated
use of new standards
*  More easily available information on accounting standards and their application
*  Greater capacity to prepare accounts in accordance with the new standards and in harmony
with international practice.
Impact indicators are:
(i) for the Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals:
*  Greater numbers of competent and capable CPA firms
*  Development of audit capacity in China
(ii) for the Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards:
*  Knowledge of new standards by senior professionals throughout the country
* Modernized accounting standards more closely aligned to international standards
*  Strengthened and more transparent financial statements, in both financial institutions and
enterprises
*  Strengthened financial performance of enterprises and banks and reduced risk
Output indicators will be monitored by CICPA/NAI on a six-monthly basis.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
With regard to the Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards component, the
government has already set up a mechanism for the drafting and review of accounting standards, based on
experience accumulated in the course of the execution of the first World Bank support to accounting reform,
under the Financial Sector Technical Assistance loan of 1992. The newly established China Accounting
Standards Committee will enhance and strengthen this mechanism and permit more broad based external
participation in the process of monitoring and dissemination of new accounting standards.
In terms of alternatives, the task team is aware that in many mature market economies, especially in
the anglo-saxon accounting tradition, such professional bodies tend to take the form of independent
professional associations. But today the accounting profession in China (like other professional skills
associated with market economies) is very limited and an independent private professional association is not
likely to develop for a long time. As such, some government involvement in the new committee is at present
considered inevitable. The establishment of the Committee, with professionals from a number of
organizations, including financial research institutes, universities, accounting finns, financial regulatory bodies
and Government among others, already constitutes a significant step towards independence, relative to the task
force under the Ministry of Finance Accounting Department which has overseen accounting reform to date. It
should also be remembered that even in developed countries such as France and Japan, accounting standards
setting institutions are under their respective governments.
On the training facility, the basic design for delivery of training has, once again, been proposed by the
government. The government is strongly committed to the pattern of a dedicated residential training institute,
and it is prepared to finance its construction itself. The concept of such a facility is closely parallel to



Page 1 0
international training facilities elsewhere, and appears of sound design. Alternatives considered, such as more
regionally balanced, smaller, training facilities, do not appear attractive, as the CICPA itself is
headquartered in Beijing and would best be able to guide a new facility located there. Once established and
successful, the institute could be replicated elsewhere.
In the past, the Bank has pointed that the application and enforcement of new accounting regulations
at the enterprise level has been a gradual process. The inclusion of pilot implementations in specific
enterprises has also been suggested to accelerate adoption of accounting systems. The government believes
that the inclusion of enterprises in a pilot program would be organizationally difficult to include within the
scope of the present program. The possibility of increased consultant inputs for rapid initial training has also
been discussed, but the counterparts believe that a more measured approach, sustainable in the long termn, is
called for.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                       Project                  Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Progress (IP)    Develop-
ment
Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
1. China - Financial Sector    The overall S60m project was broad              S                     S
Technical Assistance loan      based in scope and covered a number  This component is largely
(1992).                        of areas in the financial sector. One    disbursed. A series of 25 new
component (52.4 million) was for  standards have been drafted but
accounting standards reform. A    not finalized.
study on continuing professional
education for CPAs was also
included for the CICPA.
2. Indonesia - Second          The scope ofthis project included  The project is currently about
Accountancy Development        govemment accounting systems,      half-way through in terms of
Project, 1995.                 accounting standards setting,      execution. A mechanism has
preparation and administration of  been set up for the preparation
professional qualifying exams for  of accounting standards, and a
accounting professionals. The project  number of standards have been
also had components for capital   issued.
markets regulations.
3. Russia - Financial Institution    One component of this project  This component has had a slow
Development Project (1994)     amounting to $2m, was allocated for  start. Under the project, an
enterprise accounting reform. The  institute of professional
project is currently under        accountants has been set up,
implementation                    independent of the govemment,
and aided by an expert counsel
for assistance for the
preparation of TOR for the
__drafting/review of standards.            l
Other development agencies                                      1
None known                     N/A                              l_l
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU, (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposedproject design:
There is only one relevant bank-financed project in the country, which took place six years ago. Two
projects with similar components have been financed by the Bank in other client countries, which offer some
useful lessons. In all three projects, the accounting components are small parts of larger projects and as such
the IP/DO ratings do not necessarily reflect the perfornance of the accounting components.



Page 11
From these projects, the first lesson which emerges is that the drafting of standards is not enough;
therefore, the project should include in its scope the finalization and dissemination of new gtandards. Most of
the 25 draft new accounting standards have yet to be officially issued. Widespread general acceptance of the
new standards also requires the provision of public information and guidelines on application, as well as the
appropriate follow-up training of practicing accountants and auditors. The present project incorporates these
lessons by giving a role to dissemination and roll-out; both through programs of seminars and public
knowledge in the first component, and through the CICPA/ NAI component.
A second key lesson is the value of practical international experience in the development of
accounting standards. The present project takes this into account by providing overseas training for the China
Accounting Standards Committee, upon its establishment, and interchanges with associated international
bodies, in addition to consultancy advice. The project team has also furnished the borrower with copies of the
constitutions of Accounting Standards bodies in other countries. For the CICPA component, the Bank has
provided the benefits of international consultation to the borrower, for the design of the training center and its
curricula, and is also making provisions for specialized international consultant inputs on classroom design..
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There are indications of support for the project, first of all, at the highest levels of government, with
strong emphasis on accounting reform, and specific support for the present project.' A clear indication of
borrower comnmnitment is the very large local cost contribution to the total project which is being financed by
the counterparts. Second, at the project level, the CICPA and Accounting Department, as well as the
International Affairs Department of the Ministry of Finance have collaborated extremely closely in the
preparation of detailed project proposals and discussions of project design at all levels, with the World Bank,
despite a major reorganization of the Ministry of Finance between preappraisal and appraisal. For the
Accounting Standards reform component, the touchstone of commitment has been the timely establishment of
the China Accounting Standards Committee (in September 1998), the Notification of Establishment sent to all
concerned agencies by the Ministry of Finance (October 6, 1998). The appointment of staff external to the
Ministry of Finance to this Comrnittee, and its clear entrustment with the responsibility for the execution of the
World Bank project reinforces the evidence of commitment. At present, staff appointments are reportedly
beginning, and details for the new Committee are before the Minister of Finance for consideration. Another
indicator of commitment is the acceleration in the passage of new accounting standards. Until end-1997, only
one of the 25 draft standards had been passed, but by end July 1998, an additional seven standards had been
issued.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The World Bank has committed itself to supporting reform of China's accounting system some years
ago, with the FSTA-I project of 1992. Good progress has been achieved under this project. The present
project would acknowledge this progress, building further upon the success already achieved. It would
reinforce our role as a supporter of financial infrastructure in China, complementing our role in the
development of payments systems. The project also represents, at present, a significant part of our total
financial sector lending operations under preparation, and as such it provides one vehicle for maintaining our
financial sector dialog.
I It is significant that there is also evidence that the enforcement of accounting standards and accountants' qualifications
is now being treated seriously at a national level. According to a news article in September 1998, over the past year,
"regulators shut down 344 of China's 6,683 accounting firms and revoked the licenses of about a tenth of the country's
58,000 certified public accountants (CPAs) in a nationwide cleanup of the accounting industry. The delicensed
companies and CPAs were found to be unqualified for accounting, or involved in presenting fraudulent audit reports.
The year-long campaign has ended the accounting careers of 5,222 part-timers." Annex 2 details official notices regarding
the enforcement of accounting practices and appointment of qualified accountants.



Page 12
E: Summary Project Analysis
(Detailed assessments are in the projectfile, see Annex 5)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[ I Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$m; ERR= %; []Cost Effectiveness Analysis: [] Other
Not Applicable: Economic or financial benefits cannot be readily or meaningfully identified.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$         million; FRR=        %
]Summarize issues below (e.g., cost recovery, tariff policies, financial controls and accountability)
A more appropriatefinancial analysis has been deemed to be a break-even cost analysis, which has examined
the reasonableness of the daily fee that would have to be charged to students to enable the institution to break
even financially, atfull utilization.
Break-even cash analysis:
Assumptions.
Average course duration: five days;
Average number of students per course: 25
Variable costs (directly associated with delivery of courses): course development, faculty fees and travel,
food, course materials and supplies, etc.
Implied variable operating cost: Yuan 406 per occupancy day
Estd. No. of NAI occupancy days per year at full capacity operation: 350,000,
Estd. Total annual operating costs (fixed plus variable): Yuan 238 million
Implied student occupancy day charge to cover costs, on a cash basis: Yuan 680 (US$82).
Estd. annual asset depreciation charge: Yuan 8 million.
Implied student occupancy day charge to cover costs including depreciation: Yuan 703 (US$85)
Estd. maximum day charge that could be supported by market demand conditions: US$100
Hence, the NAI could be expected to be profitable, on either a cash or accrual accounting basis, when
operating at close to full capacity.
During the first three years of operation, however, the NAI is expected to operate at less than half its capacity,
as curricula are gradually developed and the full range of courses can be offered. If the daily occupancy
charge were to be maintained at less than US$100 the analysis showed that an annual operating subsidy of
about Yuan 8 to 20 million (US$1.0 to 2.5 million) would be needed by the NAI to break-even on a cash basis
(a sensitivity analysis is presented in Annex 5, based on alternative assumptions on student occupancy rates,
based on a given structure of fixed and variable costs). The amounts of temporary subsidy which may be
required was not considered to be significant, and the Ministry of Finance indicated that they would cover such
shortfalls.
3. Technical
L Summarize issues below (e.g., appropriate technology, costing)
F ] To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [X] None



Page 13
4. Institutional
a. Executing agencies:
b. Project management:
Institutional strength of the China Accounting Standards Committee: The CASC has been set up. Although
established it is only partly staffed from the remaining staff of the MOF task force on accounting standards.
Delays may occur resulting from the extent to which the new body will be able to recruit and retain skilled
staff. The core staff of CASC are the designers of the recently promulgated standards, and a demand for their
services could be rapidly generated in the market place. Therefore until a full staff complement of 40 persons
is appointed, CASC's future institutional capacity to carry out its mandate is hard to predict reliably. The
CASC cannot be independent of the MOF in the near future. The present committee is a step forward in terms
of establishing independence, relative to the Accounting Standards Task Force which conducted the initial
task of standards setting, in terms of representation of non-governmental membership having professional
expertise, and a physical location outside the MOF, but the MOF is likely to remain paramount in determining
the role and responsibilities of the CASC.
Independence of the CICPA: At present, the CICPA is largely under the Ministry of Finance, although it is a
separate legal entity, registered with the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Although this independent legal status is an
indicator of enhanced autonomy, it applies only to spheres limited to its immediate mandate. Since historically
all accounting was undertaken by the Ministry of Finance, the current situation of the CICPA is
understandable, being derived from these historic origins. Although comparable professional bodies in other
countries are independent of government, the accounting profession in China is too limited in its development
at present for a complete institutional separation to be feasible.
The CICPA and the NAI: The CICPA is at present handling the task of establishing the National Accounting
Institute. However once the NAI is established and staffed, the CICPA is not expected to remain directly
responsible. This may pose a risk for project execution. However, a strong and independent project
management structure has been established which is expected to remain in place throughout the project period.
Role of the Ministry of Finance International Affairs Department: Overall coordination and supervision of
project implementation will lie with the Technical Assistance and Human Resources division of the
Intemational Affairs Department of the Ministry of Finance. Although the Ministry of Finance as a whole has
greatly reduced its total staff in 1998, the proposed project management structure, with significant
responsibilities at the level of the implementing agencies, should not be affected.
5. Social
[ ] Summarize issues below (e.g., significant social risks, ability to target low income and other vulnerable
groups)
[ ] To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified)   [x] None
6. Environmental
a. Environmental issues:
[ 3 Sunmmarize issues below (distinguish between major issues and less important ones)
[ To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified)   [x] None
Major: N/A
Other: N/A
b. Environmental category:   []     A       [      B      [x]    C
c. Justification/Rationale for category rating:
Why C: This project would have no discemible environmental impact. The World Bank does not propose to
finance any land acquisition or building construction. Environmental clearance has been obtained and is on
file.



Page 14
d. Status of Category A assessment:  EA start-up date: N/A
Date of first EA draft: N/A
Current status: N/A
e. Proposed actions: N/A
f. Status of any other environmental studies: N/A
g. Local groups and NGOs consulted: (List names): N/A
h. Resettlement
[x] Sununarize issues below (e.g., resettlement planning, compensation)
E ] To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified)   [ x] None
The NAI training institute would be situated on a site consisting of a lot of about 240 mu (16,080 hectares) in
the Tianzhu Development Zone in Shunyi County, west of the Beijing Capital Airport Expressway. The land is
unoccupied and uncultivated. CICPA acquired the land in 1994 by an agreement on compulsory purchase
with the local governmnent of Tianzhu Town, who received payment for the land. CICPA has provided the
project team with a fax detailing this infornation. At present, basic infrastructure such as the laying of waste
lines and electricity lines is being undertaken. The site was visited by the project team. Details of the land title
and acquisition have been reviewed by the relevant Bank department and clearance has been obtained and is
available on file.
i. Borrower permission to release EA:   [] Yes  [ No       [x ] N/A
j. Other remarks: None
7. Participatory Approach.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
[ ] Name and describe groups, how involved, and what they have influenced.
[x j Not applicable (describe why participatory approach not applicable with these groups)
b. Other key stakeholders:
[ x] Name and describe groups, how involved, and what they have influenced.
Universities which have training programs in accounting are limited stakeholders, to the extent of overlap in
training areas and curricula. However the proposed project complements rather than supplements university
courses in this area, as it focuses on continued professional education rather than on university or degree
training. The project preparation team visited the European Community financed business and finance training
center in Shanghai, to examine common issues, on curricula, etc., as relevant, and confirmed the
complementarity of the institutions. The project design includes some provisions for offsite training at a local
university until facilities are fully equipped at the new Center. Details are being closely coordinated with the
university and its accounting department.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Regarding the first component, the NAI training center, sustainability will depend, first, on the strategic plan
developed by the NAI and the overall momentum of the institute and the persons appointed to operate it in its
critical startup years. During the appraisal mission the CICPA prepared a Strategic Plan for the NAI, and it is
proposed that this plan will eventually be adopted by the NAI, once it is formally established. At present there
are excellent indications that the project team is highly dedicated and that high quality persons are being
appointed to the leadership positions in the CICPA to launch the new Institute. Key concemed persons will
hold joint positions on CICPA as well as the NAI once the latter is set up. Persons staffing the CICPA today
are already well versed in the operations of such training institutes and had familiarized themselves, with site
visits, with world class centers for continuing professional education (e.g., the St. Charles Institute outside
Chicago run by Andersen Consulting).



Page 15
Success will also depend, in practical terms, in terms of attracting the best instructors to deliver courses;
developing curricula as envisaged and attaining full capacity in terms of numbers of stirdents, which will
critically affect its financial strength and ability to operate without subsidies. The ability of the institute to
undertake complex weekly scheduling coordination of large numbers of students; over a geographical
coverage sufficient to ensure real nationwide coverage training, will be closely monitored, using the institute's
own strategic plan as benchmark.
Success for the Accounting Standards component will have many dimensions. It will cofnprise not only the
extent to which new standards are developed, but also the effectiveness of their dissemination, and the extent
to which they are brought into regular usage. Another measure of success will be the enhanced capability of
the new committee to themselves specify the research requirements, to set the timetables, and to evaluate
materials provided by consultants. Further successes will be reflected in the extent to which the feedback
through the proposed website and inquiry point are positive, and the need for modifications and upgradings are
generated only by changes in market operations, and not through inadequate drafting. Another complex and
subtle measure of success will be the degree to which China's accounting standards setting professionals
become familiar, on an ongoing basis, with intemational issues in accounting standards, through participation
in intemational fora; exposures to, and reviews of, intemational experience, and the extent to which foreign
standards-setting experts increasingly seek the advice of their Chinese counterparts.
2. Critical Risks:
(reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating   Risk Minimnization Measure
From Outputs to Objective:
i) Failure of CASC to be established as scheduled.          This risk has been eliminated at appraisal as the
CASC has now been formally established.
ii) Failure of CASC to maintain momentum to       M         Detailed weekly staffmg needs have been
produce standards as per schedule, and to carry             mapped with CASC for each activity, for the
out the dissemination of new accounting standards           entire project. Success will require speedy
as scheduled                                                recruitment of remaining necessary staff.
Supervision will include monitoring of the
development of CASC institutional capacity,
and monitoring of the execution of the
dissenmination plan
From Components to Outputs:
i) Failure of NAI / CICPA to be self-sustaining    M        Team has investigated demand projections and
financially, due to less than planned student              their basis; supervision will monitor the
intake.                                                     scheduling of student intake. Software for
administrative scheduling assistance is built in
to the project.
ii) Failure of CICPA project consultants to build  M        A specific consultant contract to design the
and adapt curricula as rapidly as considered                overall program of work and then oversee its
desirable.                                                  implementation has been built into the project. .
Overall Risk Rating      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects (Project Alert System): Not applicable
Risk                     Type of  Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Risk
Type of Risk- S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Govemance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 16
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Negotiation Conditions:
Accounting Standards: Establishment of the China Accounting Standards Committee and
appointment of new external members. This condition was met shortly before Appraisal.
2. Effectiveness Conditions:
* Implementation agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the International Affairs Department,
Ministry of Finance and the CICPA.
3. Other (suggested dated loan / credit covenants):
* NAI Strategic Plan for its first five years. Finalization of a Strategic Plan for the NAI prepared by the
CICPA and agreed with the Bank (assuming the NAI is established by June 30, 1999). Adoption of the
Strategic Plan by the National Accounting Institute. A draft plan has been prepared and reviewed at
negotiations.
* CICPA / NAI Curricula Development: Completion of the overall design of the curriculum by mid-2000;
completion of course purchases and adaptations by mid-2001; completion of all remaining courses to be
developed by end-2002.
* CICPA / NAI training achieved: A phased program for teaching hours measured in student days or
occupancy rates per year (end-2000: 35,000 or 10%; end-2001: 70,000 or 20%; end-2002: 160,000 or
45%; and end-2003: 210,000 or 60%)
* Accounting Standards Issuance: A phased program of issue of accounting standards, with at least 7
standards to be issued each year for the years 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002, and any remaining standards
under the program issued by end-2003.
* Accounting Standards Dissemination Seminars: A phased program for holding dissemination seminars,
with at least three seminars to be held by end-2000 another 3 by end-2002 and the remaining two (or any
others pending) by the end of 2003.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [ ] Not applicable. (Bank is however not financing construction)
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. Procurement packages for goods have been agreed and a schedule based on procurement
method has been drawn up. Detailed consultant terms of reference for critical consultant activities have been
discussed and agreed with the Borrower. Bidding document preparation for goods is ready to begin and will
begin in parallel to negotiations.
[ ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality. A
detailed PIP has been submitted and is on file. It is largely satisfactory, but will need to be updated to reflect
agreements reached at appraisal. The Borrower has undertaken to incorporate amendments to the project
discussed at the Appraisal.
[ x] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



P-ge17
I. Compliauce with Bank Policies
(x]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ I [The following exceptions to Bank policies ame rcconm=nded for approval:
The project complies with all other applicable Banik policies-]
Task T    Leader/Tas      a M ger:
Anjali K,   Senio Fcial Econoroist, EASPS
Secto IManager:
Jacques Loubert, Finacial Sector Manager, EASFS
Cou   Director
Y un. LEuang, County Diretor, Zina Departmet, EAP



Page 18
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
China: Accounting Reform and Development Project
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    * Strengthened and more      * Periodic reviews of the  (Goal to Bank Mission)
i) Financial Sector Reform;   transparent financial        quality of financial      Accounting reform promotes
ii) Enterprise Reform         statements, in both financial    statements in China by the   both enterprise and financial
institutions and enterprises  Bank;                   reform.
* Strengthened financial    * improved auditing of
performance of enterprises  financial statements
and banks and reduced risk
Project Development Objective: * Improved knowledge of   * Startup of new accounting   (Objective to Goal)
Modernization of China's      new standards and modem      institution for continued  A significant scale of
accounting professionals and  financial practices among    professional education of   accounting reform can be
accounting systems            finance professionals        CPAs                      achieved and implemented
* Greater numbers of        * Preparation, finalization    though this project, given
competent and capable       publication and           China's scale and size.
private CPA firms            dissemination of new
* Development of audit         accounting standards;
capacity in China           training to familiarize key
* Modernized accounting        persons with standards
standards aligned to
international standards
Outputs:                    NAI / CPA component:         NAI / CPA component:        (Outputs to Objective)
NAI / CICPA:                * establishment of National    *   curriculum design,
* Establishment of National   Accounting Institute;          adaptation and building    NAI / CICPA:
Accounting Institute for  * development of curriculum    *  courses offered
the training of CPAs and    design and course         *  training achieved and     CICPA is able to implement
other financial managers;   development.                  occupancy rates         the establishment of the NAI;
* institutional support to the   * gradual growth in number                          curricula are successfully
CICPA institute             of accounting and finance    Accounting Standards     developed; demand for
professionals attending       component:              training at the NAI meets
Accounting Standards:         courses at NAI, till full  *  standards issued         projected numbers and
* General and industry        capacity                   *  completion of the        volume builds up to full
specific accounting      Accounting Standards             research project        capacity.
standards;                  component:                *  numbers and timing of
* discussion seminars and   * preparation, finalization and  discussion and          Accounting Standards
training seminars on        publication of new            dissemination seminars     component:
contents and application of  accounting standards,    *   quality of the new
standards;               * seminars to foster the         standards               CASC is fully staffed soon
* website for publicity and   application of new         *  installation of the public  after establishment and
monitoring of new           standards;                    inquiry system and      begins to work effectively; it
standards and            * website to publicize           website                 has sufficient capacity to
* staff training.             standards;                 *   quantity of staff      implement the project.
* training materials and        members of CASC
training.                     receiving training
Project Components          Inputs                                                   (Components to Outputs)
/Sub-components:            * Total project cost         Supervision of individual   Effectiveness of the new
A. Strengthening of CPA       (USS84.94 million)         components and the          Accounting Standards
Profession              * IBRD Loan (incl. front-end    implementation time table.  Committee set up by the
- NAI training institute      fee) (US$27.33 million)                                government; well-designed
- Support to CICPA institute   * IDA Credit (US$5.61                                 curricula and effective
B. Development and            million)                                               training delivery in the
Dissemination of        * Counterpart funds from                                 CICPA training institute.
Accounting Standards      government (US$52 ..00
I  million)



Page 19
Annex 2
Project Description
The fundamental objective of the project is to accelerate the modernization of China's accounting system.
Since the end of 1970s when the Chinese Government began its economic reform, a number of steps have
been taken towards accounting reform, beginning with an Accounting Law of the People's Republic of China,
effective from May 1, 1985. This law was amended on December 29, 1993, when a broad framework for a
modem accounting system was established. A series of 25 draft accounting standards, in harmony with
international practice, were developed through the World Bank Financial Sector Technical Assistance (FSTA)
Project (1992). The Chinese Governnent issued the Certified Public Accountant Law of the People's Republic
of China (October 31, 1993, 4th session of the 8th NPC Standing Committee) which paved the way for the
merger of the CICPA and CACPA. The merged institution adopted a new charter, which specified its role in
conducting CPA examinations, and other functions (charter of July 12, 1996, passed at a congress held in June
1996). China is aware of the need to further strengthen both the caliber and training of members of its
accounting profession, as well as accounting standards. A series of government circulars have been issued
over the last two years to try to regularize accounting practices and enforce enterprise audits.' With the recent
financial crisis in East Asia, awareness of the need for change and commitment to an acceleration of change
has grown, and these tasks have become more urgent.
The proposed project seeks to support these objectives by (i) setting up a training institute for China's
professional Certified Public Accountants (CPAs), which would enable their continued professional education
in new accounting practices, thus enabling the stock of existing CPAs to become familiar with new accounting
and business practices; (ii) strengthening the Chinese Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the body which
will be responsible for the establishment of the new National Accounting Institute, and (iii) supporting the
proposed new China Accounting Standards Committee to finalize and disseminate standards prepared under
the FSTA Credit; prepare, finalize and disseminate additional new standards; set up a public information point
for accounting standards and their application; and also, strengthen the CASC itself through training and
participation in international accounting standards professional associations
1. STRENGTHENING OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AND OTHER FINANCE PROFESSIONALS
(US$ 80.33 MILLION)
(incl. $79.06 million for the establishment of the National Accounting Institute; and $1.27 million for the
institutional strengthening of the Chinese Institute of Certified Public Accountants) (These numbers do not
include the front end fee).
1.1 National Accounting Institute
($79.06 million, of which $27.05 million to be financed by an IBRD loan)
A key element of the government's plan for the upgrading of its professional accountants is the
establishment of a large scale national training center for accounting and finance training. The government is
committed to the construction, equipment and operation of such an institute, to provide a program of
continuing professional education to professional accountants and financial managers. Located in a suburb of
Beijing, the National Accounting Institute will be a residential facility that can accommodate up to 1500
students at one time.
I These include: State Council Circular No. 16 of 1996, Regarding the Strengthening of Accounting; MOF Notice 64 of
II April 1997, regarding the Printing and Circulation of State Enterprise Financial Statements and their Audits; MOF
Circular No. 463 of 24 September 1997, Concerning the Finalization of Joint Venture Accounts; MOF Temporary
Regulation No. 575 of 10 November 1997, regarding the Auditing by CPAs of the Financial Accounts of State-Owned
Commerce and Trade Enterprises; and Temporary Regulation No 8 of 24 January 1998 regarding the Auditing of the
Financial Statements of Foreign Economic Cooperation Enterprises.



Page 20
The potential market for this type of continuing education in China is large, as shown in the following
table. A significant level of sustainable demand can be expected, since Chinese CPAs are required to complete
180 hours of continuing professional education every three years, with a minimum of 40 hours per year.
Annex Table A2.1
Potential Demand for CPA Continued Training
(based on current numbers of CPAs)
1. Chinese CPAs in public practices            58,000 (in 6,600 firns)
2. Chinese CPAs not in public practices        69,000
3. Foreign CPAs who want to practice in China  200
4. Chinese CPA candidates                      122,000
5. Enterprises financial managers              450,000 (in 15,000 large and
medium-size SOEs)
6. Accountants in banks and other financial    200,000 (in 17,000 firns)
institutions
7. Senior government finance and audit staff   5,000
Courses offered by the NAI will be of the highest caliber, covering a wide range of basic and
specialized topics in the areas of accounting, auditing, finance and business management. The average course
length will be about five days, using instructors which the institute will contract from foreign and domestic
accounting firms and universities. It is expected that foreign CPAs and professors will comprise about 30% of
the instructors. During the first three years of operation the institute will develop a curriculum of some forty
courses. The actual course development will consist of purchasing and modifying existing proprietary
packages, and of custom building.
The institute will employ a core staff of about 280 people to administer core educational functions. A
breakdown of planned staff by function is as follows:
Annex Table A2.2
National Accounting Institute: Proposed Staffing Plan by Function
Training development and delivery                       90
Computer support services                               80
Publishing                                             40
Classroom support                                       30
General administration                                 25
Office support                                          10
Facilities management support                           5
Total                                                  280
A facilities management contractor will be used to manage institute operations related to dining,
housekeeping, guest services, facility maintenance and security. It is estimated that contractor staff will
number about 2,000 people, about 1,800 of whom will be employees in lower grades.
The Government will bear the entire costs of land, facilities, construction and basic equipment. The
Government will also bear the costs of basic furnishings related to student housing and feeding. For the NAI
facility, the Bank will finance all equipment and furnishings related to the education functions of the institute
(US$18.44 million); technical assistance related to course development and delivery (US$7.46 million), and
teacher training (US$1.15 million) .
1.2 Institutional Strengthening of the CICPA (US$1.27 million; to be financed by an IDA Credit)
The Chinese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (CICPA) is an established professional
organization. Officially part of the Ministry of Finance, it operates in a manner similar to accounting societies
in other countries. It administers the CPA qualifying examinations in China, conducts quality control reviews



Page 21
of member firms, and administers continuing professional education programs. The CICPA has been active in
cooperating and exchanging information with other accounting societies in 15 countries and regions, including
the United States, Canada, the UK and Hong Kong. Together with the HKSA, for example, the CICPA
recently published and issued auditing standards for China.
The CICPA will be expanding its services, facilities and staff as China continues to move towards a
market economy. With advisory resources available to it from other accounting societies and its wide
membership base, the CICPA does not have a need for the Bank to finance technical assistance related to its
operations. However, this credit would support a near term need for computers, software and other equipment
essential to its expanding operations.
2. DEVELOPMENT AND DISSEMINATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
(US$4.34 MILLION EQUIVALENT; TO BE FINANCED BY AN IDA CREDIT)
The overarching objective of this component is to assist in the modernization of accounting in China, by
building on and extending the work of the World Bank Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (FSTA )
(1992). In the period 1992-1995, using funds from a component of the FSTA credit, the MOF's Task Force on
Accounting Standards prepared 25 accounting standards in harmony with International Accounting Standards
(IAS). The Task Force, of about 24 part-time staff members, was set up within the Department of Accounting
of the Ministry of Finance, to work alongside an international firm of accounting consultants, for the drafting
of new accounting standards for China. Task Force members also gained experience regarding the accounting
standards of other countries and began to participate in international fora on accounting standards setting.
A beneficial result of this experience and international exposure has been to provide a core staff of
about 10 staff members of MOF, which can sustain the decision of the Government, taken in March, 1998, to
set up a China Accounting Standards Committee (CASC). This Committee has similar objectives as
accounting standards-setting bodies operating in other countries. The framework proposed closely parallels
the Japan Accounting Standards Deliberation Board, which is also within the government, unlike accounting
standards bodies in a number of other countries which are mostly independent bodies and semi-independent
bodies which include private and public sector representatives from investment finance, banking, industry and
professional associations. The new Committee has been set up under the overall supervision of the Ministry of
Finance and will enjoy a degree of independence in its day to day operations. The CASC is formed from
experienced public sector and academic experts and accounting professionals. The staff referred to above
currently operating as the MOF Task Force on Accounting Standards, with a further 30 staff from internal
MOF sources and others to be identified from relevant external organizations will provide the operational core
of 40 staff. The new commnittee, has an independent location in old disused MOF premises. The Committee's
organization includes research, international affairs, dissemination and training, and comprehensive
management departments, and an information monitoring system.
This component comprises four principal elements, designed to:
1. Complete the promulgation of around 17 remaining standards prepared under the FSTA, which are yet to
be issued, and include programs of training and dissemination for these standards;
2. Undertake the preparation, promulgation and dissemination of about 17 new general and sector/industry-
specific standards and one research project;
3. Establish an Accounting Standards Public Information Center, which comprises both a physical and
virtual (website) site, and which provides for a monitoring system to enhance the exposure to, and
feedback by, national and worldwide users; and
4. Provide institutional support to the new CASC in the form of equipment, study tours, training, and
technical assistance.



Page 22
2.1 Completion of Work on Remaining Standards prepared under the FSTA project
This subcomponent aims to complete the issuance of all remaining standards prepared under the
FSTA. Although 25 draft standards had been prepared between 1993 and end-1997; only one standard was
issued over this period, in May 1997. In 1998, the Government prepared a program for the release of the
remaining standards, over 1998, 1999 and 2000. There has been a remarkable acceleration in the issue of
standards over the past year, and seven additional standards have been issued so far (end October 1998);
surpassing expectations (Annex Table A2.3).
Annex Table A2.3: Accounting Standards Promulgated to end-October 1998
Standard                               Promulgation       Date of
Date               Effectiveness
The National Framework of Basic Concepts for Preparation of Financial          (1991)        (1993)
Statements of Business Enterprises (IAS Framework)
Disclosure of Related Party Relationships and Transactions (IAS 24)      May 22, 1997  January 1, 1998
Cash Flow Statement (IAS 7)                                            March 20, 1998  January 1, 1998
Events occurring after the date of the Balance Sheet (IAS 10)            May 12, 1998  January 1, 1998
Debt Restructurings                                                      June 12, 1998  January 1, 1999
Revenues (IAS 18)                                                        June 20, 1998  January 1, 1999
Investments (IAS 25, 28)                                                 June 24, 1998  January 1, 1999
Construction Contracts (IAS 11)                                          June 25, 1998  January 1, 1999
Accounting Policies, Estimations, (IAS 1, 8)                             June 25, 1998  January 1, 1999
References are to comparable International Accounting Standards (IAS)
Annex Table A2.4 Additional Draft Accounting Standards
to be Finalized and Promulgated by end-2000
(prepared under the FSTA project)
Standard
Fixed Capital Assets (IAS Framework)
Incorporeal Capital (Intangible Assets) (IAS Framework)
Balance Sheet (IAS 1)
Stocks (Inventories) (IAS 2)
Provisions (Probability) (IAS 5, 10)
Disclosure of Information (IAS 5)
Profit and Loss (Income) Statement (IAS 8)
Research & Development (IAS 9)
Income Tax (LAS 12)
Receivables (IAS 13)
Payables (IAS 13)
Owner's Property (IAS 16)
Leasing (IAS 17)
Government Contributions (IAS 20)
Foreign Currency Conversion (IAS 21)
Borrowing Costs (IAS 23)
Banking business (IAS 30)
Funds are provided for the delivery by consultants of 4 high level seminars in 1999 to 2002, at a key
location, which will disseminate information/advice and provide training/guidance to senior provincial
accounting and finance policy makers. Each seminar will address the most recent batch of standards that have
been promulgated. It is possible that these seminars, towards the end of the project period, may include one or
more of the new standards that will be prepared under the second sub-component (see below). As each



Page 23
standard is promulgated, a master training manual and a master video cassette will be prepared by consultants
funded by the project. These master training materials will be retailed to the general public.
MOF/CASC, in the medium/long term, will be able to rely on the NAI/CICPA to deliver training
nationally to its members, using the new National Accounting Institute and related facilities. But these
facilities will not be fully operational for at least two years, which is the period when the bulk of the new
accounting standards prepared under the FSTA are to be released. Moreover initially the NAI will concentrate
on core courses, before committing resources to entirely new areas.
2.2 Preparation and Publication of 17 additional Accounting Standards and one Research Project
Activities under this subcomponent include:
(a) Research, drafting, exposure and publication of 17 new standards including the use of
international and local consultants per standard;
(b) Participation in Board and Standard-setting meetings of the International Accounting Standards
Board Committee by CASC members;
(c) Six seminars to expose the draft accounting standards to experts prior to publication;
(d) Four seminars in a key locations for dissemination of, and training in, standards for about 350
high level participants who are senior provincial accounting and finance policy makers;
(e) Production of a master training manual and a master video cassette for each standard for
publication and distribution through publishing houses; provision for translation and publication
costs of 1,000 copies of each standard; and
(f) Completion of one research study into the feasibility of developing accounting standards for
governmental institutions, including the use of international and local experts.
Annex Table A2.5 Seventeen Accounting Standards to be prepared by the CASC
(under the Accounting Reform and Development Project 1999-2001)
1. Oil and Gas                                     10. Financial Instruments Disclosure & Presentation (IAS
32)
2. Revaluation (IAS 29)                            11. Impairment
3. Discounting                                     12. Interim Reports (IAS 34)
4. Earnings per share (1AS 33)                     13. Discontinued Operations
5. Pension Plans                                   14. Reporting by Segments (IAS 14)
6. Accounting for liquidation                      15. Insurance
7. Business combinations (IAS 22)                  16. Agriculture
8. Consolidated financial statements (IAS 27)      17. Extractive Industries Other than Oil and Gas
9. Non-monetary transactions
For the preparation of new standards, the Committee will employ a consultative group of domestic
and international consultants to prepare research into all standards during the drafting, exposure and the
finalization of the drafts by the Committee's secretariat. The Committee proposes to hire a consultant firm to
help identify appropriate consultants and ensure their availability. For dissemination and training seminars, the
Government is proposing to use contracted trainers. The human resources of the Committee are unlikely to be
sufficient to allow key persons responsible for the drafting of standards to also be substantially engaged in
their dissemination. Dissemination seminars will be aimed at senior provincial accounting and finance policy
makers at four different locations throughout the country. The Government has proposed the development of
training manuals and training videos as part of this sub-component similar to those proposed for the first
subcomponent above.
2.3 Development and Initial Operation of a Public Information Center, Website and Monitoring System
for the CASC



Page 24
This subcomponent will be designed and installed by a contractor to provide information to users
throughout China and worldwide. The contractor will operate the system for the first year, during which time
staff of the CASC will be trained to maintain the subcomponent. The elements of the system to be provided by
the project comprise:
For the Information Center (Physical inquiry point):
About 1,000 library books;
Periodicals and relevant publications through subscriptions for the first year; and
Computers, copiers, scanner and fax machines.
For the Website (Virtual inquiry point):
Design of website and links;
Network and systems software; and
Installation and operation by a contractor for one year.
For the Monitoring System
Network and systems software; and
Services of a technician for one year.
The Ministry of Finance confirms that the CASC will be responsible for the operation and
maintenance costs of these systems after the installation and operation for one year.
2.4 Institutional Support for CASC
Study Tours and Overseas Training
As a new body, the CASC will need initial support in the form of overseas exposure and training of
its full-time and part-time Committee members using short and long term-study tours. Three 14-day annual
tours are planned for Committee members together with one 2-year and one 1-year overseas training at
universities or secondments , and three six-month secondments for staff.
Equipment
The new organization will require adequate information technology facilities and presentational
equipment for its members and staff.  A provision of about US$357,000 (base cost) is included for this
purpose in the project.



Page 25
Annex 3a Estimated Project Costs by Component
(US$ '000)
(Detailed CO STAB Tables are available on File)
%    % Total
Foreign      Base
Local         Foreign            Total       Exchange   Costs
A. Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance
Professionals
I National Accounting Institute
Land, Construction and Basic Equipment                          37,579.6            11,447.4       49,027.0          23         59
Classrooms                                                       1,074.0             4,315.3        5,389.3          80          7
Offices                                                           216.0              1,223.0        1,439.0          85          2
Libraries                                                          78.0               318.0           396.0          80          -
Dormitories                                                       960.0              3,047.0        4,007.0          76          5
Publications                                                        9.0               773.0           782.0          99          1
Dining                                                            146.0                114.0          260.0          44          -
Management and Communication System                               149.5              4,001.5        4,151.0          96          5
Software                                                              -              2,823.0        2,823.0         100          3
Curriculum Development                                                -              4,360.0        4,360.0         100          5
Technical Assistance                                              250.0              4,010.0        4,260.0          94          5
Remote site Curriculum Development                                  3.0               467.0           470.0          99          1
Subtotal National Accounting Institute                            40,465.1            36,899.2        77,364.3          48         93
2. Support to China Institute of Certified Public Accountants            -              1,206.0        1,206.0         100          I
Subtotal Strengthening of Certified Public Accounting Professionals  40,465.1            38,105.2        78,570.3          48        95
B. Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards
Finalization, Dissemination and Training
for 20 standards prepared on the FSTAa                              359.6               467.8           827.5          57          1
Preparation, Finalization, Publication,
and Dissemination of New standards                                  728.3              1,907.3        2,635.7          72          3
Public Information and Monitoring System                             106.6                46.7           153.3          30          -
Institutional Support for CASC                                           -               564.8           564.8         100          I
Subtotal Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards        1,194.5             2,986.6         4,181.1          71          5
Total Base Costs                                               41,659.6             41,091.8       82,751.5          50        100
Physical Contingencies                                               131.8               943.3         1,075.1          88          1
Price Contingencies                                                  156.6               686.0           842.7          81          1
Total Project Costs                                            41,948.1             42,721.1       84,669.2          50        102
aCosts for the project have been based on prevailing c.i.f. prices for imported equipment in China, or ex-factory prices for locally available goods. Physical
contingencies are based on an average rate of 5%, for all goods procured (except land and civil works which are not financed by the project). Price
contingencies for costs incurred in foreign exchange are based on Bankwide assumptions for annual international price escalation rates, of 1.3% for 1999,
2.6% for 2000; 2.7% for 2001; 2.6% for 2002; and 2.5% for 2003. Price contingencies for costs in Yuan are based on annual domestic price escalation
rates of 4% for years 1999-2003 (estimates as of October 25, 1998).



Page 26
Annex  3b Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure Account
Yuan '000                       US$ '000             % Foreign    % Total
Local     Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange   Base Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Land Acquisition and Civil
Works
Land Acquisition             90,212.7          -    90,212.7   10,869.0        -   10,869.0     -           13
Civil Works                 161,221.7    69,095.0   230,316.7   19,424.3  8,324.7  27,749.0    30          34
Subtotal Land Acquisition and    251,434.4    69,095.0   320,529.4   30,293.3  8,324.7  38,618.0    22       47
Civil Works
B. Equipment
Computers                          -    47,654.0    47,654.0         -   5,741.5   5,741.5   100            7
Printers                           -      4,067.0    4,067.0         -    490.0      490.0    100            1
Audio System                       -      1,618.5     1,618.5        -    195.0      195.0   100
Monitors                           -      1,245.0     1,245.0        -    150.0      150.0   100
Large Screen Projections           -      1,148.7     1,148.7        -    138.4      138.4   100
Overhead Projector                 -       199.2       199.2         -      24.0      24.0    100
Video Player/TV                    -      1,108.1    1,108.1         -    133.5      133.5    100
Video Cameras/TV/Records           -       715.5       715.5         -      86.2      86.2    100
Simultaneous Translation           -      1,494.0    1,494.0         -    180.0      180.0   100
Video Conferences                  -       996.0       996.0         -    120.0      120.0   100
Video Presentation System          -      1,452.5     1,452.5        -    175.0      175.0   100
Faxes                              -       517.9       517.9         -      62.4      62.4    100
Document Cameras                   -       415.0       415.0         -      50.0      50.0    100
Audio Cassettes                    -        31.7        31.7         -       3.8       3.8    100
Networking                       8.3        41.5        49.8        1.0      5.0       6.0    83
Server                             -       539.5       539.5         -      65.0      65.0    100
Copies                             -    14,657.8    14,657.8         -   1,766.0    1,766.0   100           2
Scanners                           -       348.6       348.6         -      42.0      42.0    100
Binding Equipment                  -       124.5       124.5         -      15.0      15.0   100
WAN Network Interlinking           -      8,034.4    8,034.4         -    968.0      968.0    100            1
Safeguard
LAN Server and UPS                 -    12,400.2    12,400.2         -   1,494.0    1,494.0   100            2
Conference Loud Speaking &         -      7,569.6    7,569.6         -    912.0      912.0    100            1
Simultaneous Translation
Audio and Video Teaching           -      3,901.0    3,901.0         -    470.0      470.0    100            1
Materials Making Equip.
Kitchen Equipment              415.0       415.0       830.0       50.0     50.0     100.0    50
IC Card Application            352.8       352.8       705.5       42.5     42.5      85.0    50
Language Teaching Equipment    722.1       722.1     1,444.2       87.0     87.0     174.0    50
Teaching Management             166.0     1,992.0    2,158.0       20.0    240.0     260.0    92
Automation Equipment
Other Equipment              60,476.3    25,918.4    86,394.7    7,286.3  3,122.7   10,409.0    30          13
Subtotal Equipment            62,140.4   139,680.5   201,820.9    7,486.8  16,829.0  24,315.8    69          29
C. Furniture
Chairs                        8,217.0     5,478.0    13,695.0     990.0    660.0    1,650.0    40            2
Tables-Half 18                  896.4      597.6     1,494.0      108.0     72.0     180.0    40
Tables-Wide                   2,913.3     1,942.2    4,855.5      351.0    234.0     585.0    40             1
Tables-Round                   398.4       265.6       664.0       48.0     32.0      80.0    40
Others-blackboard etc.          149.4       99.6       249.0       18.0     12.0      30.0    40
Shelving                      1,045.8      697.2     1,743.0      126.0     84.0     210.0    40
Bed                           1,992.0     1,328.0    3,320.0      240.0    160.0     400.0    40
Desk                          4,606.5     3,071.0    7,677.5      555.0    370.0     925.0    40             1
Subtotal Furniture            20,218.8    13,479.2    33,698.0    2,436.0  1,624.0   4,060.0    40            5
D. Books and Software
Publications                       -        49.8        49.8          -      6.0       6.0    100
Books                              -       332.0       332.0          -     40.0      40.0    100
PurchasedCurriculum                -      1,992.0     1,992.0         -    240.0     240.0    100
Software                           -    26,966.7    26,966.7          -   3,249.0   3,249.0    100           4
Subtotal Books and Software         -    29,340.5    29,340.5          -   3,535.0   3,535.0    100           4
.......... contd./.



Page 27
Annex 3b (...contd.)
Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure Account
(Yuan '000)                         USS '000              % Foreign   % Total
Local     Foreign       Total     Local    Foreign       Total      Exchange    Costs
E. Consultant Services/Training
Consultants                     5,546.1   72,114.6    77,660.6   668.2       8,688.5      9,356.7    93           11
Seminars                        4,601.9    5,291.5      9,893.4   554.4        637.5      1,192.0    53            1
Overseas Study Tours                  -    5,005.9      5,005.9        -      603.1         603.1    100           1
Overseas Training                     -    7,055.0      7,055.0        -       850.0        850.0   100            1
Subtotal Consultant              10,148.0   89,466.9    99,614.9  1,222.6    10,779.1      12,001.8    90          15
Services/Training
F. Other Costs
Network Subscription               19.9          -         19.9      2.4           -          2.4      -           -
Translation                       236.6          -        236.6    28.5            -         28.5      -
Printing and Distribution       1,577.0          -      1,577.0   190.0            -        190.0      -
Subtotal Other Costs              1,833.5          -      1,833.5   220.9           -        220.9
rotal BASELINE COSTS              345,775.1  341,062.1   686,837.2 41,659.6    41,091.8      82,751.5    50          100
Physical Contingencies            1,094.1    7,829.1      8,923.2   131.8       943.3       1,075.1     88           1
Price Contingencies               3,243.9   12,820.1    16,064.0   156.6        686.0         842.7    81            1
Total PROJECT COSTS               350,113.1  361,711.3   711,824.4 41,948.1    42,721.1      84,669.2    50          102
aCosts for the project have been based on prevailing c.i.f. prices for imported equipment in China, or ex-factory prices for locally available goods. Physical
contingencies are based on an average rate of 5%, for all goods procured (except land and civil works which are not financed by the project). Price
contingencies for costs incurred in foreign exchange are based on Bankwide assumptions for annual international price escalation rates, of 1.3% for 1999
2.6% for 2000; 2.7% for 2001; 2.6% for 2002; and 2.5% for 2003. Price contingencies for costs in Yuan are based on annual domestic price escalation
rates of 4% for years 1999-2003 (estimates as of October 25, 1998).



Page 28
Annex 4
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
[Not Applicable]
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
[Not Applicable]
Present Value of Flows                   Fiscal Impact
Economic          Financial
Analysis          Analysisl          Taxes             Subsidies
Project Costs
Summary of benefits and costs:
N/A
Main Assumptions:
N/A
Cost-effectiveness indicators2
N/A
Ilf the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by taxes and
subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The difference between financial and economic costs
arises from price controls on the inputs."
2These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g., unit project costs of alternative project
designs or international standards.



Page 29
Annex 5
Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Financial Analysis: Break-even costs
Economic or financial benefits for this project cannot be readily or meaningfully identified and
quantified. Hence, it was judged inappropriate to attempt any analyses of the present value of benefit and cost
flows to predict economic or financial rates of return. Instead, it was decided that a more appropriate financial
analysis, of the National Accounting Institute component, would comprise direct costing techniques to
determine the reasonableness of the daily fee that would have to be charged students to enable the institute to
financially break-even, at full utilization.
The major fixed cost component of the NAI operations will be staff costs; comprising some 280 core
institute people, and another 2000 contractor staff. Taking into account the mix of higher and lower level staff
requirements, and prevailing market wage and salary rates, fixed annual labors costs were estimated at Yuan
90 million. In addition, annual utility costs were assumed to be fixed at Yuan 6 million, bringing the total
annual fixed costs to an estimated Yuan 96 million.
Variable costs were identified as those directly associated with the delivery of courses. These
comprised course development, faculty fees and travel, food, course materials and supplies. Assuming an
average course duration to be five days, and the average number of students to be 25 per course, a variable
operating cost of Yuan 406 per occupancy day was estimated.
Assuming full capacity operation of the NAI would entail about 350,000 occupancy days per year,
total annual operating costs (fixed plus variable) were estimated at Yuan 238 million. The student occupancy
day charge to cover these costs, on a cash basis, amounts to Yuan 680, or about US$85. If an expected annual
asset depreciation charge of about Yuan 8 million were added to the total operating costs, the needed
occupancy day charge would increase to about Yuan 703, or US$89.
It was judged that an occupancy day charge of no more than US$100 would be viable. Hence, at this
charge level the analysis showed that the NAI could be expected to be profitable (on either a cash or accrual
accounting basis), when operating a close to full capacity..
Sensitivity Analysis
NAI Occupancy Rates and Operating Shortfalls
(Based on daily charge of Yuan 830 (uS$100))a
Occupancy       Occupancy Rate    Fixed    Variable     Income (loss)       Income (loss)
(student days/                      Costs     Costs   (excl. depreciation)   (incl. depreciation)
year)                                                 Yuan million        Yuan million
350,000            100%           96.0     142.0           52.5                40.5
250,000             71 %          86.0     101.5           20.0                12.0
200,000             57%           82.2      81.2           2.6                (5.4)
175,000             50%           82.2      71.0          (7.9)               (15.9)
150,000             43%           82.2      60.9          (18.6)              (26.6)
aYuan 680 is the estimated break-even daily charge, if there is full occupancy.
During the first two years of operation, however, the NAT is expected to operate at less than half
capacity. If the daily occupancy charge were to be maintained at less than US$100, the analysis showed that an
annual operating subsidy of about Yuan 10 to 20 million (US$1.25 to 2.5 million) would be needed by the
NAI to break-even on a cash basis. (Detailed results are given below). This amount of temporary subsidy was
not considered to be significant, and the Ministry of Finance indicated that they would readily cover it.



Page 30
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
General Procurement Arrangements
General procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex 6 Table A. Procurement of goods and
works will follow the Bank Guidelines dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and
September 1997. Procurement of Consulting Services will be based on the Bank guidelines for the Selection
and Employment of Consultants, dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997.
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, or the Model Bidding Document and Standard Contract
(Goods) published by Qinghua University press, dated May 1977, compiled by the Ministry of Finance of
China and approved by the World Bank will be used for procurement for equipment and materials under ICB;
the Model Letter of Invitation and Standard Contract (Consultants) compiled by the Ministry of Finance of
China and approved by the World Bank will be used for employing consultants. A detailed procurement plan
with packaging arrangements is given in the annexed GANTT chart. All details, including issues related to
timing and packaging have been agreed with the borrower at appraisal.
Procurement Items and Methods:
1. Land Acquisition and Civil Works:
Land acquisition and civil works for the building of the National Accounting Institute would be
financed by the Chinese Government. US$10.87 million is being used for land acquisition, and US$27.75
million will be used for civil works, totaling US$38.62 million. Procurement procedures applicable will be in
accordance with Government regulations. There is no land acquisition or civil works in the Accounting
Standards component.
2. Goods (Equipment and Materials):
Equipment and materials costing US$200,000 equivalent or more per contract will be procured under
ICB. The equipment and materials costing less than US$200,000 per contract and not exceeding an aggregate
amount of US$0.47 million will be procured under shopping procedures acceptable to the World Bank
including all books, publications and curriculum to be purchased. A margin of preference equal to 15% of the
CIF price of the imported goods or the actual customs duties and taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed to
qualified domestic manufacturers bidding under ICB procedures.
A. Strengthening of Certifled Public Accountants and other Finance Professionals
Total equipment and materials under the NAI component amount to US$31.83 million. It has been
agreed that for the NAI, the World Bank will only finance the procurement of equipment and materials directly
related to training with a total cost of US$ 18.44 million (including specialized teaching equipment, audio and
video equipment, computers, office equipment, network equipment and computer software, and also, books
and purchased curricula for the proposed training center). General building equipment will be financed by the
borrower. Some items for the training center, such as dormitory furniture and kitchen equipment, which can
relatively easily be purchased locally, are also being financed by the Chinese governmnent. All Bank financed
items will be procured under ICB, with the exception of library books and purchased curricula, where
international shopping will apply.
This component also covers a limited amount of office technology equipment (US$1.27 million) to be
used for institutional building at the CICPA, and equipment for a satellite training center, located at Qinghua
University, which will serve as a training base while the new Institute is under construction.



Page 31
B. Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards
Goods under this component amount to US$0.36 million, largely for: office and network equipment,
computer and website software and books and publications required for the establishment of the public
informnation and monitoring system. A small amount will also be used to help equip the new China Accounting
Standards Committee in terms of its technology requirements. These goods will be entirely financed by the
Bank, and ICB will apply, to all but some books and publications, to be purchased through international
shopping. Goods will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines as described above.
3. Consultant Services
Under the Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and other Finance Professionals Component,
consultant services comprise curricula customization, curricula building, advisors for course building, advisors
for designing/ implementing local and wide area networks, and an advisor for facilities design and technology-
based course development. Costs in total are estimated to be US$7.46 million, and will be wholly financed by
the World Bank. Services are expected to be offered through consulting firms contracts or through individual
consultants.
Under the Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards Component, US$3.62 million is
estimated to be used for employing consultants, entirely financed by the World Bank. Services will be used for
(i) providing advisory inputs for the development of new standards and their discussion; (ii) conducting
dissemination seminars to introduce standards to key finance professionals, once promulgated; (iii) compiling
and developing training materials for standards; (iv) translation, printing and distribution of new standards, (v)
the development of a web-site and monitoring system for public information on accounting standards, and (vi)
an advisor for overall coordination of the project.
In general, 'Quality and Cost-Based Selection' procedures will be used.
4. Study Tours and Training
Under the Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and other Finance Professionals Component,
overseas training and study tours amount to US$ 1.15 million, in this case for core managers and faculty of the
National Accounting Institute. Overseas training and study tours, under the Development and Dissemination of
Accounting Standards Component, amounts to US$0.36 million; intended to enable the members of the newly
formed Accounting Standards Committee to rapidly acquire a broad base of international experience for their
professional role in the CASC.
Review of Documents and Contracts
World Bank.
*  all draft bidding document for ICB procurement will be submitted to the World Bank for prior review
*  all consultant contracts of US$50,000 equivalent or more for individuals and US$100,000 equivalent or
more for firms will be subject to prior review by the World Bank
*  all other contracts would be subject to ex post review by supervision missions.



Page 32
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                          Procurement Method            1      Base
ICB       NCB        Othera     NBFb    j    Cost
A. Strengthening of Certified Public
Accounting Professionals
I. National Accounting Institute
1. Land Acquisition & Works                                          38.62        38.62
(0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                            18.15                 0.29       13.38        31.83
(18.15)               (0.29)      (0.0)       (18.44)
3. Consultant Services                                    7.46                    7.46
(7.46)                  (7.46)
4. Study Tours and Training                                1.15                    1.15
(1.15)                  (1.15)
II. Support to China Institute of
Certified Public Accountants
1. Goods                             1.11                 0.16                     1.27
(1.1)                (0.16)                  (1.27)
B. Development & Dissemination
of Accounting Standards
1. Goods                            0.34                  0.02                    0.36
(0.34)                (0.02)                 (0.36)
2. Consultant Services                                    3.62                     3.62
(3.62)                  (3.62)
3. Study Tours and Training                               0.36                     0.36
(0.36)                  (0.36)
Total                            19.61                 13.06       52.00       84.67
(19.61)               (13.06)     (0.00)      (32.67)
aOther procurement methods include shopping for curriculum and Books, consultant services and training
bNBF denotes non-Bank-financed
CTotal cost includes contingencies
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.



Page 33
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in USSmillion equivalent)
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category                        Selection Methoda                      Total Costc
QCBS   QBS   SFB   LCS    CQ    Other    NBFb
A. Firms                      10.69                                                        10.69
(10.69)                                                     10.69
B. Individuals                                                      0.39                  0.39
(0.39)                (0.39)
Total               10.69                                0.39                  11.08
l_____________________________  (10.69)                    I         (0.39)  _             (11.08)
3QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection, QBS = Quality-based Selection, SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget,
LCS = Least-Cost Selection, CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications, Other = Selection of individual
consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.,
blNBF = Not Bank-financed.
cTotal cost includes contingencies.
NVote: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IBRD loan and IDA Credit.
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value           Procurement        Estimated Total Value
Category             (Threshold)              Methoda         Subject to Prior Reviewb
(US$ thousand)                                 (USS million)
1. Goods                        >200                   ICB                     19.61
2. Consultant Services                                                         11.05
>100 for firms                   TA                     10.69
>50 for individuals              TA                      0.36
Total                                                                          30.66
Note:a ICB=Intemational Competitive Bidding. TA denotes selection method specified in Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised
September 1997);
bTotal value includes contingencies.



Page 34
Disbursement
The total US$32.94 million from the World Bank will be allocated as follows: US$4.34 million for the
Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards Component, US$28.33 million for the
Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals component. In addition IBRD
will also provide US$0.27 million for the payment of a front-end fee of 1% of the IBRD loan amount of
US$27.05 million. This amount will be payable on effectiveness. Disbursement will be made against the
following categories of expenditures: (i) for equipment and materials, 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally manufactured goods and 75% of expenditures for other locally
procured items; (ii) for consulting services, 100% of all expenditures; (iii) for overseas study tours and
training, 100% of all expenditures.
The total implementation period of the project is 5 years (1999-2003) and the closing date will be
December 31, 2004. A large part of the project, comprising the NAI's facility construction, course building and
curriculum development, study tours for the NAI's core management staff and a part of faculty overseas
training is proposed to be completed in the first 3 years (1999-2001). Most of the disbursement accordingly
will be over the first 3 years. Disbursement in FY 2000 will be the largest, because the delivery of the
equipment and materials directly related to training for the NAI's facility construction will take place in this
year.
A request for retroactive financing has been made, for consultant inputs, to help with the incorporation
of training needs into building and facilities design. The amount suggested, at US$60,000, is within the 10%
normal limit for retroactive financing (0.2% of the total World Bank Loan / Credit). The eligible expenditure
for retroactive financing should be incurred after October 1, 1998 and not more than one year before the date
of signing of the Loan/Credit Agreements.
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds
IBRD       IDA    TOTAL
Loan      Credit
Expenditure Category       Amount in  Amount  Amount              Financing Percentage
US$m.       in     in US$
US$m.   million
(1) Goods                              18.44      1.63     20.07  100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
75% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
(a) Al. NAI Accounting Institute       18.44               18.44
(b) A2. Institutional Support to the              1.27      1.27
CICPA
(c) B. Development and Dissemination              0.36      0.36
of Accounting Standards
(2) Consultant Services                 7.46      3.62     11.08  100%
(a) Al. NAI Accounting Institute        7.46                7.46
(b) B. Development and Dissemination              3.62      3.62
of Accounting Standards
(3) Training and Study Tours            1.15      0.36      1.51  100%
(a) Al. NAI Accounting Institute        1.15                1.15
(b) B. Development and Dissemination              0.36      0.36
of Accounting Standards
(4) Front End Fee                       0.27                0.27
Total                    27.33      5.61     32.94
aThese values are based on allocations in the cost tables. There will be some minor differences between these
figures and those in the Development Credit Agreement due to US$/SDR conversions and due to rounding up.



Page 35
Withdrawal applications will be fully documented for all expenditures against which loan/credit
disbursement will be made. Statement of Expenditure (SoEs) will be used for disbursements against (a)
contracts for goods costing less than US$200,000, (b) training and study tour expenses, and (c) consultant
services costing less than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individual consultants. The supporting
documents for SoEs would be retained by the project manager of the Ministry of Finance and made available
for review by the Bank. In the case of contracts for goods and services above these thresholds, disbursement
would be made against the full documentation of the contracts themselves and other supporting documents.
Special account:
A special account for the project will be established by MOF in a bank acceptable to the Bank. It will
be maintained and managed by the Intemational Department of MOF. The authorized allocation for the
Special Account will be US$3.0 million, the estimated average expenditure for a four month period.
Applications for replenishment, supported by appropriate documentation, will be submitted monthly or when
the amounts withdrawn equal 50% of the initial deposits, whichever comes first. Separate accounts will be
maintained by CASC and CICPA.
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
A. Project Budget (US$ '000)
Identification to Pre-appraisal                    $130,000              $115,700
Appraisal to Board                                 $150,000              [$83,500]
Total                                              $280,000             [$199,200]
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)               05/15/1998            05/18/1998
Appraisal mission departure                       10/15/1998            10/12/1998
Negotiations                                      12/10/1998            12/14/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     05/31/1999             _/_/19_
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Anjali Kumar, EASFS                 Sr. Financial Economist: (Task Manager)
Albert Kennefick, EAPCO             Adviser, Financial Management and Auditing
(NAI component)
Weiguo Zhou, EASRD                 Operations Officer (Costs, procurement and
disbursement)
Xiaohong Yang EACCF                       Financial Officer/ Coordinator



Page 36
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
1. Original Project Proposal submitted by Borrower (July 1, 1997)
2. Revised Project Proposals submitted by Borrower (July 31, 1997, Sept. 5, 1997, Dec. 31, 1997)
3. Project Concept Document (final version, May 7, 1998) and Minutes of Review Meeting (May 7, 1997)
4. Terms of Reference (April 23, 1998); Aide Memoire, including Project Preparation Plan (May 28,
1998)
5. Project Implementation Plan prepared by the Borrower (original dated June 1998), as well as modified
version reflecting World Bank inputs (dated July 1998)
6. Procurement Plan prepared by the Borrower (original, June 1998), as well as modified version reflecting
World Bank inputs (July 1998)
7. Cost tables (October 26, 1998)
8. Draft Project Appraisal Document (August 13, 1998)
9. Comments on Project Appraisal Document (Aug. 27-Sept. 9, 1998)
10. EASSD's Resettlement Clearance memo (Sept. 14, 1998)
11. Minutes of Decision Meeting-Project Appraisal Document (Sept. 16, 1998)
12. Project Information Document (revised Sept. 21, 1998)
13. (Signed) Minutes of Negotiations (December 18, 1998)
14. Status of Negotiations (December 18, 1998)
15. Exchange of letters between Project Team at the Bank and the Borrower reaching agreement on
Reporting Formats for Financial Management (January 22, 1999 and January 29, 1999)
*Including electronic files.



Page 37
Annex 9
Status of Operations in China
Status of Bank Group Operations in China
As of 01-Feb-99
Fiscal                                                              Original Amount in US$ Mi'lions
Project ID       Year       Bo-rower            Purpose                                   IDA       Cance'la-        Undisbursed
lORD                       tions
Number of Closed ProDects: 106
Active Proaects
CN-PE-49665        1999    PRC             Anning Valley Ag.Dev                 90.00         30.00          0.30               120.00
CN-PE-50336        1999    PBC             Anhui Provzncial Hwy                200.00          0.00          0.00               200.00
CN-PE-3539         1990    PRC             Sust Coast Res Dev                  100.00          0.0C          0.00               100.03
CN-PE-35E6         1990                    Basic Health                          0.00         85.00          0.00                87.25
CN-PE-35698        1998    PRC             Hunan Power Develop.                300.00          C.00          0.00               300.00
CN-PE-3591         1998    PRC             State Farms Commerci                150.00           .00          0.00               113.48
CN-PE-3606         1398    SOC             Energy Conservation                  63.00          0.30          0.00                63.0C
CN-PE-3614         1998    PRC             Suangz. City Crt.Trp                20C.03         0Q.0           0.03               100.03
CN-PE-3619         1998    MOF             2nd Inland waterways                123.00          0.00          0.00               123.00
CN-PE-36414        1998    CHINA           Guangxi Urban Env.                   72.00         20.00          0.00                02.93
CN-PE-36949        1998    PRC             Nat.Hwy 3-Hubei                     250.00          0.00          3.03               242.00
CN-PE-43185        1998    PRC             Sbandong Environment                 95.30          0.00          C.00                92.30
CN-PE-45788        1999    PRC             Tru-Provincial Hwy                  230.30          0.00           .300              230.30
CN-PE-46563        1998    PRC             Tarim Basin Ii                       90.10         60.00          3.00               152.65
CN-PE-46952        1998    PRC             Forest. Dev. Poor Ar                1C0.00        100.00          0.10                040.38
CN-PE-49700        1998    PRC             IAIL-2                              300.00          0.03          0.00               300.C0
CN-PE-51736        1998    GOC             E. Chuna/Jiangsu Pwr                250.00          0.00          0.30               250.00
CN-PE-56491        1998    PRC             Hebel Earthquake                      0.00         28.43          0.00                23.E4
CN-PE-34081        1997    PRC             Xiaolangdi Multi. II                430.C0          0.00          0.00               374.07
CN-PE-3590         1997    PRC             Qinba Mts. Povty Red                 30.00        150.0C          0.00               161.23
CN-PE-3635         1997    PRC             Voc. Ed. Reform Proj                 10.00         20.0          03.00                19.63
CN-PE-3637         1997    PRC             Nati Rur Water III                    0.00         70.00          0.00                67.06
CN-PE-36405        1997    PRC             Wan7iazhai Water Tra                400.00          1.00          0.00               330.40
CN-PE-3643         1997    PRC             Xinjiasg Eighways I_                300.00          0.30          0.00               237.28
CN-PE-3650         1997   G0C              Tuoketuo Power/Inner                400.00          0.00          0.00               400.01
CN-PE-3654         1997    PRC             Hunan/Suang Hwy2-Nh2                401.00          0.00          0.00               350.40
CN-PE-36952        1997    PRC             Basic Ed. Iv                          1.00         85.30          0.00                50.72
CN-PE-38988        1397    PRC             Heilongjiang ADP                    12C.00          0.00          0.00                97.02
CN-PE-44485        1909                    Shanghai Waigaoqiao                 403.30          0.00          0.00               400.30
CN-PE-34618        1906    PRC             Labcr Market Dev.                    1C.03         20.00          0.00                24.52
CN-PE-3507         1096    GOC             Ertan Hydro :I                      410.30          0.00          0.00                33.51
CN-PE-3563         1996    PRC             Animal Feed                          151.0C         0.30          0.00               140.57
CN-PE-3569         1996    PRC             Shanghai-Zhejiang Hi.               26C.00          0.00          7.75               ;11.73
CN-PE-3589         1096    PRC             Disease Prevention                    0.00        100.00          0.00                71.50
CN-PE-3594         1996    PRC             Gansu Hexi Corridor                  60.10         90.00          0.00               129.46
CN-PE-599   1 9 6     unnan
CN-PE-3599         0994    Yunnan          Yunnan Environoent                  125.00         25.00          0.30               140.36
CN-PE-3602         1996    PRC             Hubei Urban Env. Pro                125.00         25.0          03.30               128.30
CN-PE-3638         1996    PRC             Seeds Sector Comer.                 80.00         20.00          0.C0                94.51
CN-PE-3646         1896    PRC             Chongqing In  Pol Ct               170.00          0.00          0.30               163.38
CN-PE-3648         1096    Shanghai        Second Shargha- Sewe                250.00          0.00          0.00               174.46
Mun. Govt
CN-PE-3649         1996    CHINA           Shanxi Poverty Allev                  0.00        103.00          0.00                43.25
CN-PE-3652         1996    PRC             2nd Shaanxi Prov Hwy                210.00          0.00          0.00               149.70
CN-PE-36950        1996    PRC             Basic Ed. Poor III                    0.00        1302.0          0.00                14.49
CN-PE-40513        1996    PRC             2nd Henan Prov Hwy                  210.00          03.0          0.01               101.25
CN-PE-3493         1935    PRC             Inland Waterways                    423.00          0.00          1.00               239.42
CN-PE-3571         1995    PRC             Railways VII                        401.03          0.00          1.00               395.1E
CN-PE-3585         1995    IOC             Shenyang Ind. Reform                175.00          0.300        03.0                10.80
CN-PF-3596         1995    PRC             Yangtze Basin Water                 100.10        110.00          0.1 40.3'
CN-PE-3592         1995                    Liaoning Environment                110.00          0.00          0.00                70.2
CN-PE-3600         1995    PRC             Technology Developme                210.00          0.00          0.30               1.2.94
CN-PE-3603         1995    PRIC            Ent. Housing Soc. Se                275.00         35.02         03.0 204.5_
CN-PE-36041        1995    MOF             Fiscal & Taw Ref. a                  50.20         25.00          0.30                66.99
CN-PE-3612          1995    PRI            Xinjianq Highway I                  150.C0          0.00          0.00                63.09
CN-PE-3634         1995    PRC             Maternal Child Healt                  0.00         90.00          0.0022.16
CN-PE-3636         1995    PRC             Basic Educ On Poor &                  0.00        102.0           03.30                 3.97
CN-PE-3633         1995    PRC             Southwest Pov. Reduc                 95.00        200.00          0.00               11 .45
C-N-PE-3642        1995                    Zhejiang Power Devt                 400.30          3.00          0.00               lS2,49
CN-PE-3647         1995    PRC             Economic Law Reform                   0.00         10.00          0.00                  5.84
CN-PE-36947        1995    GOC             Suchuan Transmission                270.00          0.20          0.00               1'1.73
CN-PE-37156        1995    PRC             Iodine Def. DIsorcer                  7.01         20.00          7.00                  2.21
CN-PE-3502         1994    MOH             Rur Health Manpower                   0.01        110.00          03.6 31.11
CN-PE-3504         1994    PRC             Hebei/Henan National                380.00          0.30          0.00                53.15
CN-PE-3540         1994    PRC             Loess Plateau                         0.30        150.00          C.00                31.;4
CN-PE-3557         1994    PRC             Forest Resource Dev                   C.00        200.00          1.00                47.85
CN-PE-3562         1994    PRC             Xraolangdi Multipurpose             460.00          0.00          1.00                   .e3
CN-PE-3596         1994    PRC             Shanghai Environment                160.30          0.00          0.C0 02.23
CN-PE-3593         1994    PRC             Songliao Plain ADP                    0.30        205.00          0.00                27.16
CN-PE-3595         1994    PRC             Red Soils Ii Develop                  0.C3        150.00          0.00                4 .79
CN-PE-3609         1994    GOC             Sichuan Gas Dev &                  255. C0          0.02          0.00 I1 }1.
Conservation
CN-PE-3622         ;994    Shanghai        Shanghai Mtp II                     150.00          2.00          0.30 03.
Mun. Govt
CN-PE-3626         1994    GCC             Fujian Proy Highway                 140.00          1.30          0.031               20.63
CN-PE-3633         1994    PRC             Telecommunications                  250.00          0.30         30.30                 19.'5
CN-PE-3641         1994    PRC             Yanczhou Thermal Power              350.00          0.00          0.00                76.63
CN-PE-3644         1994    PRC             Xiaolangdi Resettlemenrt              3.01        110.30          0.00                26.47
CN-PE-3473         1993    P.R.C.          Zhejiang Multicities                  0.00        110.10          1.30                 36.40
CN-PE-3512         1993    PRC             Shanghai Port Rest.                 150.00          0.00         25.74                  4.07
CN-PE-3518         1993    PRC             Guangdong Prov.                     29 .00          0.00          2 .00                 2.08
Transport
CN-PE-3533         1993                    Tianjin Ind. II                     150.00          0.00         16.10                42.17
CN-PE-3559         1993    PRC             Agric. Support Servi                  0.00        115.00         0C.3                 130.8
CN-PE-3561         1993    PRC             Sichaan ADP                           0.20        147.00          03.0                  5.68
CN-PE-3567         1393    PRC             Effective Teachln  S0.                0.00        100.01          0.00                25.61
CN-PE-3570         1993    PR-             Railway VI                          420.00          0.00          0.00                 94.61
CN-PE-3580         1993    PRC             So.Jiangsu Environ.                 250.00          1.00          0.00                  4.15



Page 38
Fiscal                                                     Original Amount in US$ Millions
Project ID     Year     Borrower          Purpose                             IDA      Cancella-      Undisbursed
IBRD                   tions
CN-PE-3581       1993   PRC           Henan Prov. Transport         120.00         0.00        0.00              10.78
CN-PE-3592       1993   PRC           Ref. Inst'1.&                   0.00        50.00        0.00              20.27
Preinvest(Crisp)
CN-PE-3597       1993   PRC           Taihu Basin Flood Co          100.00       100.00        0.00              47.56
CN-PE-3616       1993   PRC           Tianhuangping Hydro           300.00         0.00        0.00              67.13
CN-PE-3623       1993   PRC           Financial Sector T.A            0.00        60.00        0.00              21.15
CN-PE-3627       1993   PRC           Grain Distribution P          325.00       165.00        0.00             327.95
CN-PE-3632       1993   ROC           Environment Tech Ass            0.00        50.00        0.00              11.09
CN-PE-3503       1992                 Zouxian Thermal Powe          310.00         0.00        0.00               7.82
CN-PE-3534       1992   PRC           Zhejiang Prov Transp          220.00         0.00        0.00              23.59
CN-PE-3564       1992   Beijing       Beijing Environment             45.00       80.00        0.00              25.80
Municipal.
CN-PE-3565       1992                 Shanghai Metro Trans             0.00       60.00        0.00               3.90
CN-PE-3568       1992   R.O.C.        Tianjin Urb Dev & En             0.00      100.00        0.00              22.07
CN-PE-3624       1992   Min. Of       Infectious Diseases              0.00      129.60        0.00              34.28
Publ.Health
Total                                                            14,580.00    3,950.00        86.49          10,301.74
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                8,154.96           12,518.29           20,673.25
of which has been repaid:                   53.64            2,428.27            2,481.91
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               18,389.82            9,737.56           28,127.38
Asmount sold                                       C C.00              0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid            :                    0.00                0.00                 0.0C
Total Undisbursed             :               10,301.74               35.92            10,337.66
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 01-Feb-99.
China: Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 i-Dec-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                                   Disbursed
I9,c' TF_ ___FC
FY Approval            Company             Loan       Equity      Quasi    Partic      Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic
0                 Pacific Ports                 0.00       3.64       0.00      0.00       0.00       3.64      0.00       0.00
1987/92194          China Bicycles               8.50        3.39      0.00       0.00       8.50      3.39       0.00      0.00
1993                Shenzhen PCCP                3.76         .99      0.00       0.00      3.76        .99       0.00       0.00
1993                Yantai Cement               14.56        1.95      0.00       7.77      14.56      1.95       0.00       7.77
1994                China Walden JV              0.00        6.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      3.53       0.00       0.00
1994                China Walden Mgt             0.00         .01      0.00       0.00       0.00       .01       0.00       0.00
1994                Dalian Glass                20.50       2.40       0.00      40.50     20.50       2.40       0.00     40.50
1994                Dynamic Fund                 0.00       12.35      0.00       0.00       0.00     10.08       0.00      0.00
1994/97             PTP Leshan                  12.20        1.00      0.00      16.00      12.20       1.00      0.00      16.00
1995                Dupont Suzhou               23.36       4.15       0.00      46.80     23.36       4.15       0.00     46.80
1995                Newbridge Inv.               0.00        9.40      0.00       0.00       0.00      6.10       0.00       0.00
1995                Suzhou PVC                  22.00       2.48       0.00      22.20      17.49      2.48       0.00      17.65
1996                Beijing Hormel               5.00         .50      0.00       5.50       5.00       .50       0.00       5.50
1996                Jingyang                    40.00       0.00       0.00     100.00      40.00      0.00       0.00     100.00
1996                Nanjing Kumho               16.00        3.81      0.00      45.50      13.63      3.81       0.00      38.75
1996                TianjinKumho                11.17       0.00       0.00      33.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
1996                Weihai Weidongri             4.33        0.00      0.00       0.00       4.33      0.00       0.00       0.00
1997                Ningbo                       0.00        2.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      2.00       0.00       0.00
1997                OrientFinance               13.33        0.00      0.00      16.67      13.33      0.00       0.00      16.67
1997                PTP Hubei                   12.63        0.00      0.00      25.38       8.31      0.00       0.00      16.69
1997                Rabobank PTPC                2.40        0.00      0.00       2.40       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
1998                Caltex Ocean                21.00        0.00      0.00      45.00       8.91      0.00       0.00      19.09
1998                Chengxin-IBCA                0.00        .36       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
1998                Rabobank SHFC                2.75        0.00      0.00       2.75       2.25      0.00       0.00       2.25
1998                Zhen Jing                    0.00        2.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                 233.49      56.43       0.00     409.47     196.13     46.03       0.00    327.67
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan       Equity     Quasi    Partic
1998                Chengdu Chemical             7.40       3.20       0.00       8.60
1997                Chinefarge                  12.80       0.00       0.00      20.00
1998                Eureca                       0.00        3.00      0.00       0.00
1998                Jiangsu Coline               6.50        0.00      0.00       0.00
1998                Leshan Scana                 6.10        1.35      0.00       0.00
1997                Nissan/Dongfeng             20.20       0.00       0.00      27.00
1998                Orient Fin A Inc             3.33       0.00       0.00       0.00
1997                Ptp Holdings                 0.00        1.50      0.00       0.00
1998                Shanghai Krupp              30.00       0.00       0.00      78.44
1997                SMC                         14.00        0.00      0.00      14.00
1996                Tianjin                      9.10        0.00      0.00       9.10
1998                Wuhan Cig                    0.00        1.50      0.00       0.00
1998                Wuhan Port                   5.00        0.00      0.00       5.00
1998                XIB                         50.00      20.00       0.00       0.00
1998                Zhejiang Coline              6.50       0.00       0.00       0.00
1998                Zhen Jing                    4.50       0.00       0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                      175.43       30.55       0.00     162.14



Page 39
Annex 10
China at a glance
East   Lower-
POVERrT and SOCIAL                                            Asia &   middle-
China    Pacific  income       Development diamond*
19a7
Population, mid-year (millions)                     1,227.2     1,753     2,282                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     860       970      1.230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    1.055.4     1.707     2,818                       T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Populatior (%)                                         11         1.3       1.2     GNP
Labor force (%)                                        1.1        1.4       13      GNP                              Gross
[per                -           prmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty f% of population below national poverty line)    7          -
Urban population (% of total population)                32        32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70        68        69                        1
infant nortality (per 1,000 live births)                32        38        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              16        16                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  90        84        84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    19        17        19
Gross orimary enroliment (%of school-age population)   120       118       114           -China
Male                                                 121       120       116               Lower-middle-income group
Fernale                                              120       119       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997                                        -
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                          151 6    295.7      816.5     9020     l
Gross domestic investment/GDP                27.9     37.7      39.6       38.2                     Trade
Fxports of goods and services/GDtP            5.0     12.2      21.0       23.0                     T
Gross domestic savingslGDP                   28.5     35.2      41.7       41.9
Gross national savingsfGDP                   28.5     35.3      40.4       40.6    I
Current account balance/GDP                   0.2     -2.5       0.9        3.2     Domestic              
Interest paymerts'GDP                           ..     0.2        0.6      0o6                                   Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..      8.0      15.8      16.3      Savings
rota; cebt servce/exports                             9 6       8 7       8.6
Present value of debt/GDP                                           - .    14,9
Present value of debtlexports                  ..       ..                 62.7
Indebtedness
197648B  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growthJ)
GDP                                  9.3     10,1      9.6        8.8                  -China
GNP per capita                       8 3      8.6      8.7        7.4        .               Lower-middleincome group
Exports of goods and services       18.8     16.6    41.5        22.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997    | Growth rates of output and investment(%)
I(% of GDP)                                                                         3T
Agriculture                                  32.8     27.1       20.4      18.7
Industry                                     45.4     44.0       49.5      49.2    i2t-
Manufacturng                                29.5     35.5      37.8      37.3   ilo
Services                                     21.7     28.9       30.1      32.1
Private consumption                          64.0     51.4       46.7      46.6            92   93   94   95   96   97
General govemment consumption                 7.5     13.4       11.6      11.6               _    GD1    -*- GDP
imports of goods and services                 4.5     14.7       18.9      19.3    i
197646  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   6.0      4.4        5.1       3.5   15 T
Industry                                     11.0     13.8       12.1      10.8    4K
Manufacturing                               12.8     13.3      11.6       9.9    3t
Services                                     12.0      8.7        7.9       8.3    20
Private consumption                           9.3      8.6        9.3       6.4    1
General govemment consumption                 9.4      99         9.5       8.2                                  |c- 
Gross domestic investment                    10.8     11.2        8.2       5.6            92   93   94   95   96   97
Imports of goods and services                22.5     14.8      41.0       12.4            -Exports    -mpons
Gross national product                        9.8      9.9        9.8       8.5
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
This tabe was produced from the Development Economics central database
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



Page 40
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1976      1986      1996      1997       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
30-
(% change)                                                                            20
Consumer prices                                  ..      6.5        8.3       2.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                           4.0      4.6        5.9       1.2    o5
10
Government finance                                                                     s
(%e of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   0
ICurrentrevenue                                    .     24.0       11.4      12.0             92    93    94    95    96    9
Current budget balance                                   5.6        0.6       0.6                -GDP deflator    -CPi
Overall surplus/deficit                                  -1.8      -1.5      -1.5
TRADE
(US$ milions)                                 1976      1986      1996      1997       Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               .   30,942   151,066   182,696      200,000
Food                                           ..   4,448      10,232    11,054
Fuel                                           ..   3,683       5,929     6,987      15000
Manufactures                                   ..  19,670   129,141   158,767
3Total imports (cif                                    42,904   138,838   142,361      100000
Food                                           ..    2,002      7,866     6,308      5000
Fuel and energy                                     20 504      6,877    10,306
Capital goods                                  ..20,415        59,610    57,930 
Export price index (1995=100)                             66                                  91  92  93  94  95  96  97
31mport price index (1995=100)                             69                                       a Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                 96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
iUS$ millions)                                1976      1986      1996      1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 7,383   29,583    171,700   207,253      4
Imports of goods and services                 7,125   37,472    154,100   166,755
Resource balance                               258   -7,889      17,600    40,498   
'Net income                                       0       176    -12,370   -15,900
~Net current transfers                            0      255      1,922     4,660      0
91   92         94   00   96   97
3Current account balance                        258   -7,458       7,152    29,258
Financing items (net)                                  5,410     28,248     6,599
Changes in net reserves                           ..   2,048    -35,400   -35,857      ,
Memo:
"Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..  16,417    111,728   146,448
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                1.9      3.5        8.3       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..  23,719   128,817   146,697
IBRD                                                   965      7,616     8,239
IDA                                                   774       7,579     7,830                          A; Gl,3 7,830
Totaldebtservice                                  ..   2,974     15,756    18,445                                   D 2,904
IBRD                                           .        66       840       858
IDA                          68                                   73        81                                      E: 20,782
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                        155       249       228
Official creditors                              .    1,165      4,401     4,315                                  J
Private creditors                              ..   3,693       6,454     8,134
Foreign direct investment                      ..   1,875    40,180    44,236             !               .
Portfolio equity                               ..        0      3,466     8,457                   F: 75,478
World Bank program
Commitments                                    ..   1,120       1,900     2,425      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                         607       2,097     2,275      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                     0       364       377       C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                             607       1,734     1,898
Interest payments                                       75       549       562
Nettransfers                                          532       1,185     1,335
3
31 Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                         11/20/99



Page 41                             Annex 11
China
Accounting Reform and Development Project
Statement I. Balance Sheet for the National Accounting Institute
For the six-month Period Ended [month, day, year] (RMB 000)
Project & Entity Name:
[Application of Funds                          Line No.   Beginning Balance       Ending Balance
Total Project Expenditures                      1
1. Fixed Assets Transferred                  2
2. Construction in Progress                   3
3. Other Expenditures                         4
Investment Loan Receivable                      5
Including:
World Bank Investment Loan Receivable         6
Appropriation of Investment Loan              7
Including:
Appropriation of World Bank Investment Loan   8
Equipment                                      9
Including:
Equipment Losses in Suspense                 10
Total Cash and Bank                           11 
1.Cash in Bank                                12
Including:
Special Account                              13
2.Cash on Hand                                14
Total Prepaid and Receivable                  15
Including:
World Bank Loan Interest Receivable           16
World Bank Loan Commitment Fee Receivable    17
World Bank Loan Service-Fee Receivable        18
Marketable Securities                         19
Total Fixed Assets                            20
Fixed Assets, Cost                            21
Less: Accumulated Depreciation            22
Fixed Assets, Net                             23
Disposal of Fixed Assets                      24
Fixed Assets Losses in Suspense               25
Total Applications of Fund                        26



Page 42                            Annex 11
China
Accounting Reform and Development Project
Statement I. Balance Sheet ...(contd/2)
For the six-month Period Ended [month, day, year] MB 000)
Sources ofFunds                                zi                    ia.
Sources of Funds    ~ ~ ~In No                 eginning Balance     Ending Balance
Total Project Appropriation Funds            27
Grants                                       28
Joint-operation Appropriation Funds          29
Total Project Loan                           30
1. Total Project Loan                        31
(1) World Bank Loan                    32
Including:
IDA                               33
IBRD                              34
Technical Cooperation             35
Co-Financing                      36
(2) Domestic Loan                      37
2. Other Loan                                38
Appropriation of Investmnent Loan             39
_Including: 
World Bank Loan                              40
Bond Fund                                    41
Construction Expenditures to be Offset       42
i Total Payable                                43
Including.
World Bank Loan Interest Payable        44
World Bank loan Commitment Fee Payable   45
World Bank Loan Service Fee Payable     46
Other Payables                                47
Appropriation of Fund                         48     .
Retained Earnings                            49
ITotal Sources of Funds                          50



Page 43                                                         Annex 11
China
Accounting Reform and Development Project
Statement II -1. Summary of Sources And Uses of Funds By Project Component
For the six-month Period Ended [month, day, year]
(RMB 000)
Current                                                  Cumulative
1  2               3                 4                    5                    6
Current             Current               %               Life of           Cumulative               %
Item                              Six-month period    Six-month period       Completed           PAD                 Actual             Completed
(Budgetary)          (Actual)
Total Financing
o/w International Financing
World Bank IBRD
IDA
Counterpart Funds
Total Application of Funds_
( by Project Component)
Al. NAI Accounting Institute
A2. CICPA
B. CASC
Difference
1. Change in Accounts Receivable
2. Change in Accounts Payable
3. Change in Cash and Bank
4. Other



Page 44                              Annex 11
China
Accounting Reform and Development Project
Statement 11-2. Summary of Sources And Uses of Funds By Project Component
(For the six month period ending . .. [month, day, year].)
(RMB Yuan)
Project                                              Project Expenditure
Component                                      Asset Transferred
Work in        Other
Cumulative      Fixed     Current  Intangible    Deferred     Progress     Expenditure
Amount        Asset      Asset      Asset       Asset
National
Accounting
Institute
1. Goods
2. Consulting
Services                                                      ___
3. Training             _               ___
CICPA
1. Goods
(China
Accounting
Standards
Committee
1. Goods    .
2. Consulting
Services
3. Training
Total



Page 45                           Annex 11
China
Accounting Reform and Development Project
Statement III- 1. Statement of Implementation of Credit Agreement
(For the six month Period Ending ... [month, day, year].)
(000 US$ and RMB)
Project & Entity Name:
Category                Credit              Current - Period           Cumulative Withdrawals
Amount               Withdrawals
SDR    US$      SDR       US$   RMB        SDR       US$         RMB
National Accounting
Institute__ _ _ __ _ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _                                                           _ _ _ _
1. Goods              _
2. Consulting Services
3. Training
CICPA                         .__._.
1. Goods                      .                 _
2. Consulting Services               _
3. Training         _         .
China Accounting
Standards Committee
1. Goods
2. Consulting Services
3. Training                              .
Total                         .                                                   .



Page 46                                 Annex 11
China
Accounting Reform and Development Project
Statement III- 2. Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement
(For the six month Period Ending . . . [month, day, year].)
(000 US$ and RMB)
Project & Entity Name:
Category                       Loan         Current Period       Cumulative Withdrawals
Amount        Withdrawals
(USD)    USD        RMB        USD           RMB
National Accounting Institute
1. Goods
2. Consulting Services
3. Training
CICPA
1. Goods
2. Consulting Services
3. Training
China Accounting Standards
Committee
1. Goods
2. Consulting Services
3. Training
Total



Page 47                           Annex 11
China
Accounting Reform and Development Project
Statement IV. Special Account Statement
For period _ _ to       , 19xx (six-month period)
Name of Borrower:
Name of Project:
World Bank Loan/Credit No:
Depository Bank
Account No.
Currency
Address
Part A. Account Activity                                               (US Dollars)
Beginning balance (mm/dd/yy)                                              xxxxx
Add:
Total amount deposited by World Bank                                   xxxxx
Total interest earnings if deposited in Special Account                xxxxx
Total amount refunded to cover ineligible expenditures                 xxxxx
Deduct:
Total amount withdrawn                                                 xxxxx
Total service charges if not included above in amount withdrawn        xxxxx
Ending Balance (mm/dd/yy)                                                 xxxxx
Part B. Account Reconciliation
1. Amount advanced by the World Bank.                              xxxxx
Deduct
2. Total amount recovered by World Bank                            xxxxx
3. Present outstanding amount advanced to the Special Account      xxxxx
(six-month ending)
4. Ending balance of Special Account (six-month ending)            xxxxx
Add:
5. Amount claimed and not yet credited (six-month ending)          xxxxx
6. Amount withdrawn and not yet claimed                            xxxxx
7. Services charges for the period (if not included in 5 or 6)     xxxxx
Deduct:
8. Interest eaming                                                xxxxx
9. Total Advance to Special Account (six-month ending)            xxxxx



Page 48                                           Annex 12
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
tI   II



CHINA
Accounting Reform and Development Project
Procurement Plan
1999                                                               2000
ID   Task Name                                                                        Duration    Sta rt                     Finish __011II12  I 2  3 4 56 7 891011 12 12 34T5 6789
26                          1  3 3 Ad,errising/Norficafion                                   0 ~rks         Fri 7/30/99        Ffi 7/30/99
27                  ~~~~~~I 13 4 Iss- of bidding docu,oent                            8 srks        Moo 8/2/99    ~     Fo 9/~24/99
28                          I I 3 5 Bid opening                                             0O akW          Fn 9/24199         Fn 9/24/99
29                          1 13 6 Bid evbein4 iks                                                        Mon 9/27/99         Fn 30/22/99
30                          1 13 7 Evajaafioo eoportGov  & Bank reiew                        6 arks      Moo 10/25/99          Fn 12/3/99
31                          1 1 3.8 Contract negoliatito.                                     I ak        Mon 12/6/99         F.i 12/10/991/0
32                          1 13 9 Coor-acaarad                                              0  ks         Fri 12/10/99       Fri 12/10/99
33                   1.1.4 FonoBtue (I CICPA)                                             160 doy.         Mon 5/3/99         IN 12/10)/99                                      _________________
34                          1 141 Preparation of bidding doru,-oot                           4 mobs        Moo 5/3/99          Fri 5/28/99
35                          1, 1 4 2 Rview & approva by Govt ad Bank                         9 mobs       Mon 5/31/99          Fri 3/30/9-9
36                          1 1 4 3 Advortising/Notifiation                                  0  kos         Fri 7/30/99        Fri 7/30/99                                                          -73
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
38                          1 I 4 5 Bid opening                                              0 nbs          Fri 9/24/99        Fri 9/24/99
39                          I I 4.6 Bid ovolooion                                            4  kbs       Mon 9/27/99         Fri 10/22/99
40                          1 14.7 Evaluatio  repor/Govt & Bak reiew                        b6ks         Mom 10/25/99          Fri 12/3/99
41                          1 141) Contrac negotiation                                        lark        Man 12/6/99         Fri 12/10/99
42                          1 14.9 Contac awad                                               Ocoks         Fri 12/10/99       Fri 12/10/99* 
43                   1.1.5 Caf-eren Eq.ip-.et (I CICPA)                                    60dy            Mo8/19              Th. 3/9/00                                                        __________________
44                          I I 5.1I Preparation of bidding do-omot                          4 cobk        Mo  8/2/99          Fri 8/27/99
45                          1 15 2 Review & approva by Govt and Bank                         9 mvks       Mon 8/3/99          Fri 10/29/99I
46                          1 1. 5.3 Adv-tting/Nofifai-on                                    Omks          Ffi 10/29/99       Fri 10/29/99
47                          1 15 4 Issa of bidding dorotoet                                  8 ark,       Mon 11/1/99         Fri 12/24/99
48                          1 15 5 Bid opening                                               Owbks         Fri 12/24/99       Fri 12/24/99
49                          1 I 5 6 -Bid evahooto                                            4 mob       Mon 12/27/99)        Th. 1/20/00
50                   I~~~~~~~ I 5 7 Evaloamhon rport/Govt & Bkn reiew                 6 ark,         Fri 1/21/00        Th. 3/2/00                                                                                                                                               C
The World Bank                Task                                                      Milestone                                               External Tasks                                           Split                     ..
Date: MoB 2/1/99              Progress                                                 Summary                                                  Project Summary                                          Rolled Up Split
Page 2



120  f  s  -  $gf   W           .01-  00      I; ts                      -- 
i!~~~~~~~~~~~ (@ Ct F+                        (0 -0 0     
1*    3  |--.3.=-        o0                 0' o  -  -.     a 3  t 
4f                                           -.~~~
co  n  g  I                                                                        oI 0-  a  -|
1~~ ~~                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~ g         0                  10a
CD    .8                                                                             CL~~~~~~~~( ( 
:@XICr                                                                                       > (  -s5
x( D a                                    o 
0
'a
L_3ij                 ++-+! ]                         .a
2 ZlS       0.                          ge-e(
m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~4m
C',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
4 0        '0    '0      C        4     4     4     4AM
XCI ) uvog9



i    0_                   ;    [  E   2    F                                                                                     |z 
IC   0    '                                              0    -4 '0  '0  '0  '0  CC  Co   Co   ,,  Co   Co  Co   Co   Co  -_ _4   -- F4
,~ , ' C            ,.   ,~  .J   f       F        Fa4= -h   0    '    5C         a               a.   F    0    'F  Co  a4 C
cn  z
3  CD~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
tt ]                ::3ef                l      2 CDi                                           <         gi                         t     
~~~~~~~gz~~~~~~~~~~~~
sT                            i2                       i z 
M   2            I ...... 1 1           I S S                                                                                              C)
i ;-6o,l~~~~~C                                                  ' r    -                                                            C)j 
C) M                                                                                                                                                 I) 
Wa.                                                                                                                                                    CD 1    1
0    ~~~
i[ u                                                                                           o    C
Zl 3                                                         'C                                  -,
..   .. . .. . .   .   . . .     .. .   . . .. . ..   ... .   . .. . ..     . .   . . .   . . . . .. .   . . . . . .      . . ..C  . ..C. .
CL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     C 
Z I xauuv                                                L9 960'C' I  I 



CHINA
Accounting Reform and Development Project
Procurement Plan
1                     I"~~199                                                            2000
ID      Task Name                                                                  Duration           S-t -art            Finiah         10 II  1112 11 1 2 13   14    5   1 6  j7   18  1 9   110   I1)1  12   11 1 2    3   l7  5- j TT78                               -9
101                        2.1.17 7Fepa. and! esusrrof Proposal Rqsts.                     2  ksr         MO. 8/2/9         Fri 8f13199
102                        2.1.1. tRoceipt ofproposas                                      0rols         Fri 8/1 3/99        Fri 8/13/99                                                              1
103                        2.119 &l9vlution ofproposals                                    3 wks        Moe8/16/9             Fri 9/3/99
104                        2,1.1,1 IOEahseion reportss.d Bskrevie                          4 wks         MO. 9/6/99         Fri 10/1/99
105                        2.1111 Conarregotiations                                     0.4 wks        Mon 10/4/99         Tue 10/5/99
106                ~~~~~~2.1.1.12 Contract "awad                                    o wks        Tue 10/5/99         Tue 10/5/99                                                                   -+    /
107                  2.1.2 Coosl. for, Cunioudssr DevrjDdivery (CICPA)                  112 days         Wed 3/11/0         That 8413100
108                        2.1.2.1 F'InalizsioeofTermsof Relburtm                         2 wks         Wed 3/l/00         Tue 3/14/00
109                        2.1.2.2 freparaliora of cost esuimes  ard budger                2 wks        Wed 3/15/00         TUC 3/28/0
110                        2,1.2.3 Revie& app-oAl bay the Bart                             4 wseh       Wed 3/9/00          Tao 4125100
III  2.1.2.4 A&.,fisig                                            ~~~~~~~~~~0 aIks  Tue 4/25/00      Tue 4/25/00 
112                        2.1125SPrqwaarion of consultunt shortlist                        wslt       Wied 4/26/0O         TuS160                                                                                                                                                 ar
113                        2.1.2.6 ll.eies & approval by th.efBuk                          2 wbe        Wed 5/17/00         Tue 5/30/00OU
114                 ~~~~~~2.1.2.7 Prper. ead Issuarce of proposal Rqst.             2 wkrs       Wed 5/3 1/00        Tue 6/13/DO
115                        2.1.2.8 Recept of propoesle                                     0                                                                 ls  u  /1/013 /I30
116                        2.1.2.9 Evuhtatiee of praposas                                  3  ksb        Wed 6/14/00         Tu. 7/4/00
117                        2.1.2. 10 Ev-luatien report and Blarth reie                     4 wkrs        Wed 7/5/00          Tue 8/1/00
118                        2.1.2.11 Contract negotiations                                0.4 aks         Wed 8/2/0           Thu 0/3/00
119                        2.1.2.12 Contrad uwad                                           O s            Th0//0              hu/3048/3
120                  2.1,3 Ce.-. fur Designlr/Irplevnetme. Network (CICPA)              112 days         Mats81299          Mos130                            i___________
1-21                         2.1.3.1 Finalizationt ofTermas of Refarsc                       2 aks         Moe 8/2/99         Fri 8/~13/99 
122                ~~~~~~2.1.3.2 Preparteon of cost ertirrsl s.d badget                sb        Mo, 8116199          Fri 8/27/99
123                        2.1.3.3 Revies & app rval by the Berk                           4  kts       Mom 8/30/99          Fri 9/24/99
124                        2.1.3.4 Adertising                                              O ak           Fri 9/24/99       Fri 9/24/99                      1~r
1F25                         2 I.3.5 Peparation ofceasoltarrtshort list                      3 wke        Moe 9/27/99        Frin 10/15/99
The World Rank      ~Task                                                     Milestone                                              Extemnal Tasks                                          Split......
Date: Mon 2/1/99             Progress                                                Summary                 lw                              Project Summary  lw                                     Rolled Up SPlit          ..............
Page 5



Page 53                                       Annex 12
_   _                                                              _           I  j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.1 ..........   .  ...........;   .   ..    ...  .......    ..... - ....  ...    .....   .      ......     ...... .   .....     ..   . ....   ...  ...   .....
W_W0                                                                                    I mF
7ro~~~~
> ( --    
CX  -'-U|33:0'4 E;< 
4 0S             3   3   t       M    .  3   $   i   g           -      T       1        X   s  : 
81: :R                                                                                       f  



Paqe54                                  Annex 12
0 
co
en~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*1 
I - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:
It "i E I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
C4     Il 1   l   l  I    ~ ~      ~     Il     1   ~ ~
ri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t          



Page 55                                                  Annex 12
0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q 
'0 ....  . ..... ....1.... .....   ...   ......   ..............  .............      .. ..... ...... ..   .....  . ...   ....   ... ......   .   .  .................. ............. ........ ...   .........       .......   .
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-(U  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UD
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z E
a)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 
<                                                                                                                           CD~0 
~~~O.  0  0  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  000    0%                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
0 0 ~~~~~~~~~
0)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
u~~~~~.



t4  t4                    k0 40 
-   -    -          -    0  ~~~~~~  0    0    01to  0"    t0
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
CD  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~              z  ~~~~        3  ~~~~  CO   0                      '0 ~~~~~~~~~~  0    Z    CO~~~~C
on-0                                                                                        M                      0                                       >
g.  m                                                                     -                                
0        o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
'D~~~~~~~~~~~                                                               0
II                                                                                                          3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
Zn                                                                 -. I au    9e



