Page  1
1
Document of  
The World Bank
 
Report No: ICR00001153 
 
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT 
(IBRD-44420 and IDA-31730)   
 
ON A 
 
LOAN 
IN THE AMOUNT US$27.3 OF MILLION 
 
AND A 
 
CREDIT OF SDR 4.1 MILLION  
(US$ 5.61 MILLION EQUIVALENT) 
 
TO THE 
 
PEOPLE
’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
FOR AN 
 
ACCOUNTING REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 
 
May 12, 2010 
 
Private and Financial Sector Unit 
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department 
China Country Management Unit 
East Asia and Pacific Region 
 
Page  2
2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2010) 
 
Currency Unit = Yuan 
Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.146505 
US$ 1.00 = Yuan 6.8257 
 
FISCAL YEAR 
January 1 
–
December 31 
 
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 
 
AFDC 
 
Asia-Pacific Finance Development Center 
ARDP 
 
Accounting Reform and Development Project  
ASBE 
 
Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises 
BNAI 
 
Beijing National Accounting Institute 
CACPA 
 
Chinese Association of Certified Public Auditors 
CAS  
Country 
Assistance 
Strategy 
CASC 
 
China Accounting Standards Committee 
CBRC 
 
China Banking Regulatory Commission 
CEO 
 
Chief Executive Officer 
CFO 
 
Chief Financial Officer 
CICPA 
 
China Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
CIRC 
 
China Insurance Regulatory Committee 
CNAO 
 
China National Audit Office 
COSO 
 
Committee Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
CPA 
 
Certified Public Accountants 
CPS 
 
Country Partnership Strategy 
CSRC 
 
China Securities Regulatory Committee 
FDI 
 
Foreign Direct Investment 
FSTA 
 
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project 
HKSA 
 
Hong Kong Society of Accountants 
IAS 
 
International Accounting Standards 
IASB 
 
International Accounting Standards Board 
IFRS 
 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
M&E 
 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
MOF  
Ministry 
of 
Finance 
NAI  
National 
Accounting 
Institute 
PAD 
 
Project Appraisal Document 
PIU 
 
Project Implementation Unit 
PDO 
 
Project Development Objective 
ROSC 
 
Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes 
–
Accounting and Auditing 
SOEs  
State-owned 
enterprises 
SoEs 
 
Statement of Expenses 
 
Vice President:
James W. Adams 
Country Director:
Klaus Rohland 
Sector Manager:
Tunc Tahsin Uyanik 
Project Team Leader:
Nancy Chen 
ICR Team Leader:
Nancy Chen 
Acknowledgements:  The ICR was reviewed by three peer reviewers, David I, Yi Dong (EAPFM),
 Robert O’Leary 
(CTRFC), and was finalized with the assistance of Thang-Long Ton (EASPR).  
Page  3
3
CHINA 
Accounting Reform and Development Project 
 
CONTENTS 
 
Data Sheet 
 
A. Basic Information 
 
B. Key Dates 
 
C. Ratings Summary 
 
D. Sector and Theme Codes 
 
E. Bank Staff 
 
F. Results Framework Analysis 
 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs 
 
H. Restructuring  
 
I.  Disbursement Graph 
 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ...........................................................
1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...........................................................
6
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................................
10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.....................................................................
14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................................................
15
6. Lessons Learned....................................................................................................................
17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.......................
19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing......................................................................................
20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component..............................................................................................
21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..............................................................................
31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.........................
32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................................
33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...............................................................
34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................................
35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................................
39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents...................................................................................
40
MAP  
Page  4
1
1.  
Project Context, Development Objectives and Design  
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative) 
1.1  
Context at Appraisal 
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)
 
Background.  
The objective of the Accounting Reform and Development Project was to assist in 
the modernization of accounting practi
ces in the People’s Republic of China.  World Bank 
assistance to China in the accounting sector began in August 1992 with a small reform 
component in the Financial Sector Technical Assistance (FSTA) loan.  Then, in 1999 at the 
request of the Chinese government, the Bank substantially expanded and broadened its support of 
new accounting standards in China with the current project.   
 
Context.  
As detailed both in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the World Bank Group 
for the People’s Republic of China of 1997 
1
the aim of the Bank’s China program was to 
support macroeconomic stability with growth.
2
Key vehicles for achieving indentified objectives 
were (i) support to reforms in the financial sector; and (ii) acceleration of reforms in state-owned 
enterprises (SOEs), which long constituted a major drain on the banking system.  The Accounting 
Reform and Development Project—through its focus on the strengthening of accounting 
standards used by enterprises, and the training of accountants and other financial managers—
directly supported both the financial sector and SOE reform agenda. 
 
The government’s request to the Bank was also driven in part by the recognition that larger scale 
accounting reform would be required for China to meet its long-term economic development 
goals and needs to integrate with the global economy.  At the time of project preparation, China 
was moving toward World Trade Organization accession and also benefitting from greatly 
increased foreign direct investment (FDI).  There was widespread recognition among the senior 
leadership that both of these factors required greater accounting consistency, reliability and 
transparency.  The Chinese leadership also realized that consistent, reliable and good-quality 
financial information is critical in helping the decision-makers in channeling financial resources 
toward efficient and productive investments and in the ability to attract foreign direct investment. 
 
Bank assistance under the project provided the government with both resources and access to 
technical and international expertise for use in its efforts to transform the accountancy profession 
in China.  The Bank funded the specific operation as a way to continue and extend the reforms 
that were initiated under the FSTA project.  The only other Bank-supported financial sector 
project at the time was the FSTA Supplemental Loan, which supported exclusively the payment 
system components.
3
1.2  
Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (
as approved
)
The overall PDO was to assist in the modernization of China's accounting professionals and 
accounting systems.   
 
1
Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the People’s Republic of China of 1997, Report No. 16321-
CHA, February 25, 1997. 
2
Project Appraisal Document, Accounting Reform and Development Project, People’s Republic of China, Report No: 
18312-CHA, February 1, 1999, p. 2. 
3
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development to the 
Executive Directors on a Proposed Supplemental Loan in the Amount of US$8.0 million to China for the Financial Sector 
Technical Assistance Project, Report No: P-7385-CHA, July 6, 2006, p. 1. 
Page  5
2
Components.
 
The project had two main components.  The first component was to support the 
continuing professional education of China’s Certified Public Accountants (CPAs), and other 
finance managers and professionals to familiarize them, on a large scale, with new accounting, 
auditing and business administration principles and practices that were generally accepted in 
market economies.  The second component would provide continuing support to the 
government’s ongoing efforts to develop and to promulgate national accounting standards 
patterned upon internationally accepted accounting standards.  The two components are described 
in details below. 
 
Key performance indicators.
 
As outlined in the PAD
 4
,
the key performance indicators for: 
 
·
the 
Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals
 
component were: (i) the establishment of the proposed National Accounting Institute 
(NAI); (ii) the development of training curricula for teaching courses at the Institute; (iii) 
the number of accounting and finance professionals attending courses at the National 
Accounting Institute in the initial years of its operation.  
 
·
the 
Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards 
component were: (i) the 
preparation, finalization, and publication of new accounting standards; (ii) the holding of 
dissemination seminars to foster the application of the new standards; (iii) the creation of 
a
website to disseminate and publicize the standards and monitor their application, and 
(iv) study tours and training of members of the new Accounting Standards Committee. 
 
Key monitoring indicators
.
In addition, the PAD identified the following key monitoring 
indicators: 
 
Output indicators
:
(i)   for  the 
Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals
 
component: 
·
Establishment of NAI and its adoption of a Strategic Plan (by June 30. 1999); 
·
Development of an overall curriculum design (by June 30, 2000); 
·
Completion of purchase of courses and completion of course adaptations (by June 30, 
2001); 
·
Completion of course building (by December 30. 2002); 
·
Training achieved by the NAI (student days per year or occupancy rates) (end-2000: 
35,000 or 10 percent; end-2001: 70,000 or 20 percent; end-2002: 160,000 or 45 percent; 
and end-2003: 210,000 or 60 percent. 
 
(ii)  for the 
Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards
 component: 
·
Numbers of old (25) and new (17) standards issued, and dates by which issued (7 per 
year between 1999 and 2002 and the remaining standards under the program issued by 
end -2003). 
·
Number of high-level seminars held for dissemination of completed standards (3 by end-
2000, 3 more by end-2002 and the last 2 or any remaining by end-2003). 
 
Outcome indicators
 are: 
 
4
Projec
t
Appraisal Document, People’s Republic of China, Accounting Reform and Development Project, p. 2. 
Page  6
3
(i)   for  the 
Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals
 
component:  
·
More finance professionals in China trained in modern accounting and financial 
practices. 
 
(ii)  for the 
Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards
 component: 
·
Strengthened accounting standards in line with international standards; 
·
Improved knowledge of new standards among finance professionals in China, and 
accelerated use of new standards; 
·
More easily available information on accounting standards and their application; and 
·
Greater capacity to prepare accounts in accordance with the new standards in harmony 
with international practice. 
 
Impact
 indicators are: 
 
(i)   for  the 
Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals
 
component:  
·
Greater numbers of competent and capable CPA practitioners and firms; and 
·
Development of improved audit capacity in China. 
 
(ii)  for the 
Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards
 component: 
·
Knowledge of new standards by senior professionals throughout the country; 
·
Modernized accounting standards more closely aligned to international standards; 
·
Strengthened and more consistent, reliable and transparent financial statements, in both 
financial institutions and enterprises; and 
·
Strengthened financial performance of enterprises and banks and reduced risk for 
investors. 
1.3  
Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and 
Reasons/Justification 
 
The PDO was not revised during implementation.  
1.4  
Main Beneficiaries,  
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as 
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from 
the project) 
 
The PAD identified the narrow target groups that would benefit from the project (described 
below).  It did not identify explicitly the benefits for the poor, although it can be inferred that the 
accountancy reforms were intended to support increased FDI and broader economic growth, 
which would have potentially important benefits to the poor.  This aspect of the potential impact 
of the project could have been identified more clearly at the outset.  
 
As described in the PAD, the expected benefits of the 
Strengthening of Certified Public 
Accountants and Other Finance Professionals
 component were to
:
(i) help China’s accountants 
and other finance professionals with the many facets of new accounting, auditing and business 
administration principles, appropriate to a market economy; (ii) acquaint them with the new 
accounting norms and standards developed; (iii) provide them ongoing training to keep abreast of 
new developments in their field, following the practice of continuing professional education for 
Page  7
4
accountants adopted in other market economies.  
China’s large reservoir of accountants, 
reasonably well trained, but in the traditions of a planned economy, formed the target population 
for this component. 
 
By making the accounts more transparent, reliable, consistent and comparable, the development 
and dissemination of Accounting Standards component was expected to benefit (i) the enterprises 
themselves, (ii) their bankers, (iii) the government and regulatory agencies, (iv) individual and 
institutional investors, and (v) prospective foreign investors.  These would contributed to better 
resources allocation resulting in wealth and job creation for the economy, as capital flows to their 
most efficient usages, guided by the timely, consistent and reliable information sources on 
accounting.  
1.5  
Original Components (
as approved
)
As described above, the project had two main components.  
 
Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals 
 
The first component
was to support the continuing professional education of China’s CPAs, and 
other finance managers and professionals to familiarize them, on a large scale, with new 
accounting, auditing and business administration principles and practices that are generally 
accepted in market economies.  
 
The approach to be adopted was to establish a large residential continuing education facility in 
Beijing, the NAI, which would offer a wide selection of short courses on specific accounting and 
business topics for continued professional education.  Such courses would include, for example, 
accounting practices, auditing techniques, taxation, professional ethics, computerized 
management systems, and various functional management topics. The facility planned was to 
accommodate 1,500 persons at a time. Based on courses of around a week on average, the total 
output of the institution would be around 350,000 student-days per year.  
 
This component was initially implemented by the Chinese Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants (CICPA), a nationwide society, responsible for the professional certification of 
CPAs, organizing examinations for this purpose and undertaking their professional registration.  
The project supported this professional body, the establishment of NAI for finance professionals, 
and the creation of a new cadre of accounting and finance professionals. 
 
Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards 
 
The second component
was to support the government’s ongoing efforts to develop and 
promulgate accounting standards patterned on and consistent with internationally accepted 
accounting standards.  
 
The principal vehicle through which this was to be effected was the China Accounting Standards 
Committee (CASC), which was charged with tasks including: (i) the research, drafting review 
and evaluation of accounting standards; (ii) coordination of accounting activities with 
international accounting bodies; and (iii) formal responsibility for the component under the World 
Bank project.  The Committee was formally set up in September 1998, in advance of the project.
5
5
Project Appraisal Document, op.cit., p. 4.
 
Page  8
5
Assistance to the CASC under the project was expected to comprise: (i) finalization, issue and 
dissemination of standards developed under the previous FSTA project; (ii) development and 
publication of new accounting standards, additional to those already undertaken (including 
selected sector and business standards), and their dissemination to high level officials, such as 
officials from provincial finance bureaus responsible for application and use of standards; (iii) 
monitoring the application of standards and development of an advisory/best practice service for 
users (including a website); and (iv) development of a study tour and training program, and 
supporting equipment and training materials. 
1.6  
Revised Components 
 
The project components were not revised during the project implementation.  
1.7  
Other significant changes 
(In design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations) 
 
The overall design of the project did not change.  However, the activities were expanded and 
deepened: some were made at the request of the government from some funds reallocated as a 
result of the project
’s savings; others were logical follow-ups from the activities funded or 
reallocated by the project as it was being implemented. 
 
With these additional activities, the project was extended three times to allow for their completion 
in both project components.  In addition, some funds from the IDA credit and IBRD loan were 
reallocated among components during the life of the project.  
 
Following is a summary of the project extensions to accommodate additional activities: 
6
·
Closing Date Extension
—to December 31, 2005
.
The Bank agreed to a new closing date 
of December 31, 2005 to accommodate the MOF
’s request to add two additional 
locations, Shanghai and Xiamen, to the NAI component.  These two new NAIs -- not 
originally planned -- provided wider training coverage and greater location coverage for 
the country, and minimized or reduced the total cost to training program participants, 
especially those in the provinces far from Beijing.  The cost savings amounting to USD 
12 million was used to finance equipment procurement and course development at these 
two additional locations.  
 
·
Second Closing Date Extension
—to December 31, 2007
.
The MOF requested another 
extension of the project closing date to December 31, 2007 to ensure that it had time to 
develop high quality courses for professional CPAs and financial managers as agreed 
under the project, and that sufficient time was needed for the new accounting institutes in 
Shanghai and Xiamen to establish and develop their operations.  In an effort to facilitate 
better communication and avoid duplication of course development by the three 
accounting institutes, a coordination committee was established whereby the three 
accounting institutes exchanged information and lessons learned from course 
development.  
 
·
Reallocation of IDA funds (2006
)
.
In August, 2006, the MOF requested the use of IDA 
credit
’s cost savings under Category 2 b, Consultant’s services, in the amount of US$ 1.6 
6
Request for Extension of Closing Date Memo to James Adams, Regional Vice President, EAP, from Nancy Chen, Task 
Team Leader, EASFP, dated September 5, 2007.  
Page  9
6
million, to finance new activities under the credit component.  The new activities 
included: (i) implementation of training on the newly issued accounting standards; (ii) 
establishment of an internal control framework; and (iii) development of a partnership 
culture for accounting firms.  These new activities were clearly part of a series of broader 
elements of accounting reform which the Bank aimed to support and Bank management 
approved this request.  
 
·
Third Closing Date Extension
—to December 31, 2009
.
The MOF requested a closing 
date extension to December 31, 2009 for additional time for all training and development 
of high quality courses for CPAs and financial managers.  The Project
’s experience has 
demonstrated through its current implementation that well-developed courses were 
crucial to the development of a cadre of highly-trained accounting professionals.  
Specifically, the courses allowed for continued professional education in new accounting 
and managerial practices.
 
The extensions were well justified
since these have granted  the government sufficient time to 
fully implement important activities that have contributed to the strengthening of China’s 
accounting development framework, while ensuring the sustainability of the project’s 
development outcomes.  
2.  
Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes  
2.1  
Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry 
(Including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their 
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable) 
 
The overall project preparation, design and quality at entry are considered 
satisfactory
.
The 
project objectives were well articulated and the project design was straightforward with two clear, 
strategically relevant, and well-funded components.  The project design was intentionally simple 
and focused on two key aspects of the financial sector reform that needed both expansion and 
attention for the government to achieve substantial reforms.  The project was considered as an 
effective vehicle for the Bank to actively support financial infrastructure in China while 
maintaining a meaningful financial sector dialog with the government. 
7
In general, lessons from previous and similar accounting and financial sector reform projects 
were incorporated.  In particular, the project took into account the need not only to draft new 
standards, but also to support their dissemination and implementation since these steps are critical 
in supporting the establishment of a transparent and effective accounting system in China.  This 
was a clear lesson derived from the activities under the previous FSTA project which focused 
more on the drafting of new standards and not enough on their promulgation and implementation.  
The project design also incorporated the need for the introduction of international experience in 
the development of accounting standards, by including significant resources for specialized 
international consultant expertise in training and in drafting new standards.
8
7
A
notable aspect of project preparation is that the government’s original request for support from the Bank was only for 
financing of the physical infrastructure of the National Accounting Institute.  In the end, the Bank financed no physical 
infrastructure, but rather the pedagogic aspects of accounting training and course development, and development of a new 
accounting framework convergent with international accounting standards.  This shift was the result of the project preparation 
team’s strong encouragement of the Chinese authorities and the MOF to focus on the “soft” elements of training and the long 
term benefits and importance of these activities.  
 
8
Project Appraisal Document, op. cit., p. 11. 
Page  10
7
The government counterparts and agencies
—particularly representatives of the MOF and the 
CICPA—have demonstrated a high degree of commitment throughout the project’s stages.  They 
were actively involved in project design, helping to define the project, scope, activities and 
timeframe, and further in the implementation stage of the project.  The authorities were proactive 
in expanding the activities under the project, notably the establishment of two additional NAIs.  
The strong support for the project is further evidenced by the high level of local financing of the 
project (approximately 50 percent of the original project costs). 
 
In hindsight, one shortcoming in the planning of the project was the proposed timeframe for the 
implementation of some major activities which were of technical assistance in nature that would 
require longer gestation and implementation periods to achieve its goals related to institutional 
development.  The NAIs which required facility construction would need -- in hindsight -- some 
additional time to be established and to begin their operations.  With regard to the accounting 
standards component, it transpires that the time required to develop and disseminate new 
accounting standards was longer than initially anticipated, especially those that introduced 
changes and modifications to the existing system.  
 
Risks and mitigation 
 
The project team identified four moderate risks during the design phase.  These were specifically:  
 
(i)  failure of the CASC to be established as scheduled; 
 
(ii) failure of the CASC to maintain momentum to produce standards per schedule, and to carry 
out the dissemination of new accounting standards as scheduled;  
 
(iii) failure of NAI/CICPA to be self sustaining financially, due to less than planned student 
intake; and 
 
(iv) failure of CICPA project consultants to build and adapt curricula as rapidly as considered 
desirable.  
 
None of these specific factors critically affected project implementation, and the team’s 
mitigation measures and close supervision were instrumental in overcoming these risks.  
 
Page  11
8
2.2  
Implementation 
(Including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions 
taken, as applicable)  
 
The project did not undergo any restructuring.  To the credit of the implementation team and the 
authorities, the scope and number of activities were expanded significantly, while at the same 
time remaining squarely within the original project objectives.  
 
As noted before, the government decided to establish not just one but three NAIs as a way to 
expand the reach of the project.  In addition, it decided to issue 38 new standards, more than 
twice the 17 new standards originally anticipated.
9
Further, these 38 new standards were 
substantially converged with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) of the 
London-based International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), rather than national standards 
with mere similarity with the IFRS, as was initially planned.  This convergence has been 
recognized by Sir David Tweedie, IASB Chairman, 
“The IASB applauds and expresses 
admiration for the enormous progress already made toward convergence.” 
10
 
Such convergence 
increases the impact of the project significantly within the accounting sector of the country, and 
will likely lead to greater positive long term developmental effect on the Chinese economy. 
 
This expansion of activities carried out under the two components affected implementation which 
was accommodated by the extensions approved by the Bank – as discussed above -- to achieve 
broader development outcomes.   
2.3  
Monitoring and Evaluation  
(M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization 
 
M&E design (the extent to which adequate indicators were identified to monitor progress toward 
PDO using effective collection methods, given the specific PDO and already available data) 
 
The M&E system design was generally adequate for the purposes of the project.  The inputs and 
outputs were stated clearly and logically and were relatively simple to monitor by the government 
and the Bank task team.  A project implementation unit (PIU) was established within the BNAI 
for monitoring and recording of the Special Account.  
 
M&E implementation (the extent to which appropriate data was actually collected using 
appropriate collection methods to ensure data quality) 
 
In reality, the PIU did not have a uniform monitoring system in place for all the partner 
institutions, and thus had to gather information directly from a variety of sources to obtain results 
for each component (i.e., the three NAIs for the training component and the CASC for the 
accounting standards component).  This initially was not a major issue, but monitoring grew more 
complex and time consuming as the project expanded to include Shanghai and Xiamen NAIs.  
9
Project Implementation Plan, China Accounting Reform and Development Project, Ministry of Finance, December 1998, 
p. 1.  The plan envisaged that the government would issue 17 “new” accounting standards, as well as issue and implement 17 
“old” standards that had been developed, but not completed under the FSTA project
.
10
 
Joint Statement of the Secretary-General of the China Accounting Standards Committee and the Chairman of the 
International Accounting Standards Board, in ROSC Accounting and Auditing Conference – Agenda Papers, Beijing, China, 
October 29, 2009, p. 90.
 
Page  12
9
Consequently, the PIU was not able to deliver the progress reports as well as the financial 
management report on a timely basis.  
 
M&E utilization (where possible to assess this, the extent to which appropriate data was 
evaluated and used to inform decision-making and resource allocation) 
 
The original project objectives were met relatively early on during project implementation, 
suggesting that they were relatively modest for the resources allocated.  They were useful in 
informing the government on how to utilize project savings to expand project activities within the 
original components. 
2.4  
Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance 
(Focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
 
Safeguard and fiduciary management of the project was satisfactory throughout implementation.  
The project did not have any significant safeguard issues (social or environmental).  The project 
had no environmental impact.  
2.5  
Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase 
(Including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by 
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional 
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable) 
 
The achievements under the project are considered likely to be sustainable.  The continued and 
high level support of the project has been demonstrated by senior MOF officials, one of the major 
factors contributing to the success of the two components.  From the beginning, the MOF set up 
an effective coordination system among all the entities involved and t
he Bank’s team anticipates 
that sufficient government funds and proper management recommendations will continue to be 
provided to promote their sustainable development.  In addition, specific measures to ensure 
sustainability include:  
 
·
Under the first component, three NAIs have been established in Beijing, Shanghai and 
Xiamen.  These NAIs currently manage the operation of an excellent teaching and 
management system based on generally accepted international practices.  This system has 
become one of the key elements for ensuring the sustainability of the institutes.  To date, 
the NAIs have also reached the breakeven between income and expenditures, which is a 
key achievement that will ensure their successful and sustainable operations.  In fact, the 
Shanghai Accounting Institute in particular has become profitable— offering a number of 
courses that have proven to be in high demand by students and professionals throughout 
the country. 
 
·
For the second component, MOF has established processes to ensure the smooth 
implementation of accounting standards.  This includes the establishment of a 
coordinated surveillance network with the securities regulator for information sharing and 
supervision, as well as a feedback mechanism.  At the same time, MOF has linked the 
channels of accounting standards setting, internal control, and information technology to 
build a multi-tiered regulatory system. 
 
·
From January 2007 onward, all listing companies must comply with the new accounting 
standards, and, in 2008, the application of the new accounting standards became 
Page  13
10
mandatory for the enterprises directly under the control of government.  In 2009, the 
government expanded the scope further to cover large and medium enterprises over a 
period of three years.  The enforcement and monitoring of this provision by MOF and 
regulatory authorities ensure sustainability of the activities supported by this project.  The 
Chinese authorities emphasize the plan to have their accounting standards continually 
aligned with international standards.  In 2008, CASC and IASB signed an agreement on 
the continuing convergence of standards of the two sides.  In April 2010, MOF released a 
road map on the continuing convergence of the Chinese Accounting Standards for 
Business Enterprises with the International Financial Reporting Standards with the aim to 
promote convergence between the two standards. 
 
Follow up activities 
 
The Bank does not envision any follow up technical assistance operations at this time.  This is 
primarily because the project has been considered successful, and that the mechanisms and 
foundations for sustainability are largely in place (see above).  In particular, the MOF has 
demonstrated strong ownership of the reform program in recent years, and the NAIs have clearly 
claimed their training mandates in the accounting field and their capacity to carry out their 
activities has been soundly and sustainably established.  
 
The Bank could potentially contribute to sustaining the benefits achieved under the project by 
maintaining an active dialog with the government on reforms in the sector.  It could also 
potentially provide advice on certain technical issues through selective technical assistance 
activities or economic sector work.  Further, the Bank could provide technical advice for the 
MOF in its consideration to prepare a follow-on subproject for technical assistance to 
comprehensively address the 
challenges identified by the Bank’s Report on the Observance of 
Standards and Codes, i.e., further strengthening the accountancy profession throughout the 
country, including maintaining the high quality accounting standards of corporate accounting, 
practicing auditors and relevant regulators to ensure compliance with applicable standards more 
efficiently and effectively, improving and maintaining the quality of accounting and auditing 
practices outside major cities of the country. 
11
 
3.  
Assessment of Outcomes  
3.1  
Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation 
(To current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
 
The project’s objectives, design and implementation have been highly relevant to the 
government’s economic reform strategy and consistent with the World Bank Group assistance 
program.  This was outlined in the World Bank Group’s China Country Partnership Strategy 
(CPS) for the period of 2006-2010 (Report No. 35435) and CPS Progress Report (Report 46896-
CN), which 
12
 identify the Bank’s objective of supporting the strengthening of economic 
governance in China and the integration of China into the world economy.
 13
 
11
 
Report on Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) 
–
Accounting and Auditing, October 2009.
 
12
 
World Bank Group, Country Partnership Strategy for the People’s Republic of China for the Period of 2006-2010, Report 
No: 35435, May 23, 2006, and Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for the People’s Republic of China for the Period 
of 2006-2010, Report 46896-CN, November 7, 2008.  
13
 
Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for People’s Republic of China for the Period 2006-2010, op. cit, p. 13. 
 
Page  14
11
The project made important contributions in all the above areas, by making financial information 
more reliable and transparent in both the public and private sectors, and providing training for a 
cadre of financial professionals with knowledge of international accounting standards and 
practices in the country.   
 
3.2  
Achievement of Project Development Objectives 
(Including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on 
outputs in Annex 2) 
 
The achievement of project development objectives is considered 
highly satisfactory
.
The project 
has been considered widely successful by authorities and the international accounting community 
in helping to transform and modernize Chinese accounting practices.  An examination of the 
specific outputs also shows that in some areas, the project even exceeded expectations set forth at 
the start of the project.  
 
Under the first component
,
the project practically jumpstarted national efforts to create a cadre of 
finance professionals with a sound knowledge of international accounting practices.  It did so by 
providing the government critical resources to develop and disseminate a curriculum of courses 
on specific accounting, auditing and business topics and issues, extending beyond original project 
plans to include two additional NAIs.  
The ability of China’s many finance professionals to stay 
abreast of international accounting developments and issues further facilitates the country’s 
integration into the world economy.   
 
Under the second component
,
the project supported an important milestone in the development of 
China’s accounting system—the issuance and implementation of 38 standards that are 
substantially convergent with IFRS.  These have been reinforced by the focus of the project on 
their implementation and have thus substantially increased transparency of Chinese firms and 
state owned enterprises.  These achievements are expected to facilitate continued private 
investment in China for years to come.  
 
A
summary of the project achievements is provided below.   Details on outputs are provided in 
Annex 2.  
 
Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance Professionals  
 
The government successfully established three NAIs in Beijing, Shanghai and Xiamen. 
14
 
Only 
the BNAI was originally envisioned under the project.  The facilities of two additional institutes 
were established with savings and reallocation of funds under the project.  The establishment of 
the three facilities allowed the government to dramatically expand the number of students trained 
at a reduced cost.  The Beijing facility served first as a pilot institution, providing rich lessons for 
the others in course development, institutional management, and administration.  The two 
additional institutions have benefitted greatly from the BNAI. 
 
The NAIs have become not only the premier sources for accounting training in China, but also 
serve as convenient places for professionals to learn and share the current accounting, auditing, 
financial management, enterprise management and economic management theories and practices 
and experiences.  They are now considered by many in the sector as world-class accounting 
institutes with international perspectives and state-of-the-art information technology.  The Bank 
14
 
The ROSC on Accounting and Auditing noted that the NAIs have been making “arduous efforts to provide high-quality 
CPD program in China.” ROSC, op. cit., p. 11
.
Page  15
12
loan was critical in the development of the institutes by focusing and supporting the procurement 
of high-quality teaching and management equipment and software, the development of high-
quality courses; and the improvement of management capability.  The training of trainers 
program has been shown to be highly valuable for the institutes.
 
The target group for the NAIs has been broadened from CPAs, CFOs and CEOs to include all 
decision makers in accounting, financial and economic management areas.  
Impact. 
Overall, the impact of these institutes has been to improve the level of continued and 
continuing 
professional education of China’s CPAs and senior financial and accounting 
personnel, enhancing  their ability to accept, master and use up-to-date accounting standards, 
auditing standards, and economic management principles.  Further, the work of these 
professionals in private and public enterprises has helped improve the quality of the accounting 
information of China’s enterprises and make accounting information more comprehensive, 
timely, accurate and transparent.  These improvements will benefit the full range of market 
participants, including banks, financial institutions and investors, helping them to make better 
informed decisions, a sound and basic contribution to the functioning of the private sector.  
 
Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards 
 
China successfully developed 38 accounting standards which substantially converged with IFRSs 
in 2006.  Building on this achievement, China continues to improve the accounting standards, 
promotes international convergence of accounting and accelerates the development of accounting 
regulations, internal control, accounting information standardization and theoretical research.  
These measures have helped the Chinese accounting community provide better services for 
economic and social development in its own country, while contributing to the development of 
the global accounting industry.  Further, the Chinese authorities have clearly indicated their 
intention to continue in aligning the Chinese standards with international ones (please see Section 
2.5). 
 
It is notable that the achievement of substantial convergence is an outcome significantly better 
than originally anticipated.
 
The initial project design expected the issuance of 17 new accounting 
standards (as described in Section 2.2) with provisions of Chinese accounting and business 
practices which would have made them, by definition, inconsistent with IFRS.  In the end, the 
project supported the government in its efforts to radically transform the accounting sector 
through development and dissemination of 38 standards that substantially converged with 
international standards.  The government knows that good financial reporting requires more than 
good standards. It also requires a strong and effective system of internal controls that ensures that 
the standards are complied with.    
 
3.3  
Efficiency 
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, 
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)  
It is important to note that, at the time of project approval, the economic or financial benefits 
could not be readily or meaningfully identified or quantified.  Hence, it was judged inappropriate 
to attempt any analyses of the present value of benefit and cost flows to predict economic or 
financial rates of return. Instead, it was decided that a more appropriate financial analysis would 
comprise direct costing techniques to determine 
the reasonableness of the daily student fee
 
necessary for the NAI to break even financially at full utilization.  This financial analysis would 
require first a “full utilization” of the three NAIs.  However, at the end of the project, the basic 
Page  16
13
concept of “full utilization” was not yet feasible and the available data at the three NAIs did not 
allow a meaningful financial analysis to be conducted. 
3.4  
Justification of Overall Outcome Rating 
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
 
Rating: Highly Satisfactory 
 
Based on the continued relevance of the project objectives, the satisfactory achievement of 
objectives, and the level of project efficiency as discussed throughout the report, the overall 
outcome is rated 
Highly Satisfactory.  
 
3.5  
Overarching Themes.   
The overall outcome of the project has been highly satisfactory.
 
Other Outcomes and Impacts 
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above) 
 
(a)  
Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
 
N. A.  
 
(b)  
Institutional Change/Strengthening  
(Particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
 
As previously mentioned the project contributes to the creation and strengthening of several 
important institutions that are crucial and relevant to the accounting sector in China.  Under the 
first component
,
the project was instrumental in the establishment and development of the three 
NAIs in Beijing, Shanghai and Xiamen. These training institutes which were primary 
beneficiaries of project funds have grown into top-quality facilities; training tens of thousands of 
Chinese finance professionals in international accounting practices. The institutes now employ a 
set of professionals with strong technical knowledge as well as skills in financial management, 
course development, management and administration.  
 
Through close collaboration during the project implementation period, the CICPA is now a 
stronger institution, with a broader vision of international accounting.  This perspective and 
experience will contribute to the long term sustainability of project outcomes.  
 
Under the second component
,
the project strengthened the CASC, which has the primary 
responsibility in China for developing and disseminating accounting standards.  The CASC has 
become very active in conducting and supporting international exchange and cooperation 
activities (such as hosting the October 2008 IFRS and China-Japan-South Korea standard-setting 
conferences in Beijing).  
 
(c)  
Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
 
As explained in Section 1.7, part of the project savings was applied to finance a number of new 
activities which are beneficial to the accounting system. 
 
(i)  Establish a set of authoritative internal control framework for enterprises and develop a 
partnership culture for CPA firms.  On June 28, 2008, MOF, CSRC, CNAO, CBRC and 
CIRC jointly issued the internal control framework including 22 internal control standards as 
Page  17
14
well as implementation guidelines,
15
 which took effect as of July 1, 2009 among the listed 
companies.  The standards have been rolled out to large and medium enterprises at the end of 
2009.   
 
(ii) Develop a framework of partnership culture for the CPA firms in China.  Under this 
initiative, CICPA issued a Policy Note on Strengthening the Governance of CPA Firms and 
CPA Firm Internal Control Guidance, which have taken effect since January 1, 2008.  
 
(iii)  On April 26, 2010, the government announced the Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise 
Internal Control that will take effect among the Chinese listed companies in January 1, 2011. 
These standards and guidance notes will play an important role in minimizing the risk of 
accounting distortion and auditing failure.  They will also provide institutional support to improve 
the quality of financial reporting of both listed and domestic companies, thereby enhancing their 
international image.  In addition, these will serve as basis for reliable financial information which 
will contribute to efficient resources allocations by decision makers in the business sector.  These 
would insure that capital flow toward the most productive and efficient projects which would in 
terms create wealth and job for the economy as a whole. 
3.6  
Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops 
(Optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
 
Not applicable. 
4.  
Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome  
 
Rating:  Low 
 
The risk to the development objective is assessed to be 
low
,
as the reforms 
–
by
all accounts and 
measurement standards -- are expected to be sustained in the future.  This conclusion is based on 
four main factors: 
 
(i) 
The solid and sustainable institutional development of the NAIs.
 
The three NAIs are 
currently operating effectively, serving well the accounting profession, without subsidy from 
the government. 
16
 
(ii) 
A
large number of accountants and financial professionals 
–
over 150,000 -- trained by the 
institutes are currently practicing in the public and private sectors.
 
In their work, they are 
currently applying their knowledge of up- to- date accounting standards and business 
practices in firms across China.  
(iii) 
New accounting standards have already been put into practice.
 
The new Chinese 
accounting standards supported under the project have been issued and widely disseminated.  
Since the new regulatory regime has already been put in place by law
—and all listing 
companies must comply with the standards from July 2007 onwards, the reforms are 
expected to continue on their own momentum.  MOF has chartered the road map for the 
Chinese standards to be further improved and pursue the convergence with international 
standards. 
15
 
Sir David Tweedie, IASB Chairman and Larry Rittenberg, COSO Chairman, sent letters of congratulations to the release 
ceremony, stating the their consistency  with the internationally advanced internal control framework in all major aspects.
 
16
 
There are no longer any subsidies to the three NAIs for them to operate.  However, they do receive impediment 
counterpart funding similar to government agencies.
 
Page  18
15
(iv) 
The strong ownership demonstrated by the government of its accounting reform program
.
MOF has consistently demonstrated commitment to the project and broad accounting reform 
for the past decade. Based on this track record, MOF priorities are not expected to change 
substantially.  Further, the global financial crisis of 2008-2009 also underscored the critical 
importance of sound international quality accounting practices in China and around the 
world for the Chinese authorities and the accounting profession in particular.  
5.  
Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance  
(Relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
 
5.1  
Bank Performance  
 
(a)  
Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
 
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
 
Rating: Satisfactory:  Quality at entry is considered 
satisfactory
.
The project objectives and related activities were well designed and articulated, focusing on two 
key elements of financial sector reform.  By maintaining a simple and realistic focus, the project 
achieved substantial and lasting impact in accounting reform -- a strategically relevant area.   The 
project team resisted pressure to burden the project with additional components that could 
potentially have distracted from the opportunity to achieve large-scale impact in a one crucial 
area. 
 
While the objectives were adequately and appropriately designed, the project timeline was 
somewhat unrealistic in hindsight, given the nature of and the need to introduce technical 
training.  In particular, the achievement of objectives of the first component depended on the 
physical construction of the NAIs.  Initial construction delays led to hold-ups in the institutional 
development and training project components, resulting in early disbursement lags.  This design 
weakness, however, is considered only a minor shortcoming in the overall project preparation and 
was well remedied by the subsequent establishment of two additional institutes to serve the 
accounting profession in the country.  
 
(b)  
Quality of Supervision
 
(Including of fiduciary and safeguards policies) 
Rating:   The quality of supervision is considered 
satisfactory
.
At the government’s request, the task managers of the project were both fluent Mandarin speakers 
and financial management specialists.  Meeting this demand was a key factor in the overall 
project success, allowing both for constructive and timely ongoing dialog with the authorities, 
and specialized technical input, minimizing potential misunderstanding from translation. 
 
The Bank also provided consistent and close supervision to the project and there was minimum 
change in task managers during implementation.  This continuity in the project management 
contributed to the project’s success, particularly given its long timeframe.  The Bank’s country 
management unit and sector management maintained a consistent overall support for the project 
and generally provided adequate supervision resources to ensure its success. 
 
(c)  
Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
 
Rating:   The overall Bank performance is rated 
satisfactory.
 
Page  19
16
5.2  
Borrower Performance 
 
(a)  
Government Performance
 
Rating:   The government performance is rated as 
highly satisfactory
.
The government is highly committed to the economic and policy reforms and has a strong wish to 
continue working closely with the Bank in this effort. Counterpart funds were provided by the 
government to the project.  The Technical Division of International Department of MOF acted as 
the bridge between the Bank and the PIAs, maintained good contact with the PIAs, and provided 
good support to the Bank supervision/ICR missions by organizing meetings and field visits, as 
well as participation in the Bank missions. Cooperation between the government and the Bank 
remained firm at all times of project implementation. Meanwhile, the MOF put in place high level 
officials that provided exceptional leadership for reforming the sector.  At the project level, the 
International Department of the MOF established a coordination mechanism with the NAIs in an 
effort to avoid overlap in the course development as well as promoting the sharing of lessons 
learned.  The 
officials’ deep technical knowledge of the international accounting profession 
enabled it to shape the long-term government vision and reform goals. In the end, such leadership 
laid the basis for a fundamental transformation of the accounting profession in China.  In certain 
areas, as described above in Section 3.2, the government exceeded expectations set forth at 
project design. 
 
(b)  
Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
 
Rating:  The implementing agencies’ performance is rated 
satisfactory
.
The project had several key implementing agencies, most importantly; the CASC, CICPA, and 
three NAIs.  All of these institutes had positive working relationships with the Bank throughout 
the implementation period and sufficiently carried out their responsibilities under the project to 
ensure achievement of the development objectives.  
 
Financial and monitoring reports were provided overall on a timely basis.  The NAIs in particular 
took financial management and procurement responsibilities seriously; devoting significant 
attention to ensuring that funds were spent efficiently and that consultants delivered high-quality 
services. This attention to detail and close monitoring of consultant contracts increased the 
project’s overall impact.  
 
In addition, the strong technical knowledge and strategic vision of implementing agency staff 
augmented by the training and experience the project provided, helped monitor project activities 
effectively and achieve greater impact.  
 
(c)  
Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
 
Rating:  The overall Borrower performance is rated 
satisfactory
.
Page  20
17
6.  
Lessons Learned  
(Both project-specific and of wide general application)
 
Project-specific lessons 
It is vital to ensure that the PIU be provided with adequate budget and resources to carry out its 
responsibilities effectively.
 
The PIU was anchored in the BNAI.  At the project outset, this made 
sense as the PIU was responsible for financial management reporting, procurement and 
monitoring only for the one training institute and consolidating the information from the 
accounting reform component.  However, as the project progressed and disbursements increased, 
two new NAIs were established, the procurement and reporting responsibilities increased 
significantly as a result.  At the same time, the government did not increase the budget allocations 
and resources for the PIU, with the result that staff were at times overstretched throughout key 
phases of implementation.  This had a negative effect on the pace of the project and 
administrative efficiency.  It also limited the contributions the PIU staff could potentially make to 
the strategic development of the project. 
 
It is essential to have the project structure flexible enough to adapt to changes in the 
environment.  
In 2006, MOF issued Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises (ASBE).  The 
new accounting and auditing principles required several courses to be adjusted accordingly.  
Moreover, professionals had to spend plenty of time and energies on the research and training of 
ASBE, hence increasing difficulties and postponing curriculum development.  Without the third 
closing date extension, the project would not have had adequate time for all training and 
development of high quality courses. 
 
The importance of project ownership and technical knowledge of the accounting profession 
should not be underestimated.
 
At the beginning of the project, the most senior government 
counterparts had fairly limited knowledge of the international accounting profession. However, 
when leadership changed, and the government put in place individuals with a more broad vision 
of accounting, the project impact accelerated dramatically. Under new leadership with greater 
technical knowledge, the government decided to revise the goals of the project
—and in fact aim, 
not only for issuing accounting standards with Chinese characteristics, but to issues standards 
substantially convergent with IFRS, the project took a sharply positive turn. The result was to 
dramatically increase the transparency of the Chinese enterprises—a factor which, in turn, is 
expected to contribute to the stable development of China’s economy.  
 
Small and local training contracts often produced better results than bulk contracts with larger 
firms. 
The BNAI served as a pilot for the project, developing a number of courses for accounting 
professionals. At the outset, the institute issued a lot of contracts with large accounting or 
management consulting firms. In the end, several of these contracts turned out to unsuccessful 
and resulted in contracting disputes. Because the contracts were relatively small for some larger 
firms, the quality of the staff on the job varied.  As the project progressed, the other two NAIs (in 
Xiamen and Shanghai) began to contract with local academics and professional trainers with 
positive results. Such contracts tended to produce relatively well designed courses, tailored to 
local students’ training needs at a reasonable cost and their quality has been internationally 
recognized (Annex 2). 
 
Project staff needs to be rewarded professionally for responsibilities under the project
.
Throughout the project the staff of the NAIs were directly involved in course development and 
procurement of the related consulting services.  At times these activities proved complex and time 
consuming and staff were often not rewarded for additional work.  Many of the staff had regular 
Page  21
18
teaching jobs so course development was a significant extra effort.  The experience showed that 
the project needs to build in appropriate resources to keep staff highly motivated. 
 
General lessons 
 
The project benefited from its narrow focus. 
The project was deliberately narrow in focus
—
addressing only two, but critically important areas, required for accounting modernization. The 
result was that key and technically complex issues tended to receive the attention they needed 
both from government counterparts and Bank staff. The project was able to focus on these areas 
in part because it was a follow-on project to the broader FSTA project, and the project design 
team was better able to identify the specific activities and scope of the project.  
 
Even small project components can open doors to major long-term reform operations.
 
The 
accounting component under the FSTA in 1992 project was a very small part of a larger financial 
sector reform project. While the reforms under that project had little long term impact (as many 
of the accounting standards issues were eventually deemed obsolete in the given project), in the 
end the simple existence of this component helped lead to a much more a substantial accountancy 
reform project. From the Bank perspective, the relationships established under the FSTA project 
provided an opening for a larger project. Further, although in 1998, the government requested 
follow-up support from the Bank only for physical infrastructure of the accounting institutes, in 
the end, the Bank was able to support long term and deeper accounting reform.
 
Extend so-
called “overage” projects if the project is achieving results
.
The project was extended 
three times and was more than ten years old at closing. The Bank at times urges closing of so-
called overage projects, as they are often deemed risky. However, in this case, the extensions 
allowed the government to substantially exceed expectations by adding new training facilities and 
increasing the number of standards disseminated. It allowed the time necessary to achieve the 
required institutional development of the accounting institutes and develop high quality courses 
(see Annex 2). Despite the ten year implementation, the strategic objectives of the project 
remained relevant to th
e
government development goals and the Bank’s support priorities. This is 
evidenced in the Bank’s 2003 CAS, which identifies improving the business environment and 
helping China transition to a market economy as one of the three key elements of the Bank’s 
assistance strategy in China.
17
 
17
 
Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the People’s Republic of China, Report No. 25141, January 
22, 2003, p. iii. 
Page  22
19
7.  
Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners  
 
(a)  
Borrower/implementing agencies
 
The summary and comments from the Ministry of Finance (Annex 7) noted that the project has 
been considered widely successful and the Chinese accounting practices have been transformed 
and modernized.  In some areas, MOF noted that the project exceeded initial expectations.  
Specifically, MOF considers the establishment of the three National Accounting Institutes as 
i
nstrumental improving the level of continued professional education of China’s CPAs and senior 
financial and accounting personnel and broadening the target groups of professional from CPAs, 
CFOs, and CEOs to decision makers in accounting, financial and economic management areas.  
The project is also a critical vehicle in improving the accounting standards, promoting 
international convergence of Chinese accounting standards, accelerating the development of 
accounting regulations, internal controls, accounting information standardization and research.  
MOF also notes that the activities developed by the project will continue on a sustainable path in 
the future (Annex 2). 
 
(b)  
Co financiers
 
Not applicable.  
 
(c)  
Other partners and stakeholders
 
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
 
Private sector partners.
 The MOF and the CASC actively engaged the private sector throughout 
project implementation and consulted with it regularly in the development of new accounting 
standards. Exposure drafts of all new accounting standards were circulated to the private sector 
for comments and feedback and the government placed a high degree of importance on 
incorporating feedback.  The CASC continues to consult with firms on standards before they are 
issued.  
International partners. 
The MOF and CASC also made special efforts to establish links and 
relations with other internationally important partners, such as the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB) in London, which advised on to the development of the standards and 
also participated actively in China’s international foray into the sector.  
Page  23
20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing  
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent) 
Components 
Appraisal Estimate 
(USD millions) 
Actual/Latest 
Estimate (USD 
millions) 
Percentage of 
Appraisal 
STRENGTHENING OF 
CERTIFIED PUBLIC 
ACCOUNTANTS AND OTHER 
FINANCE PROFESSIONALS 
A.1. National Accounting Institute 
 
A.2 Institutional support to the 
CICPA 
 
$27.4 
 
$1.4 
 
26.6 
 
1.3 
 
97.0% 
 
92.7% 
 
DEVELOPMENT AND 
DISSEMINATION OF 
ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
$5.2 3.3 
63.8% 
Total Baseline Cost  
$34.0 31.2 
91.8% 
Physical Contingencies 
0.00  
0.00  
0.00  
Price Contingencies 
0.00  
0.00  
0.00  
Total Project Costs 
34.2 31.2 
91.8% 
Front-end fee PPF 
 
0.00 
.00 
Front-end fee IBRD 
$0.3 
0.3 
100.0% 
Total Financing Required  
$34.2 31.4 
91.8% 
Note: 
Figures are rounded. 
 (b) Financing 
Source of Funds 
Type of Co 
financing 
Appraisal 
Estimate 
(USD millions)
Actual/Latest 
Estimate 
(USD millions)
Percentage of 
Appraisal 
International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development 
 27.4 
26.6 
97.0% 
International Development Association 
(IDA) 
 6.6 
4.7 
71.2% 
__________________________________________________ 
Note:   
Figures are rounded. 
Source: 
Operation Portals, Project P051856, February 26, 2010. 
Page  24
21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component  
 
The outcomes of the two project components are considered 
satisfactory
.
Component 1: Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance 
Professionals  
 
Output Indicators 
Achieved/Not 
achieved 
Evidence 
Establishment of NAI and its adoption of a 
Strategic Plan (by June 30. 1999) 
Achieved, the 
first NAI was 
established in 
1998 and the 
two others in 
2000 and 2002 
respectively 
The government established not just one but 
three national institutes.   
Beijing National Accounting Institute: 
 
established in July 1998; 
Shanghai  National Accounting Institute: 
established in 2000; 
Xiamen National Accounting Institute: 
 
established in  2002; 
Development of an overall curriculum design 
(by June 30, 2000) 
Achieved 
Internationally accepted curricula developed and 
in use in all three NAIs since 2000.  
 
Completion of purchase of courses and 
completion of course adaptations (by June 
30, 2001) 
Achieved and 
ongoing 
These activities are on-going in the course of the 
project to 2009. 
 
Completion of course building (by December 
30. 2002) 
Achieved and 
ongoing 
As of 2008, all three NAIs have achieved course 
buildings for their training programs. 
 
Training achieved by the NAI (student days 
per year or occupancy rates)  
(end-2000: 35,000 or 10%;  
end-2001: 70,000 or 20%;  
end-2002: 160,000 or 45%; and end-2003: 
210,000 or 60%. 
Achieved 
throughout the 
project life as 
the three NAIs 
started and 
continue their 
operations 
As of 2008, over 450,000 student days were 
reported for the three NAIs. 
 
Outcome Indicators 
More finance professionals in China trained 
in modern accounting and financial practices 
Achieved 
The CICPA has more than 150,000 members 
with 88,000 as practicing auditors and over 
70,000 as non-practicing professionals in mid-
2009 
(ROSC, October 2009, p. 8-9).
 
Practicing 
CPAs are required to participate in a continuing 
professional development program for a total of 
80 hours within 2 years, with a minimum of 30 
hours each year.   
Impact Indicators 
Greater numbers of competent and capable 
CPA firms 
Achieved 
In 2009, there were over 7,500 accounting firms 
involved in providing statutory audit services in 
China, employing nearly 300,000 professionals. 
60 firms are eligible to undertake audits of listed 
companies in China.  Major firms audit listed 
companies, small and medium firms perform 
bookkeeping services, capital verification, and 
audits for smaller companies. 
(ROSC, October 2009, 
p. 9
).  In 2009, over 20 Chinese firms have joined 
the international networks, over 40 firms have 
engaged in overseas business, and 12 accounting 
firms have set up 22 overseas branches. 
Development of audit capacity in China 
Achieved 
 
Evident based on  over 150,000  accounting 
professionals working in public and private 
enterprises, 88,000 of whom are practicing 
auditors. 
Page  25
22
Over the past decade, the three NAIs supported by the project have established themselves as 
world-class accounting institutes with state-of-the-art information technology. As part of China
’s 
efforts to carry out the national plan for talent development, the NAIs have trained a cadre of 
finance savvy professionals in China with an international strategic perspective. The project has 
supported the procurement of advantaged teaching and management equipment and software, the 
development of internationally-accepted courses, the improvement of management capability and 
accounting training for trainers.  
 
As mentioned in the main text above, it is critical to note that only one institute was originally 
envisioned under the project. After the establishment of the Beijing institute, however, the MOF 
decided to expand the reach of the project substantially, and establish two more institutes with 
project funds. The two additional NAIs are located in Xiamen and Shanghai. The three institutes 
have established a remarkably effective consultation process for course development and 
regularly share knowledge and experiences with each other.   
 
Following are details of the three training institutes. 
 
Xiamen National Accounting Institute  
 
The Xiamen National Accounting Institute (XNAI) started its official operation in late 2004, and 
is the newest of the three institutes supported under the project. The institute focuses on the 
training on accounting and financial management personnel from special economic zones, the 
western region, private enterprises, medium and small sized enterprises, Hong Kong SAR, China, 
Macao SAR, China, Taiwan, China and foreign countries.  
 
The institute has a well designed and built campus financed by the government that provides a 
positive environment for training and knowledge sharing. The institute offers 38 classrooms, 14 
conference rooms and halls, one library and 1,100 dormitory rooms on the campus, equipped with 
high-quality campus management system, teaching assistance system, office support system and 
trainee management system financed by the Bank loan. The equipment and software were well 
managed and in good operating condition at the project closing.  
 
From the beginning, the Xiamen Institute has paid close attention to the development of effective 
and efficient courses based on full market research. The experience of the Beijing Institute in 
curriculum development proved to be highly useful for Xiamen and many lessons were taken 
from the Beijing experience. For example, significant efforts were made to offer short-term 
courses, with most lasting three to five days. To date, about US$1 million of the Bank loan was 
allocated to support the development of 28 courses, covering accounting, auditing, finance, 
taxation and economic management. The selection of course developers was in compliance with 
the Bank’s guidelines.  
 
As of end-2008, XNAI had supported 30 international and regional study tours in an effort to 
build capacity and develop the skills for a high-quality professional training institute. The study 
tours and trainings opened new channels for staff to exchange resources and experiences with the 
other NAIs, as well as internationally well known universities, colleges and training institutes. By 
the end of 2008, about 800 training courses had been conducted in the XNAI.  The total person-
days covered had reached 574,516. 
 
Page  26
23
Shanghai National Accounting Institute  
 
The Shanghai National Accounting Institute (SNAI) began in 2002, two years later than that of 
BNAI. The Bank loan supported the procurement of a range of good including computers, office 
equipment, teaching equipment, library automatic management and security monitoring systems, 
satellite receiving equipment, a digital photograph editing system, a distance-learning system, 
network equipment, a materials printing system, a conferencing system, TVs, maintenance 
equipment, office and dormitory furniture, teaching rooms, conference rooms and halls, and a 
library. The bulk of the equipment remained in good operation as of the closing date.  
 
The SNAI developed a high quality overall curriculum with financing from the project. The 
curriculum development benefited significantly from the Beijing Accounting Institute experience. 
To design the curriculum
 suitable for China’s economic and enterprise situation, SNAI first 
completed research on China CFO competence framework
18
 as guidance and formed a distinctive 
training module featuring degree programs, short-term training programs and distance learning 
programs. Master of Executive Business Administration (EMBA), Master of Executive 
Professional Accountancy (EMPAcc) and Master of Professional Accountancy (MPAcc) degree 
programs have achieved particular success. In addition, the international training programs and 
workshops held by Asia-Pacific Finance and Development Center (AFDC) have been much 
acclaimed by the member economies within the Asia-Pacific region.
19
 
The institute offers three categories of courses: (i) short-term training courses, mainly covering 
senior executive training, CFO training, CPA continuing education and corporate customized 
training; (ii) middle and long-term degree education courses, mainly covering EMBA Program 
(Finance Track), EMBA Program ( Service Track), EMPAcc Program and MPAcc Program; and 
(iii)  distance-learning courses, mainly covering CPA Pre-exam Tutoring, Junior and Intermediate 
Accounting Specialty Technical Qualifications Pre-exam Tutoring, Senior Accountant 
Qualifications Pre-exam Tutoring and Continuing Education for Accounting Personnel.  
 
Almost all the Bank funds allocated for consulting service were used for developing courses, 
including 22 distance-learning courses and 17 short-term training courses. The development of 
above-mentioned distance-learning courses has been completed and the courses have been 
disseminated on the institute’s website, along with about 80 other courses whose development 
was financed by the government. All the course developers were well-respected experts in their 
respective fields. 
 
A
total of 23 study tour and training delegations were sent to foreign countries and Hong Kong 
SAR, China, Macao SAR, China, and Taiwan, China to enhance the link with the international 
accounting and financial management societies or other universities, colleges and training 
institutes. The EMBA Program jointly supported by the Shanghai institute and the Arizona 
University, USA is among the most visible results of such study tours and trainings. The program 
also has been listed among the top 50 EMBA programs worldwide selected by the Financial 
Times, UK in 2008. The EMPAcc Program jointly supported by the SNAI and the Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, aiming to train CFOs qualified for international operation has been 
highly appraised. In addition, almost all of the institute’s full-time teachers were well trained 
abroad as visiting scholars and have played a very important role in organizing and implementing 
the training courses of the Institute.  
 
18
 
Toward Competent CFO:  A Research Report on China CFO Competence Framework
.
19
 
Please see the AFDC web page:  http://www.afdc.org.cn/afdc/news_list.asp
 
Page  27
24
The Institute aims accommodate 1,200 trainees each day. At end-2008, it reached about 700 
trainees each day. In 2007, the number of all the person-days related to short-term training and 
degree education for 2007 and 2008 was 213,158 and 206,133, respectively. The number of all 
the person-courses related to distance learning for 2007 and 2008 was 74,317 and 169,147, 
respectively.  
 
Beijing National Accounting Institute  
 
The Beijing Accounting Institute (BNAI) is the first accounting institute supported by the 
government under the project.   BNAI -- built in 1998 -- was approved by State Council of China 
and operates under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance.  The BNAI is a higher accounting 
education and training institute dedicated to the training of senior officials and accountants from 
macroeconomic administration departments of the government, large state-owned enterprises, 
financial institutes and social agencies across China.  It also offers a Master of Professional 
Accounting (MPAcc) degree.  As such, BNAI served as a pioneer in the course development 
among the three NAIs.  The institute has established itself as the training base of continuing 
professional education for senior accountants with accounting, auditing, finance and economic 
management as the core subject of training in the Beijing capital area. 
 
The BNAI is headed by a president and is supervised by a board of directors.
20
 
The Minister of 
the Finance presides over the Board of Directors.  Located at Tianzhu Development Area, Shunyi 
district, Beijing city, BNAI facility houses 47 modern classrooms, one library, information center, 
conference center, student entertainment center, gymnasium, 80 student dormitory rooms with 
dining hall, etc.  The facility which opened in June 2001 could accommodate 1,500 persons at 
one time and will have a throughput of approximately 25,000 persons per year.  It offers a wide 
selection of courses covering a range of topics in areas such as accounting, auditing, taxation, 
information technology, finance, and business and management principles. 
 
In the beginning, BNAI focused on training activities, averaging over 100 in 2001 on various 
topics related to accounting and finance with over 10,000 participants in the first year at its 
campus.  The activities subsequently increased in 2002 with about 100,000 participants/days and 
over 200 training programs per year.  The trainees were mainly CFO staff, directors and 
supervisors of the board, managers and certified public accountants, and executives from 
administrative agencies and regulatory institutions.  The percentage of training programs offered 
through distance learning was also increasing, thus reaching even more target participants in 
remote areas.  The State Council expanded the initial scope of the BNAI (focusing on continuing 
professional education) with a full time MBA program (in September 2002) in a joint effort with 
Tsinghua University.
21
 
Toward the end of the project in 2008, over 150,000 students trained at this Institute and the 
student training days were over 700,000.  At the end of 2009, the BNAI supported 32 
international and regional study tours in an effort to build capacity and develop the skills for a 
high-quality professional training institute.  About 1,200 training courses have been conducted up 
20
 
The Board of Directors is composed of senior officials from the Ministry of Finance, the Central Organization 
Department, the National Development and Reform Commission, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration 
Commission of the State Council, the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Personnel, the 
People’s Bank of China, the National Audit Office, the State Administration of Taxation, China Securities Regulatory 
Commission, China Banking Regulatory Commission, Beijing Municipal Government, Shanghai Municipal Government, 
Fujian Provincial People’s Government, Xiamen Municipal Government, Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Finance, Xiamen 
Municipal Bureau of Finance, Tsinghua University, Xiamen University, Shanghai University of Finance & Economics
.
21
 
ROSC Accounting and Auditing Conference:  Agenda Papers, Beijing, China, October 29, 2009, p. 165-175
.
Page  28
25
to the end of 2009.  The total persons-days covered reached 1,024,467 while the on-line training 
accounted for 10,000 person-courses. 
 
Component 2:  Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards
 
Output Indicators 
Achieved/Not 
achieved 
Evidence 
Numbers of old (25) and new (17) standards 
issued, and dates by which issued (7 per year 
between 1999 and 2002) and 7 or any 
remaining standards under the program 
issued by end 2003. 
Achieved:   
Note:
 
Due to the 
need for sound 
preparation of 
these standards, 
the original time 
schedule was 
modified.  All 
have been in effect 
from 2007
 
The government decided to pursue full 
convergence of accounting standards with IFRS 
and as a result, the “old” standards were 
determined obsolete. In their place, they issued 
38 new standards, that were substantially 
convergent, and thus, significantly more 
beneficial than originally anticipated. The 38 
standards and dates are listed in the box below. 
Number of high-level seminars held for 
dissemination of completed standards (3 by 
end-2000, 3 more by end-2002 and the last 2 
or any remaining by end-2003). 
Achieved 
 MOF has organized a series of systematic and 
multi layer training for over 10,000 trainees who 
are chairmen, presidents and accounting 
personnel of 1,400 listed companies, certified 
accounts engaged in securities and futures 
business and officials from regulatory 
departments and accounting units, thus laying a 
solid foundation for the smooth implementation 
of the new accounting standards. 
Outcome Indicators 
Strengthened accounting standards in line 
with international standards 
Achieved 
On November 14, 2005, the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued a 
press release and a joint statement with China 
Accounting Standards Committee (CASC) 
stating that convergence is a fundamental goals 
of its Standard-setting program and affirming its 
intention that a private enterprise applying 
Chinese Accounting Standards should produce 
financial statements that are the same as those of 
an enterprises that applies International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS).  In February 2006, 
MOF issued new standards which are fully 
convergent with IFRS (ROSC, 2009, p. 18).  In 
2008, CASC and IASB signed an agreement on 
the continuing convergence of standards of the 
two sides.  On September 2, 2009, MOF released 
a
roadmap on the continuing and complete 
convergence between accounting standards of 
Chinese enterprises and international financial 
reporting standards, aiming to promote the 
convergence between the two standards. 
Improved knowledge of new standards 
among finance professionals in China, and 
accelerated use of new standards 
Achieved 
Taking into account lessons from previous 
operation, the project focused on the 
implementation of accounting standards among 
professionals in China.  To this end, MOF 
launched a nationwide training campaign in July 
2006 on the new standards with participation of 
over 10,000 trainees (ROSC, October 2009, 
p.15).  In 2007, the new accounting standards 
were implemented in 1570 listed enterprises 
smoothly and effectively; in 2008, the 
application was expanded to all nonlisted 
enterprises, nonlisted commercial banks, relevant 
financial institutions and non
listed commercial 
Page  29
26
insurance enterprises; In 2009, the coverage was 
extended to rural credit cooperatives and SOEs 
in most provinces; In 2010, almost all large and 
medium enterprises are expected to implement 
the accounting standards. 
More easily available information on 
accounting standards and their application 
Achieved 
In 2003, the website of CASC (in Chinese and 
English) was launched, providing access to the 
whole accounting society on the accounting 
standards and raising awareness of accounting 
standard in the economy.  In 2006 a nationwide 
training campaign was launched by MOF (see 
above). 
Greater capacity to prepare accounts in 
accordance with the new standards in 
harmony with international practice. 
Achieved, with 
convergence, 
not just in 
harmony 
As mentioned above, MOF issued new standards 
that were substantially convergent with IFRS; 
Greater capacity to prepare accounts in this 
respect is evidence by the fact that all firms are 
using them, effective from 2007. 
Impact Indicators 
Knowledge of new standards by senior 
professionals throughout the country 
Achieved 
The new standards have been widely 
disseminated with workshops and seminars held 
for professional throughout China. 
Modernized accounting standards more 
closely aligned to international standards 
Achieved, with 
convergence 
MOF exceeded initial expectations Standards 
were more than
 “closely aligned to international 
standards” in the end were fully convergent. 
Strengthened and more transparent financial 
statements, in both financial institutions and 
enterprises 
Achieved 
All enterprises in China currently, as of January 
2007, must comply with the new regulatory 
regime including the 38 new accounting 
standards. 
Strengthened financial performance of 
enterprises and banks and reduced risk 
Achieved 
Since 2007, the new accounting standards were 
implemented, at first with listed enterprises and 
gradually the coverage has expanded to cover all 
non-listed enterprises, non-listed commercial 
banks, relevant financial institutions and non-
listed commercial insurance enterprises, rural 
credit cooperatives and SOEs in most provinces.  
The project achieved its objectives under this component and, in doing so, supported the 
fundamental transformation o
f
China’s accounting model and regulatory regime. Under the 
direction of the MOF, the CASC led the activities under this project component. Specifically, it 
coordinated efforts to improve the accounting standards, promote international convergence of 
accounting and accelerate the development of accounting regulations, internal control, accounting 
information standardization and theoretical research.  
 
The result has been to the establishment of a new accounting model and regulatory regime in 
China that is fully convergent with international accounting standards. In the context of growing 
economic globalization and the opening up of the Chinese economy, the availability of accurate, 
timely and transparent financial information is increasingly important, making the achievements 
under this project highly relevant to the long term, stable development of the Chinese economy. 
 
It is critical to note that the government exceeded project expectations under this component by 
issuing a set of standards that were substantially convergent with IFRS. At project outset, 
international standards were anticipated only with national characteristics or closely aligned with 
international standards, which by definition made them less valuable. 
 
Specific key project achievements include:  
Page  30
27
 
·
The development, issuance and implementation of 38 new accounting standards.
 The 
specific standards are included in the box below.  
 
·
Translation of the 2008 International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and other 
related documents and materials into Chinese.
 As China officially issued the system of 
Chinese Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises on February 15, 2006
—and 
effective for all listed companies as of January 1, 2007, this event marks the formal 
establishment of Chinese accounting standards system for business enterprises adapted to 
the Chinese market economy and converged with IFRS.  
 
·
Establishment of a set of consistent and authoritative internal control standards on 
enterprises including Basic Standards for Enterprise Internal Control, implemented by 
the listed companies as of July 1, 2009. 
These standards will play an important role in 
facilitating the smooth implementation of accounting and auditing standards and 
checking accounting information distortion and auditing failure. They will also provide 
institutional support to improve the quality of listed companies and encourage the 
domestic companies to go global and enhance their international image. The IASB has 
pointed out that the standard for enterprise internal control remained consistent with the 
internationally advanced internal control framework in all major aspects.  
 
·
Since the establishment of the China Internal Control Standards Committee, the project 
supported theoretical research, on-site review, and standards drafting. 
Effective results 
have been achieved in promulgating a series of rules and regulations to standardize its 
operation and process of standard setting, drafting, comments collection and review.
 
Establishment of a regular dialogue between the MOF and the IASB.
 In October 2008, 
the MOF hosted an IFRS Conference in Beijing, attended by the IASB chairman, senior 
officials from the US Securities and Exchange Committee, and by 350 accounting 
standards setters in Asian countries. The conference promoted the convergence of 
accounting standards, fostered knowledge sharing in the development and 
implementations of standards in Asia.   
 
·
Completion of a MOF-hosted China-Japan-South Korea standard setting conference in 
Beijing In October 2008. 
The conference has promoted the accounting equivalence work 
with the two countries and established a three country dialogue framework. 
 
On November 14, 2005, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued a press 
release and a joint statement with China Accounting Standards Committee (CASC) stating that 
convergence is a fundamental goals of its Standard-setting program and affirming its intention 
that a private enterprise applying Chinese Accounting Standards should produce financial 
statements that are the same as those of an enterprises that applies International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS).  IASB considered this as an enormous progress for China to make 
toward convergence with IFRSs.   
 
On February 15, 2006, China’s MOF issued a series of new and revised Accounting Standards for 
business enterprises.  These 38 Accounting Standards include the 16 revised and 22 newly 
promulgated Accounting Standards.  They highlighted the establishment of a new system of 
Chinese accounting standards -- appropriate for the development of the Chinese market economy 
and convergent with international practices.  These Standards were made effective from January 
1, 2007 for all enterprises. 
Page  31
28
 
As the ICR is being prepared, the government announced the release of the Implementation 
Guidelines for Enterprise International Control on April 26, 2010.  These will take effect among 
Chinese listed companies and other enterprises by stage from 2011.  
Page  32
29
List of 38 Accounting Standards 
CAS 1.   
Inventories 
Previously issued in and effective since November 2001  
CAS 2.   
Long-term Equity Investment 
CAS 3.   
Investment Real Estates 
CAS 4.   
Fixed Assets 
Previously issued in and effective since November 2001 
CAS 5:   
Biological Assets 
CAS 6:   
Intangible Assets (1999),  
Previously issued in and effective since January 2001  
CAS 7:   
Exchange of Non-Monetary Assets 
CAS 8:   
Impairment of Assets 
Previously issued in 2002  
CAS 9:   
Employee Compensation 
CAS 10: 
Enterprise Annuity Fund 
CAS 11: 
Share-based Payments 
CAS 12: 
Debt Restructuring 
CAS 13: 
Contingencies 
Previously issued in April 1999 and effective since July 2000 
CAS 14: 
Revenues 
CAS 15: 
Construction Contracts 
CAS 16: 
Government Subsidies 
CAS 17: 
Borrowing Costs 
Previously issued in and effective since January 2001  
CAS 18: 
Income Taxes 
CAS 19: 
Foreign Currency Conversion 
CAS 20: 
Business Combinations 
Previously issued in 2003  
CAS 21: 
Leases 
Previously issued in and effective since January 2001  
CAS 22: 
Recognition and Measurement of Financial Instruments 
CAS 23: 
Transfer of Financial Assets 
CAS 24: 
Hedging 
CAS 25: 
Original Insurance Contracts 
CAS 26: 
Re-insurance Contracts 
CAS 27: 
Exploration of Oil and Natural Gas 
CAS 28: 
Changes of Accounting Policies and Accounting Estimates and Error Correction  
CAS 29: 
Events after the Balance Sheet Date 
CAS 30: 
Presentation of Financial Statements 
CAS 31: 
Cash Flow Statements 
CAS 32: 
Interim Financial Reporting 
Previously Issued in and effective since November 2001 
CAS 33: 
Consolidated Financial Statement 
CAS 34: 
Earnings per Share 
CAS 35: 
Segment Report 
Previously issued in 2002  
CAS 36: 
Disclosure of Affiliated Parties 
CAS 37: 
Financial Instruments:  Presentation 
CAS 38: 
Initial Adoption of Enterprise Accounting Standards. 
Page  33
30
Basic Standards for Enterprise Internal Control 
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 1:  Organization Structure  
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 2:  Development Strategy  
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 3:  Human Resources  
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 4:  Social Responsibilities  
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 5:  Corporate Culture  
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 6:  Fund-Related Activities  
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 7:  Procurement Activities  
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 8:  Asset Management  
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 9:  Sales Activities  
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 10:  Research and Development  
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 11:  Construction Projects  
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 12:  Guarantee Business  
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 13:  Outsourcing  
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No.14:  Financial Reports 
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No.15:  Comprehensive Budgeting 61 
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 16:  Contract Management 
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 17:  Communication of Internal 
Information 
Implementation Guidelines for Enterprise Internal Control No. 18:  Information System 
Guidelines for Evaluation of Enterprise Internal Control 
Guidelines for Audit of Enterprise Internal Control 
Appendix: Specimen Audit Report on Internal Control 
Page  34
31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis  
(Including assumptions in the analysis) 
Not applicable 
 
Page  35
32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes  
 
(a) Task Team members 
Names 
Title 
Unit 
Responsibility/Specialty 
Lending
 
Anjali Kumar 
Senior Financial Economist 
EASFS 
Task Team Leader 
Jacque Loubert 
Sector Manager 
EASFS 
 
Albert Kennefick 
Regional Accounting/Financial Advisor 
EAPCO 
CICPA/NAI Component 
Maurice Mould 
Consultant (Arthur Andersen) 
 
Accounting Specialist  
Michele Miller 
Consultant (Arthur Andersen) 
 
Accounting Training Specialist 
Xiaohong Yang 
Financial Officer 
EACCF 
Beijing Project Coordinator 
Wu Yingwei  
Procurement Officer 
EACCF 
Procurement 
Hoi-Chan Nguyen 
Counsel 
LEGEA 
Legal 
Phillip Daltrop 
Senior Counsel 
LEGEA 
Legal 
Hyung Min Kim 
Senior Disbursement Officer 
LOA 
Disbursement 
Weiguo Zhou 
Consultant/Operations Officer 
EASRD 
Costs and procurement  
Adelma Bowrin 
Program Assistant 
EASFS 
Administration 
Supervision/ICR
 
Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun 
Sector Coordinator 
EAPFS 
Acting TaskTeam Leader 
Haixia Li 
Sr. Financial Management Specialist 
EAPCO 
Financial Management 
Jinan Shi 
Senior Procurement Specialist 
EAPCO 
Procurement 
Nancy Chen 
Senior Financial Management Specialist 
EASFP 
Task Team Leader 
(b) Staff Time and Cost 
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only) 
Stage of Project Cycle 
No. of Staff Weeks 
USD Thousands (including travel and 
consultant costs) 
Lending  
 
FY97  
1.19 
FY98 18 
115.64 
FY99 18 
112.02 
Total:
36 227.66 
Supervision/ICR
 
FY99 4 
15.85 
FY00 11 
49.27 
FY01 9 
39.02 
FY02 6 
29.48 
FY03 7 
35.30 
FY04 11 
66.52 
FY05 7 
40.91 
FY06 12 
90.18 
FY07 17 
87.64 
FY08 12 
63.81 
FY09 13 
79.93 
FY10 9 
49.61 
Total:
116 647.50 
Note:  Figures are rounded. 
Page  36
33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results 
(if any)
 
Not applicable.
Page  37
34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results 
(if any) 
 
Not applicable.
Page  38
35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR  
 
ICR Summary and Comments of 
 
CHINA  
ACCOUNTING REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 
 
(Credit No. 3173) 
 
Financed by the World Bank 
 
International Department 
Ministry of Finance 
People’s Republic of China 
March, 2010 
 
Page  39
36
1.   Comments on Project Objective 
 
1.1 The objective of the Project
 is to assist China to strengthen financial management capacity 
through:  
 
(i)  the development of a cadre of well-trained professional certified public accountants and 
financial managers, and  
(ii) the establishment of a framework of accounting standards aligned with international 
standards. 
 
1.2 The Project consists of two components: 
 
Component A: Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance 
Professionals
(i) Carrying out of a program of continuing education and training for professional certified 
public accountants and financial managers in the fields of accounting, auditing, financial and 
business management, through the establishment and operation of a residential national 
accounting institute and the provision of consultants
’
services, equipment and training. 
 
(ii) Strengthening of the institutional capacity of CICPA through the provision of computers, 
software and other equipment. 
 
Component B: Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards
Carrying out of a program to develop and disseminate in China accounting standards in line 
with international accounting standards, through the provision of consultants’ services, equipment 
and training, such program to include: 
 
(i) preparation, promulgation and dissemination of general and of sector or industry specific 
accounting standards, including production of training materials and carrying out of training 
seminars; 
 
(ii) establishment of accounting standards public information sources, including a public 
information center and an electronic information system, to provide information and advisory 
services on accounting standards and the related best practice; and 
 
(iii) enhancement of the institutional capacity of CASC to prepare, review and disseminate 
new accounting standards. 
 
1.3  Revision of the objective: 
No revision happened to the objective during the project 
implementation because it is suitable for China’s reform and opening to the outside world, as well 
as economic development.  
 
2.   Achievement of Project Development Objectives 
 
The achievement of project development objectives is 
satisfactory.
 The project has been 
considered widely successful by Chinese authorities and the international accounting community 
in helping to transform and modernize Chinese accounting practices. An examination of the 
specific outputs also shows that in some areas, the project even exceeded expectations set forth at 
the start of the project.  
Page  40
37
 
Specifically, under the first component, Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and 
Other Finance Professions, the project jumpstarted national efforts to create a cadre of finance 
professionals with knowledge of international accounting practices. It did so by providing the 
government critical resources to develop and disseminate a curriculum of courses on specific 
accounting, auditing and business topics and issues, extending beyond original project plans to 
include two additional NAIs. The ability of China’s many finance professionals to stay abreast of 
international accounting developments and issues further facilitates the country’s integration into 
the world economy. Under the second component, Development and Dissemination of 
Accounting Standards, the project supported an important milestone in the development of 
China’s accounting system—the issuance and implementation of 38 standards that are 
substantially convergent with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The 
implementation of the new standards has substantially increased transparency of Chinese firms 
and state owned enterprises and is expected to facilitate continued private investment in China for 
years to come. A summary is below: 
 
Component A: Strengthening of Certified Public Accountants and Other Finance 
Professionals
With the support of the project, the government successfully established three National 
Accounting Institutes (NAIs) in Beijing, Shanghai and Xiamen. Only BNAI was originally 
envisioned under the project. The expansion to three facilities allowed the government to 
dramatically expand the number of students trained at a reduced cost, as the Beijing facility 
served as a pilot, providing rich lessons for the others in course development, institutional 
management, and administration.  
 
The NAIs have become not only the premier sources for accounting training in China, but 
also convenient platform to learn the current accounting, auditing, financial management, 
enterprise management and economic management theories and practices as well as share 
experiences. They are now considered by many in the sector as world-class accounting institutes 
with an international perspective and state-of-the-art information technology. The project was 
critical in the development of the NAIs, by supporting the procurement of high quality teaching 
and management equipment and software, the development of high-quality courses; and the 
improvement of management capability. The training of trainers program has also been shown to 
be highly valuable for the institutes.
 
The target group for the NAIs has been broadened from CPAs, CFOs and CEOs to include 
all decision makers in accounting, financial and economic management areas.  
 
Overall, the impact of the NAIs has been to improve the level of continued professional 
education of China’s CPAs and senior financial and accounting personnel, raising their ability to 
accept, master and use up-to-date accounting standards, auditing standards, and economic 
management principles. Further, the work of these professionals in private and public enterprises 
has helped improve the quality of the accounting information of China’s enterprises and make 
accounting information more comprehensive, timely, accurate and transparent. These 
improvements will benefit the full range of market participants, including banks, financial 
institutions and investors, helping them to make more informed decisions.  
 
Page  41
38
Component B: Development and Dissemination of Accounting Standards
With the Bank’s support, China successfully developed 38 accounting standards 
substantially converged with IFRSs in 2006. China continues to improve the accounting 
standards, promotes international convergence of accounting and accelerates the development of 
accounting regulations, internal control, accounting information standardization and theoretical 
research. These measures have helped the Chinese accounting community provide better services 
for economic and social development in its own country, while contributing to the development 
of the global accounting industry.  
 
It is notable that the achievement of substantial convergence is an outcome significantly 
better than anticipated.
 
The initial project design anticipated issuance of 17 new accounting with 
provisions of Chinese accounting and business practices which would have made them, by 
definition, inconsistent with the IFRS. In the end, the project supported the government in its 
efforts to radically transform the accounting sector through development and dissemination of 38 
standards that substantially converged with international standards. The achievement of 
substantial convergence was validated by the Accounting and Auditing ROSC
2
2
.
3. 
Sustainability of the Project 
 
Component A
 – The three NAIs have been established in Beijing, Shanghai and Xiamen.  These 
NAIs currently operate an excellent teaching and management system based on good 
international practices. This system has become one of the key elements for ensuring the 
sustainability of the institutes. To date, the NAIs have also reached the breakeven between 
income and expenditures, which is a key achievement that will allow them to keep operating. In 
fact, the Shanghai Accounting Institute in particular has become profitable—operating a number 
of courses that have proven to be in high demand from students and professional throughout the 
country. 
 
Component B
 –The MOF, as a policy-maker and a member of the Financial Stability Board 
(FSB), developed a Roadmap for continuing and full convergence of the Chinese Accounting 
Standards for business enterprises with IFRS (Exposure Draft) in September 2009. China plans to 
achieve full convergence in 2011, and roll out the CAS to all large and medium-sized enterprises 
in 2012. Furthermore, the Accounting Department of the MOF is considering preparing a follow-
on subproject for technical assistance to comprehensively address the weaknesses identified by 
the ROSC.  These undertakings would help ensure the sustainability of the development outcome 
under the current project.    
 
22
 
A
ROSC Conference was held in Beijing, on October 29, 2009.   Mr. Li Yong, the Vice Minister of Finance, MOF, 
delivered an opening speech at the conference. Ms. Penelope J. Brook, Acting Vice President, Financial and Private Sector 
Development, also spoke at the ROSC Conference.
 
Page  42
39
Annex 8. Comments of Co-Financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders  
 
Not applicable. 
 
Page  43
40
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents  
 
Official World Bank Project Files 
 
Project Appraisal Document, People’s Republic of China, Accounting Reform and Development 
Project, Report No: 18312-CHA, February 1, 1999. 
Project Implementation Plan, China Accounting Reform and Development Project, Ministry of 
Finance, December 1998. 
Request for Extension of Closing Date Memo to James Adams, Regional Vice President, EAP, 
from Nancy Chen, Task Team Leader, EASFP, dated September 5, 2007. 
 
Project Implementation Status Reports, Aide Memoires, and other email correspondence filed in 
IRIS, 1999-2009.  
Financial Management Supervision Reports, China Accounting Reform and Development 
Project, including reports of August 26, 2008 and April 23, 2009. 
 
Country Assistance Strategy Documents 
 
Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the People’s Republic of China, 
Report No: 14454 CHA, May 4, 1995. 
 
Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the People’s Republic of China of 
1997, Report no: 16321-CHA, February 25, 1997.Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank 
Group for the People’s Republic of China, Progress Report, May 1998.Country Assistance 
Strategy of the World Bank Group for the People’s Republic of China, Report No. 25141, 
January 22, 2003. 
 
Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for People’s Republic of China for the Period 
2006-2010, Report 46896-CN, November 7, 2008. 
 
Other documents 
 
Workshop Report: Development and Implementation of Chinese Accounting Standards, Ministry 
of Finance, People’s Republic of China, October 2008. 
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank of Reconstruction 
and Development for the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project, Report No: P-7385-
CHA, July 6, 2006. 
Page  44
41
 
Appendix 1.  Occupancy of National Accounting Institutions 
 
Note:  Data from BNAI are not comprehensive and the data for the other NAIs do not replace the data given by the 
NAIs themselves. 
Source:  
For BNAI:  ROSC Accounting and Auditing Conference:  Agenda Papers, Beijing, China, October 29, 2009, p. 
170. 
For XNAI, Report, October 2009, p. 7. 
 
BNAI 
SNAI 
XNAI 
Year 
Number of 
Students  
Student Days  
Number of 
Students  
Student Days  
Number of 
Students  
Student 
Days  
1998 
540 
1,620 
1999 
887 
2,640 
2000 
2,402 
7,200 
2001 
17,433 
67,944 
2002 
23,135 
104,222 
2003 
15,774 
102,465 
25,090 
103,291 
2004 
14,252 
107,190 
33,561 
145,298 
3,187 
22,947 
2005 
22,635 
106,915 
34,459 
169,433 
19,981 
121,545 
2006 
23,991 
136,042 
37,899 
200,907 
24,081 
154,830 
2007 
26,107 
131,052 
36,620 
213,644 
22,168 
128,045 
2008 
19,398 
104,330 
39,746 
206,133 
22,562 
147,149 
Total 
122,157 
687,994 
251,772 
1,222,332 
91,979 
574,516 
Page  45
42
 
MAP 
 
I
N
S
E
R
T
M
A
P
H
E
R
E
AFTER APPROVAL BY COUNTRY DIRECTOR 
 
AN ORIGINAL MAP OBTAINED FROM GSD MAP DESIGN UNIT 
 
SHOULD BE INSERTED 
 
MANUALLY
IN HARD COPY
BEFORE SENDING A FINAL ICR TO THE PRINT SHOP. 
 
NOTE:  To obtain a map, please contact  
 
the GSD Map Design Unit (Ext. 31482) 
 
A
minimum of a one week turnaround is required 
 
