L=N. 3/60/-kfS
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10005-ME
MIt ROP'IC1E COPY
Rteport No. 100O5-ME   Type:  (SAR)
K,APLAN, ]-/ X31920 /-4049/ LATEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
MARCH 9, 1992
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This dotrment has a restdcted disthibudon end may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Woild Ihuk authorization.



CUR-RENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          Peso (MEX$)
US$ 1.00         =    2991 Pesos (May 31, 1991)
US$ 1.00         =    3040 Pesos (February 7, 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                      British/US Equivalent
1 kilogram (kg)             2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)   =    2,205 pounds (lb)
1 liter                =    0.26 gallons (gal)
1 meter (m)            =    3.28 feet (ft)
ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS        National Development Bank for Public Works and Services
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos)
CITES           Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
CNA             National Water Commission (Comision Nacional de Agua)
CONADE          National Ecology Commission (Comision Nacional de Ecologia)
DGAJ            General Directorate of Legal Affairs [of SEDUE]
(Direccion General de Asuntos Juridicos)
DGCERN          General Directorate of Ecological Conservation of Natural Resources [SEDUE/SE]
(Direccion General de Conservacion Ecologica de los Recursos Naturales)
DGNRE           General Directorate of Ecological Norms and Regulations [SEDUE/SE]
(Direccion General de Normatividad y Regulacion Ecologica)
DGPAPC          General Directorate of Environmental Promotion and Community Participation
[SEDUE/SE]
(Direccion General de Promocion Ambiental y Participacion Comunitaria)
DGPCCA          General Directorate of Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination
[SEDUE/SE]
(Direccion General de Prevencion y Control de la Contaminacion)
DGSA/SS         General Directorate of Environmental Health [Secretariat of Health]
(Direccion General de Salud Ambiental)
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GEF             Global Environment Facility
GET             Global Environment Trust Fund
INI             National Irstitute for the Indigenous Population
(Instieuto Nacional Indigenista)
MCMA            Mexico City Metropolitan Area
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
PGR             Attorney General of the Republic
(Procuradoria General de la Republica)
SARH            Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos)
SEDENA          Secretariat of National Defense
(Secretaria de la Defensa Nacional)
SEDUE           Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology
(Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia)
SEDUE/SE        SEDUE's Undersecretariat for Ecology (Subsecretaria de Ecologia)
SEMAR           Secretariat of the Navy (Secretaria de la Marina)
SHCP            Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
SINAP           National System of Protected Natural Areas
(Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas)
SNIFF           National Information System for Stationary Sources
(Sistema Nacional de Informacion de Fuentes Fijas)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................................                                      iv -
I. INTRODUCTION .............- -
II. THE ENVIRQNMENTAL SECTOR .............2 -
Key Environmental Issues and Problems .............- 2 -
Air Pollution .............   2 -
Water Scarcity and Water Pollution .............                                2 -
Soil Erosion  ........................................                          3 -
Loss of Biological Diversity  ..............................                    4 -
The Legal and Institutional Fram=work ............................                   - 4 -
Legislation and Regulations ...............................                     4 -
Institutional Setting ............- 6 -
Federal level ....................................    6 -
State level  ....-..................................    7 -
Key Government Sectoral Functions  .............................                     - 8 -
Pollution Monitoring and Control ...........................                  - 8 -
Water quality  ...................................    8 -
Air quality .....................................    8 -
Envirorunental laboratories ...........................                 - 8 -
Inspection and vigilance .............................                   9 -
Minimizing Negative Environmental Impacts of Investment Projects . ......  - 9 -
Environmental impact and risk assessment  .................             - 9 -
Ecological Planning and Zoning .......................   - 10 -
Conservation of Biodiversity  .............................   - 10 -
Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas (SINAP) ....          .........   - 10 -
Wildlife Trade ..................................   - 11 -
Government Strategy for the Future .............................   - 12 -
Rationale for Bank Involvement ...............................   - 13 -
Lessons from Experience ...............                                            - 14 -
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Mexico in June 1991.
Mission members were Robert Kaplan (mission leader); Sergio Margulis (Natural Resource
Economist); John McKenna (Senior Resource Planner); Claudia Alderman (Protected Areas
Specialist); Adrian Demayo (Water Pollution Specialist, consultant); Luiz Antonio Prado
(Pollution Control Systems Specialist, consultant); Javier de la Maza (Conservation Specialist,
consultant); Kenneth Rock (Environmental Assessments Specialist; consultant); Maria Gomez-
Taylor (Environmental Laboratories Specialist, consultant); and Ellen Newfield (Information
Systems Specialist). Emmanuel Jimenez (Principal Economist); Gunnar Eskeland (Economist);
and Joost Draaisma (Economist) also joined the mission for a few days. Robert Kaplan compieted
appraisal of the protected areas program on a mission to Mexico in February 1992.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- si -
II. WEPR O:C ......................... ,,,..............   - 15 -
Origin of th Project                           .                             -15 -
Proec Obetie Q                              -16 -
Er2ject Description.                                                         - 16 -
Key Functions Component.                                               - 17 -
Monitoring and Control of Pollution .- 17 -
Minimizing Negative Environmental Impacts of Investment Projects    - 19 -
Conserving Biodiversity .                                        - 21 -
Modernization of Environmental Management Component .- 24 -
Institutional Strengthening Program .- 25 -
Decentralization Pilot Program .- 25 -
Economic Instruments for the Environment .- 26 -
Legislation and Standards Component .- 27 -
Legislation.                                                     - 27 -
Regulation and Standards .- 28 -
Studies Component .- 28 -
Consolidation of SINAP .- 28 -
Creation of Biological Corridors .- 29 -
Environmental Effects on Health .- 29 -
Environment Futures Study .- 30 -
Proiect Costs and Financing ..................,.,.,.,..  - 31 -
Cost of the Project .- 31 -
Base costs .                                                       31 -
Contingency allowances .- 31 -
Foreign exchange component .- 32 -
Financing Plan .- 32 -
Recurrent costs .- 33 -
Project Organization and Management ..........................- 34 -
Project Management .- 34 -
Project Coordination Unt (PCU) .- 34 
Monitoring and evaluation .- 34 -
Procurement .- 36 -
Civil works  ...................................   - 37 -
Goods ..                                   ;                     - 37 -
Consultants .- 37 -
Disbursement .- 37 -
Accounts and Audits .- 39 -
Project Supervision .- 40 -
Beleflts and Risks .- 40 -
Benefits . ............ - 40 -
Risks .. ...  - 40 -
IV. GREMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS.                                               - 41 -



- iii 
Annex 1.1:   Summary of the General Ecology Law ........................................   - 45 -
Annex 1.2:   Regulations and Technical Norms of the General Ecology Law ........   49 -
Annex 1.3:   Summary of the 1990-1994 National Environmental Protection
Program ......................  - 60 -
Annex 1.4:   Organizational charts of:
(a) SEDUE ...............................................................   - 62 -
(b) SEDUE State Delegation ......................                        - 63 -
Annex 1.5:   Protected Natural Areas iP Mexico ......................                   - 64 -
Annex 1.6:   Letter from the Government of Mexico Describing the Strategy to
Transform SEDUE/SE into a Second Tier Institution (Translation) .....  - 68 -
Annex 1.7:   Coordination Agreement Between SEDUE and SARH (Translation) .... - 74 -
Annex 1.8:   Program for Decentralizing to SEDUE's State Delegations Review
of Some Types of Environmental Impact Assessments .......... ...........  - 77 -
Annex 1.9:   Letter from the Government of Mexico Describing Policy
Regarding Protected Natural Areas of Mexico (Translation) ........ ...... - 82 -
Annex 2.1:   Technical Standards to be Enacted Under the Environmental Project ... - 102 -
Annex 2.2:   Terms of Reference for the Redesign of the National Water Quality
Monitoring Network to be Operated by SEDUE/SE and CNA ........... - 109 -
Annex 2.3:   Terms of Reference of Studies on Economic Instruments for the
Environment to be Commissioned in Year 1 .................. ............... - 114 -
Annex 2.4:   Eligibility Criteria for Providing GET Support to Protected Areas ......  - 128 -
Annex 3.1:   Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Project .......... ......... - 129 -
Annex 3.2:   Timetable for Initiation, Completion and Discussion with the Bank
of Studies to be Carried Out Under the Project ............... .............  - 144 -
Annex 3.3:   Staff Training ..............................................             - 149 -
Annex 4.1:   Cost of Project Components by Expenditure Category .....................     .- 151 -
Annex 4.2:   Annual Cost of Project Components ...........................................  - 152 -
Annex 4.3:   Annual Cost by Category of Expenditure ..................................... - 153 -
Annex 4.4:   Loan Disbursement Schedule ..............................................    - 154 -
Annex 4.5:   GET Grant Disbursement Schedule ............................................   - 155 -
Annex 5.1:   Documents in the Project File ..............................................    - 156 -
Mae: IBRD - 23195
IBRD - 23536



- iv -
ENVIROMENTAL PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos -- BANOBRAS
Guarantor:       United Mexican States
Ecguilng
Ag_ncy:          Secretariat for Urban Development and Ecology -- SEDUE
Amogunt:         US$50 million equivalent; GET Grant US$30 million equivalent
loan Terms:      Repayment in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at the
Bank's standard variable rate
Beneficiaries:    SEDUE and State environmental entities
£wiect
Cabiectives:     The overall objective of the proposed project would be to support the
government's ability to carry out key environmental protection and natural
resource management functions in the short term and at the same time to
strengthen the institutional and policy framework to enable the government to
carry out these functions in a more efficient and decentralized manner in the
future. The project would support the government's strategy of transforming
SEDUE's Subsecretaria de Ecologia (SEDIT/SE) over time into a highly
qualified second tier organization that supervises and coordinates
environmental work carried out by other levels of government or other
federal agencies, or under contract to private sector firms.
pescription:     The project would finance the first phase of the government's environmental
program concentrating on key functions of SEDUE/SE and setting the stage
for a more decentralized approach, plus activities and studies to support
preparation of a second phase which would focus on state-level
environmental agencies, building on the experience of the first phase. The
first phase would have three components. Compgnent-I would finance key
environmental services, namely monitoring and controlling water and air
pollution (29%), minimizing potential negative environmental impacts of
public and private sector investment projects (11%) and conserving
biodiversity (44%). Component II would strengthen sector management and
administration, through institutional strengthening of SEDUE/SE (4%), a
pilot decentralization prograrn with up to five states (5%), and the
commissioning of special studies to explore the use of economic instruments
to complement the current heavily command and control approach to



- v -
environmeatal management (1%). Component III would support the
strengthening of the regulatory framework through the preparation of
additional technical standards for pollution control and naturai resource
protection (3%). Preparation for the second phase of the government's
sectoral program would involve carrying out four pre-investment studies and
financing the activities of a cocrdinating unit reporting to the SEDUE's
Under-Secretary for Ecology to prepare the program (3%).
Bfflnerits:       Mexico's environmental problems are grave. The country can reap
significant benefits from investing in establishing an adequate institutional
and policy framework for systematically addressing these problems. The key
functions component would result in reduced air and water pollution,
systematic evaluation of potential negative environmental effects of public
and private sector investments and design of mitigating activities, and
protection of endemic and endangered species, and biological diversity of
global importance.
Risks:            By the time of the closing date (December 31, 1995), the proposed project is
expected to increase the recurrent costs of SEDUE/SE by about 30 percent
above the current level. Given that the SEDUE/SE's 1991 budget accounts
for less than 0.2 percent of the total federal budget, this increase would be
fully within the absorptive capacity of the federal budget if the current strong
political commitment holds. Two potential risks are that: (i) a decline in
apparent strong current political commitment to strengthen SEDUE/SE
would lead to the problems of inaction, failure to provide adequate
counterpart funds in a timely manner, and a slow pace of disbursement; and
(ii) if some cost recovery or other mechanisms for ensuring a sustainable
resource base for SEDUE/SE are not achieved by the close of the proposed
project, SEDUE/SE's ability to sustain increased recurrent costs would be
subject to the same budgetary uncertainty that led to the weakening of the
agency in the past. Project design minimizes these risks by supporting the
creation of an inter-secretarial task force to address the issues of sector
financing and the use of economic instruments, and by including in the
project provisions for monitoring the adequacy of the budget. Regarding the
proposed protected areas program (to be financed by a GET grant), there are
two potential risks: (i) a technical risk that SEDUE would have difficulty in
producing in a timely manner management plans deemed satisfactory to
protect the biodiversity in the targeted protected areas; and (ii) a managerial
risk that SEDUE would have difficulty in managing effectively the protected
areas program. The project would provide technical assistance to SEDUE to
minimize both risks to an acceptable level.



- vi -
Proect Cos SuMmary:
Local      Foreign    Toitl
--------(UJS$ millions) --
(a) Key functions component    .Q.24         110D
i. Pollution control         30.1         5.3       35.4
Ii. Environmental impact      11.9        1.1       13.0
Iii. Biodiversity            53.4         1.8       55.2
(b) Modernization of Envir. Mgt.    .1      2 8       jQ12
i. Institutional strengthening  1.5       2.8        4.3
ii. Decentralization          5.5         0.0        5.5
iii, Economic instruments      1.1        0.0        1.1
(c) Legislation/regulations/standards   4.1  Q         A
(d) Studies                      2,1 1.1               2
(e) Project coordination unit    1 2        0.1         1 3
Base cost estimates (a-d)      110.9       11.2      122.1
(e) Contingencies
i. Physical                   0.6        0.3         0.9
ii. Price                     3.3         0.3        3.6
PROJECT COSTS                  114.8       11.8      126.6
(of which taxes)                                    13.0
Financing Plan:
US$ millions     MO
IBRD                      50.0          39 a/
GET                       30.0          24
Government of Mexico      46.6          37
a/  44% of total project costs net of taxes



- vii -
Estimated Loan and Grant Disbursements:
Bank FY:       92   93   94   95   96
--- --in US$ millions-
Annual         8.0* 17.0 12.0  9.4  3.6
Cumulative     8.0 25.0 37.0 46.4 50.0
GET grant
Annual         3.1* 6.8  9.2  9.0  1.9
Cumulative     3.1  9.9  19.1 28.1 30.0
Cumulative total 11.1 34.9 56.1 74,5 80.0
*     Including retroactive financing of up to US$5 million for expenditures incurred after
March 1, 1991, and the initial deposit of US$5 million into the special account for the
Bank loan.
Including an initial deposit of US$2.5 million into the special account for the GET grant.
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable



- 1
1. INTROUTQ
1.1   In 1982, after three decades of high growth and increasing government involvement in the
economy, Mexico entered a period of economic crisis. Faced by rising Interest rates in
international financial markets and falling oil prices, the country was no longer able to generate
the resources necessary to finance costly public policies and programs that were put in place
during the preceding period of prosperity. In response to the crisis, the government took strong
measures to stabilize the economy and open it to foreign competition, especially during the second
half of the decade. Key reforms during this period included the dismantling of trade barriers,
liberalization of financial markets, tax reform, and privatization of public enterprise. As a result
of these comprehensive policy measures, Mexico has become one of the most open economies in
the world, and growth rates thave again turned significantly positive. At the same time, shrinking
budgets of sectoral secretariats (min:stries) that were necessary to bring the federal budget under
control have led to significant weakening of several of the of these secretariats. The country is
now turning its attention to defining the appropriate role of the public sector in an open economy,
and to strengthening secretariats to carry out important government functions.
1.2    Enivironmental problems in Mexico have been exacerbated by several decades of
industrialization without assessment of, or attention to, environmental costs. A number of policy
failures have contributed to such problems, includir-: (i) weak institutional capacity, which has
resulted in weak enforcement of legislation; (ii) agricultural policies which led to excessive use of
natural resources and increased rural-urban migration; (iii) subsidies for pasture and cattle
ranching, which promoted deforestation and consequent soil erosion; and (iv) subsidies to
consumers of natural resources, which encouraged excessive demand, waste and corresponding
investments in infrastructure for resource supply and waste treatment.
1.3    The Mexican population is heavily urban, with over 70 percent of all Mexicans living in
urban areas. About half of the. labor force lives in the three largest cities (Mexico City,
Guadalajara and Monterrey), and almost a quarter of the country's industrial establishments are
located in these cities. This concentration of population and indLtstry has led to serious problems
of air, water and soil pollution. At the same time, in rural areas, development pressures and
illegal trade in wildlife threaten to destroy Mexico's considerable wealth in biodiversity. In the
past, in an effort to reduce population pressure in urban areas, settlement schemes have opened up
previously untouched tracts of forest. The resulting deforestation and uncontrolled trade in
wildlife have put at risk Mexico's wealth in plant and animal life and many endemic and
endangered species are close to extinction.
1.4    Faced with these natural resources management issues, and consistent with economic
principles of allocation of scarce resources, the government has increasingly taken action to force
individuals and institutions to face the social costs of their private decisions. To do so effectively,
the public sector must have the capability to collect information on environmental damages and to
regulate, as appropriate, through command and control procedures or economic incentives and
instruments, the conditions under which these scarce resources may be exploited.



- 2 -
II. ElNVIRONENTALSETOR
A.    KeynvironDn Issues a-PrQoI nm
2.1    Major environmental problems confronting Mexico are: (i) air pollution in major
metropolitan areas, of which the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA) is the single most
important case; (ii) water scarcity and water pollution, from discharges of untreated wastewaters
from industry and municipalities, and from improper disposal of hazardous wastes; (iii) soil
erosion; and (iv) deforestation and destruction of natural ecosystems which lead to loss of
blodiversity. This section provides a brief background on these environmental issues.
A. I   Air Pollution
2.2    Air pollution affects most of Mexico's largest cities as a result of emissions mainly by
vehicles and by industry. The MCMA is by far the most polluted city in the country, where
nearly 15 million people live, representing almost 20 percent of Mexico's population. An
estimated 4.5 million tons of pollutants are released into the atmosphere of MCMA each year.
Motor vehicle related pollutants account for 82 percent of total emissions; stationary sources,
which include some 30,000 industrial plants, account for 12 percent of the total by volume; and
natural sources, substantially increased by deforestation and erosion, account for the remaining 6
percent.
2.3    The effects of air pollutant emissions in the MCMA are aggravated by geographical and
meteorological conditions which are not propitious to dispersion. The MCMA is located in the
valley of Mexico which is at an average altitude of 2,200 meters, and is surrounded by a
mountain chain where the average altitude is about 3,200 meters, with some peaks exceeding
5,000 meters. In winter times, thermal inversions occur fiom 20-30 days per month. Formation
of pollutarts is also fostered by the high level of insolation in the valley.
2.4    Critical air pollutants in MCMA include ozone, suspended particulate matter, carbon
monoxide and lead. Peak ozone concentrations are more than four times the accepted national
and international norms - the highest of any city in the world. Peak and annual average
particulate concentrations are more than four times the applicable norms. Concentrations of
carbon monoxide, nitrogen and sulfur dioxides and lead also frequently exceed the national and/or
international norms, although to a lesser degree. The health effects associated to these levels of
pollution are expected to be extremely high, as well as the effects on vegetation, material,
visibility, and acid deposition.
A.2   Water Scarcity and Water Pollution
2.5    Mexico is a country with scarce water resources, which are badly distributed spatially,
temporally throughout the year, and in relation to demographic and industrial location. Only 15
percent of surface waters are above the elevation of 500 meters, where 75 percent of the
population lives and where 80 percent of industrial plants are installed. Irrigation of high
elevation arid and semi-arid land accounts for some 85 percent of water use, and is extremely
inefficient. Some 28 billion m3/year are pumped from groundwater for irrigation, with the result



3 -
that over 80 major aquifers are being overexploited. Out of 316 river basins in the country, only
31 carry 92 percent of the organic pollution, and only 5 (Lerma-Santiago, Panico, Balsas Blanco
and San Juan) account for 60 percent organic pollution.
2.6    Water pollution contributes to - --intraction of waterborne diseases, which are still the
number one cause of infant mortality in iv;.ico. Estimates of industrial waste water range from
80-184 m3lsecond, and for municipal waste water they range from 200-255 ms/second'.
Industries generating most of the pollution are oil, paper, foundries, textile, mining, coffee
processing, sugar and leather. As for municipal waste waters, the SEDUE estimates that there
are 246 treatment plants, with an overall capacity to treat 16 m3/second, of which only 8
m3/second are effectively treated. Water quality reports only cover total BOD (biological oxygen
demand), estimated at some 2.2 million tons/year, and parameters such as temperature, pH,
solids, oils, greases and coliform. There is no comprehensive information available on heavy
metals, pesticides and other tcxic substances. Additionally, non-point sources of pollution have
not been studied, while there has been an increasing consumption of agro-chemicals, including
pesticides that have been banned in most industrialized countries2.
2.7    Municipal and Industrial $olid and Hazardous Waste. Contributing to water pollution, at
least 13,000 tons per day of murnicipal solid waste are dumped on abandoned land or thrown in
nearby waterways, while a number of new landfills are inoperable or improperly managed. At
the same time, an estimated 3 m "lion tons of hazardous waste (carcinogenic, mutagenic and
teratogenic substances that are not biodegradable) and some 15 million tons of other industrial
waste are dumped eacn year outside of designated areas or flushed into municipal sewer systems.
2.8    SEDUE estimates that total municipal solid waste generation in the country amounts to 52
thousand tons/day, with the per capita waste ranging from 0.96 kg/day in the Federal District to
0.54 kg/day in other regions. Even though 75 percent of this total are collected, 65 percent of
the collected waste are still inadequately disposed of. The 13,000 tons/day which a&e not
collected, are dumped on streets or abandoned land, or into nearby waterways. A significant
number of landfills are inoperable or improperly managed, largely because tariffs do not cover the
costs of the service.
A.3   Soil Erosion
2.9    Soil erosion and its associated negative impact on agricultural productivity, water
retention, runoff and aquifer recharge are a major environmental problem in Mexico. Satellite
imagery studies executed by the federal Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(SARI) reveal that soil erosion is country-wide problem, increasing at an alarming rate, and is
1 The federal Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology (SEDUE) estimates that the total
capacity of existing municipal waste water treatment plants covers less than 10 percent of
discharges, and reports that 70 percent of such installations are out of service or have much lower
performances than intended.
2 With regard to pesticides, in particular, the major problems are operators' poisoning and
potential foodstuff contamination. However, information on both is scarce and incomplete.



-4-
mostly Irreversible. The most recent survey (1980) indicated that about 80 percent of Mexico's
land is subject to some degree of erosion; recent aerial photograph studies indicate that areas
classified as moderately eroded have now become severely ended. Sevcre erosion Oosses from
11-15 tons/ha/year) now affect about 42 percent of the Mexican territory (83 million hectares).
2.10   On-farm costs of erosion include reduced crop yields, land removed from crop production
or used in less productive enterprises, and additional production costs (such as fertilizers, to
replace lost nutrients). Non-farm losses to erosion include siltation of waterways, dams and other
collection sites, and destruction of the natural resource base in watersheds. International evidence
on the relative weight of on and off-farm costs are conflicting and inconclusive.
2.11   Soil losses affect the ability of the agricultural sector to maintain present levels of
production. SARH estimates that by the turn of the century production of maize will fall by more
than one million tons (or 12.5 percent) without adequate and timely soil and water conservation
measures. Moreover, over one million hectares of productive forests, crop and livestock areas
would be irretrievably lost over the next 7-10 years.
A.4   Loss of Biological Diversity
2.12   Mexico's impressive natural biological resources make it one of the world's 13 "mega-
diversity" countries that together account for about 60 percent of the planet's species. Mexico
ranks fourth in the world in total number of species, first in reptiles, second in mammals, and
fourth in amphibians. Seven of the eight species of the world's marine turtles come to Mexican
shores to lay their eggs. The degree of endemism (species found in no other country) is also very
high - over half of the country's reptiles, amphibians, and plants; nearly half of the country's
freshwater fishes; and approximately one-third of the country's mammals. Because Mexico forms
part of a land bridge between North and South America, and houses a broad variety of
ecosystems, the country is extremely important to migratory species (especially birds, whales,
turtles, butterflies and bats) who spend as much of half of the year in Mexican territory.
2.13   Despite the country's wealth in biological diversity, and the tangible and intangible
present and future benefits to people of Mexico's valuable ecosystems, these resources are under
increasing development pressure. The greatest threats come from conversion of natural habitats,
especially forests, to agricultural uses and cattle ranching. Only one-third of the country remains
under forest (it was once 60 percent), and only 25 percent of the forest lands are considered
"intact" biologically. Another factor has been the lucrative trade in wildlife. Although wildlife
trade is strictly regulated by Mexican law, Mexico is one of Latin America's largest exporters of
wildlife, as regulations are only weakly enforced.
B.    The Legal and Institutional Framework
B. I   Legislation and Regulations
2.14   Environmental legislation in Mexico is generally adequate. Article 27 of the Mexican
Constitution establishes the obligation of the federal government to conserve the nation's natural



resources and to preserve and restore ecological equilibrium in the public interest. Article 73
gives the Congress the authority to promulga8.e laws defining the respective roles of the federal,
state and local levels of government in environmental protection. Exercising this constitutional
authority, the Congress passed the Ley General del Equilibrio Ecologico y la Proteccion al
Ambiente (General Ecology Law) which went into effect in March 1988. It contains rules which
define ecological planning and zoning, environmental impact studies, restoration of degraded
ecosystems, protection of natural areas and plant and animal life, sound exploitation of natural
resources, and pollution prevention and control. The Law contains the framework for ensuring a
more sensitive and sustainable development pattern in Mexico through improved intersectoral
cooperation, increased social participation, and the creation of strong new environmental
standards. The primary difference between this law and the previous Ley Federal de Proteccion
al Ambiente of 1981 (Federal Environmental Protection Law) is the multi-tiered nature of the
institutional framework it establishes. The new law is also considerably stronger with regard to
wildlife conservation and management of natural protected areas. Annex 1.1 provides a summary
of the General Ecology Law.
2.15   Institutionally, the General Ecology Law defines the areas under federal responsibility and
leaves responsibility for other areas to the states. This approach contrasts with the earlier law
which limited state and municipal responsibility to a few defined areas and reserved the rest to the
federal government. Among the responsibilities reserved for the federal government under this
new law are: to establish federal environmental standards, to evaluate environmental impacts of
major projects (including federal public works and most large industrial activities), to carry out
environmental protection actions in areas under federal jurisdiction (e.g. federal protected areas),
and to create and manage federal natural protected areas. State and local governments have
responsibility in such areas as regulating and controlling water pollution within the jurisdiction of
the state, verifying vehicle emissions, operating air quality monitoring systems, routine
monitoring and enforcement of regulations and standards for water pollution from municipal
sewage systems, regulating and disposing of solid wastes, and creating and managing state or
municipal natural protected areas.
2.16   To date, the federal government has published four regulations to the General Ecology
Law, in the areas of: (i) environmental impact assessment; (ii) hazardous wastes; (iii) prevention
and control of mobile source pollution in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area; and (iv) prevention
and control of atmospheric pollution. The government is in the final stages of preparing a
regulation in the area of prevention and control of water pollution. Prior to loan effectiveness,
this regulation will be issued and made effective (para. 4.3 (c)). The federal govermnent has
published some 50 technical standards in the areas of air and water pollution and hazardous
wastes. Despite this progress i2 consolidating the regulatory framework at the federal level, there
remain regulatory gaps and considerable work still needs to be done in preparing technical
standards in many areas. In addition, it is also necessary to review the legal framework to
identify and resolve conflicts between the General Ecology Law and other legislation, particularly
with regard to agrarian reform, rural development and public works. Annex 1.2 contains a list of
regulations and technical standards already established, and Annex 2.1 provides a list of additional
technical standards to be issued in the areas of wastewater, atmospheric pollution, solid and
hazardous waste, and environmental impact and risk assessment. The proposed project would
finance the technical studies necessary to support the preparation of over 100 technical standards
(para. 3.46).



-6-
2.17   At the state level, since 1988, 27 of Mexico's 31 states and territories have promulgated
their own environmental laws complementing the General Ecology Law. It is expected that within
the next few years all states will have passed environmental legislation. No state has yet
established its own technical standards in any area (states may only do so if the norms are at least
as strict as those of the federal government).
B.2   Instutional Setting
2.18   Ederal leve. Most federal responsibilities in the environmental sector fall within the
jurisdiction of the S  ria adeDes     Ltano en Ecologia (SEDUE). The Comision Nacional
dp Agjja (CNA) is responsible for managing water resources and surveilling effluent discharges
from municipal wastewater treatment plants and agricultural activities. The Secretaria de
Agricutura y REcgrsos Hidraulico (SARH) was responsible for managing federal natural
protected areas until 1985, when this responsibility was transferred to SEDUE. SARH retains
responsibility for soil conservation, reforestation, and regulating pesticide use (in coordination
with SEDUE and the Secretar ia  Salud. The Srtaria de Salud coordinates with SEDUE and
other federal secretariats as necessary in the area of environmental health (e.g. wastewater
treatment and use, studies of enivironmental impact on health, and regulation of hazardous
substances). In order to improve coordination between federal secretariats, and between the
federal and state and local governments, the General Ecology Law established the Comision
Nacional de E.ologgi (CONADE). CONADE, under the leadership of SEDUE/SE, analyzes
environmental issues and proposes priority programs and actions for consideration by the relevant
secretariats.
2.19   SEDUE is composed of three operational sub-secretariats: (i) urban development, (ii)
housing, and (iii) ecology. Within the Sub-Secretariat for Ecology (SEDUE/SE) there are four
General Directorates as follows:
(i)  the Direeco General de NLormatividad y Reeulacion Ecologica(GN ),wihs
(i)~ ~ c nG          th    _ ( DGNR                   E     ) , which is
responsible for preparing regulations and technical norms, reviewing environmental
impact and risk assessments of investment operations, and coordinating ecological
planning and zoning;
(ii)  the D1ie_ion Genal de Prevencion v Control de la Contaminacion Ambiental
(DGPCCA), which is responsible for monitoring compliance with air, water and soil
pollution standards;
(iii)  the X ion Genel de Conserva_ion Ecologica de los Recursos Naturabe (DGCERN),
which is responsible for managing the federal system of protected areas and for
monitoring compliance with legislation regarding wildlife protection; and
(iv)  the Direccion General de Promocion Ambital y  _Participacion Comunitaria (DGPAPC),
which is responsible for environmental education and community participation in
environmental protection.
2.20   SEDUE/SE has faced serious limitations in the past in carrying out its mandate under
Mexicani law due to insufficient technical and support staff, lack of office (information and



-7-
conmmunications) equipment, inadequate administrative manuals and procedures, and over-
centralization of decision-making. The leanest year for SEDUE/SE was 1989, after a steady
decline in resources between 1986 and 1989 and followed by an appreciable increase in 1990 and
1991. Between 1986 and 1989, SEDUE/SE's operational budget declined 60 percent in real
terms and salaries for higher level permanent staff fell 50 percent. SEDUE/SE lost approximately
25 percent of its permanent and fixed term staff; 20 percent of its telephones; and 35 percent of
its functioning vehicles. The 1990 operational budget was 30 percent higher in real terms than the
1989 level. As a result of its still precarious state, except for a core of experienced and dedicated
higher level staff, SEDUE/SE has difficulty retaining qualified staff. Because of its low pay
scales, SEDUE/SE tends to hire and train individuals with little prior experience in the sector;
once trained, they promptly leave SEDUE/SE for higher paying jobs in the private sector. The
government recognizes SEDUE/SE's budget-related problems, and is steadily increasing the
resources available to SEDUE/SE for environmental protection and natural resources
management. Nevertheless, it will take considerable additional budget increases in real terms to
enable SEDUE/SE to recover from its deteriorated state and to build up sufficient capacity to
perform its critical normative and coordination functions under the more decentralized approach
envisioned under the General Ecology Law. Strengthening SEDUE/SE to play a leadership role
in tackling Mexico's difficult environmental challenges would be the primary focus of the
proposed project. The project would support the creation of an inter-secretarial task force to
address the issues of sector financing and the use of economic instruments (para. 3.39), and the
annual review process would include monitoring the adequacy of the budget (para. 3.75).
2.21   SEDUE is represented in each state by a delegate and an under-delegate for ecology, with
operational units responsible for inspecting industry to ensure compliance with emission standards,
monitoring water and air quality, supervising management of federal protected areas, and
enforcing laws on wildlife protection. The delegations too continue to suffer from severe
financial limitations which limit the effectiveness with which they are able to function. They lack
sufficient technical and support staff, office equipment, field equipment and vehicles, and access
to adequate laboratory facilities to monitor effectively compliance with emission standards and
ambient air œmd water quality. Annex 1.4 contains organizational charts of SEDUE and a typical
state delegat. n.
2.22 State level. As noted in paragraph 2.17, 27 of Mexico's states have passed environmental
legislation (the first was Queretero in mid-1988). The institutional arrangements set up under
these laws vary, and state agencies have only recently begun to function. The states of Queretero
and Nuevo Leon are the farthest along in setting up their environmental authorities and several
programs are now well underway. The state of Jalisco, on the other hand, has only just begun.
As with other states, SEDUE's delegation in the state is working closely with the state
government to establish the state authority and train its staff. Clearly, for SEDUE/SE to
decentralize many of its functions in the manner prescribed under the General Ecology Law,
considerable work remains to be done to enable the states to take on these new functions.
SEDUE/SE is *n the best position to assist the states in increasing their capacity to play their
prescribed role, but because SEDUE/SE itself has been chronically underfunded, the agency has
had to devote its efforts to urgent routine functions and has only limited experience in providing
technical assistance to its counterparts at the state level. While the proposed project would initiate
pilot programs to strengthen a limited number of states, these issues could only be addressed more
fully under a possible follow-up project.



-8-
C.    Kae Government Sectoral Functions
C.1   Pollution Monitoring and Control
2.23   WgVteruality. Under Mexican law, SEDUE/SE is responsible for setting and ensuring
compliance with water quality standards. In order to evaluate the effectiveness of water pollution
control programs, SEDUE/SE has established a nationwide network for monitoring water quality,
comprised of 402 water quality monitoring stations around the country in rivers, lakes, reservoirs,
estuaries, beaches, ports and underground aquifers. Site selection for monitoring stations is based
on proximity to pollution sources; waterworks for municipal, industrial and agricultural uses;
fisheries and recreatior areas; important ecosystems and natural protected areas; as well as the
representativeness of the receiving body of water, ease of access and collection of samples. and
proximity to stations for analyzing water samples. SEDUE/SE's monitoring plan calls for
collecting samples from these stations each month and analyzing 20 basic water quality parameters
including ambient temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH, conductivity, BOD/COD, suspended
particulates, sulfates and fecal coliforms. Due to insufficient resources (material, equipment and
trained personnel) this monitoring system is not yet functioning adequately. The proposed project
would support SEDUE/SE's monitoring system and training of its personnel (para. 3.8).
2.24   CNA also operates monitoring stations around the country in order to verify the quality
(and quantity) of available water. In some cases the two institutions' collect samples from nearby
points, although the agencies collect the samples for different purposes and carry out different
analyses. Nevertheless, there is room for increasing the efficiency of collection and analysis of
water samples by coordinating the location of sampling stations and the parameters analyzed, as
well as unifying data bases containing water quality information. SEDUE/SE and CNA recognize
this and have already begun discussing how best to coordinate their efforts. The proposed project
would support the redesign of the national water quality monitoring system to be managed jointly
by SEDUE and CNA (para. 3.8).
2.25   Air qualitv. SEDUE/SE is responsible for setting and enforcing air quality standards and
for maintaining a national information system. In the Federal District, SEDUE/SE is also
responsible for controlling fixed-source atmospheric pollution, and for establishing and operating
an air pollution monitoring system. SEDUE/SE currently operates a National Information System
on Stationary Sources (SNIFF), which currently contains data on only 5 percent of the nearly
135,000 small, medium and large stationary sources of atmospheric pollution in Mexico. Outside
of the Federal District, responsibility for monitoring air quality lies with state governments, who
may seek assistance from SEDUE/SE and must submit plans for establishing systems to monitor
air quality to SEDUE/SE for technical approval. States (and the authorities of the Federal
District) are also responsible for verifying vehicle emissions. The Federal District and a few
states (such as Queretero, Nuevo Leon and Jalisco) have made progress in establishing vehicle
emissions laboratories and air quality monitoring systems. Much work remains to be done,
however, and states will require considerable technical assistance from SEDUE/SE to plan and
establish their monitoring systems. The proposed project would support SEDUE/SE's efforts to
provide this assistance (para. 3.10)
2.26   Eonmental laboratories. SEDUE/SE presently maintains one central laboratory, 10
regional laboratories and 21 state level laboratories. State level laboratories carry out basic



-9-
analyses of water quality; regional laboratories are capable of carrying out slightly more complex
analyses of air, water, soil and solid wastes. The central laboratory, located in Mexico City,
carries out complex analyses and provides technical support to the entire system. Many of these
laboratories are operating In precarious conditions, with inadequate space, old equipment and
insufficient trained technical and support personnel.
2.27   Consistent with SEDUE/SE's plan to decentralize routine monitoring and enforcement
functions to the state level as states increase their capacity to handle this new responsibility,
SEDUE/SE places highest priority on consolidating and strengthening its central and regional
laboratories. Over the medium-term, SEDUE/SE's laboratory facilities in the states would be
phased out. This phasing out would be coordinated with the development and certification of
capacity at the state level and in the private sector, which would be supported under the proposed
project (para. 3.14).
2.28   Inspection and vigilance. Under various of its responsibilities as defined in the General
Ecology Law, SEDUE/SE must maintain a workforce of inspectors in the Federal District and
each of the states. These inspectors carry out routine inspections and investigate complaints,
identify infractions of existing standards and the measures that must be taken by non-complying
firms to comply with the standard, and conduct all follow-up inspections as necessary to ensure
compliance with agreements signed by SEDUE/SE and individual firms.
2.29  In the Mexico City Metropolitan Area alone, SEDUE/SE is responsible for inspecting
approximately 15,000 firms. In order to carry out this task in the metropolitan area, SEDUE/SE
has only 9 trained inspectors (3 for wastewater, 4 for atmospheric emissions, and 2 for noise) and
can mobilize another 8 lesser trained staff on an emergency basis. Throughout the rest of the
country, SEDUE/SE has 66 inspectors to cover some 40,000 firms. This number of inspectors is
clearly insufficient and the government has recently taken steps to increase the number of
inspectors. The proposed project would support SEDUE/SE's efforts to increase the number of
trained inspectors and to use their expertise more effectively to audit emissions reports submitted
by the firms themselves (para. 3.14).
C.2   Minimizing Negative Environmental Impacts of Investment Projects
2.30   Environmental impact and risk assessment. The General Ecology Law requires all public
or private sector activities and works that could potentially cause significant environmental
disturbance or exceed limits or conditions established in environmental regulations or technical
norms to receive prior authorization from the responsible level of government. If approved
conditionally, the proponent must demonstrate that all conditions have been met. In the case of
works or activities considered to be of high risk, the proponent must also present SEDUE/SE with
a risk assessment when requesting authorization.
2.31   Shortly after the General Ecology Law went into effect, SEDUE published a regulation on
enviromnental impact assessments, which defined specific areas where SEDUE must review an
impact assessment, procedures for preparing and presenting impact assessments (including
publication for public review), and sanctions for failing to comply with the regulation. On the
basis of the proponent's "general" impact assessment, or in some cases, manifestation that the
proposed project would not cause an environmental disturbance or exceed limits or conditions



- 10-
established in environmental regulations or technical norms, SEDUE/SE determines whether
additional information is required in the form of an "intermediate" or "specific" impact
assessment. On the basis of its review of the proponent's documentation, SEDUE may approve
the activity unconditionally, approve the activity with conditions, or reject the activity.
2.32   SEDUE/SE currently reviews about 600 impact assessments (of all three types) and 200
risk assessments each year. Within SEDUE/SE, it is the DGNRE that is responsible for carrying
out the review, with technical input from the DGCERN and the DGPCCA when appropriate. In
light of the fact that environmental assessments are relatively recent in Mexico, their quality is
often inadequate and SEDUE/SE frequently must request additional complementary information.
At the same time, SEDUE/SE is understaffed to carry out its own review function adequately,
including field visits and follow-up. In order to cope with its workload, SEDUE/SE must also
strengthen the staff in its state delegations to assume greater responsibility for reviewing
enviromnental assessments, and provide adequate supervision and technical support from the
central offices. The proposed project would support an action plan to strengthen SEDUE's state
delegations in this regard, and would strengthen SEDUE's central offices to review risk
assessments and complex impact assessments (para. 3.17).
2.33   Ecological Pianning and ZoninZ. Another strategy that SEDUE/SE is following in order
to facilitate the review of environmental assessments in the future is to work with public sector
agencies to carry out systematic ecological planning and zoning exercises prior to beginning large
investment projects (sometimes multi-sectoral) in a given geographic area. SEDUE/SE has
received from each federal sectoral agency a list of priority investment projects through the end of
1994. By locating each of these projects on a map, SEDUE/SE was able to identify areas that are
likely to come under increased environmental pressure over the next few years. Based on this
analysis, SEDUE/SE then proposed to the sector agencies involved to carry out ecological studies
and ecological planning and zoning exercises prior to finalizing the investment project. As a
general principle, the sector agencies are expected to bear the costs of carrying out the studies as
part of project preparation costs. SEDUE/SE's role is to assist the sector agencies by preparing
terms of reference, identifying consultants, and reviewing outputs. Finally, SEDUE/SE will
consolidate all of the information from the studies into a geographic information system (para.
3.21).
C.3   Conservation of Biodiversity
2.34 bistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas (SINAP). To protect its rich biological wealth,
Mexico has established a national system of protected areas, SINAP. Annex 1.5 lists the nine
management categories of these areas and describes their management objectives. Administration
of the SINAP is the responsibility of the DGCERN within SEDUE/SE.
2.35   By the mid-1980s, this system included over a hundred protected areas. A recent re-
evaluation of the biological value of these areas recognized that many were too small to be viable
over the long term or had become too degraded due to inadequate protection. Currently,
Mexico's SINAP consists of 66 natural protected areas, legally denominated as follows: 44
National Parks, 8 Biosphere Reserves, 13 Special Biosphere Reserves, and one Area for the
Protection of Flora and Fauna. The SINAP encompasses 5.5 million hectares, constituting almost
3 percent of the national territory (compared with 2.4 percent in Brazil, 4.0 percent in Argentina,



- I1 -
5.4 percent in Colombia, 8.6 percent in the USA, and 12.0 percent in Costa Rica). The proposed
project would support the identification of gaps in the habitats protected by the SINAP and the
possible expansion of the system (para. 3.49).
2.36   While the steady progress that the Mexican government has made towards the
establishment of a comprehensive network of protected areas is encouraging, the task of
identification and protection of critical habitats is not yet complete. Many existing areas are
seriously threatened by uncontrolled exploitation and population expansion into critical habitats,
often resulting in ecosystem deterioration and loss of biodiversity. During the fiscal contraction
of the 1980s, as the Mexican government attempted to stabilize the economy and put the country
back on the path of steady economic growth, the protected areas received inadequate staffing and
budgets, severely limiting the capability of managers to respond to threats to conservation.
Appropriate management and zoning of the protected areas is critical since the majority of these
areas contain private and communal lands (ejidos) which subject the protected areas to pressures
for the use of their natural resources.
2.37   Mexico is now seeking to strengthen its capacity to protect its biodiversity resources,
taking into account its limited resources and the need to set priorities carefully. The country's
strategy emphasizes the need to strike a balance between conservation and exploitation of the
resources contained in its protected areas. This balance is achieved through careful planning,
culminating in the preparation and implementation of a management plan for each protected area.
Based on a detailed analysis of the physical and social characteristics of the protected area, the
management plan specifies the specific objectives to be achieved in the area, and the regulations
and programmatic activities necessary to ensure the achievement of those objectives. This
approach is described in the document, "Protected Natural Areas of Mexico: Legislation and
Management Plans" (Translation), transmitted to the Bank by SEDUE's Under-secretary for
Ecology (Annex 1.9). This document would provide the basis for support, under the proposed
project (with financing from the Global Environment Trust Fund -- GET), for the effective
management of up to 17 high-priority protected areas (para. 3.24). In addition, some of the
country's biologically richest areas are still not protected at all, and the productivity of the
protected areas could be enhanced through the establishment of biological corridors which allow
gene and species recruitment between areas. The proposed project would support a set of studies
to help prepare a strategy and regulations for the establishment of biological corridors (para.
3.52).
2.38   Wildlife Trade. Mexican conservation authorities also face the task of controlling
significant illegal trade in wildlife. This trade, spurred largely by demand for pets and
ornamental plants abroad, represents a tremendous drain on the countries' flora and fauna.
Parrots, sea turtles, cacti, iguanas and caimans are among the favored species, despite Mexico's
outright prohibition of or strict restrictions against their trade. In fact, Mexico's strict law goes
as far as to prohibit all commercial import and export of live wildlife and pets that are native
species, as well as the export of wildlife products. Excepted from those prohibitions are wildlife
parts (such as leathers) from non-endangered species and from animals bred in captivity. Given
the importance of Mexico's shores as a breeding ground for most of the world's species of marine
turtles, it is particularly important to protect these breeding grounds from poaching. Mexico
recently signed the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora (CITES) which provides and international framework and support network for controlling
trade in endangered species. The proposed project would support the government's capability to



- 12 -
fulfill its commitment to control trade in endangered species (para. 3.29).
D.    Goyernmegnt Strategy for the Future
2.39   The government's priorities for environmental policies and actions, as summarized in the
1989-94 National Development Plan, are: (i) to strengthen the legal framework to prevent
deterioration of the environment, and use environmental regulation as an efficient instrument of
environmental protection of the country's geographical zones and regions; (ii) to subject all
economic activities and projects to strict criteria of environmental care; (iii) to design policies and
take actions to prevent further deterioration of, and improve, air and water quality, prevent or
slow down soil erosion, and introduce adequate treatment of solid wastes and hazardous materials;
and (iv) to increase public awareness of, and participation in, environmental protection.
2.40   The legal and institutional framework for environmental protection and natural resources
management is now well established in Mexico. In early 1990, SEDUE published the "National
Program for Environmental Protection: 1990-1994. " This program is intended to orient the
efforts of the federal government and social groups in environmental protection. Key emphases
of the program (described in greater detail in Annex 1.3) are: (i) decentralization of
environmental control authority to state and municipal levels of government; (ii) ecological
planning and zoning, including appropriate designation of wildlands as natural protected areas;
(iii) employment of the "Polluter Pays Principle" to ensure that development decisions internalize
associated environmental costs, and to help defray the cost of environmental management; and
(iv) interagency coordination.
2.41   With regard to SEDUE/SE's own role in the sector, it is apparent that the agency cannot
continue to attempt as it has in the past to carry out front-line environmental protection functions.
For example, if SEDUE/SE inspectors were to attempt to visit each year all of the 15,000 firms
in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area that fall under SEDUE/SE's jurisdiction, the agency would
need an workforce of about 600 inspectors in the metropolitan area alone;3 to visit all 40,000
firms around the country, SEDUE/SE would need about three times that number. Of course the
agency would also need to hire additional supervisors and support staff, and increase its physical
facilities and laboratory and legal support. The fiscal costs of attempting effectively to follow this
approach would be very substantial.
2.42   Rather than to continue to function as a front-line enforcement agency, however,
SEDUE/SE plans to adopt the approach of other industrialized countries -- that is, to require
firms to monitor their own emissions, to audit firms' self-monitoring reports (randomly and based
on other environmental quality data that SEDUE/SE must collect), and to impose stiff penalties if
reports are found to have been falsified. In order for SEDUE/SE to adopt this more modem
approach in all areas of environmental protection and natural resources management within its
mandate, SEDUE/SE plans to transform itself into a second tier institution - a relatively small
agency with a highly trained and experienced staff that supervises and coordinates the efforts of
other federal and state agencies, and of the private sector, through a combination of technical
3Assuming that inspectors working in teams of three could visit and follow up on about 80
firms each year.



- 13 -
assistance, and regulatory and market-based instruments. SEDUE/SE's strategy in this regard is
contained in a letter from the government (see para. 3.4 and Annex 1.6).
2.43   Within SEDUE/SE, the beginnings of this strategy are already apparent. In the area of
environmental impact assessment, SEDUE/SE has been working with the sectoral secretariats of
the federal government to carry out on ecological planning and zoning studies in geographic areas
where these secretariats plan major investments over the next few years. SEDUE/SE's role is to
assist the sectoral secretariats to identify study needs, prepare terms of reference for consultants to
carry out the studies, and review the studies' findings. All costs of the studies are borne by the
sectoral secretariat itself as normal costs of project preparation. With regard to monitoring air
and water quality, SEDUE/SE has decided to invest heavily in strengthening central and regional
laboratories, and to rely on private laboratory services for basic analyses. SEDUE/SE and CNA
are working to harmonize their water quality information systems, coordinating collection and
analysis of samples as well as developing a single data base for storage and retrieval of water
quality data. Finally, SEDUE/SE is moving toward giving greater responsibility to industry to
monitor emissions, with SEDUE/SE's inspectors conducting environmental audits to verify self-
monitoring reports.
E.    Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.44   The Bank's assistance program for Mexico is designed to support the recovery of
economic growth, and places special emphasis on strengthening the social sectors and on
protecting the environment. Within the environmental sector, the focus is on efforts to improve
resource use and productivity, as well as to ensure that policy analysis evaluates the social costs
(including environmental impacts) of potential investments and policies. Given the weaknesses of
the environmental sector the Bank's resources and presence are needed to help catalyze
administrative reform, institutional strengthening, and policy development in such areas as the
efficient use of regulation and the application of the polluter pays principle.
2.45   The proposed project would complement on-going and proposed projects in the
agriculture, infrastructure and industry sectors, which tackle the environmental problems
discussed in Section 2A through the sectoral secretariats. These operations rely on an adequate
institutional set-up in the environmental sector to ensure compliance with existing environmental
norms. (Mhe legal and regulatory framework and the institutional responsibility for policy making
and implementation of environmental protection and natural resource management are described in
Section B.) The Forestry Development Project (Ln. 3115-ME) aims at supporting sustainable
forestry and includes resources for SEDUE/SE to prepare management plans for protected areas
in the two states in the project area. The Water and Sanitation Sector Project (Ln. 3271-ME) and
the Decentralization and Regional Development Project (Ln. 3310-ME) also have environment
components working with CNA and environmental agencies in four states, respectively. The
Mining Sector Restructuring Project (Ln. 3359-ME) includes support for enacting industry-
specific environmental standards for the mining sector. The Irrigation and Drainage Sector
Project (Ln. 3419) supports CNA in strengthening adherence to environmental safeguards in
irrigation projects. A proposed Transport Air Pollution Project (PY92) in the Mexico City
Metropolitan Area would assist Mexico in reducing air pollution from mobile sources in the
MlCMA. A proposed Agricultural Technology Project (FY92) would support the efforts of the
extension service to stem on-farm soil erosion. In addition, a work program and projects aimed



- 14 -
at phasing out the use of ozone depleting substances are at an advanced stage of preparation and
would be financed on concessional terms under the provisions of the Montreal Protocol.
2.46   Batignale for Involvem¢nt of the lobal Environment Facilitv (GEF). Mexico's SINAP
contains species and ecosystems of global importance. Given the urgency to of addressing critical
air and water pollution problems, the government is not able to provide SINAP with the level of
resources needed to ensure that this important biodiversity is protected. In light of heavy
development pressures on protected areas, if management of these areas is not improved and
additional resources quickly allocated to protection activities, the potential near-term losses in
species, both in variety and in uniqueness, are vast. The proposed protected areas program would
ensure effective protection and management of up to 17 important protected areas covering 80
percent of SINAP's land area. It would also yield lessons that would be applicable to other
countries' situations. An allocation of US$30 million from the GET is justified because: (i) the
program would allow the testing in several ecosystems of a variety of approaches to protecting
biodiversity in tlhe context of specific challenges to the viability of individual protected areas; and
(ii) the approach to financing (i.e. a time-slice type operation) if found successful, could be used
in other countries where the legal and institutional conditions would permit a flexible project
design and allow the rapid absorption of a relatively large amount of resources.
F.    Lessons from Experience
2.47   By focusing support on Mexico's central environmental agency, the project would
complement the Bank's efforts in environmental protection in other sectoral projects. It would
address important institutional weaknesses of SEDUE/SE and regulatory gaps identified in the
context of the recent Project Completion Report for the Mexico Pollutien Control Project (Ln.
2154-ME). A major lesson of that project and industrial pollution control projects elsewhere is
the importance of strong capacity to enforce pollution standards and to provide the proper
incentives for polluters to invest in pollution control equipment. The proposed project is also
designed to relieve a critical bottleneck to implementation of environmentally sound investment
projects in Mexico caused by SEDUE/SE's currently weak capacity to review the volume of
environmental impact assessments required under Mexican law. This problem has been
highlighted in supervision reports of a number of on-going projects. The proposed project would
support the initial phase of SEDUE/SE's strategy to decentralize (to SEDUE's state delegations)
its workload in reviewing environmental impact assessments, and increase the agency's technical
and managerial capacity to carry out the reviews effectively and efficiently.
2.48   A recent review of supervision experience with several Bank-financed projects in Mexico
with environmental components indicated the following major implementation difficulties:
o     Due to budgetary reductions in the mid-1980s, SEDUE/SE has had limited technical and
financial capacity to set and enforce technical standards. Staff turnover in all areas is
high, and SEDUE/SE's small, poorly paid staff of inspectors has had difficulties in
enforcing industry compliance with established technical standards. The proposed project
would support a strategy of transforming SEDUE/SE's staff into a better remunerated
cadre of qualified, experienced and motivated environmental managers.
o     Institutional coordination for environmental protection has been limited. In particular,



- 15 -
until recently, the roles and responsibilities of SEDUE/SE and CNA have been unclear,
and there has been some duplication of effort and inter-agency rivalry. The project would
support the establistiment of a single national water quality monitoring network,
harmonization of sample collection and analysis methodologies among SEDUE/SE and
CNA, and development of a single data base of water quality indicators. In parallel with
the approach pursued under the Irrigation and Drainage Project, SEDUE and SARH
would sign a coordination agreement detailing their respective roles and responsibilities
for the national water quality monitoring system and for coordination of their
environmental laboratories (para. 3.9).
O     Environmental components of Bank-financed projects have suffered chronic delays in the
provision of counterpart funds. Nevertheless, political commitment to the proposed
project appears strong. SEDUE/SE received a major budgetary increase in 1991 to begin
carrying out the proposed project. To assure timely provision of adequate counterpart
funds throughout project implementation, allocation by GOM of a suitable budget for
1992, satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness (paras. 3.65 and 4.3
(a)). The adequacy of implementing agency budgets in future years would be addressed
in the context of the annual review meetings (paras. 3.75 and 4.2 (1)).
2.49   With regard to the experience of free-standing environmental projects, there is only one
other such project in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region --'the "Brazil - Nationai
Environmental Project" (Ln. 3173-BR), which became effective in December 1990. Early
experience in implementation of this project underlines the importance of building flexibility into
the project design (e.g., through annual review and planning exercises at which design changes
can be agreed). Experience also indicates that Bank supervision requirements are likely to be
higher than average for Bank-financed projects.
2.50   A general lesson from other investment projects with relatively weak institutions is the
advisability of focusing efforts on a few line ministries. This simplifies implementation
arrangements and Bank supervision, allowing the government and the Bank to place greater
emphasis on technical rather than procedural issues. It also increases accountability within the
government for progress on project implementation. Another lesson is the need to specify
speciflc outputs that allow the government and the Bank to assess periodically the degree to which
the project is achieving its stated goals. By holding periodic reviews on progress in achieving the
expected outputs, the government and the Bank have the opportunity to make any necessary
modifications in project design at an early date. The proposed project design incorporates both of
these lessons.
III. THlE PROJECT
A.    Origin of the Project
3.1    The proposed project grew out of the increased emphasis that the federal fivernment has
placed on environmental protection and natural resource management especially over the past two
years. In the context of this increased emphasis (manifest in rapidly growing current and capital
budgets for SEDUE/SE), the federal government realized the need to strengthen the institutional
framework of the sector to prepare the federal agency to take on additional responsibilities. In



- 16 -
July 1990, the government requested a technical assistance loan from the Bank to help identify
and prepare Investment projects in the environment sector. By September 1990, the government
decided on a two-pronged approach with an investment project that would finance: (i) key
Investments in areas where SEDUE/SE already has sufficient implementation capacity, and (ii)
technical assistance in areas where SEDUE/SE needs further strengthening in preparation for
developing and implementing future investments. This two-pronged approach has guided
preparation of the proposed project.
B.    Pr-ojegt Objective
3.2    The overall objective of the proposed project would be to support the government's ability
to carry out key environmental protection and natural resource management functions in the short
term and at the same time to strengthen the institutional and policy framework to enable the
government to carry out these functions in a more efficient and decentralized manner in the
future. The project would support the government's strategy of transforming SEDUE/SE over
time into a small but highly qualified second tier organization that supervises and coordinates
environmental work carried out by other levels of government or other federal agencies, or under
contract to private sector firms.
3.3    The project's specific objectives would be to: (i) support action in key areas where pre-
investment work is already well developed and institutional absorptive capacity is adequate; (ii)
reform and strengthen the administrative structure of SEDUE's federal and state offices in
preparation for increased decentralization of responsibility and authority to state environmental
agencies over the medium term; and (iii) support development of a sectoral strategy and coherent
policy framework that is integrated into and consistent with the government's overall economic
policies.
3.4   Programs and activities under the key functions component would provide the setting for
defining in concrete terms some of the issues of institutional structure and policy addressed under
components dealing specifically with strengthening the institutional and policy framework. Most
of the activities under the key functions component would be implemented at the level of
SEDUE's delegations in the states, who in turn would in some cases contract with private sector
firms, consistent with the agency's policy of shifting federal operational authority and
responsibility to its state offices and relying to a greater extent on the private sector. The
Mexican government has sent the Bank a letter describing its strategy to transform SEDUE/SE
into a second tier institution (Annex 1.6). This letter describes SEDUE/SE's functions at the
central and state delegation levels, and several activities that have already been identified to be
contracted out to the private sector. It emphasizes the government's intention to incorporate the
poliluter pays principle into environmental policy design.
C.    Project Description
3.5    The project would finance the first phase of the government's environmental program
concentrating on key functions of SEDUE/SE and setting the stage for a more decentralized
approach, plus activities and studies to support preparation of a second phase which would focus
on state-level environmental agencies, building on the experience of the first phase. The first



- 17-
phase would have three components Implemented over a four-year period. Component I would
finance key environmental services, namely monitoring and controlling water and air pollution
(29% of total project costs), minimizing potential negative environmental impacts of public and
private sector investment projects (11%) and conserving biodiversity (44%). Co£ponentIl would
strengthen sector management and administration, through institutional strengthening of
SEDUE/SE (4%), a pilot decentralization program with up to five states (5%), and the
commissioning of special studies to explore the use of economic instruments to complement the
current heavily command and control approach to environmental management (19%). Component
i would support the strengthening of the regulatory framework through the preparation of
additional technical standards for pollution control and natural resource protection (3%).
Preparation for the second phase of the government's sectoral program would involve carrying
out four pre-investment studies and financing the activities of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU;
see para. 3.72) reporting to SEDUE/SE to prepare the program (3 %).
C.1   Key Functions Component
3.6    Under the key functions component, the project would support SEDUE/SE's efforts in the
central and state offices in three critical areas: (i) monitoring and control of water and air
pollution; (ii) minimizing negative environmental impacts of investment projects; and (iii)
conserving biodiversity.
3.7    Monitoring and Control of Pollution. The specific objective of this sub-component would
be to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of SEDUE/SE's efforts to monitor pollution and
enforce existing pollution control laws and regulations. To achieve this objective, the sub-
component would support three programs: (i) water pollution; (ii) air pollution; and (iii)
environmental laboratories.
3.8   WATER POLLUTION PROGRAM (US$16.2 million in total costs). The specific
objective of the water pollution program would be to augment SEDUE/SE's capacity to monitor
compliance with industrial and municipal effluent standards, and to monitor the quality of
receiving water bodies (in coordination with CNA). To accomplish this objective, the project
would support: (i) the redesign of the national water quality monitoring system jointly with
CNA) and operation of SEDUE/SE's portion of the system (Annex 2.2); (ii) the upgrading of
SEDUE/SE's staff responsible for water pollution control through formal and on-the-job training,
and by working in close collaboration with universities, research centers, and the private sector
(Annex 3.3); and (iii) a series of studies to bring SEDUE/SE's information base up-to-date and
provide its staff with new tools (mathematical models, geographic information systems, statistical
data analysis software, integrated data bases) (Annex 3.2).
3.9   SEDUE and CNA have agreed to coordinate their respective efforts in water quality
monitoring and control of discharge of liquid effluents into water bodies. This agreement is
registered in a coordination agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, signed by the heads of SEDUE
and SARH - the Secretariat to which the head of CNA is responsible (Annex 1.7 -- translation).
A ilegoiatigns, the government provided assurances that no modifications will be made to this
coordination agreement without the prior agreement of the Bank (para. 4.2 (c)). With regard to
water quality monitoring, the two agencies will establish a single water quality data base and
operate a common quality assurance program for the data collection process. Terms of reference



- 18 -
for the redesign of the national water quality monitoring system operated by SEDUE/SE and
CNA are contained in Annex 2.2. In ^-'dition, the two agencies have agreed to coordinate their
respective networks of environmental laboratories to take advantage of each agency's regional
laboratories (para. 3.12).
3.10   AIR POLLUTION PROGRAM (US$6.9 million). The principal objectives of the air
pollution program would be to strengthen the infrastructure and human resources to monitor air
quality in 36 cities with populations of more than 50,000, and enforce compliance with stationary
source air emission standards. The program would involve the installation of new and
improvement of existing air quality monitoring networks, and the updating and operation of the
National Information System for Stationary Sources (SNIFF). During the first two years of the
project, SEDUE/SE would supplement the 35 existing air quality monitoring stations with 19
meteorological and 80 stations to monitor NO2, SO2 and fine particulates (PM1O).
3.11  In order to carry out the program, SEDUE/SE has divided the country into six regions,
based on geographical, ciimatological, demographic and economic characteristics. Regional
centers would be located in the cities of Tijuana, Chihuahua, Monterrey, Guadalajara, Puebla and
Villahermosa. The project would increase SEDUEiSE's staff located in the six regions, train the
new staff through in-service training with current SEDUE/SE staff, and provide them with the
infrastructure and equipment necessary to measure stationary source emissions in the smokestack.
Consistent with SEDUE/SE's planned role as a second tier organization that coordinates the
efforts of others, SEDUE/SE has adopted the strategy of obliging major industrial polluters in
each city to acquire, install and operate (under SEDUE/SE's supervision) air quality monitoring
equipment. Where such arrangements are possible, SEDUE/SE's role is to design the network,
provide technical assistance as necessary, and monitor the results. SEDUE/SE integrates the data
collected from such networks in a single data base to be used for: (i) identifying inconsistencies
in self-monitoring reports leading to a subsequent audit; and (ii) providing a basis for new policies
and programs to bring air pollution down to socially acceptable levels.
3.12 ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORIES PROGRAM (US$13.7 :nillion). The objective
of the environmental laboratories program would be to support SEDUE/SE's efforts in pollution
monitoring and control with investments in laboratory infrastructure and human resources. The
program would support the expansion and remodelling of the facilities and staff training at
SEDUE/SE's central environmental laboratory (in Mexico City) and in six regional laboratories
(in the cities of Chihuahua, Guanajuato, Mexicali, Saltillo, Villahermosa and Xalapa). Regional
laboratory facilities of SEDUE would complement CNA's regional laboratories. SEDUE's
laboratories are located in different cities, and the two agencies are currently making
arrangements to enable them to take advantage of each other's laboratory facilities whenever
possible.
3.13   SEDUE/SE's central laboratory would have the capability to carry out a complete range
of environmental analyses and would serve as a reference laboratory for SEDUE/SE's regional
laboratories. New equipment for the central laboratory would include a plasma emission
spectrophotometer (for metals analysis) and a gas chromatograph, mass spectrometer and liquid
chromatograph (for analysis of organic compounds). The regional laboratories would be equipped
to carry out routine analyses for toxic substances (metals and organic). The project would
strengthen the current laboratory quality control program in both its internal and external
components, including with CNA laboratories and other phases of the monitoring and surveillance



- 19 -
process (e.g., the field and data handling phases). Preparation of architectural and engineering
plans acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of disbursement for each laboratory (para. 4.5
(a)).
3.14   As described in the strategy letter from the Government (Annex 1.6), within the context
of SEDUE/SE's transformation into a second-tier organization, the private sector would
increasingly take over many of the routine data collection activities currently carried out by
SEDUE/SE. With regard to ensuring compliance with emission standards, industry would be
required to submit to SEDUE/SE periodic monitoring reports either prepared in-house or under
contract with private firms. SEDUE/SE's role would be to certify the private contractors and
audit industry self-monitoring reports to ensure their veracity. In order to develop this capability,
SEDUE/SE would increase its workforce of environmental inspectors who would receive formal
training and on-the-job training over the first two years from seasoned SEDUE/SE inspectors.
Formal training would include regional and national seminars where experts would be invited to
lecture on specialized technical topics. In the third and fourth year of the project, these
individuals wouid begin to function as environmental auditors. They would concentrate their
efforts on certifying companies who would carry out front-line monitoring and auditing these
companies and firms who conduct their own effluent monitoring. The project would support this
effort as well as the design and implementation of quality assurance activities for the whole
enforcement program. The precise design of the proposed approach is still in its formative stages
and would be furffier developed in the context of the institutional analysis to be conducted under
the modernization of environmental management component (paras. 3.35 and 3.36). SEDUE/SE
and the Bank would agree on the precise nature of the environmental auditing program during the
first annual review meeting (para. 3.75) (approx. February 1993).
3.15 Minimizing Negative Environmental Impacts of Investment Proiects. The environmental
impacts sub-component would support SEDUE/SE in increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of
the environmental impact and risk assessment process. It would support two programs: (i)
impact and risk assessment, and (ii) ecological ordering.
3.16 IMPACT AND RISK ASSESSMENT (US$6.6 million). The objective of the impact
and risk assessment program would be to reinforce SEDUE/SE's abilities (in the central office
and in SEDUE's state delegations) to review environmental impact and risk assessments, and to
monitor compliance with conditions imposed on approval of public and private sector investments
projects. The program would: (i) increase the number and technical capabilities of staff
responsible for reviewing environmental assessment documents; (ii) delegate to SEDUE's state
delegations the authority, and increase their technical capability, to evaluate and approve
environmental impact assessments; (iii) increase the capacity of state environmental authorities to
review environmental assessments in areas within their jurisdiction; and (iv) increase public access
and input into the environmental assessment review process.
3.17   Ihe government has defined a program acceptable to the Bank and in agreement with
Mexican legislation to transfer to SEDUE's state delegations the function of evaluating
environmental impact assessments and authorizing projects. Under this program, during the first
year of the project, SEDUE/SE would contract and train specialists to work in SEDUE's central
offices and state delegations. The number of new technical staff envisioned under the plan, which
reaches a total of 56 in year 3 of the project, is based on the anticipated number of document
reviews that will be required annually over the next four years. In order to reduce the current



- 20 -
bottleneck of environmental reviews at headquarters, SEDUE/SE has determined which types of
projects may be reviewed and approved by SEDUE's state delegations, with support and
supervision from headquarters' staff (Annex 1.8). At negotiations, the government and the Bank
agreed on: (i) the dates by which SEDUE will transfer authority to SEDUE's state delegatiors to
review environmental impact assessments in agreed sub-sectors and to monitor compliance with
established mitigation plans; and (ii) the staffing and training requirements of SEDUE's central
offices and state delegations for this purpose (para. 4.2 (d)).
3.18 In order to support SEDUE/SE's decision to delegate responsibility and authority to state
delegations, the project would include training for staff working in state delegations. SEDUE/SE
would first develop and test model training courses, which would then be offered to staff from all
of SEDUE's state delegations. After the test phase, the courses would be carried out by key staff
from SEDUE's headquarters with the assistance of specialized consultants and using methods and
materials (including videos, handbooks, slides, etc.) demonistrated to be effective in the pilot
phase. Due to the highly specialized nature of risk assessment, training in this area would occur
separately from training in environmental impact assessment.
3.19   Finally, the impact and risk assessment program would include, a study to determine how
to increase public input into the impact and risk assessment review process. The consultants
would analyze the current situation and recommend specific procedures to make documents more
readily available to the public within the time constraints established by SEDUE regulations.
Following completion of the consultants' study, SEDUE/SE would organize a one-day workshop
in Mexico City and invite representatives from all 31 states to discuss the proposed new
procedures that would later be formalized through publication in the Gaceta Ecologica. At
igegotiations, agreement was reached that new procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
published by December 31, 1992 (para. 4.2 (d)).
3.20 ECOLOGICAL PLANNING AND ZONING PROGRAM (US$7.0 million). The
objective of this component is to integrate environmental protection objectives into planning
decisions on priority activities affecting regional economic production, to ensure that national
productive infrastructure will be compatible with environmental protection objectives. This
program would support the monitoring of compliance with the general ecological planning and
zoning study that is currently being carried out by the government and which will be completed
by early 1992. The objective of this general study would be to provide decision-makers and
Mexican society at-large with the information necessary to establish national policies of
protection, conservation, restoration or use of the land and natural resources in an
environmentally sustainable manner (see Annex 1.3 p.1, Annex 3.1, p. 13 and Annex 3.2, p.2).
Completion of the general ecological planning and zoning study would be a condition of
disbursements on expenditures to monitor compliance with the zoning exercise (para. 4.5 (c)).
3.21  In addition to the general ecological planning and zoning study, the component would
finance 20 environmental studies and 10 specific ecological planning and zoning studies in
selected geographic areas where multi-sectoral investments are planned (Annex 3.2, p. 2-5).
These studies have been chosen from a larger list of large investment projects received from each
federal agency. These studies would serve as models to develop appropriate methodologies for
future such studies. At negotiations, the govermnent confirmed that: (i) following completion of
each of the 10 specific ecological planning and zoning studies, SEDUE/SE will formalize land-use
regulation of the project area in question by publishing a summary of the ecological planning and



-21 -
zoning study in the Gaceta Ecol6gica (Ecological Journal); and (ii) the government shall make
operational by iune 30, 1992, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, a geographic information
system (GIS) to store the results of the environmental studies and the ecological planning and
zoning exercises (para. 4.2 (e)).
3.22   The ecological planning and zoning program would also include three 10-day training
courses (for 30 people each) to train staff from SEDUE's central offices and state delegations, as
well as participants from state agencies, in the policies and strategies of environmental studies and
ecological planning and zoning. In addition to these three courses, the project would provide
resources for the development and distribution of educational materials on environmental studies
and ecological planning and zoning for state and municipal level staff.
3.23   Conserving Biodiversity. This sub-component would increase the efficiency and
effectiveness of protection of the country's priority ecosystems and endangered and endemic
species. To achieve this objective, the sub-component would support two programs: (i) the
protected areas program, and (ii) wildlife protection and conservation program.
3.24 PROTECTED AREAS PROGRAM (US$38.6 million). The protected areas program
would finance activities aimed at protecting up to 17 protected areas around the country Oisted in
Annex 1.5). The government selected these 17 areas following a two-step process. First,
SEDUE identifled those areas that are of greatest global importance in terms of the biodiversity
and endemic species they protect. Within this group, SEDUE then selected areas which do not
have access to other sources of outside funds or which have the potential (through tourism or
other activities for which the protected areas could charge fees) to recover a significant portion of
the costs of protection.
3.25   Under the protected areas program, GET and counterpart funds would finance: (i)
consultant services to assist SEDUE in preparing a management plan for each of the 17 protected
areas (US$1.3 million); (ii) based on the results of the management plan, items contained in the
corresponding operating plan for each protected area, including: (a) basic infrastructure
investments (e.g. visitor administration headquarters, guard posts and houses, fire detection
towers, fences and nature trails) (approximately US$6.9 million for all 17 protected areas), (b)
equipment and vehicles (e.g. trucks, four-wheel drive vehicles, boats, power generators, and radio
and first aid equipment) (US$2.7 million), (c) demarcation of protected area borders and
consultant services (US$3.4 million), and (d) incremental operating expenditure for the protected
areas (e.g. incremental technical staff and rangers, materials, maintenance, etc.) (US$20.0
million); (iii) the costs of periodic meetings of local governmental and non-governmental groups
(TACs - see para. 3.76) to advise and assist the director of each protected area (US$0.5 million);
(iv) training programs for protected areas administrators and staff (US$0.4 million); (v)
preparation of an eco-tourism plan for one protected area (para. 3.26, below) (US$0.2 million);
(vi) participation of Mexican and non-Mexican specialists in reviewing management and operating
plans, as well as progress in program implementation (US$0.5 million); and (vii) program
coordination (IJS$0.6 million). These estimates are based on indicative activities in the protected
areas; each area's operating plan would provide a firm estimate of the costs to be incurred under
the program. During 1992, while management plans are being prepared for the 17 protected
areas, the program would provide a minimum level of support to carry out emergency protection



- 22 -
plans in 13 of the 17 areas (US$2.1 million).' Emergency plans would finance such items as
construction of entraTnce posts in some protected areas; the purchase of one or two vehicles and
radio, firefighting, and first aid equipment for each protected area; and the hiring of a director
and between 6 and 12 rangers for each area.
3.26   Several of the protected areas selected would also be appropriate for limited eco-tourism
development that could generate resources to cover a portion of the recurrent costs of
conservation activities. The component would not finance any eco-tourism investments, but
would contribute to the development of an eco-tourism strategy for the SINAP by funding the
preparation of an eco-tourism plan for Special Biosphere Reserve Isla Contoy in the state of
Quintana Roo in southern Mexico which would determine: (i) the potential market for eco-
tourism in the protected area; (i) the level of tourism that the protected area could support
without compromising its conservation objectives; (iii) the types and location of infrastructure that
would be appropriate to serve potential tourists; and (iv) the conditions under which SEDUE
should auction concessions to developers to establish and operate tourism facilities. The result of
this analysis would provide the basis for developing eco-tourism plans in other protected areas.
3.27   While the protected areas program would be targeted to 17 protected areas, the Bank
would take a final decision on the level and application of GET support for each area after the
management plan and the corresponding operating plan for that protected area have been
completed. The Bank would determine each area's eligibility for GET support on the basis of
criteria agreed by the government and the Bank. These criteria (contained in Annex 2) include
the existence of adequate land-use regulations, consistency of the objectives of the management
plan with GEF objectives, and the quality of the management plan (and corresponding operating
plan) for the protected area. At negotiations, agreement was confirmed on these criteria (para.
4.1 (a)). Considerable progress has already been made in preparing management plans for eight
of the 17 protected areas. In determining whether each protected area is in compliance with the
agreed eligibility criteria, the Bank would take into account the views of two technical specialists
selected from a group of thirteen Mexican and non-Mexican technical specialists who, after
reviewing the corresponding documentation and visiting the protected area, would submit
independent reports of their findings and recommendations to the government and the Bank. At
ngegotiations, agreement was confirmed regarding the initial composition and terms of reference of
the 13 Mexican and non-Mexican technical specialists, and assurances were received that the
government will not change the composition and terms of reference of this group without prior
agreement of the Bank (para. 4.1 (b)).
3.28   Once the Bank has determined that the protected area meets the basic eligibility criteria
for GET financing (per para. 3.27), the Bank would evaluate the corresponding operating plan to
determine the appropriate level of GET financing. The Bank would determine the level of GET
support to be allocated to each protected area on the basis of the operating plans and information
about other sources of financing currently available for the protected area. The operating plans
'The appraisal mission reviewed emergency plans for the following protected areas: (i)
Biosphere Reserve (RB) El Vizcaino; (ii) Special Biosphere Reserve (REB) Islas del Golfo; (iii)
National Park (PN) Constitucion de 1857; (iv) RB Calakmul; (v) PN Cascada de Bassaseachic;
(vi) PN El Chico; (vii) PN Izta-Popo; (viii) REB Mariposa Monarca; (ix) REB Isla Isabel; (x) PN
Lagunas de Chacahua; (xi) RB Sian Ka'an; (xii) REB Isla Contoy; (xiii) REB Ria Lagartos



- 23 -
would contain detailed budgets including both capital and recurrent cost expenditures over a four
year period. In determining the allocation of GET resources to be made to each protected area,
the Bank would seek to maximize the diversity of the challenges faced under the program, as well
as the approaches employed to address those challenges. At negotiati  , agreement was
confirmed regarding the process for preparing and reviewing management and operating plans,
and allocating GET resources to finance the operating plans (para. 4.1 (c)). Prior to
disbursements on each operating plan: (i) the protected area in question would be determined by
the Bank to be eligible for GET financing; (ii) the operating plan would be satisfactory to the
Bank; (iii) the corresponding TAC (see para. 3.76) would have been established under
arrangements acceptable to the Bank; and (iv) satisfactory contractual arrangements, as
appropriate, for the collaborative management of the protected area would be in place (para. 4.6).
3.29 WIDLIFE PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION PROGRAM (US$18.0 million).
The objective of this program would be to protect Mexico's wildlife from illegal poaching and
traffic. To achieve this objective, SEDUE/SE would strengthen its efforts in: (i) surveillance and
inspection of wildlife commerce,5 (ii) rehabilitation of confiscated wildlife, and (iii) protection of
nesting sites of endangered marine turtle species.
3.30   The program would increase SEDUE/SE's capability to enforce Mexican law regarding
the traffic and use of wild flora and fauna by supporting a network of seven regional centers
based in locations through which a high proportion of the wildlife trade flows. Each center would
be staffed by three mobile teams of inspectors who would carry out their "surveillance" function
by visiting key sites associated with wildlife commerce, such as pet stores, markets, veterinary
clinics, tanners, taxidermists, airports, truck stops and train stations. In carrying out their
"inspection" function, these inspectors would also respond to public complaints from citizens and
civic groups. Upon encountering violations of the wildlife law, the inspectors would initiate legal
procedures required for confiscation of the organisms and/or wildlife products and would provide
evidence and testimony to support the prosecution of offenders. At the same time, the mobile
units would transfer confiscated animals and plants to the nearest appropriate rehabilitation center,
whether operated directly by SEDUE/SE or by other concerned organizations or individuals.
SEDUE/SE would complement this enforcement function by producing and distributing
educational materials to educate the public on the regulations governing the use of wildlife and the
importance Mexico's wildlife, and by strengthening cooperation and coordination with other
relevant government entities.6
3.31   Consistent with the government's policy of decentralization and deconcentration of front-
line natural resource management functions, by the end of the third year of the project,
5"Surveillance" refers to those activities aimed at the prevention and detection of illegal traffic
in wildlife and related products. NIDspection" is the activity that allows public officials to
confiscate any equipment used in illegal wildlife traffic as well as any protected wildlife or related
products to be used for personal or commercial purposes. Inspection includes the legal and
administrative steps that may lead to the imposition of a fine or other sanction.
6Such as the Secretaria de Marina (SEMAR), SARH, the Secretaria de la Defensa Nacional
(SEDENA), the Procuradoria General de la Republica (PGR), and state and municipal
governments.



- 24 -
SEDUE/SE would transfer its 'surveillance" responsibility to state and municipal governments (in
coordination with non-governmental organizations). SEDUE/SE would retain for itself the
functions of coordination and supervision of front-line surveillance efforts and "inspection," which
would continue to be carried out by the regional units.
3.32   As a result of increased efforts to enforce legislation regulating wildlife commerce,
SEDUE/SE expects a dramatic increase in the amount of confiscated wildlife. In order to handle
this increase, the project would support the expansion and improvement of the national network of
wildlife rehabilitation centers. To the extent possible, the centers would re-introduce these
organisms to their natural habitats. When rehabilitation is not possible (due to injury or
domestication), the centers would relocate the animals and plants to zoos, research labs,
propagation centers or other facilities.7 The project would support seven regional centers,
corresponding to the seven mobile team bases. Five of the seven centers are already in operation;
four require minor expansion and remodelling. The project would support this expansion, as well
as the construction of two additional centers, and the operating costs of all seven centers. The
centers would provide veterinary care and, to the degree possible, would rehabilitate the skills
required for survival in the wild.
3.33   Finally, the wildlife protection program would support efforts to increase the population
levels of the seven species of marine turtles found in Mexico. This would be done through
effective management and patrolling of nesting sites, and through an educational campaign aiming
to inform the public of the threat that illegal harvesting poses to the long term survival of these
turtle species. The program would also support research activities to increase scientific
understanding of the biology and ecology of the turtles in order to develop data for the long term
management of the resource. Specifically, the program would support the construction and
operation of twelve camps, which would serve both as administrative centers for the program and
provide housing for the staff involved in turtle protection, research and environmental education.
During the breeding season, staff would patrol the nesting beaches to prevent the poaching of
turtles and eggs. Staff of the centers would carry out educational campaigns to educate local
communities about Mexican laws prohibiting the exploitation of marine turtles. The research
program would involve carrying out periodic censuses of turtle populations, studies of nesting
behavior and success, as well as general studies on turtle biology and ecology. As part of the
research effort, some of the turtles would be tagged in order to monitor population movements,
mortality rates and life expectancy. The project would provide specialized training to the staff in
the camps in order to enhance their skills and knowledge.
C.2   Modernization of Environmental Management Component
3.34   The specific objectives of this component would be: (i) tG strengthen the overall
management and administration of SEDUE/SE; (ii) to support the process of delegation of
responsibility and authority from SEDUE's central offices to its state delegations, and the process
of decentralization from SEDUE/SE to emerging environmental agencies in the states; and (iii) to
complement the governmnent's current command and control approach to environmental protection
71n the case of animals that have suffered severe injury or trauma and cannot be rehabilitated,
the centers would terminate the animal's life in a humane fashion.



- 25 -
and natural resources management with incentives-based economic instruments to achieve the
same objectives. The component would include three programs: (i) the institutional strengthening
program, (ii) the decentralization pilot program, and (iii) the economic incentives for the
environment program, and would be managed by SEDUE/SE's Coordinating Unit of Advisers to
the Under-Secretary - para. 3.71).
3.35  Institutional Strengthening Program (IS$4.5 million). The objective of the institutional
strengthening program would be to assist SEDUE/SE in increasing its managerial and
administrative efficiency in the short term and in further developing and implementing a strategy
to transform the agency into a second-tier institution. The program would include an institutional
analysis of SEDUE/SE (including its relation to SEDUE's state delegations) to be carried out by a
management consulting firm, and an action program to effect the changes recommended by the
consultants. The terms of reference for the consultants who would carry out the institutional
analysis were reviewed at appraisal and found to be satisfactory. SEDUE/SE has already
contracted the consultants and established an internal advisory group, whose composition is
satisfactory to the Bank, that will meet periodically with the consultants during the six-month first
phase of the institutional analysis, and coordinate implementation of the consultants'
recommendations during the second phase of the consultants' work. The Coordinating Unit of
Advisers to the Under-Secretary of SEDUE/SE will provide the leadership for this advisory
group, which will also include representation from each of SEDUE/SE's four general directorates,
and SEDUE's Coordinating Unit of State Delegates and General Directorate for Legal Affairs
(DGAJ).
3.36   The consultants would carry out the institutional analysis over a six month period, ending
June 30, 1992. Intermediate products would be: (i) a diagnosis of the current functioning of
SEDUE/SE (including an analysis of the degree to which the sub-secretariat's work program and
structure are consistent with its objectives; the relationship between SEDUE/SE, SEDUE's state
delegations, and state and municipal governments; and internal evaluation processes and
procedures); (ii) a medium-term plan defining how SEDUE/SE would function as a second-tier
institution and the steps necessary to carry out the plan; (iii) a proposed organizational structure
consistent with the medium-term plan; (iv) a design for a system by which SEDUE/SE can
continually evaluate its effectiveness; and (v) a design of an information system for the sub-
secretariat (including a computer network and accessories, software and communications
equipment). The consultants would pay particular attention to assessing the human resources
qualifications and infrastructure support needed to increase the efficiency of SEDUE/SE's
inspection and surveillance functions. At negotiations, agreement was reached that: (i) by July
31, 1992, the government will submit to the Bank for its recommendations and comment the
reports of the consultants carrying out the institutional analysis of SEDUE (para. 4.2 (f)); and (ii)
that on the basis of the consultants' reports and recommendations, and taking into account the
Bank's recommendations and comments, the Government would reorganize SEDUE according to
an action program (including staffing and budgetting targets to carry out SEDUE's mandate)
acceptable to the Bank to be prepared by December 3i, 1992 (para. 4.2 (f)). After completing
the first phase of the institutional analysis, it is expected that the consultants would continue to
provide support to SEDUE/SE in carrying out their recommendations and in providing staff
training.
3.37   Decentralization Pilot Program (US$5.6 million). The objective of the decentralization
pilot program would be to test in a few states how front-line pollution control and natural



- 26 -
resources management functions could be decentralized, reserving second-tier oversight functions
to SEDUE/SE. The program would support pilot activities to decentralize functions from
SEDUE/SE to up to five state environmental agencies in accordance with the philosophy of the
General Ecology Law. A small coordinating group for the program would be established within
the Coordinating Unit of Advisors to the Under-Secretary of SEDUE/SE to work closely with
participating states to develop and implement an investment plan that would support the states'
capacity to carry out front-line functions in pollution control and natural resources management.
These investment plans could include technical assistance to refine the organizational structure for
the state agencies, acquisition of information and communications technology, development of
training and administrative manuals, staff training, and preparation and implementation of a few
substantive programs identified as high priority by each state. The coordinating group would
evaluate the progress in the effective transfer of front line functions to the participating states.
Dibursements on investment programs in each state would be conditioned on: (i) agreement
between SEDUE/SE and the Bank on the detailed action plan for that state; and (ii) an operating
agreement signed by the SEDUE/SE and the state government, stating the respective roles and
responsibilities of each party, including the mechanisms by which SEDUE/SE would procure and
transfer to the state all civil works, goods and consultant services described in the agreed action
plan, and the state's commitment to provide its own resources to cover all recurrent costs
involved (para. 4.5 (b)).
3.38   SEDUE/SE has already selected two states to participate in the pilot program in the first
year - Jalisco and Tamaulipas. The criteria used to select these states were: (i) the Governor's
demonstrated commitment to address environmental issues; (ii) institutional readiness to accept
greater responsibility for pollution control and natural resources management; (iii) prospects for
continuity within the state administration for at least two years; (iv) availability in the state of
technical support (for example, from universities); (v) closeness of the relations between the state
agency and SEDUE's state delegation; and (vi) possibilities for complementarity with other
projects financed by the Bank. Based on the experience gained in these two states, the
coordinating group (para. 3.37) could work with one additional state in the second year of the
project, and two additional states in the third year. At negotiations, agreement was reached that,
on the basis of the above selection criteria, one additional state could be selected by the
Government and the Bank at the first annual evaluation meeting, and up to two more at the
second annual evaluation meeting (para. 4.2 (g)).
3.39   Economic Instruments for the Environment (US$1.2 million). The objective of this
program would be to help prepare a policy framework for the use of economic instruments that
could complement current command and control measures to achieve environmental objectives.
The government has formed a special inter-secretarial task force (Task Force on Modernization of
Environmental Management) comprised of SEDUE and the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito
Puflico (SHCP) to oversee the implementation of a number of studies and to prepare a final
report with policy recommendations and an action program based upon the results of the studies.
The task force would serve as the locus for policy dialogue between the Bank and the government
on economics and environmental policy.
3.40  Initial studies to be commissioned in this program would seek to answer two basic
questions: How should the federal government ensure (i) a sustainable flow of resources to
environmental management functions? and (ii) consistency between economic and environmental
policies, and how could the government employ economic and other policy instruments to achieve



- 27 -
environmental policy objectives?
3.41   In order to address these questions, the program would support four sets of studies in the
area of environmental and natural resource economics as follows: (i) sources and uses of funds
by the environmental sector at the federal, state and municipal levels; (ii) sources and uses of
funds for environmental protection by federal agencles outside of the environmental sector; (iii)
expenditures on environmental protection by the private sector; and (iv) analysis of the
enviromnental impact of selected economic policies. Annex 2.3 provides the terms of reference
of these studies, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
3.42   At negotiations, agreement was reached: (i) on the structure and composition of the task
force and its responsibilities; (ii) on the mechanism to agree on the terms of reference of any
research and policy work to be carried out in subsequent years; (iii) that the government will
submit tu the Bank by June 30, 1993 the reports of the consultants carrying out these studies and
allow the Bank ene month to comment on the reports and on the policy recommendations and
proposed plans of action prepared by the inter-secretarial task force; and (iv) that the inter-
secretarial task force on modernization of environmental management will issue by November 30,
1993 its report on the results of the studies on economic instruments and environmental
management and its policy recommendations and proposed plans of action (para. 4.2 (h)).
C.3   Legislation and Standards Component (US$4.4 million)
3.43   Legislation. SEDUE's DGAJ would carry out two sets of studies with the objective of
preparing draft legislation for the consideration of the Mexican legislature. Upon completion of
the studies, the results would be discussed with the Bank and agreements would be reached on
follow-up actions as necessary (Annex 3.2).
3.44   The first set of studies (expected to be carried out in the first year of the project) aims to
define environmental crimes. Four specific studies would: (i) compile existing legal dispositions
into a typology of infractions of the penal code; (ii) develop a classification of human behavior
that is damaging to the environment; (iii) assess social demand for protection of the environment
through application of the penal code; and (iv) evaluate penalties that could be imposed on
violators of existing legislation that protects the environment. The result of this set of specific
studies would be draft legislation to incorporate crimes against the environment into the Mexican
penal code.
3.45   The second set of studies (expected to be carried out in the second year of the project)
would evaluate possible conflicts between the objectives of the General Ecology Law and other
Mexican legislation, with special emphasis on: (i) Water Law; (ii) Forest Code; (iii) Fishing
Law; and (iv) Agrarian Reform Law. In carrying out these studies, the consultants would be
required to interview government officials involved in various aspects of the above-mentioned
laws (including those involved in front-line enforcement) in order to detect possible conflicts in
interpretation of standing legislation by those charged with enforcing it. If the consultants identify
conflicts among standing legislation, they will draft legislation to be submitted to the Mexican
legislature to resolve such conflicts.
3.46   Regulation and Standards. SEDUE/SE has developed an ambitious program to prepare



- 28 -
and issue regulations and technical standards for the General Ecology Law, Including: (i) a
regulation on environmental risk; (ii) 87 additional technical standards in the areas of water and
air poliution control, management and disposal of hazardous wastes, and environmental risk
management; and (iii) 17 technical guidelines for preparing sectoral environmental impact
assessments. At negotations, agreement was reached on the timetable for issuing the standards to
be prepared under the project (para. 4.2 (i) and Annex 2. 1). In order to expedite the process of
issuing a large number of technical standards in a short time period, the DGNRE would contract
consulting firms to carry out the basic studies required prior to drafting technical standards. In
addition, the DGNRE would contract a consulting firm to prepare terms of reference and to
supervise preparation of technical documents and draft proposed technical standard, regulation or
technical instruction. In order to strengthen SEDUE/SE's staff in the area of environmental
standards, SEDUE/SE would hold a seminar in early 1992 for SEDUE/SE staff on comparative
experience in preparing technical standards, send staff to brief training courses in other countries,
and subscribe to technical journals related to environmental protection.
3.47   With regard to regulating environmental risk from hazardous substances, SEDUE would
prepare and issue a single technical standard for a large group of hazardous substances and
industrial processes, depending on the characteristics of each substance (toxicity, flammability,
explosiveness, and corrosiveness). SEDUE would also issue a standard on transporting hazardous
substances, and a regulation on risk management in industrial processes (Annex 2.1).
C.4   Stdes Component
3.48   The project would finance four sets of studies which would contribute to the preparation
of project proposals for investments under the second phase of the government's environmental
program.
3.49   Consolidatign of SINAP (US$1.1 million). The primary objectives of this set of studies
would be: (i) to identify gaps in the protection of ecosystems and species in the present SINAP;
(ii) to develop proposals for the incorporation of key areas into the SINAP to fill these gaps; (iii)
to identify the needs of the protected areas in terms of infrastructure, equipment and human
resources; (iv) to propose and prepare terms of reference for studies to broaden the knowledge
base of each protected area so as to improve its management; and (v) to analyze and describe the
legal framework governing the use and management of protected areas.
3.50 To achieve these objectives, SEDUE/SE's DGCERN would identify key ecosystems
which, due to their ecological uniqueness, high level of endemism or lack of protection
elsewhere, should be incorporated into the SINAP. Based upon this initial analysis, the
DGCERN would contract consulting firms or universities to draft proposals for incorporating
these areas into the SINAP. The studies regarding the needs of the existing 66 protected areas
would be carried out under DGCERN's leadership by six multidisciplinary teams, each
responsible for evaluating the protected areas within their given region. The DGCERN would also
contract out the study of the laws and regulations which govern the use and management of
protected areas. Terms of reference for these studies were reviewed and found satisfactory at
appraisal.
3.51   The expected products of these studies would be: (i) a report identifying gaps in



- 29 -
ecosystem and species protection in Mexico; (ii) a report recommnending the incorporation of each
new area into the SINAP; (iii) a report describing the findings of the evaluation of the 66
protected areas In terms of infrastructure, equipment, human resources and information needs;
(iv) terms of reference for studies to broaden the knowledge base for the management of the
protected areas; and (v) a report on the legal framework goveming the use and management of
Mexico's protected areas. Upon completion of these studies, the results would be discussed with
the Bank and agreements would be reached on follow-up actions as necessary (Annex 3.2).
3.52   Creation of Biological Corridors (US$0.4 million). The primary objective of this set of
studies would be to develop a strategy to enhance the ecological viability of individual protected
areas and migratory routes by the creation of biological corridors that would increase the effective
range area for wildlife currently found in protected areas.
3.53   In order to achieve this objective, the SEDUE/SE's DGCERN would first identify
potential areas for the creation of biological corridors linking key protected areas and providing
protection for wildlife migratory routes. At the same time, the DGCERN would also determine
information gaps and prepare terms of reference for specific studies to be carried out by
consulting firms or universities to assess the technical and socio-economic feasibility of given
corridors. Following completion of the studies, it is expected that SEDUE would draft and issue
decrees establishing the corresponding corridors.
3.54   The expected products of these studies would be: (i) a report documenting and
recommendign the priority areas for the establishment of biological corridors; (ii) specific studies
justifying the creation and management of each proposed corridor; and (iii) draft legal decrees
establishing the corridors. Upon completion of these studies, the results would be discussed with
the Bank and agreements would be reached on follow-up actions as necessary (Annex 3.2).
3.55   Environmental Effecs on Health (US$0.3 million). The primary objectives of this study
would be: (i) to identify potential health risks to populations exposed through work or domicile
location to toxic substances managed or emitted by industries; (ii) to develop and test training
activities aimed at medical personnel and the community-at-large; and (iii) to coordinate data
collection and analysis between the Secretariat of Health and SEDUE/SE such that sources of
exposure to toxic substances are identified and dealt with rapidly and adequately.
3.56   The study would be carried out in the city of Tijuana, Baja California during the first year
of the project. The Direccion General de Salud Ambiental (DGSA/SS) of the Secretaria de Salud
(SS) selected Tijuana on the basis of the following criteria: (i) representativeness of the
distribution of industries managing toxic substances; (ii) existence of adequate health services
infrastructure; (iii) prior involvement with the DGSA/SS in training courses for health inspectors;
(iv) interest of local community and health authorities in participating in the study; and (v)
accessibility of firmns. After completion of the study, the DGSA/SA plans to employ the
methodologies, curricula and materials developed in Tijuana in other industrialized urban areas.
3.57   The study would consist of the following specific activities:
o    Collection and analysis of information on industries in the Tijuana area that manage toxic
substances. The consultants would collect data from SEDUE/SE's inventory of firms,
complemented with information from the Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas. Geografia y



- 30-
lnformacion (NEGI), the SS, and other studies of toxic substances in Tijuana (including
studies carried out by the Colegio de la Frontera Norte, and efforts sponsored by UCLA
In Los Angeles, California USA).
o    Development of an information system that facilitates the collection, retrieval and up-
dating of information on the presence and management of industries dealing with high
volumes of toxic substances in Tijuana.
o    Based on priorities identified in the data collection and analysis stage, and actual
knowledge of health effects of common industrial toxic substances, determination of
training and information needs for medical personnel, health inspectors, and the
community-at-large.
o    Development and testing of training courses and materials for medical personnel, health
inspectors and the community-at-large.
3.58   As a result of the study: (i) Tijuana would have a health needs assessment with regard to
exposure to industrial toxic substances; (ii) local health services and environmental authorities
would have an information system and data base on high risk industries located in Tijuana; (iii)
about 100 local medical personnel, 30 local and federal health inspectors, and 5 federal
environmental health coordinators would receive training; (iv) the local community would be
educated about the means of avoiding or decreasing health risks from indoor and outdoor
environmental pollution and exposure to toxic chemicals; and (v) the DGSA/SS would gain
experience, methodologies and materials with which to replicate the study in other industrial
urban areas around the country. Upon completion of this study, the results would be discussed
with the Bank and agreements would be reached on follow-up actions as necessary (Annex 3.2).
3.59 E_nvironment Futures Study (US$0.3 million). The objective of this study would be to
construct a model relating economic, cultural and social activities in Mexico with the quality of
various elements of the Mexican environment (e.g., forests, wildlife, water, and air). Such a
model can then be used by the government in its long-term planning and decision-making
processes.
3.60  The study would consist of: (i) a review of the literature and selection of critical
environmental quality indicators; (ii) building "future' scenarios of activities critical to the
Mexican environment; (iii) an analysis of the influence of these events on the Mexican
environment at intervals of 10, 20 and 30 years; (iv) definition of a mechanism that will allow the
government to update the future scenarios as necessary and to identify data and information needs
and gaps; and (v) communication of study results to Mexican decision-makers and to the
interested public. The project would include one or more seminars/retreats with decision-makers
and opinion leaders in Mexico to communicate and discuss the study's conclusions and
recommendations. In addition, SEDUE/SE would publish a fact sheet at the conclusion of the
study addressed to the interested public describing the conclusions and the recommendations of
the study. Upon completion of this study, the results would be discussed with the Bank and
agreements would be reached on follow-up actions as necessary (Annex 3.2).



- 31 -
D.    Project Costs and Financing
D.1   Cost of the Projec
3.61   The total cost of the project is estimated at US$126.6 million equivalent. Table 3.1
summarizes these estimated project costs by component.
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
Loda        Fgre,ign    Total
---- (US$ millions) ---------
(a) Key functions component      9$.4         8.2      i13
i. Pollution control          30.1         5.3        35.4
ii. Environmental impact       11.9        1.1        13.0
iii. Biodiversity             53.4         1.8        55.2
(b) Modernization of Envir. Mgt.  81          2.8       I0.9
i. Institutional strengthening  1.5        2.8         4.3
ii. Decentralization           5.5         0.0         5.5
iii. Economic instruments       1.1        0.0         1.1
(c) Legislation/regulations/standards   4.1              4 1
(d) Studies                       2.1         01         2.2
(e) Project coordination unit      1.2        Q-          1.3
Base cost estimates (a-c)       110.9        11 2       122.1
(e) Contingencies
i. Physical                    0.6         0.3         0.9
ii. Price                       3.3        0.3         3.6
PROJECT COSTS                    114.8       11,8
(of which taxes)                                      13.0
3.62   Bgse costs. Cost estimates are based upon prices as of May 1991, converted at the
exchange rate of US$ 1.00 to Mex$ 2991. All cost estimates are based on at least three price
quotations from local or foreign suppliers or firms (as appropriate). Project costs include
US$13.0 million in taxes (10 percent of total project costs).
3.63   Contingency allowances. Physical contingencies amount to about US$900,000 (1 percent
of base costs), and price contingencies amount to another US$3.6 million (3 percent of base
costs). A physical contingency of 10 percent is added to civil works cost estimates; and 5
percent, to equipment and furniture. An annual price contingency of 3.4 percent (based on
projected international inflation rates) was added to all cost estimates.



- 32 -
3.64   Foreign. excange component. Direct foreign exchange comprises approximately 10
percent of total project costs (including contingencies), or about US$12 million.
D.2   Financing Plan
3.65   The Bank loan of US$50 million equivalent would finance 44 percent of the estimated
costs of the project, net of taxes, including 100 percent of estimated foreign exchange costs and
33 percent of local costs. Local cost financing under the project is justified by the need to ensure
a significant impact on the country's institutional and policy framework for natural resources
management and environmental protection, and by the project's low foreign exchange costs. The
GET grant of US$30 million equivalent would finance 78 percent of the costs of the protected
areas program, including 100 percent of investment costs and 60 percent of the program's
recurrent costs. The Mexican government would provide counterpart funds of US$46.6 million
equivalent to cover the remaining project costs, including the cost of all taxes and all permanent
staff (except for staff hired under the project to work in SINAP protected areas funded by the
GET grant). Prior to loan effectiveness: (i) the government would demonstrate that adequate
funds have been allocated in the federal budget for project implementation in FY92 (January 1,
1992 to December 31, 1992); and (ii) BANOBRAS (as financial agent) would enter into
contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the transfer to the government of
the proceeds of the loan and the GET grant for eligible expenditures (para. 4.3). Prior to GET
grant effectiveness, the Loan Agree,ment for the proposed Bank loan to BANOBRAS would
become effective (para. 4.4). Table 3.2 presents the project financing plan.
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
M   millions     (
IBRD                      50.0          39 a/
GET                       30.0          24
Government of Mexico      46.6          37
a/  44% of total project costs net of taxes
3.66  In order to prevent a substantial amount of GET resources from being tied up to support
the protected areas program in the event that the government is not able to prepare in a tLraely
manner a sufficient number of satisfactory management and operating plans, the Bank and the
government agreed at neeQtiations, on a formula for canceling a portion of the GET grant based
on early implementation experience (para. 4.1 (f)). By end-September 1992, the Bank would
review the level of GET resources already committed through approved operating plans



- 33 -
received by August 31, 1992, and would cancel from the GET grant the amount determined by
applying the following formula:
(US$25 million) - [(1.5) * (Approved GET financing)Jp
In this way, progress in preparing satisfactory management and operating plans by August 31,
1992 would ensure the availability of GET resources up to US$25 million (i.e. the GET grant net
of the resources needed to prepare management p!ans, to finance emergency plans, and to support
the reviewy by the independent technical specialists, etc.) for carrying out operating plans once
satisfactory management and operating plans are completed for other additional protected areas.
3.67   Rg-ffent L oMa1. The 1990 budget of SEDUE's sub-secretariat for Ecology represented
less than 10 percent of SEDUE's budget or only 0.06 percent of the total federal budget. The
Sub-secretauiat's 1991 budget, including a large allocation to cover expected project costs in 1991,
is almost three times its 1990 level as a proportion of the total federal budget (representing 23
percent of SEDUE's budget and 0.17 percent of the total federal budget).
3.68   Over the four-year project period, the number of persons working as fixed-term or
permanent staff in SEDUE/SE will rise and then fall to about the same number as currently work
in the Sub-secretariat. The cost of these individuals, however, will increase substantially as lower
level staff are replaced by more higuly qualified and experienced staff, consistent with
SEDUE/SE's transformation into a second tier institution. By the fourth year of the project, the
recurrent costs of the project will be about 30 percent higher than in the first year of the project.
Incremental recurrent costs of the project would be financed from the loan on a declining basis
Crable 3.4: Allocation of Loan Proceeds), and no proceeds from the loan would be used to
finance salaries of permanent staff of SEDUE. In light of the tiny fraction of the federal budget
that is represented by SEDUE/SE's capital and recurrent budgets, and a project design that phases
in counterpart absorption of recurrent costs over the duration of the project, no difficulty in
government absorption of increased costs of a strengthened SEDUE/SE is expected.
3.69   The protected areas program is expected to result in an incremental recurrent cost burden
of approximately US$6.8 million annually, by the end of the project period. By that time, the
government expects to be able to cover about 75 percent of the recurrent costs of the program
from receipts in the protected areas. As with the rest of the proposed Environmental Project,
incremental recurrent costs would be financed from the GET grant on a declining basis (Table
3.S: Allocation of GET Grant Proceeds). At negotiations, agreement was confirmed regarding
the timetable for phasing out GET financing of the program's recurrent costs (para. 4.1 (e)).
'For example, if US$12 million of GET financing is approved by September 30, 1992, then
the amount to be canceled from the grant would be:
(US$25 million) - 1(1.5) * (US$12 million)) = US$7 million



- 34 -
E.    Project Qrganization and Management
E. 1   Project Management
3.70   Since a principal objective of the project is to support SEDUE/SE in increasing its
effectiveness in carrying out key environmental protection and natural resources management
functions that the agency already carries out, there is no need to create additional project
impiemezuation srucwures within the agency. Direct responsibility for implementing most of the
proposed programs would lie with the General Directorates of SEDUE/SE, in coordination with
corresponding personnel located in SEDUE's delegations in the states.
3.71   The DGPCCA would be responsible for executing the pollution control sub-component;
the DGNRE, the environmental impacts sub-component and the studies on regulations and
standards; the DGCERN, the biodiversity sub-component and the studies on consolidating SINAP
and on biological corridors. With regard to the studies, the DGCERN would not carry out the
work itself, but would contract with research institutions or non-governmental organizations with
the required expertise to conduct the studies. The Coordinating Unit of Advisers to the Under-
Secretary of SEDUE/SE (assisted by its small coordinating group -- para. 3.37) would be
responsible for executing the institutional strengthening program and the decentralization pilot
program (in coordination with the five states involved). This Unit would also provide the
secretariat for the Task Force on Modernization of Environmental Management. SEDUE's
General Directorate for Legal Affairs (DGAJ) would be responsible for implementing the legal
studies. The Secretariat for Health would participate in implementing the pre-investment study on
environmental impacts on health. CONADE would participate in the environmental futures study.
3.72   PMoie(ct Coordination Unit (PCUI. There is already a unit within CONADE which,
flnanced in part through the end of 1991 by a small grant from UNDP, took the lead in
preparing the proposed project. While existing units within SEDUE/SE and outside of SEDUE
would be directly responsible for implementing specific programs (as described in para. 3.71), the
small PCU within CONADE would coordinate these efforts, maintain project accounts, carry out
monitoring and evaluation activities, prepare periodic reports on the project and prepare the
Project Completion Report. The PCU has already been staffed by SEDUE/SE with individuals
with experience and qualitications satisfactory to the Bank, and the PCU would report directly to
the Under-Secretary of SEDUE/SE. Atl,g ioQtiins, the Government of Mexico provided
assurances that the PCU would be maintained and continue to be staffed with individuals with
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.2 (j)). Tle Director of the PCU
participated in the negotiations.
3.73  In addition to its role in coordinating implementation of the several programs financed
under the proposed project, the PCU would coordinate preparation of the second phase of the
Government's environmental program. In this second role, the PCU would build on the
proposed project and, consistent with the goal of SEDUE/SE to decentralize routine monitoring
and control functions, identify additional priority investments to be included in the Government's
proposed sectoral program.
3.74  Monitoring and evaluation. The PCU would be responsible for mnonitoring
implementation of all project components. The unit would carry out this task on the basis of the
output targets describod in Annexes 1.8, 2.1, 3.1 and 3.2, and quarterly evaluation meetings (in



- 35 -
February, May, August and November of each year). Regarding these quarterly meetings, at
negotiations, agreement was reached that:
(i)   two weeks before each meeting, SEDUE/SE will send the Bank the draft agenda in order
to provide the Bank the opportunity to suggest additional agenda items;
(ii)  following each meeting, SEDUE/SE will send the Bank the minutes of the meeting;
(iii) the minutes to the August quarterly meeting will include an estimate of the budgetary
allocation needed to i arry out the project the following year;
(iv)  the minutes of the November meeting (to be submitted to the Bank by December 1) will
include: (a) a report on the budget allocation request presented to the national legislature
for the upcoming calendar year, and (b) a detailed report describing the results of project
monitoring for the immediately prior 12 months, based on the implementation targets and
goals agreed at appraisal and detailed in Annexes 1.8, 2.1, 3.1 and 3.2, and signed by the
government and the Bank in a supplemental letter to the Guarantee Agreement, and
suggestions for improving project implementation and effectiveness;
(v)   the February meeting will be designated an annual review meeting and, in addition to the
usual participants from the implementing units, will be attended by representatives of
BANOBRAS and the Bank. The annual review will be based on the results of project
monitoring contained in the minutes of the November quarterly meeting, and will
conclude with agreement on an annual plan of action, including specific goals and
projections for project implementation for the calendar year during which the annual
review is held. The minutes for the February meeting will also include a report on the
budget allocation actually approved by the national legislature for the current fiscal year
(paras. 4.2 (k) and 4.2 (1)).
3.75   The annual review meeting will provide an opportunity for the government and the Bank
to discuss, among other things: (a) attainment of the objectives specified in the Strategy Letter
(Annex 1.6); (b) progress in carrying out the action plan for strengening and, if necessary,
restructuring SEDUE; (c) progress in meeting the schedules and targets established in the
Supplemental Letter to the Guarantee Agreement, signed by representatives of the government and
the Bank; (d) the design of the environmental auditing program; (e) progress in implementing the
recommendatioir, :tudies carried out under the project; (f) possible follow-up studies regarding
economic instruments for environmental protection and natural resource management; (g)
selection of states to participate in the pilot decentralization program; and (h) the adequacy of the
budgetary allocation obtained for implementing the project in the upcoming calendar year.
3.76 With regard to the protected areas program, SEDUE would create a technical advisory
council (TAC) in each of the 12 states where the protected areas are located. Each TAC would
include representatives from local communities, scientific groups, local and state government,
SEDUE's state delegation, and the private sector. Once each year, each TAC would meet in an
annual evaluation meeting with officials from SEDUE's headquarters in Mexico City and with the
external specialists who reviewed the investment plans for the protected areas corresponding to
that TAC. The external specialists would also visit the protected areas at this time, compare the
achievements of the program with the outplut indicators estimated at appraisal, and prepare reports



- 36 -
of their findings to send to SEDUE and the Bank. These reports would be discussed at the annual
review meetings (para. 3.74 (v)). At negotiations, agreement was confirmed on the guidelines for
the establishment and functioning of the TACs (para. 4.1 (d)).
E.2   Proc4renQen
3.77   SEDUE/SE would carry out all procurement under the project in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines, using standard bidding documents for Mexico agreed by Mexican authorities
and the Bank in Cuernavaca in April 1990. All ICB contracts and the first three LCB contracts
would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The Bank would review other procurement
documentation selectively ex-post. The PCU would retain procurement documentation for review
by Bank supervision missions. BANOBRAS would provide SEDUE/SE advice and assistance in
preparing procurement documents as necessary. Table 3.3 summarizes procurement under the
Bank loan and GET grant.
Table 3.3: Project Cost by Procurement Method
Category             aCB         IQB £Er               TIoal
-U.....- US$ millions-
Civil Works                      8.9         1.5       10.4
(1.7)      (0.6)      (2.3)
[6.5]      [0.61       [7.1]
Goods                 9.3        6.2         3.8       20.3
(5.5)      (2.9)      (0.7)       (9.1)
12.2]      [2.1]      [1.9]       [6.2]
Studies and Training                        45.3 a/    45.3
(28.6)     (28.6)
16.81      16.81
Incremental operating            8.0        43.9       51.9
expenses                       (2.5)      (7.5)      (10.0)
10.7]      [9.21      1 9.91
9.3       23.1       94.2       126.6
(5.5)      (7.1)     (37.4)      (50.0)
[2.2]      19.3]     [18.51      [30.01
(Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan;
figures in brackets are the respective amounts financed by the GET grant)
a/   Consulting services to be procured following the August 1981 j.jjk
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
Bank as-Executing Agency.



- 37 -
3.78  Civil wrks. Civil works would represent about 8 percent of total project costs and
would be small in size. All civil works would be procured under LCB or local shopping
procedures, since no civil works contract would exceed US$500,000; up to US$8.9 million would
be procured following LCB procedures. Civil works costing less than US$150,000, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to US$1.5 million may be procured following local shopping
procedures based on price quotations from at least three contractors.
3.79  Go. Computers, vehicles and goods would represent about 16 percent of total project
costs. To the extent possible, contracts for goods would be grouped to allow procurement of
larger packages. Packages exceeding US$250,000 would be procured following ICB procedures.
Six such ICB procurement packages (totalling US$9.3 million) are expected for: (i) computers
and accessories (US$0.6 million equivalent); (ii) vehicles (US$1.9 million); (iii) field equipment
for air quality monitoring (US$1.7 million); (iv) laboratory equipment (US$2.0 million); (v)
furniture (US$1.8 million); and (vi) radio and photographic equipment (US$1.3 million). Local
manufacturers would be granted a margin of preference in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for ICB procurement of goods. Packages exceeding US$50,000 but costing less than US$250,000
would be procured under LCB procedures; up to US$14.2 million (including US$8.0 million of
goods classified as incremental operating expenses) would be procured following LCB procedures.
Packages costing less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$5.1 million
(including US$1.3 million of goods classified as incremental operating expenses), would be
procured under local shopping procedures based on price quotations from at least three suppliers.
3.80   Consultants. SEDUE/SE will follow the August 1981 Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the Bank as Executing Agency for the selection and
appointment of individual short-term and long-term consultants and consulting firms.
SEDUE/SE's standard contract for individual short-term and long-term consultants was reviewed
at appraisal and found acceptable. Individual consultant contracts (including long-term
consultants) would amount to an estimated US$21.7 million. Contracts with consulting firms
would amount to approximately US$25.0 million. All studies to be financed under the project
would be subject to terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
E.3   Disbursement
3.81   The proposed Bank loan and GET grant would be fully disbursed in four years; the
closing date would be December 31, 1995. Annex 4.4 contains the estimated disbursement
schedule of the Bank loan; Annex 4.5 contains the disbursement schedule of the GET grant. To
ensure timely and efficient project implementation, various start-up activities are already
underway. Retroactive financing from the loan would be available to finance up to US$5 million
(10 percent of the proposed loan) for eligible expenditures incurred in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines after March 1, 1991 (para. 4.7). At negotiation$, agreement was reached
that claims for retroactive financing of eligible expenditures would be made no later than four
months after loan effectiveness (para. 4.2 (m)).
3.82 Table 3.4 presents the percentages of disbursement from the Bank loan by category of
expenditure:



- 38 -
Table 3.4: Allocation of Bank Loan Proceeds
Amount of the Loan        % of
Allocated (Expressed   Expenditures
Cateeory           in US$ million Eguivalent)  to be Financed
1. Goods and equipment      8.3             100% of foreign;
75% of local
2. Civil works              2.0             100% of foreign;
75% of local
3. Studies and Training    25.7             100% of foreign;
75% of local
4. Operating expenses       9.0              60% up to US$5
(except salaries for                     million; thereafter,
permanent staff)                         30% up to US$8
million; thereafter,
10%
5. Unallocated              5.0
TOTAL                    50.0



- 39 -
3.83   Table 3.5 presents the percentages of disbursement from the GET grant by category of
expenditure:
Table 3.5: Allocation of GET Grant Proceeds
Amount of the Grant        % of
Allocated (Expressed   Expenditures
Categgry           in US$ million Eguivalent)  to be Financed
1. Emergency Plans               2.1              100% in 1992 only
2. Operating Plans
(A) Civil works,              13.0            100%
equipment/furn.
studies, training
(B) Incremental               11.6            90% up to US$6 million;
operating                                   thereafter, 60% up to
expenditures                                US$9.5 million;
thereafter, 30%
3. Management Support             3.3             100%
(7ACs, independent
technical specialists,
general training,
preparation of management
plans, eco-tourism study,
program coordination, etc.)
TOTAL                         30.0
3.84   All disbursements related to contracts up to US$500,000 for works and US$250,000 for
goods would be made on the basis of certified statements of expenditures (SOEs) prepared by
BANOBRAS. BANOBRAS would retain documentation to support SOEs and make these
documents available to Bank supervision missions.
E.4   Accounts and Audits
3.85  To facilitate disbursement from the Bank loan and the GET grant, two special accounts
would be opened after loan and grant effectiveness in the Central Bank. The Bank would make
an initial deposit of US$5 million from the Bank loan into one account, and US$2.5 million from
the GET grant into the second account. The initial deposits would be sufficient to cover about
four months' estimated disbursements from the Bank loan and the GET grant, respectively. lhe
Bank would replenish these accounts as requested upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that
expenditures were eligible for financing out of the loan or the grant, as the case may be, and on



-40-
the basis of withdrawal applications (Form 1903) submitted by the Central Bank. All currency
conversions will be made in accordance with Bank policy.
3.86 Each participating agency, including SEDUE/SE and BANOBRAS, would maintain
separate accounts for project expenditures. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the
Guarantor and the Borrower would have project records and accounts audited each fiscal year by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank as soon as possible, but In
any case no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, a certified copy of the agreed
audit reports (para 4.2 (n)). The Bank would review the auditors' terns of reference to ensure
that they include the audit of the special account and SOEs. The auditors' report should Include
an opinion (and comments, as necessary) on the methods employed in compiling the statements of
expenditures; their accuracy; the relevance of supporting documents; their eligibility for financing
in terms of the project's legal agreement; and the standards of record-keeping and internal
controls related to the foregoing.
E.6 Project Supervision
3.87  Bank supervision of project execution will be particularly important and intensive during
the first two years of the project when significant institutional changes will be occurring. For this
reason, at least three Bank supervision missions each year would be needed. Staffing for these
missions would include a sector economist as well as specialists in institutional development,
pollution control, environmental laboratories, environmental impact assessment and biodiversity
conservation as necessary. Each year, SEDUE/SE and the Bank would conduct a systematic
annual reviews of progress in achieving the goals of the project (paras. 3.74 and 3.75). The
annual reviews meetings would be both retrospective and prospective.
3.88  Within the Bank, supervision will be coordinated with other related operations already
under implementation, such as the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project (Ln. 3271-ME) and
the Decentralization and Regional Development Project (Ln. 3310-ME), as well as with
preparation of a possible follow-up operation to the proposed project. Given SEDUE/SE's
extensive involvement in many Bank-financed and other projects, and its likely increased role
once agreement has been reached on a Mexico-USA-Canada free trade agreement, special
attention would be given to avoiding institutional overload.
F.    Benefits and Rislks
3.89   Benefits. Mexico's environmental problems are grave. The country can reap significant
benefits from investment in consolidating the institutional and policy framework for systematically
addressing these problems. The key functions component would result in immediate tangible
benefits in terms of monitoring and enforcing compliance with pollution standards, ensuring
adequate attention to environmental concerns while planning investment projects, controlling
wildlife trade and protecting Mexico's national system of protected areas. The project would
assist the government in strengthening SEDUE/SE to perform its leadership role in Mexico's
efforts to protect its environment.
3.90  Risks. By the time of the closing date (December 31, 1995), the proposed project is



- 41 -
expected to Increase the recurrent costs of SEDUE/SE by about 30 percent above the current
level. However, given that SEDUE/SE's 1991 budget accounts for less than 0.2 percent of the
total federal budget, this increase should be fully within the absorptive capacity of the federal
budget if the current strong political commitment holds. Two potential risks are that: (i) a
decline in apparent strong current political commitment to strengthen SEDUE/SE would lead to
the problems of inaction, failure to provide adequate counterpart funds in a timely manner, and a
slow pace of disbursement; and (ii) if some cost recovery or other mechanisms for ensuring a
sustainable resource base for SEDUE/SE are not achieved by the close of the proposed project,
SEDUE/SE's ability to sustain increased recurrent costs would be subject to the same budgetary
uncertainty that led to the weakening of the agency in the past. Project design minimizes these
risks by supporting the creation of an intor-secretarial task force to address the issues of sector
financing and the use of economic instruments, and by including in the project provisions for
monitoring the adequacy of the budget. An additional risk, regarding possible inability to
disburse the GET grant for the protected areas program, would be mitigated through the
procedure discussed in para. 3.66.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHEHD AND RECOMMENATIONS
4.1   At negtiona (of the GET grant), the following agreements were conflrmed:
(a)    on the eligibility criteria for GET financing of protected areas (para. 3.27);
(b)    on the initial composition and terms of reference of the 13 Mexican and non-Mexican
technical specialists, and assurances would be sought that the government will not change
the composition and terms of reference of this group without prior agreement of the Bank
(para. 3.27);
(c)    on the process for preparing and reviewing management and operating plans (paras. 3.27
and 3.28);
(d)    on guidelines for the establishment and functioning of the TACs (para. 3.76);
(e)    on the timetable for phasing out GET financing of the program's recurrent costs (para.
3.69); and
(f)    on the process for review of management and operating plans and the formula for possible
cancellation of part of the GET funds by September 30, 1992.
4.2    During negotiation (of the Bank loan), agreement was reached:
(a)    on the text of the letter from the government outlining the strategy for transforming
SEDUE/SE into a second-tier institution (Annex 1.6), progress toward which would be
discussed at each of the annual project implementation review meetings (para. 3.75);
(b)    on the timetable for the initiation, completion and discussion with the Bank of studies to
be carried out under the project (para. 3.75);



- 42 -
(c)   that no modifications will be made to the the coordination agreement between SEDUE and
CNA without the prior agreement of the Bank (para. 3.9);
(d)   regarding review of environmental impact assessments: (i) on the dates by which SEDUE
will transfer authority to SEDUE's state delegations to review environmental impact
assessments in agreed sub-sectors and to monitor compliance with established mitigation
plans (para. 3.17); (ii) on the staffing and training requirements of SEDUE's central
offices and state delegations for this purpose (para. 3.17); and (iii) that new procedures,
satisfactory to the Bank, to facilitate public access to and comment on environmental
impact assessments would be published by December 31, 1992 (para. 3.19);
(e)   regarding ecological planning and zoning, that: (i) SEDUE/SE will publish in SEDUE's
Gaceta Ecologica (Ecological Journal) a summary of the ecological planning and zoning
criteria resulting from the exercises carried out under the project; and (ii) the government
shall make operational by June 30, 1992, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, a
geographic information system (GIS) to store the results of the environmental studies and
the ecological planning and zoning exercises (para. 3.21);
(f)   regarding the institutional analysis of SEDUE/SE, that: (i) by July 31, 1992, the
government will submit to the Bank for its recommendations and comment the reports of
the consultants carrying out the institutional analysis; (ii) on the basis of the consultants'
reports and recommendations, and taking into account the Bank's recommendations and
comments, the Government would reorganize SEDUE according to an action program
acceptable to the Bank to be prepared by December 31, 1992; and (iii) the action plan
would include staffing and budgetting targets to carry out SEDUE's mandate (para. 3.36);
(g)   regarding the decentralization pilot program: (i) that one additional state could be selected
by the Government and the Bank at the first annual evaluation meeting, and up to two
more at the second annual evaluation meeting; and (ii) on the criteria for selecting
additional states at the annual evaluation meetings (para. 3.38);
(-h)   regarding the studies on economic instruments for environmental management: (i) on the
structure and composition of the inter-secretarial task force and its responsibilities; (ii) on
the mechanism to agree on the terms of reference of any research and policy work to be
carried out in subsequent years; (iii) that the government will submit to the Bank by June
30, 1993 the reports of the consultants carrying out these studies and allow the Bank one
month to comment on the reports; and (iv) that the inter-secretarial task force shall take
the Bank's comments into account and will issue by November 30, 1993 its report on the
results of the studies on economic instruments and environmental management and its
policy recommendations and proposed plans of action (para. 3.42);
(i)    on the timetable for issuing the ecological standards to be prepared under the project
(para. 3.46);
0)    that the government would maintain the PCU and continue to staff it with individuals with
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.72);
(k)   regarding monitoring and evaluation, that: (i) the government will hold quarterly



- 43 -
evaluation meetings each February, May, August and November; (ii) the Bank would
have the opportunity to comment on the agenda prior each meeting, and would receive the
minutes of each meeting promptly after the meeting takes place; and (iii) the February
meeting shall be designated an annual evaluation meeting and shall include the
participation of the Bank (para. 3.74);
OI   fthat the annual evaluation meeting will: (i) be based on the results of project monitoring
contained in the minutes of the November quarterly meeting (and based on the
implementation targets and goals agreed at appraisal and detailed in Annexes 1.8, 2.1, 3.1
and 3.2, and signed by the government and the Bank in a supplemental letter to the
Guarantee Agreement); (ii) provide an opportunity for the government and the Bank to
discuss key project issues; and (iii) conclude with agreement on an annual plan of action,
including specific goals and projections for project implementation for the calendar year
during which the annual review is held (para. 3.74);
(m)   that claims for retroactive financing of eligible expenditures would be made no later than
four months after loan effectiveness (para. 3.81); and
(n)   the government and BANOBRAS would have project records and accounts audited each
fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank as
soon as possible, but in any case no later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year, a certified copy of the agreed audit reports (para. 3.86).
4.3   Prior to loan effectiveness:
(a)   the govermnent will demonstrate that adequate funds have been allocated in the federal
budget for project implementation in FY92 (January 1, 1992 to December 31, 1992)
(para. 3.65); and
(b)    BANOBRAS (as financial agent) will enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, providing for the transfer to the government of the proceeds of the loan and the
GET grant for eligible expenditures (para. 3.65); and
(c)   the government will issue and make effective the water pollution prevention and control
regulation under the General Ecology Law (para. 2.16).
4.4   Prior to grant effectiveness, the Loan Agreement for the proposed Bank loan to
BANOBRAS will become effective (para. 3.65).
4.5   Conditions of disbursements from the Bank loan would be, for:
(a)   each environmental laboratory, the preparation of architectural and engineering plans
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.13);
(b)   action programs in each state participating in the decentralization pilot program: (i)
agreement between SEDUE/SE and the Bank on the detailed action plan for that state; and
(ii) an operating agreement acceptable to the Bank and signed by the SEDUE/SE and the
state government (para. 3.37); and



-44 -
(c)    purchase of satellite imagery to monitor compliance with ecological planning and zoning
criteria, until the government has adopted such criteria (para. 3.20).
4.6    Conditions of disbursements from the GET grant on operating plans would be: (i) the
protected area in question would be determined by the Bank to be eligible for GET financing; (ii)
the operating plan would be satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) the corresponding TAC would have
been established under arrangements acceptable to the Bank; and (iv) satisfactory contractual
arrangements, as appropriate, for the collaborative management of the protected area would be in
place (para. 3.28).
4.7   Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for
a Bank loan of US$50 million equivalent to BANOBRAS to be repaid over a period of 15 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, and a GET grant of SDR
21.4 million (US$30 million) equivalent. Retroactive financing from the Bank loan for up to
US$5 million equivalent for eligible expenditures incurred after March 1, 1991 is recommended
(para. 3.81).



- 45 -
page 1 of 4
MEXICO
Environmental_ProJegt
SummarX of the General Ecoloay Law
The General Law of Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection:' 2
The General Ecology Law (GEL) which took effect in March 1988 and which
superseded earlier environmental statutes, regulates the protection,
restoration, and maintenance of ecological balance in Mexico. It is a
comprehensive document containing rules which define land-use management,
restoration and improvement of the environment, protection of natural areas
and plant and animal life, sound exploitation of natural resources, and
pollution prevention and control. The GEL places the primary authority for
enforcement of environmental laws, regulations, and standards with SEDUE3.
The Law is composed of the following titles:
Title I - General Arranqement:
The first three chapters of the Law establish preliminary norms governing
environmental protection in Mexico. Chapter 1 defines various ecological and
developmental terms and norms which used as components of the GEL. Chapter 2
describes the basis for resolving potential conflicts with concurrent state
and municipal environmentai statutes, and gives guidelines for the application
of the Law. The numerous components of the Law are also described in general
terms. In Chapter 3 the diverse responsibilities of SEDUE are outlined,
including those which apply uniquely to the Federal District. The degree of
coordination with the Federal Public Administrationi, and the jurisdictional
limits of SEDUE are established in this Section.
Chapters 4 and 5 of Title I describe the principles and political framework
governing Mexico's ecology, as well as the instruments used by SEDUE to
implement the GEL. Chapter 5 contains the following 9 sections which lay out
the political framework of the GEL:
I - Ecological planning
2 - Ecological regulations
3 - Ecological criteria for the promotion of development
4 - Ecological regulations and human settlement
5 - Evaluation of environmental impact
6 - Ecological technical norms
7 - Measures for the protection of natural areas
8 - Ecological investigation and education
9 - Information and enforcement
Of particular significance are Mexico's environmental impact regulations,
which are described in Section 5. These provide that, prior to construction,
all public or private works potentially harmful to the environment will be
subject to an assessment of the negative impacts they may cause, and this
'L2y General del Ecruilibrio Ecoloico v la Proteccion al Ambiente, 1988.
2AsDects of Mexico Envlronmental Policy and the Environmental Situation
in Mexigo. SEDUE, April 1991.
3Secretaria de Desarollo Urbano y Ecologia iSEDUE), or Secretariat of
Urban Development and Ecology. SEDUE has three sub-secretariats, one of which
is "Ecology."



- 46 -
Annex 1.1
page 2 of 4
assessment must suggest possible mitigation steps. SEDUE or another
appropriate federal agency may then impose conditions upon the proposed
activities which must be adhered to during implementation. To strengthen the
regulatory process, guidelines have been published which demonstrate how to
draw up environmental impact statements. All sectors producing goods and
services are required to submit environmental impact studies. In addition,
technical criteria have been formulated to evaluate environmentally sensitive
projects in the areas of aquaculture, forestry, construction of marinas and
highways, mining, and production and transmission of electric power. In the
case of particularly dangerous activities, a separate risk asseasment is also
required to mitigate the potential for environmental damage.
Title _I - Protected Areas:
Title II of the GEL provides information on Mexico's protected areas system
(El Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas or SINAP). SEDUE is
responsible for managing nine types of protected areas, each with a unique set
of management priorities, designed to achieve a sustainable balance &etween
the conservation of biodiversity and resource use and development. Protected
areas management is governed by both federal regulations and state and local
laws which outline the basic steps which must be taken in order to establish
and maintain a protected area.
Development within protected areas is regulated by federal, state, and
municipal laws, and must be approved by the responsible government agencies.
The Secretary of Agriculture and Water Resources for Agrarian Reform is
responsible for monitoring proposed development achemes, and providing
technical assistance to ejido4 communities wishing to develop natural
resources within a protected area.
National protected areas are created by a declaration of the federal
government in cooperation with the appropriate sectoral secretary, and must
contain the following components: a precisely demarcated area, a description
of allowable level of natural resource development, a management plan, and a
means of enforcing applicable regulations. These declarations describe how
the reserve will be managed in terms of administration, financing, community
involvement, and permissible type and level of development withLn the reserve.
The Law lists activities which are restricted within bioaphere reserve core
areas, as well as the most basic elements which should be included in a
reserve management plan.
Titl  II - Rational Development of Natural Resourcest
In this title, the GEL describes the basic criteria to be considered wlth
regard to the development of water, aquatic, and terreetrial resources. Thli
title also outlines the administrative structure for overseeing development,
rules for intersectoral cooperation in the development of natural resources,
and instruments for implementing and enforcing development regulations.
Included in the outline of land resource development, are those regulations
governing forestry and mining.
SEDUE maintains the right to revoke, modify, or suspend development
authorLzations whLch are duemed to greatly disrupt ecological equilibrlwu.
Particular attention is to be paid to the extraction of non-renewable
resources, and the potential associated environmental damage. The Law
establishes technical norms governing the protection of all natural resources
'Communally owned public land.



- 47 -
Xunnex 1.1
page 3 of 4
which may be. negatively affected by non-renewable resource extraction. Where
the restoration of degraded land takes place, and where the use of exotic
species is necessary for such restoration, the GEL states that the
introduction of compatible exotics will be a priority.
Title IV - Environmental Protection:
This title outlines SEDUE's strategy for the prevention and control of air,
water, and land pollution, as well as the means for mo.aitoring and enforcing
regulations. SEDUE, in cooperation with the Secretary of Health, is charged
with establishing and monitoring air quality standards, and with regulating
emissions levels which conform to human health tolerances, particularly in
urban areas such as the Federal District. State and municipal governments are
responsible for enforcing compliance with municipal and federal regulations
within their jurisdiction.
In determining land use and zoning for urban development, the GEL requires
SEDUE to consider topographic and climatic conditions with the aim of
facilitating the dispersion of atmospheric contaminants. In addition, the
appropriate governmental authorities are charged with enforcing the use by
industry, of the best economically available technology for the control of air
pollutants.
Title V - Social Participation:
This brief title establishes SEDUEs commitment to incorporating the views of
all affected groups into development decisions; these groups include non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), local communities, educational
institutions, and other societal representatives. This emphasis on greater
cooperative decision making, together with initiatives to more effectively
disseminate information and promote ecological education, comprisea an attempt
by SEDUE to increase public involvement in all aspects of policy making.
T-itle VI EnforECementt
The final title broadly describes the structure whereby SEDUE will monitor
conmpliance with the GEL, and enforce its regulatione. It includes sections on
inepection and enforcement, administrative sanctions, penalties for violation
of the law or its regulatione or technical norms, and popular complaints.



- 48 -
Annex 1.1
page 4 of 4
Structure of the General Ecology Law
Titlge  - General Arrangement
Chapter 1 -  Preliminary norms
2 -  Concurrence with Federal agenciee and municipalities
3 -  Authority of SEDUE and coordination with the Federal Public
Administration
4 -  Political ecology
5 -  Instruments of political ecology
Section 1 -    Ecological planning
2 -    Ecological ordinances
3 -    Ecological criteria for the promotion of
development
4 -    Ecological regulation of human settlement
5 -    Evaluation of environmental impact
6 -    Technical ecological norms
7 -    Measures for the protection of natural areas
8 -    Ecological investigation and education
9      Information and enforcement
Tilj1rotected Areas
Chapter 1 -  Categories, declarations and regulations
Section 1 -    Types and characteristics
2 -    Guidelines for establishment, conservation,
administration, development and protection
Chapter 2    SINAP
Chapter 3 - Terrestrial and aquatic flora and fauna
Title II! --Rational -eveloment of Natural Resourcge
Chapter 1 - Development of water and aquatic ecosystems
2 - Development of land resourcee
3 - Effects of non-renewable resource exploration and extraction on
the environment
W1.1XV., _Environmental Protection
Chapter 1 -  Prevention and control of air pollution
2 -  Prevention and control of contamination of water resources
aquatic ecosystems
3 -  Prevention and control of contanin&tLon of land
4 -  Risk Assessment
S -  Handling of dangerous materials
6 -  Nuclear energy
7 -  Noise, vibration, thermal energy and visual pollution
Wite V - SE ial Participation
Chapter 1 - Social participation
21£AtYL2.J orcement
Chapter 1 -  Observation of the Law
2 -  ZnspectLon and enforcement
3 -  Securlty measures
4 -  Administrative sanctions
5 -  Non-conforming resources
6 -  Violations of Federal regulations
7 -  Popular complaint
Tran itoryArt ir24e
"MUSaw11         I AU



Anrex 1.2
page 1 of 11
- 49 -
ENVIMONUTAL LAW AND REGULATLONS OF MEXICO'
Chronological Development, By Pmblem Ana
8116/S52    SEDUE'               IJntal elion of SEDUE.
12/23/87                         *Gaewal Ecoogy Law' aoptd.
1/28/88                          Genem Ecology Law published in DJ1uo Oficial.
3/1/88                           Geneal Ecology Law effective.
9/23/88     SEDUE                Dcroe for reformng, adding and deledig diverse
quirements of SEDUE internal regulation. (p.58)'
1119/88     Commerce (SECO       Dcr  establishing the codes and classfication of
imported merchandise subject to sanitary,
phytozoosanitary and ecological regulation. (p.7)
1/16/89     Ag & Ilydr. Rscs.    Decree for crating the National Commission of
(SARH)              Water as an administive organition under the
Scrtary of Agricultue and Hydraulic Resources.
(p.2)
12122/89    SECOFI               Decree for developing and operating the Maquiladora
Industry of Exporation. (p.12)
3128190     Admsutration         Agmement for the Secitares of Administradon and
SEDUE, under Artcles S part X and 146 of the
G:ieral Ecology Law; 27 Part XXX: and 37 Part
'This list of treglidons'^, *demes, *'geemnen"t, eological critaia, techil
sAndards and oh  offica adons by the Meacan govement has not been reviewed by
Mexican authornties for either completeness or accurcy.
2cept as noted, dates indicat  e dte of publication in the Diarfo  flcial de la
Federacon.
'nhis column O     idther the originadng agency or the action's identifying number.
'Pae numbes refer to the loation of the document in the Diaro O&ficlal.
DMVR 1.4 MLr1
r7123n. 4SOp4m
1



Anr.es 1.2
page 2 of 11
50 -
XV  nd XVW of the Organonal law of the
Fedeal Public Adrnistration, gving the first list of
high-ri acdvities. (p.2)
719/90      SEDUE                Decroe for approvng the mid-rAnge sectoral progam
called e National Progrm for Envuonmental
Potection 19901994. (p.8)
7J10/90     SEDUE                Natonal Pgram for Environmental Proteton 1990-
1994. (p.8)
6/7/88      SEDUE                 Reglon for maos of environmental impact.
(p.28)
12/14/88    SEDIJE               Decree establishing the guidedines for fornulating,
expediting and modifying ecological technical
standards. (p.7)
12114/88    CE-OESE-001/88       Ecologica criteria for slecing and preparing sites
intended for the installation of hydroelectric utility
systems, and for the construction and opertion of
these systems. (p.89)
12/14/88    CE-OESE-002/88       Ecological criteria for selecting and preparing sites
intended for the installation of convendonal central
thermoelectric power plants, and for the construcdon
of same. (p.92)
6/7189      CE-OBSE-M/89          Ecological criteria for selecting, exploring and
preparing sites intended for geothermal electic
systems, and their consuction. (p.15)
618/89      CE-OESE-0D3/89        Eological critcuia for wlecting and prparing sites
and rights of way, construc on, operation and
maintnance of ectricl high tension lines and
clectrical substions. (p.10)
DRAFT 1.4 MIuAi
., 7MI91 4:SOpm
2



Anrex 1.2
pape 3 of 11
- 51 -
Air Polletioln
6/6188      NTE-CCAT-001/88    Technical standard establishing maximum permissible
air emission levels for SO2 and SO and sulfurie acid
mist from sulfuric acid producton plants. (p.34)
6//88       NTE-CCAT-002/88    Technical stndard establishing maximum pemissble
piculate air emissions from calcining ovens of
cement plants. (p.32)
6/688       NTE-CCAT-003/88    Tecncal sandard establishing maximum permissible
air emission levels of hydrocarbons and CO from
intemal combustion engine exhaust of automobiles
using gasoline fuel. (p.31)
10118/88    NTE-CCAT-005/88    Technical standard establishing the maximum
pemissible air emission levels for particulates, CO,
SO2 and NO,, from diesel combustion stationary
sources. (p.17)
10/18/88    NTE-CCAT.007/88    Technical standard establishing the maximum
permissible air emission levels for particulates, CO,
S2 and NO,, from fuel oil combustion processes
stationary sources. (p.13)
10/18/88    NTE-CCAT-009/88    Technical standard establishing the maximum
pernissible air emission levels for solid particulates
ftom stationary sources. (p.15)
10/19/88    NTE-CCAT-0/88    Technical standard establishing the maximum
permissible air emission leves of hydrocrbons, CO,
and NO., from the exhaust of new automobiles with
gasoline engines. (p. 20)
10/19/88    NTE-CCAT-008/88    Technical stand  establishg maximum permissible
air emission levs of purticulates, CO, SO% and NO,,
from naurl as oDmbusdoo staionary sources. (p.23)
10/19/88    NTE-CCAM-001/88   Technial standard establishing the procedure for
dermining fte concentration of CO in the air. (p.14)
i /2f5rIS   SEDU-                Reguladion of th1c G2eQaaa Ecoiogy Law vii matttrs foz
prevc'ntin; arid ccwtnUg &ir polution (p.52).
DRA1PT 1.4 M sLit
. 712391 4:50pm
3



Annex 1.2
page 4 of 11
52 -
11/25/88    D.F.                RePgiatioB of the Geeral Eco1ogy Law for preventing
and ontolling pollution from motor vehicles
dcuLaing in the Fedel District and cities in its
suburban zone. (p.80)
12/14/88    NTE-CCAT-006/88    Technical standard establishing the maximum
permissible air emison leves for particulates, CO,
SO2 and NO, from coal combusto at thermoelectric
power plants. (p.8)
12114/88    NTE-CCAT-010/88    Technical sandard establishing the maximum
pemissible smoke opacity of the exhaust from new
motor vehicles using diesel fuel. (p.12)
12/14/88    NTE-CCAT-011/88    Technical standard establishing the maximum
pemiissible smoke opacity of the exhaust from
exstig automobiel using diel fueL (p.15)
12/14/88    NTE-CCAT-012/88    Technical standard establishing the maximum
permissible air emission levels of S%, S03, and
sulfuric acid. (p.19) [Appended are: I) table
showing emissions and pect control efficiency at
different feed raes, and 2) grph showing a
comparison of pemittod emissions for new and
existing sources in Mexico and in the US.]
12/14/88    NTE-CCAM-002/88   Technical standard establishing the procedure for
determining the concentrations of susended
particulates in the air. (p.31)
6/7/89      NTECCAT-013/89    Tecnical sandard establishing equipment
(6/26/89)                         aracteiscs and measurement procedures for
verifying emission levels from gas-fueled motor
vehicles. (p.9) (Clarification, p.11.)
11/8/89     D.F.                 Agreement establishing the citeria for limitig motor
vehicle trffic in the Fdeal Dislrict for one day a
week. (p.37)
3/1190      D.F.                 Agrement establishg the criteia for limiting gas
and diesel motor vehicle tffic in the Federal District
fur oar ddy a *wtk. (p.jW)
DRAFT 1.4 MsrUnt
7/23/91 4:SOpm
4



Annex 1.2
page 5 of 11
-53-
513190      Communiions &        Agreent estabIliing the _eisinnual inspcton of
(6/1/90)    T=nporaui0I            amirated emisio   from motor vehicles using '
rs undes federajurisdiction. (p.18) (ErTata p.88).
6/15190     SEDUE                Agreement esmblishin the procedure for obtining an
operating licee, as referred to in Article 19 of the
RWgul  of the Genel Eoology Law for preventing
and controllng a   hic conaminton at
statio.naysources considered to be micm; dus
that emit or can emit odo, gses or solid or liquid
particulates to the atmpheme. (p.20)
10/19/90    NTE-CCAT-015/90    Tehical stadard establishing the maximum
pamisible air emission levels of hydrocarbons, CO
and smolk in the ethas of existng motorcycles
uinng gasoline or psoline.oil mixtre for fuel. (p.17)
10/23/90    NTECCAT-016/90    Technical sndard estabising equipment
chametistics and measurement procedures for
verifying the exhaust emission levels of contaminated
gases from existng motorcycles using gasoline or a
mixture of gasoline-oil as fuel. (p.9)
1/23/79                          Regulation for preventing and controlling
oDntamination of the sea by spillage of wastes and
other materials (implements the London Ocean
Dumping Convention).
6/6/88      NTECCAX0/88          Technical standrd establishing maximum pemissible
limits and prooedures for determining contminants in
wastewater discharges, coming from the flour
prodution industry, into bodies of water. (p.37)
6/6/88      NTE-CCA008/88        Thnial standard establishing maimum permssible
limits nd procedures for deamining conaminants in
wastwter disharges, coming from industries maling
a*estos for constucon, into bodies of water. (p.39)
6/6188      NTE-CCA-010/88       Teohnical stndard establishing maximum permissible
imit; and woodures -for dam"ng twainantS in'
wastcnta di=hares, fdt  the flat gles
manufacturing industry, into bodies of waer. (p.42)
DRAFr 1.4 MtUta
72191 450pm
S



Annex 1.2
page 6 of 11
- 54 -
616/88      NTE-CCA-011/88       Technical standard establishing maximum pemisble
limits and procedum fr detf rining contaminants in
wagewaw discharges, fom the pressed and blown
glass industry, into bodies of water. (p.44)
6/6/88      NTE-CCA-012188       Tochical stadrd estAbling maximum permissible
lmits and procedurs for detemining contuminanu in
wastewater dishres, from the synthetic rubber, tics
and 9camaxa? maf ing idusti, into bodies
of water. (p.87)
6/6/88      NTE-CCA-018/88       Technical sandard esblishing maximum permissible
limits and procedura for detemining contaminants in
wastewater discharges, from the rolling, extusion and
dnwing of copper and its alloys, into bodies of water.
(p.89)
6/6/88      NTE-CCA-020/88       Technical sandard establisng maximum permissible
limits and procedures for determining contaminants in
wastewater disclarges, from the asbestos textile,
friction material and sealants industry, into bodies of
water. (p.92)
8/4/88      NTE-CCA4O2/88        Technical standard establishing nmximum permissible
limits and procedures for determining contaminants in
wastewater discharges into bodies of water, from the
sugar cane production industry. (p.3)
8/4/88      NTE-CCA.014/88       Technical standard establishing maximum permissible
limits and proedtures for detmining contaminants in
wastewae discharges into bodies of wate, from the
textile industry. (p.5)
8/4/88      N7E-CCA-016/88       Technical standard estblh       maximum permissible
limits and procodures for deemining conminants in
wastewater disharges into bodies of water, from the
fI                              arubonated beveages industy. (p.8)
8/4/88      NTE-CCA-019/88       Technical standard establishing maximum pemisble
limits and procedures for detmining contaminants in
wastwater discharges into bodies of water, from the
Ieted wood producs indusuy. (P.10)
DPRAFT 1.4 Mrist
7/3191 4:SOpm
6



Annex 1. 2
page 7 of 11
- 55 -
8/4/88      NE-CCA-022/88        Technical stadad eabliing mximum pemissible
limiuf md procedum for determining consminnts Ln
wastewata discharges into bodies of wae, from the
animal slaughterhuse and meat packdng industry.
(p.12)
8/4/88      NTE-CCA.021/88       Tochnical stadard egablishing maximum permissible
limits and procodures for detmining contaminans i
wastwaw discharge into bodis of waler, from the
tning axd   -finishing dustry. (p.15)
8/4/88      NTE-CCA-003/88       Technical standard establishing maximum permissible
limts and procedures for determining contmints in
wastewater discges into bodies of water, from the
petolcum refining industry and the manufacture of
petroleum deivaives and basic petrchemicals. (p.17)
8/4/88      NTE-CCA-004/88       Technical standard establishing maximum permissible
limits and procedures for detrmining contaminants in
wastewater discharges into bodies of water, from
ferdlizer plants, except those that produce phosphoric
acid as an intermediate product. (p.20)
8/4/88      NTE-CCA-005/88       Technical standard establishing maximum permissible
limits and procedures for detmining contaminants in
wastewater discharges into bodies of water, from the
plastics and synthedc polymers industry. (p.22)
8/4/88      NIE-CCA-007/88       Technical standard establishing maximum permissible
Lmits and procedurs for determining oontaminants in
wasewaw discharges into bodies of water, from the
beer and malt industries. (p.25)
8/4188      NTE-CCA-W009/88      Technical standard establishing maximum permible
limits and procedures for determining contaminants in
wastewater dismes into bodies of wate, from the
milk and dairy prducts industries. (p.27)
8/4/88      NTE-CCA-013/88       Tecical sandard esablishing maximum pemissible
limits and procedures for dtecrmining contaminants in
wwwater discharges into bodies of water, from iron
ai- sae Ioainufacturing. (p.30)
DRAFT 1.4 MrLis
7/23/91 4:SOpm
7



Annex 1. 2
page 8 of 11
- 56 -
8/4/88      NTh-CCA-01/88        Technica stndard esblshing malmum pmissible
limits and procedures for deemining contaminants im
wawater dsoharges into bodies of water, from
onventonal  U lc  powr plants. (p.32)
8/41/8      NTE-CCA-015/88       Technil sndard establising muximum permissible
lmits and pocedum for dem=ining contaminants in
watewater disches into bodies of rwata, from the
aper ad callule industry. (p.34)
10/19/88    NTE-CCA-017/88       Thnic  standard establshing maximum prmissible
imits ad proodures for detemining contaminants in
watewate dischare into bodies of water, from the
metal finishing industry. (p.25)
10/19/88    NTE-CCA.023/88       Technical standard establishing maximum Pemissible
limits a    ocedSues for detmining the
concentato of contumiats in wastewater
dishaqes into bodies of water, from the food canning
industry. (p.28)
12/14/88    NTE-CCA-024/88       Technical standard establishing maximum permissble
limits and procedures for determining contaminants in
wastewater discbarges into bodies of water, from
paper  anuacturi  using virgin cellulose. (p.85)
12/14/88    NTE-CCA-025/88       Technicl sndard establshing maximum permissble
limits and procedures for determining contaminants in
wastewater discharges into bodies of water, from
paW    manufaturing using recycled cellulose fiber.
(p.87)
12/13/89    CE-CCA-001/89        Agreement establishing the ecological criteria for
water quality. (p.7)
2/20/91     NTE-CCA-027/90       Tencal standard establshng the maximum
pemissible limits for wstewat discages from
coffee procesing plants into bodies of water. (p.19)
(not trnle)
DRAFT 1.4 MtrLiu
' 7023I91 4:SOpM
8



Annex 1.2
- 57 -                     page 9 of 11
2J20/91     NTE-CCA-028/90       Tebcnical standard establishing maximum pruLssble
limits for watwat discharges from the preserved'
fish and seafood prepamtion and packaging industry,
and from fish breading and frying, into bodies of
waer. (p.21) (not translated)
1/19/87     SEDUEBu. of          Der  concerning the importaton or
Raes, Ops, &         eortaton of hazrdous materials or
Rel. Svcs.           wastes that by tuer namre may cause harm to the
evimnment or property or constitute a risk to public
health or welfae.
616188      NTE-CRP-001/88       Technical standard establishing cntena for
determining hazrdous wastes and for listing same.
(P-95)
6/6/88      NTE-CRP-008/88       Technical sdard stablishing requirements for sites
destined for the controlled confinement of hazardous
wastes, except radioactive. (p.102)
11/25188    SEDUE                Regulation of the General Law on mntters of
hazardous wastes. (p.61).
12/14/88    NTE-CRP-010/88       Technical standard establishing the requirements that
will be observed in the design, construction and
operation of controlled confinement cels for
hazardous wastes, detemined under the ecological
tcic  stndard ?E-CRP-001/99. (p.9)
12/14/88    NTE-CRP-002/88       Technical standard establishing the procedures for
conducting the extadon test for deteming Lhe
constitents of a hazrdous waste having toxicity to
the environment (p.20)
1114/88    NE-CRPP-03/88        Techmical sun4ad  establishig e procedures for
deemining the incompatibility between two or more
wastes onidered hazrdous under the tchnical
suadard NTE-CP001/88. (p.42)
twt!2n  CS;;ut;       * ~Reguladr of; U-fdt Goncrai Eley I;n for
recognizing the for a on %rhich the nationz! industry
DRAFT 1.4 Mg ist
7123I91 4:SOps



Annex 1 .2
page 1C of 11
-58 -
must declare the volumes and types of geneaton of
hardous wase. (p.84)
9/8/89      NTE-CRP-009/89       Technical stndard establishing the rquirements for
desiing and co osxg support sevices in a
hazardou waste disposl site. (p.12)
12/13/89    NTECP& -011/89       Technical stndard establishing the requirements for
op.a..g a disosl site for hazurdous Wes. (p.23)
4/6/90      SEDUE                 Import and export of ha:ardous materials and wastes.
Procedures for authorization. (p.17)
Psticide and Toxic SUbstances
10127188    SECOFI, SARH,        Intemal Regulation of the Inengency
IHeAIth & SEDUE      Commission for Contro0fing the Procesng and Use of
Pesticides, Fmrtilizers, and Toxic Substances.
12/7/88     Interagency Comm.   Accord establishing the tuiff list and classification of
for Ctrlling the Proc.  imported pesticides subject to sanitary,
& Use of Pesticides,  phytozoosanitary and ecological reguladon. (p.27)
Ferdlizers & Tox.
Substances
(CICOPLAFESI)
(SEDUE, SSA,
SECOFI, SARI)
12/7/88     CICOPLAFEST          Accord establishing the uniform and integral
procedues for responding to requests to import
pesticides. (p.43)
1217/88     CICOPLAFEST          Accord for recog ng the instructions for proceeding
uniformly and inuteamie as subject to SECOFI,
SARH, SEDUE, and SSA, in responding to requests
to register for a gunt of authorition for lices,
pemisions and registration for pescides, fertilizers
an toxic subsances. (p.44)
DRAFr 1.4 MwUst
' 7/3191 4:SOpm
10



Annex 1.2
page 11 of 11
- 59 -
11/10/89    SEDUE               Elctricia cqupment - Maifest form for compnis
that are possble gaMto  of PCB wates csmn
fom electicl equipment. (p.39)
1/10190     SARH                Pesicides. 1regaisaions grnted durng the month of
August 1989. (p.10)
1/16190     SARH                Pesides. Regisons ganted durg the month of
Sept 1989. (p.13)
3128/90     SARH                Pesticide regstrtons granted during the month of
November 1989. (p.8)
5/14/90     SARH                Intemal Regulation of the Seetay of Agriculture and
Hydraulic Resources. (p.36)
5115190     SARH                Pestcdes. Accounting of canoeled regstrations datod
April 5, 1990. (p.45)
7/13/90     Energy, Mines &     Petrochemncal Industry. Resolution for restructring
Parastatal Industry    the registation in the Registry, of the undertaing for
(SEMEP)             finished petrhemical products. (p.5)
8/21/90     SARH                Pesticides. Accounting of regisuatons granted during
the month of Feb. 1990. (p.21)
8/21/90     SARH                Pestcides, Accounting of registrations granted during
the month of Jan. 1990. (p.26)
8/22/90     SARH                Pesticides. Accwting of reitrations granted during
te molh of Dcc. 1989. (p.43)
islaneou
12/6/82                         Regulton for protcdng the eavirnment from noise
poluton.
517/90      SEMEP                National Prgam for Modernizg Enegy, 1990-
1994. (p.2)
1O/1S.90    i~isFa1c&z-s        -Ntion -lProvram of Jevclspament yr  lAies and
aLher re"o-.uces 1990-1994.-Panc 1 -4 onlyl (P-61)
DRAFr 1.4 MWLiM
' M3191 4:5pm
11



- 60 -
ANNEX 1. 3
page 1 of 2
MEXICO
Environmental Proiect
Summary of Mexico's 1990-1994 National Environmental Protection PrograM' 2
Under the guidelines of the 1989-1994 National DevelopMent Plan, the
NAtional Envi onmental Protection Program outlines a national strategy aimed
at encouraging the rational use of natural resources while remedying past
environmental damage. By identifying the most important threats to Mexvco's
natural environment, and targeting the chief obstacles to environmental policy
reform, the Program seeks to transform the relationship between economic
development and environmental protection in Mexico. The Program addresses the
historically low priority given to environmental variables during much of
Mexico's development wii.h the intention of decreasing environmental
degradation and encouraging greater national sensitivity to such issues. Key
emphases of the program are described below:
Decentralization of AuthorLty. The Program is designed to allow states
and municipalities to initiate action through social groups interested
in protecting the environment. Environmental prefectures (regidurias
ecologicas) have been designed to facilitate joint programs at the grass
roots level. To date, 450 such prefectures have been established
following more than 200 courses offered by the Secretariat for Urban
Development and Ecology (SEDUE). As part of the decentralization plan,
the Program will support policies designed to facilitate intersectoral
communhcation and build consensus among communities.  International
cooperation will be sought to assist in the transfer of technical
knowledge and experience.
Ecol qical Planninu and Zoning.  The Program also calls for a
territorial strategy to address local and regional problems. SEDUE has
initiated a process of ecological planning and zoning that considers the
potential best use for each zone, the protection of ecosystems, and the
distribution of human communities and their eocio-economic activities.
Consistent with current urban policy, the Program includes policies to
induce the relocation of populations to stem concentration in the large
cities, and urban planning initiatives to ensure a balance between urban
development and the preservation of natural surroundings. Policies to
reduce automobile and industrial emissions will be included in this part
of the program.
!mxlementino the "Polluter Pavs PrinciPle".  The Program will pursue
policy initiatives which support the "polluter pays principle" as a
means of helping to eefray the cost of enforcing new emiesion
regulations and the clean-up of contaminated sites. The Federal
goversment is currently seeking to promote such initiatLves by making
state enterprises more accountable for environmental damaoe. All
sectors are expected to establish a framework to promote more accurate
representation of environmental costs in development decislons.
Interagencv Coordination. The Program uses an intersectoral strategy to
combine institutional efforts as a powerful tool for environmental
Programa-Nacional-paraja Protecciojde Mdio Anbiente: 195 0-22. SEDUE.
2  Aspects of MeXicos_Environmnal Policv and the E!2vironmentalSituation in Mec. SEDUE:
April 1991.



- 61 -
ANNEX l.3 
page 2 of 2
mnanagement. Policies are designed tc supplement public expenditure with
financial contributions from interested private sector groups and
lnstitutiono. This system is designed to convince enterprises producing
goods and services of the deuirability of installing anti-pollution
devices, thus avoiding expensive retrofitting and repair of
environmental damage. In coordinating Program actions, SEDUE has
bolstered the technical and administrative support for research
institutions by enlisting their participation in the process. In
additioh, the Program hae sought to increase communication with
ecological groups and non-governmenital organizations in Mexico.
The Program also outlines the principal threats to Mexico's natural
resources and protected areas eyetem (SINAP), and the measures which will be
taken to mitigate such threats including:
Natural Resources and Protected Areas:
a.   A program for the restoration of degraded ecosystems
b.   Expansibn of the protected areas system and consolidation of exijting
areae
c.   Establishment of new botanical and zoological gardens, and nurseries
d.   Establishment of units for: (i) ecological protection and restorationp
(ii) providing basic sanitation; and (iii) promoting greater
environmental awareness and community empowerment
Wate aPollutMion:
a.   Increased inspection and enforcement of pollution control standarde
b.   Eetatliahment of stricter norms for the discharge of waste into drains
and bodiea of water
c.   Expanoion of the National Water Quality Monitoring System
barj Polutioj:
a.   Support for the National Inventory of Air Pollution in high risk urban
areas, as well as a network for monitoring air quality throughout Mexico
b.   Promotion of energy conservation for vehicles and industry, including
installation of emiesion reduction devices in heavily polluted areas
C.   Negotiations with PEMEX and CPE to reach an Agreement on measuras to
reduce and recover environmental contaminants
2Di"oRa_Lof Solid Wastes:
a.   Regulation of industrial development near urban areas in order to locato
sites for the safe disponal of solid wastes
b.   Encourage Lndustrial practices whlich generate leos  solid waste, (l.e.
"clean technology")
c.   Initiate a new national inventory of industrial waste
a.   Formulation of environmental impact guidelines for  oach sector, with an
emphasis on those sectors which have the greatest potential to cause
environmental damago
b.   Consolidation of an Environmental Asnussment-RapLd Information System
c.   Application of Envlronmental Risk Assessment Procedures to all public or
private sector projects
d.   Creation of a guJide for the prevention and control of environmental
damage



SECRETARIAT: or URBAN DEVELPHENT AND ECOLOGY
L     TV TM=         ) UNDER-SECRETARIAT FOR           ERLA               UNDER-SECRETARIAT FOR      CONTROLLER
CO              | {Jtzo   HSUSZS          I{         FORt ECZLOSY        U  RBAN DEVELOPMENT
GENERAL DIRECTORATE
_ -T MNst  R CQOR3TWA::C Q!                              GENERAL DIRECTORATE OP                  OF
SDtS S.^*S DELZGA-41ONS                          _     ECOLOGICAL NIORHS AND            HUMAhN REsoURcEs  
REGULATIONS
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF
--.  GEERAL DIRZCTORATE CF                                                                   PROrRAMS, ORGANIZATION
LEGAL AFFAIRS                                        GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF               AND BUDGET
_    IO=IN  AND CONTROL
OF ENVIRONMENTAL
t           .                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~CONTAMINATION-. ._
_~GENERAI DIRMZ VRATE OF                                                                      GENERAL DIRECTORATE
OF MATERIRL
RESOURCES AND
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF           GENERAL SERVICES
ECOLOGICAL CONSERVATION
;2   GENZRAL DlDECTORATc Cr                                    OF NATURAL RESOURCES
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF
ENVIRONMENTAL PROMOTION AND
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
C   SStO  OF orRATIO A          SEDUE'S          SEDTE'S STATs
ROPEirY AWSSESSNRN            INSTITUTE          DELEGATIONS



TYPICAL STRUCTiUE CF SEDUE'S STATE DELEGATIONS
DEL7EGATE|
V OLUTZ    PROGRAMI5NG |      -
DM. or SOCIAL co>o 
DM3. OF L=nA AFFAIRS
UNDER-DELEGATE FOR HOUSNDG [ ER-DEGTE FOR                           COORDINATOR FOR ADMINISTRATION
mA  UREAN DZVZ7P SPIEYN                                                    AND STPPORT
OFFICE OF INFORMTION AND
AND PUBLIC COMPLAINTS
DEPT. oF P04LDTION                          OF APPROVAL OF ECOLOGICAL
PREVENTION AND CONTROL                    INSPECTION AND SURVEILLANC!   I
oFICE OF CONTROL OF WATERSHEDS            j OFFICE OF ECOLOGICAL PROTECTION
I                 ~~~~~~~~(b  (D
AND RESTORATION                                 0X
0wICB 01! COITRRv OF AIRSHEPTS  O                                                                  O E
VL  . OF T   LABOA7RY



- 64 -
Annex 1. 5
page 1 of 4
MEfXICO
E~nvironmepta1l Proigct
Natural Protected Areas in-Mexico
natur,al--Protected Areas Management Categories
The second title (titulo) of the Ley General del ¢auilibrio Ecolooico v
l Proteccion al Anmbiente deocribes the Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales
Eateaidas (SINAP) and defines categories of protected areas. The nine
categories of protected areas in Mexico and the total land area protected
under each category are described below.
A.    Areas of national interest:
1.   Biosuhere Reserves 14.323.8%9-W  - Protected areas of at least 10,000
hectares, that contain biogeographically relevant ecoaystems not greatly
altered by humans. They are distinguished by the distinction between
core areas which are to be strictly protected, and buffer zones, where
productive human activities would be allowed to take place on a
sustainable basis.
2.   gBeciol fsoshere Reserves (491100 Hal - Areas containing relatively
unaltered representative ecoeyotems with endemic, threatened or
endangered species. Their generally smaller area and ecosystem size
differentiate them from biosphere reserves.
3.   NW20IQn-LEaXkI66O. l69 j1a - Areas of outstanding scenic beauty, with
national or international significance for scientific, educational, and
recreational use. Areas may also be designated for historic value,
because of the existence of plants or animals of notLonal importance,
or because the area would be appropriate for tourism devolopment.
I'ra                   1,aXenj.2._ Aj_ 3    5,512,470 ZS
4.   fttuL, INonumetf - Relatively small areas created to strictly protect
nationally significant natural features because of their special
interest or unique cheracteriatics; such characteristics are usually
related to the historlc, scientific, or a9sthetic qualities of the
landscape. These areas must conform to the General Ecology Law and to
the Federal Forostry Law
S.   MUML           cparqk  - Marine areas or beaches with their contiguous
areas, dedicated to the preservation of aquatic ecosystems. The lower
specLfic norms of protection in these reserves allow a certain amount of
ocological lnvestigation and rational use of the resource. Theme areas
must conform to the Federal Fisheries Law, and the Federal  arine Law as
w*ll as all local regulations.
6.   N&tuIXjl[A I!2  5eD.-Arger - Areas dedicated to the preservation
and restoration of forest zones and the conservatlon of land and water.
These areas must conform with the General Ecology Law, and the Federal
Forestry and Water Laws. The following types of areas fall within this
broad category whivlh includes 59 arsea totaling approximately 8 million



- 65 -
Annex 1. 5
page 2 of 4
Ha .
a.    Forest Reseives
b.    National Forest Reserves
C.    Protected Forest Reserves
d.    Forest Restoration and Propagation Areas
a*    Watershed Protection Areas
7.   Ares for-the PrOtction of Elora and Faun  - Areas containing
terreutrial or aquatic habitats whose equilibrium and survival depend on
the way in which the area, and the plant and animal species within the
area are developed.
B.   Areas of local interest
8.   Urban Park - Areas of public use with natural or artificLal ecosystems
intended to protect artistic, historic, and natural beauty of regional
or local significance.
9. Conservation Sgbiect Areas - Areas in which contain one or more
relatively intact ecosystems, where indispensable natural elemento exist
for the ecological equilibrium.
Moxico's land area under Mrotection
Mexico's total land area -    1,972,550 km2
Mexico's total area protected - 55,120 km2 2
Mexico's percent of land area protected -
Forest Reserves - 80,000 bm2
Poreet reserves repraeent an additional 4 percent of total land area
under management
Perent,of land ara protectad in other countries 3
Brazil     a  2.4
Vanezuela  -  4.1
Colombia   a  5.4
Argentina  a  4.0
Costa Rica a 12.0
USA        a 8.6
FProm: Proarama Nacional _ara la prot jcon-d42Medio-Ambiente 1990-1994.
SROUB: p. 20.
Repr"esnti' only category 1,2, and 3 protected areas, and excludes state-
admLnistered prttcted areas.
3?roms 1991 Horld Davelo2mont& 82wrt. The World Bank.



- 66 -
Anne_x 1.
page 3 of 4
Mexico's National Svstem of Protected Areas (SINAPL
NATIONAL PARKS (state)               AREA  Hal   PRINCIPAL VEGETATION TYPE
Cumbres de Monterrey (N.L.)           246,500    Pine-oak, pine forest
canon del Rio Blanco (Ver.)            55,690    Tropical deciduous forest
Nevado de Toluca (hex.)                51,000    Fir, pine, tablelands
La Malinche (Tlax.)                    45,700    Oak, pine, fir forest
Pico de Tancitaro (Mich.)              29,316    Fir, pine, oak forest
*Izta-Popo (Mex., Mor., Pue.)           25,679    Pine foreet, tablelands
El Gogorron (S.L.P.)                   ^5,000    Pine forest
El Tepozteco (Mor., D.F.)              24,000    Pine, fir, oak forest
Los Marmoles (Hgo.)                    23,150    Coniferous forest, cactus
Nevado de Colima (Jal., Col.)          22,200    Pine, fir, oak forest
*Canon del Sumidero (Chia.)             21,789    Tropical deciduous forest
Pico de Orizaba (Ver.)                 19.750    Pine, oak, aile, fir, forest
Zoquiapan y Anexas (Mex., Pue.)        19.418    Pine, fir forest
Bosencheve (Mex., Mich.)               15,000    Pine-fir forest
*Lagunas de Chacahua (Oxa.)             14,187    Trop. decid. forest, cot. dun.
*Lagunas de Montebello (Chis.)           6,022    Pine, oak, and cloud forest
*Cascada de Bassaseachic (Chih.)         5,802    Pine-oak forest
*Constitution de 1857 (B.C.)             5,009    Pine-oak forest
Cumbres de Majalca (Chih.)              4,772    roniferous forest
Lagunas de Zempoala (Mor., Mex.)        6,669    Fir, pine, oak forest
El Voladero (Gro.)                      3,159    Tropical deciduous forest
*E1 Chico (Hgo.)                         2,739    Fir, oak forest
El Cimatario (Qro.)                     2,447    Desert
Benito Juarez (oax.)                    2,337    Pine-oak forest
El Potosi (S.L.P.)                      2,000    Pine forest
Ins. Jose Ma. Mor. y Pav. (Mich.)       1,813    Coniferous forest
Ineg. Miguel Hidalgo y Coast. (D.F.)   1,750    Fir-pine forest
Palonque (Chia.)                        1,171    Highland rainforest
Cerro do la Estrella (D.F.)             1,100    Eucalyptus plantation
Cerro de Garnica (Mich.)                  968    Pine, Fir forest
Cumbres de Ajusco (D.F.)                  920    Open pine, fir forest,
Tulum (Q. Roo)                            664    Mangrove forest, coastal dunes
Dzilbilchaltun (Yuc.)                     539    Tropical deciduous forest
Desierto del Carmen (Mex.)                529    Pine, oak, cedar forest
Los Remedios (Hex.)                       400    Eucalyptus forest
El Tepeyac (D.P.)                         302    Eucalyptus forest
*Isla Isabel (Hay.)                        194    Tropical deciduous forest
Tula (Hdo.)                                99    Desert cactus
Molino do Flores Nezahualcoyotl (Mex.)   55    Eucalyptus forest
Sacromonte (Hex.)                          45    Oak, eucalyptus forest
Balnearia de loe Novillos (Coah.)          42    Hardwood forest
Rayon (Mich.)                              34    Pine forest
Lago de Camecuaro (Mich.)                   9    Coniferous forest
El Sabinal (N.L.)                           8    Coniferous forest



- 67 -
Annex 1.5
page 4 of 4
BIOSPHERE RESERVES                 AREA (Ha)    PRINCIPAL VEGETATION TYPE
*Vizcaino (B.C. Sur)                2,546,790    Desert scrub, conif. forest
*Sian KX'an (Q. Roo)                  528,147    Trop. deciduous forest
*Calakmul (Camp.)                     723,185    Montane & lowland rainforest
*Monteu Azules (Chia.)                331,200    Montane & lowland rainforest
Sierra de Manantlan (Jal.)           139,577    Oak, cloud, and pine forest
La Michilia (Dgo.)                    35,000    Pine-oak forest
Mapimi (Dgo.)                         20,000    Desert scrub
SPECITAL BIOQSPRE RESERVES           A LHat    pERINCIPAL VEGETATON TYPE
*Golfo de Ca. (B.C.; B.C. Sur)        150,000     Desert scrub, pine-oak forest
Iola Tiburon (Son.)                  120,000     Desert scrub,cactus
Ria Celestun (Yuc.)                   59,130      Trop. decid., mangrove forest
Selva de Ocote (Chia.)                48,140     Mtn. and lowland rainforest
*Ria Lagartos (Yuc.)                   47,840     Mangrove forest
slla Guadalupe (B.C.)                 25,000     cactus, pine forest
Sierra de Santa Martha (Ver.)         20,000     Highld. rainfor., coast. dns.
*Maripona Monarca (Mich., Hex.)        16,110     Fir, broadleaf forest
*Cascadas de Agua Azul (Chis.)          2,580     Highland rainforest
Volcan de San Martin (ver.)            1,500      Highland rainforest
*Xsla Contoy (Q. Roo)                     176     Mangrove f_:est, cactus
Isla Rasa (B.C.)                           7     Desert scrub, cactus
Cajon de Diablo                         none      Historic significance
AREAS FOR THE PROTECTION OF TERRESTRIAL AND AQUATIC FLORA AND FAUNA
Cor. Bio. Chichinaut. (Mor., Mex.,)  37,302       Pine, fir, oak forest
NOTES:
Areas targeted to receive support from the protected areas program are
designated with an asterisk (*).



- 68 -
Annex 1.6
page 1 of 6
MEXICO
Environmental Project
Translation of the Letter from the Government of Mexico Desgribing the
Strategy to TransfQrm SEDUE/SE into a Second-Tier Institution
Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology
Subsecretariat of Ecology
Mexico City, 31 Jan. 1992
Mr. Rainer B. Steckhan,
Director
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
As you are aware, the Subsecretariat of Ecology is trying to find the most suitable mechanisms for
increasing its capacity to prevent and control negative environmental impacts, as well as for preserving
the country's natural resources as effectively as possible.
Our ideas for the structure of a second-tier environmental institution, the principal objectives of this
institutional transformation, and the implications that we expect this to have are found in the enclosed
document.
In the hope that this document meets with the Bank's expectations, I remain,
Yours sincerely,
"SUFRAGIO EFECTIVO. NO REELECCION."
THE UNDERSECRETARY
SERGIO REYES LUJAN
cc.   Antonio Cervera Sandoval, Coordinator of Advisors for the Subsecretariat of International
Financial Affairs, S.H.C.P. [Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit].



- 69 -
Annex 1.6
page 2 of 6
PROFILE OF A SECOND-TIER ENVIRONMENTAL INSTITUTION
BACKGROUND
The high priority that is accorded to environmental protection in Mexico is well-known; in fact,
more emphasis is being placed on questions of environmental protection today than ever before in the
country's history. This growing emphasis can be clearly measured in financial terms. In 1988, the
Subsecretariat of Ecology had a budget of USS 4.269 million for the execution of its programs; in 1991,
the corresponding budget was USS 38.869 million. This represents an annual growth rate of 109%,
which is unparalleled in any other sector. To this must be added expenditure by all the governmental
agencies as well as semi-public industry for this same work. In 1991, an amount of US$ 1.49 billion was
recorded as the Federation's budgetary outlay. This means that the public sector alone allocates close
to 0.7% of the GDP, which places Mexico alongside countries that devote a greater proportion of their
economic activity to investment in the name of achieving sustainable development.
When it comes to the running expenses of SEDUE, including money for staff salaries and
administrative support, the situation has not been as described above. In 1988, running expenses
amounted to around USS 4.7 million, but in 1991 they had only increased to US$ 5.2 million. In other
words, while activity grew by almost a factor of 10, the administrative structure remained practically
unchanged.
Tis structural background makes it easier to understand SEDUE's push toward insti.utional
strengthening. In spite of the economic and financial effort, the problems to be solved remain far-
reaching and complex. We need to take measures that reflect the high priority being placed on the
variable of environment today. As we are faced with the need for prevention and control in the current
age, it is indispensable to repair the damage that is the legacy of yesterday's neglect. At the same time
as the country is beginning to experience a renewal of growth, the will exists to pursue this path without
detriment to the development opportunities of our future generations.
In summary, expenditure is still insufficient, and the structure of enviromental management
needs to be strengthened. If we fail to address these two central issues, the country's capacity to control
pollution and ensure rational use of its natural resources will not keep pace with the modernization
process that is occurring in many sectors of our national life.
One of the strategies for dealing with financial difficulties which is outlined in the National
Environmental Protection Program is to follow a scheme in which "the polluter is the one who pays."
Until now, the management system has rested on the concepts of command and control, whose
possibilities have practically been exhausted. The Subsecretariat of Ecology has now decided to promote
a more effective and intensive mobilization of resources based on economic incentives, through applying
the principle that whoever causes damage should pay the cost of repairing it. If this approach is used,
only a slight Increase in the fiscal burden will give us the resources we need to create a better quality
environment.
In order to ensure that polPuters are charged an amount that reflects the amount of damage they
cause, it is essential not only to increase the capacity for determining whc is causing environmental
degradation, but also to expand the corresponding structure for measuring these ill-effects. However,
it is important to emphasize that in order to do this directly, the Subsecretariat would need to grow to



- 70 -
Annex 1.6
page 3 of 6
undesirable pr,portions, resulting in bureaucratization and inflexibility. Other procedures need to be
devised, which definitely means coming up with a different concept of the operation of the Subsecretariat
of Ecology.
In order to make the system of 'command and control" more effective, we would need
increasingly larger budgets, and these are not covered under the policy that we are going to have to
adhere to in the future. However, in the face of such handicaps, it is essential to emphasize that
environmental management in Mexico has gained highly valuable experience through covering the first
phase of enforcement of the General Law for Ecological Balance and Environmental Protection. Dozens
of technicians have been trained, and have maintained a significant response capacity which has prevented
pollution from creating even more problems than the ones we are faced with today. We are ready to
enter a new age in which responsibility for preserving the quality of the environment will be shared on
a more equal basis by different strata of Mexican society.
PRINCIPAL OBJECTIVES OF THE INSTITUTIONAL TRANSFORMATION
In essence, it is indispensable to expand the array of processes used to measure pollutant
emissions or to gauge the damage to natural resources. In order to meet the challenges arising from the
changes in strategy that are envisaged, the following measures are being planned:
1.    In accordance with the Law, bringing deconcentration to the Secretariat's delegations and
decentralization to the state and municipal governments.
2.    Transferring a significant portion of the functions of direct environmental auditing to private
laboratories. In principle, this illustrates the goal of ensuring that productive activities undergo
continuous environmental review, but in a process that is largely carried out by private
institutions. Clearly this idea will need to be promoted among private institutions, both national
as well as foreign.
3.    Giving the Subsecretariat the capacity to certify environmental auditing laboratoties. At present,
no such work is being carried out. More complex laboratory facilities as well as more highly
trained staff will need to be available.
4.    Giving tie Subsecretariat the responsibility of supervising, on a contingency basis, businesses and
private environmental auditing laboratories. Only part of this work is being done, but a different
stnrcture would be required.
5.    Considerably expanding the regulatory capacity that exists today. For this purpose, the data
banks on the pollution sources present in the national territory would be expanded, illustrating
a strategy that is both technical and political, so that the corresponding standards could be
established.
6.    Installing the internal capacity needed to keep tabs on scientific and technological advances that
could have an impact on the sector. Tnis means haviig a permanent capacity f 'r continual
updating of the environmental auditing laboratories.



- 71 -
Annex 1.6
page 4 of 6
7.    Reorganizing the structure of the SubsecretariLt of Ecology so that it is reconciled to the needs
implied in the earlier points. This restructuring would be carried out with the collaboration of
the interested personnel, under the direction of a recognized consulting firm hired for this
purpose.
8.    Without causing it to lose its responsive capacity, modernizing the ecology sector in order to
generate an entire system of economic incentives that promote participation by the social and the
private sectors in the fight against pollution, as well as in the surveillance of rational use of
natural resources.
The process involved in implementing the eight measures proposed above will bring new agents
into environmental management in the country. These will include state and municipal governmental
structures, thus releasing SEDUE from various of the responsibilities it holds in those entities today, as
well as the state universities, which will take the initial steps to provide academie support for
environmental management in their home regions. The result will be improved coverage and, as a result,
improved environmental capacity in the country.
The early results have been very encouraging. The governments of Jalisco and Tamaulipas, in
accordance with their respective state laws, are preparing to inaugurate environmental management
structures with their corresponding budgets. For its part, the academic community has initiated important
activities for the training programs, and has expressed its willingness to direct some of its research
structures toward working with difficult local problems.
In summary, in order to deal with environmental problems that cover practically the entire
national territory, the Subsecretariat will evolve a structure to progressively reduce its role in directly
handling these matters.
SOME IMPLICATIONS
In taking the political decision to become a second-tier service institution, the Subsecretariat of
Ecology is entering a two-phase transformation process: the first phase, lasting six months, will consist
of a detailed analysis of how the move will be made from its current structure to one that reflects the
stated objectives; the second phase will be the actual installation of the new structure.
The Subsecretariat of Ecology will not give up its present capacity for rapid response, to ensure
that the change does not undermine its essential ability to react quickly if needed. However, there are
even greater possibilities. The private sector could participate, by working within the framework of
economic incentives created by environmental enterprises on the one hand, and by sharing the work of
keeping records on pollutants on the other. The plan Is to license private laboratories and consulting
firms to perform a number of the tasks which SEDUE carries out on a limited scale today. The cost of
these services will be borne by the businesses that are inspected. The governmental authority will ask
each business to contract with a private concern to provide it with environmental auditing services which
record the pollutants it generates, as well as the volume of the emissions. Tle environmental authority
will receive the correspondinig reports so that it can take the measures that are called for.



- 72 -
Annex 1.6
page 5 of 6
In this way, we have conceived of a system in which private environmental auditing firms provide
businesses with a service that keeps them informed about the pollutants they are generating. The
respective cost will be -rne by the industry or service establishment, which will need to keep records
on its pollutants. The government, at its three levels, will be responsible for monitoring the reliability
of this process. With regard to the flow of resources, the government will collect the corresponding taxes
and funds for restoring the quality of the air, the soil, or the water.
The participation of private initiative will bring in another agent that can provide the coverage
we need. However, both SEDUE as well as the new environmental management structures of the state
governments will have to establish a well-thought-out strategy for certifying the capacity of the next
private environmental auditing firms. At present this function is only being carried out on a rudimentary
basis, but the necessary mechanisms are in the process of being designed.
We are looking for a new concept of environmental management that is more flexible and
efficient, which should simplify the processes involved in regulating this area. The essential feature of
the system we have decided to create is the involvement of various sectors in taking responsibility for
preserving the quality of the environment. The operational resources needed will not create an increased
fiscal burden because the responsibility for bearing the cost of any damage that is produced will fall on
the shoulders of those who are generating the pollution and degrading natural resources in an irrational
manner.
The reorganization of the Subsecretariat will be oriented around the goal of installing an
administrative system which is structured according to the concepts of total quality control. As a result,
an information system will be used for decision-making, as an essential element of this type of public
management, and this will in addition provide a tool for control as well as staff motivation. For this
purpose, a computer network will be installed which will connect up with all of the important control
points.
The information system will be paired with the appropriate devices for handling various types of
images. Using such mechanisms in company with geographical information techniques will make it
possible to display maps, satellite pictures, monitoring networks, etc. The aim here is to provide the
authorities with timely, sufficient, and simplified information management. Nonetheless, the main
purpose is to give the public access, at special unrestricted locations, to updated information on our most
pressing pollution problems, as well as on the progress being made in dealing with a variety of Issues.
The idea behind these measures is to change SEDUE's image to that of an institution that is largely
characterized by its openness and the objectivity of its information.
In addition, the information system will be vital to controlling the operation of the environmental
auditing laboratories. In fact, we are looking for instruments that will ensure that we can quickly resolve
any of the various flaws that mAy crop up in the laboratories, or in the governmental agencies at the other
two governmental levels. This represents a rapid response structure, similar to the one that the
Subsecretariat has in place today for handling other concems.
This entire transformation process will need to be carried out with special care. We will not
move forward until we are convinced that no potentially useful element is going to be destroyed. We can
expect some resistance, given the widespread perception that the authorities should be absolutely and
personAly committed to protecting the environment. This has led to direct control by SEDUE becoming



- 73 -
Annex 1.6
page 6 of 6
an absolute dogma in the minds of the public. A special promotion effort will be ind.spensable to gaining
citizen support for these new ideas on institutional strengthening.
In accordance witd the spirit of the Law, the "polluter pays principle" emphasizes prevention
based on payment for any damage that is caused. However, at the same time, this calls for increased
capacity to measure a wide range of parameters. Monitoring, which would always provide SEDUE with
basic information on a mandatory basis, requires the use of instruments that are based on the latest
technological advances. It is possible that the prices of certain products would reflect the impact of the
costs associated with environmental auditing. However, the increase could be borne by the actual
consumer, under the same principle.
Undeniably, many questions about this subject will need to be answered in the days to come. For
this reason, a special group of financial authorities in the country has been set up to analyze these
concerns. The institutional transformation will gradually move toward an environmental policy, which
will look for the necessary resources. These will not be meant to increase the budget of the new
Subsecretariat; when it comes to fiscal allocation, there may be a direct increase. The main investment
will be used to decrease pollution levels, and to provide an incentive to environmental firms which will
have the opportunity to pursue an attractive business.
It is also important to highlight the fact that a transformation of the kind that is envisaged will
instill ecological policy with a sense of equality, since those who are responsible for ecological damage
will have a clear responsibility in the eyes of the law and the citizenry. It is to be expected that the latter
group will collaborate more in programs which the Subsecretariat should be able to promote before the
deconcentrated and decentralizei organizations.  For their part, the authorities will create an
administrative approach that is more efficient and less discretionary.
The Subsecretariat of Ecology will have new duties which it does not perform today. It will
install the necessary structure to certify the capacity of the new agents: laboratories, study offices,
consulting firms, etc. This task will require more highly trained personnel and more advanced
laboratories. New inspection capabilities will need to be developed in order to check on the reliability
of the enviromnental auditing carried out by private concerns, as well as to compare the business's reports
on the measures taken to control environmental degradation. This work will need to be done on a
contingency basis, with an implicit policy of confidentiality which is accompanied by severe penalties for
any irregularities or cases of corruption. We will 'so need to work, with broad industrial participation,
to improvs tha design of standards that will not only put our productive system in a better position to
protect the environment, but also allow it to compete internationally, using cleaner technologies that
produce better quality products. Finally, our new duties will include being on the lookout for scientific
and technological advances in the ecology sector. This aspect is vital if we want our country to be a
strong competitor in the global market, where clean technologies will give an added boost to the volume
of sales.



Annex _17
- 74 -                Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
Environmental Project
Coordination Agreement Between SEDUE and SARI-I
The coordination agreement between the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water
Resources and the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology, represented respectively
by the incumbents, Professor Carlos Hank Gonzalez and Mr. Patricio Chirinos Calero,
whose purpose is to operate the national water quality monitoring network on a coordinated
basis, the parties to be referred to respectively as "SARH" and "SEDUE" for the purposes of
this document, pursuant to the following declarations,
STATES THAT
In accordance with the Organic Law of the Federal Public Administration, the
Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources is an agency of the Federal Executive
Branch in charge of: "administering, controlling, and regulating the exploitation of
national waters, basins and water sources, as well as the corresponding federal zones,
issuing permits, authorizations, allocations or concessions for the exploitation and use
of national waters; participating in the programming, projections, construction,
adminiistration, operation, and maintenance of projects undertaken to supply water to
population centers; and, among others, carrying out and keeping up-to-date the
inventory of national water resources."
On January 16, 1989, a Decree was published in the Official Gazette by which the
National Water Commission is created as an administrative entity, independent from
the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources. The National Water Commission
is in charge of: "proposing the country's water policy, formulating and updating the
Nationial Water Program, and implementing the Water Programming System; setting
up the criteria and guidelines to provide congruence to the Federal Government's
water-related programs and actions; establishing and, if necessary, proposing the
coordination agreement for actions to be taken by the administrative units and public
institutions which deal with water issues; administering and regulating, according to
the law, the national waters, water infrastructure and the resources devoted to the
latter; programming, evaluating, constructing, operating and maintaining water works
and carrying out actions which require complete water exploitation; ensuring and
monitoring the congruence between water-related programs and the allocation of
public resources for their implementation; and, among others, evaluating, proposing
and implementing, as necessary, the financial measures conducive to the development
of the country's water infrastructure and services.
II.   In accordance with the Organic Law of the Federal Public Administration, the
Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology is an agency of the Federal Executive
Branch in charge of: "formulating and directing the general policies for human



Annex 1.7
75                    Page 2 of 3
settlements, urbanism, housing and ecology; establishing the conditions, ecological
criteria, and standards that must be met before wastewaters are discharged into the
collection networks, watersheds, channels, basins, and other water deposits and flows,
as well as the soil and subsoil, in order to prevent pollution that poses a threat to
public health or degrades the ecological systems; and in addition setting the technical
ecological criteria and standards that govern the use and allocation of natural
resources to preserve the quality of the environment and to monitor compliance and
evaluate the environmental impact of water works."
Under the terms of the General Law for Ecological Balance and Environmental
Protection, in coordination with the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
and with the participation, as necessary, of the Secretariat of Health, in accordance
with other laws, they shall carry out systematic and continuous monitoring of water
quality to detect the presence of pollutants or excess organic waste and implement the
appropriate measures or, as necessary, promote their execution.
Based on the above statements and on articles 35 and 37 of the Organic Law of the Federal
Public Administration, articles 1, 2, 8, 17, 30, 31, and 157-Bis of the Federal Waters Law;
and articles 90, 91, and 93 of the General Law for Ecological Balance and Environmental
Protection, the parties establish the following:
CLAUSES
FIRST.- The purpose of this document is to establish the coordination agreement whereby
"SARH," via the National Water Commission, and SEDUE, according to their respective
spheres of competence and working in coordination with each other, operate the national
water quality monitoring network and optimize its operation.
SECOND.- In 1992 "SEDUE" will complete a study directed toward redesigning the
network which will include the relocation of sampling sites, frequency of sampling,
parameters to be analyzed, field and laboratory procedures, and techniques for quality control
and interpretation of results.
The terms of reference and the evaluation of the preliminary and final reports on the study
will be prepared on a coordinated basis by "SARH," via the National Water Commission,
and "SEDUE." The final report should satisfy both.
THMIIRD.- Based on the study referred to in the preceding clause, in 1992, "SARH," via the
Nlational Water Commissioni, and SEDUE will identify the sampling sites which they should
operate according to their respective areas of compeiknce.
FOURTH.- "SARH," via the National Water Commission, and SEDUE will make the
necessary provisions to obtain the human resources and materials they need in order to fulfill
their respective monitoring programs.



A-nnex_1..7
- 76 -                   Page 3 of 3
FIF'FH- The sampling sites operated by each agency will be complementary, and together
they will constitute the National Monitoring Network.
SIXTH.- Each agency will establish an internal quality control program for the taking,
handling, and transport of samples and laboratory analyses. The two control programs will
be similar, and will be agreed upon on art ainual basis by the parties involved.
The methods used to analyze water quality will be standardized so that laboratory results can
be compared. "SARH," via the National Water Commission, will furnish a study prep,ared
for this purpose.
SEVENTH.- Both agencies wiil standardize their computer equipment and procedures in
order to create one single water quality information system. "SARH," via the National
Water Commission, through the Office oRn Quality, Water Recycling, and Environmental
Impact, will make the information system on water quality available to the General
Directorate for the Prevention and Control of Environmental Pollution of "SEDUE"; the
system will be used to store, process, and analyze the information that both agencies obtain
from their monitoring activities.
Only these two agencies will have free access to the system, and they will be committed to
storing the information withini a period not to exceed three months and transmitting it to each
other via MODEM.
EIGHTH.- During 1992 each agency will analyze the location and capacity of its regional
laboratories so that these laboratories do not overlap unless the capacity envisaged for one or
more of them ii not sufficient to provide services to the other agency. In this case, the
institution concemed will establish its own complemnentary installations.
NINTH.- Through a timely exchange of their work programs, the two agencies will ensure
that their water quality studies are complementary.
Read and ratified by the parties involved, the present coordination agreement is signed in
Mexico City, D.F., on this the 23rd day of the month of March 1992,
For the Sr. Aetariat of                    For the Secretariat of Urban
Agriculture and Water Resources,           Development and Ecology,
by the Secretary,                          by the Secretary
Professor Carlos Hank Gonzalez             Mr. Patricio Chirinos Calero



- 77 -
page 1 of 5
HEXICO
Environmental Proiect
Proaral for Delegating to SEDU 'l State Deleaations
Review ofSm   vao nioMna  Imnact Assessments
troduction
As the result of a policy aimed at protecting the environment and at the
same time promoting the country'o economic development, a series of laws,
regulationa, and standards has been issued which make it possible to
rationally administer the country's natural reoources. Therefore, in order to
obtain authorization for the execution of any type of work which could cause
ecological imbalance, an environmental impact assessment must be presented
which identifiet and assesses the possible harm to the ecosystem, as
stipulated under the General Law on Ecological Balance and Environmental
Protection. Thus, it has been recorded in the seven subsections of Article 29
that the federal government, through SEDUE, shall be responsible for
evaluating environmental impact in the following areas:
I.    Federal public works;
11.   Hydraulic works, general communication routes, oil pipelineb, gas
pipelines, and coal pipelines;
III. The chemical, petrochemical, iron and steel, paper, sugar, beverage,
cement, automotive, and electrical power generation and transmission
industries;
IV.   The exploration, extraction, treatment, and refining of mineral
substances that are the property of the federation;
V.    Federal tourist developments;
VI.   Installations for the treatment, storage or elimination of radioactive
waste; and
VII. Forest utilization of tropical forests and jungles and of hard-to-
regenerate species, in those cases set forth in the recond paragraph of
Article 56 of the Forest Law.
In turn, the Internal Regulations of the Secretariat for Urban
Development and Ecology, in Article 23, Subsection II, give sole authority to
the General Directorate of Ecological Standards and Regulation for
determining, in the area of environmental impact, the authorization of
proposed public or private works or activities, as stipulated in Article 29 of
the Law and Article 5 of its Regulations on Environmental Impact, while SEDUE
empowers the state delegations to evaluate environmental impact as stipulated
in Article 37, Subsection XXIX of the aforementioned Internal Regulations.
Frequently the petitioners present their environmental impact assessment
to the SEDUE delegation within the state where they plan to carry out their
project and meek authorization there because they are unaware that the
delegation, under the Internal Regulations of SEDUE, has no power to authorize
or reject the project. Subsequently it is sent on to Mexico City, to the
SEDUE central offices, so that the General Directorate of Ecological Standards
and Regulation can evaluate It and reach the appropriate decision according to
the law.



- 78 -
Annex 1.8
page 2 of 5
It in also trje that eevere limitations on human and techvical reoources
are apparent in the SEDUE delegations. In the specific case of environmental
lmpact assessment, thia shortage is critical due to high degree of technical
specialization and interdisciplinary work that this subject requires.
There are thus two constraints which have an impact both on the
petitioner for authorization as well as on SEDUE:
1)    The time period for responding to the petitioner which io stipulated in
the Regulations on Environmental Impact of the General Law on Ecological
Balance and Environmental Protection is often exceeded.
2)    The lack of decision-making power, although not the sole factor, has
been behind the scant or nonexistent technical and administrative
structure of the SEDUE delegations when it comes to dealing with matters
of environmental impact.
There is therefore a clear need for a scheme of structural strengthening
of, and subsequently, delegation to, SEDUE's state delegations, with the goal
of meeting the demand for environmental impact authorizations, as well as
fully complying with the provisions and terms of the legislation that
regulates this area.
Objectives:
1)    To give the SEDUE's state delegations the power to appropriately issue
authorizations or rejections with regard to the environmental impact of
specific projects.
2)    To strengthen the technical and adminiatrative structure of SEDUE's
state delegations so that they can deal with matters of environmental
impact.
Strategy:
l)    Formulation of a list of projects whose environmental impact can be
analyzed and resolved by SEDUE's state delegations; in other words,
delegation from the central offices to the delegations.
2)    Establishment and prov±sion of training programs and courses for the
technical staff of SEDUE's state delegations.
3)    Strengthening of the response capacity of SEDUE's state delegations via
new hiring of specialized personnel.
4)    Preparation of a proposed modification of the SEDUE Internal Regulations
in which the SEDUE's state delegations are given the power to grant
authorizations in questions of environmental impact for certain
projects.
5)    Promotion of this modification of the SEDUE Internal Regulations before
the corresponding legal units.
6)    Definition of the program of decentralization activities.
Works or activities provided for under the legislation which must be
submitted for prior authorization by the federal government, acting through
SEDUE, in questions of environmental impact, but which could, subject to
analysis* be delegated from the central offices to SEDUE'. state delegatLons.



a4nnex 1.8
-79                                               page 3 of 5
REVIEW OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENTS
WORKS OR ACTIVITIES TO BE REVIEWED BY SEDIJE'S STATE DELEGATIONS
WORKS OR ACTIVITIES                 DATE BY WHICH AUTHORIZATION WILL BE    STATE DELEGATION TO BE EWPOWERED
DELEGATED TO SEDUE'S STATE                 TO AUTHORIZE WORKS OR ACTPVS
DELEGATIONi
1. FEDERAL PUBLIC WORKS                                           July 1992                                      All Stateas
a, Rural roads
b. Drainage
c. Sidewalks
d. Potable wrtcr
c. Pavement
U. HYDRAULIC WORKS                                                July 1992                           1, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16,17,19,
a  Well batteries                                                                                     21, 22, 24, 26, 28, 29, 32
b. Hydoagricultural units (100-499 ha.) s
long as they do not affect any protected area            November 1993                                The rest of the sates
c. Conveysnce ditches
m. GENERAL COMMUNICATION ROUTES                                   July 1992                            2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20,
a. Dredgings                                                                                          23, 25, 26, 27, 28, 30, 31
November 1993                               The rest of the Mates
IV. INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES
a. Small and medium chemical industry                      a. March 1992                              a. 2, 5, 8, 19, 28
November 1993                              Tbe resA of the MAtes
b. Bevcrage industry                                     b. November 1992                           b. 1, 13, 14, 17, 19, 21, 22, 24
November 1993                                The real of the latea
c. Autonmotive industry (except termuinals)                c. July 1992                                c. 1, 2, 5, 8, 19, 21, 28
November 1993                                The resA of the states
d. Electrical transmission lines                             d. July 1992                                   d. All eAtes
V. MINING ACTIVITIES                                              July 1992                        3, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 21, 22, 24, 26, 32
a. Extraction of nonmetallic minerals, provided
they do not include any procLasing plant                 November 1993                                The real of the states
VI, FEDERAL TOURIST DEVELOPMENTS                                  July 1992                     1, 5, 8, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 22, 24, 29, 32
a. Less than I ha. in area, without marinas or
other works under federal control                        Nove-nber 1993                              TIe rtst of the sates
VII. FOREST LANDS                                                March 1992                     8, 9, 10, 13, 14, 16, 17, 20, 23, 25, 26, 27, 30
a. Aiterations in soil use in ares of less than
10 has.                                                  November 1993                               Tbe eot of the Mates
VmII. AQUACULTURE PROJECTS                                     March 19"                                  2,3, 6, 14, 18, 25, 26
a. Aquaculture projecta in areas of less than 50
has., when not located in nor affecting
mangrove swanps                                            July 1993                                  The reat of the Kates
STATES: I-Aguescalientc; 2-Baja California; 3-Baj Californi Sur 4-Canpeche; -SCoaltuia; 6-Colin; 7-hiapsa; 8-Chihuahua; 9-Durntgo; 10-
Didricto Federal; 1l.Guanajuato; 12-Guerrero; 13-Hidslg., 14-Jalisco; 15-Mexico; 16-Michotcan; 17-Morelos; 18-Nayarit; 19-Nuevo Leon; 20-
Oaxaca; 21-Pucbla; 22-Queretaro; 23-Quinana Roo; 24-San Luis Potosi; 25-Sinalo.; 26-Sonora; 27-Tabasco; 28-Tsmaulipas; 29-Tbaxcala; 30-
Vetcruz; 31-Yucatsn; 32-Zcateccas



- 80 -
Annex 1.8
page 4 of 5
PROGRAM OF DECENTRALIZATION IN THE AREA OF
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
STATE                CURRENT STAFF         REQUIRED STAFF       DATE
Baja California      1 Architect (D)       1 Chemical           January 1992
1 Biologist (SD)     Engineer
State of Mexico      1 Engineer (SD)       1 Chemical or         January 1992
Industrial
Engineer
Quer6taro            1 Architect (SD)      1 Industrial or       January 1992
Environmental
Engineer
Quintana Roo         1 Engineer (D)        1 Biologist           January 1992
Tamaulipas           1 Biologist (D)       1 Chemical or         January 1992
Industrial
Engineer
Aguascalientes       1 Engineer            1 Chemical,           July 1992
1 Biologist          Industrial or
Environmental
Engineer
Baja California                            1 Environmental       July 1992
Sur                                        Engineer
Coahuila             1 Engineer (SD)       1 Geological          July 1992
Engineer in Mining
or the equivalent
Chiapas              1 Engineer (D)        1 Forest Engineer    July 1992
1 Veterinary
Physician (SD)
Chihuahua            1 Biologist           1 Geological or       July 1992
Mining Engineer
Nuevo Le6n           1 Engineer            1 Industrial          July 1992
Chemical or
Chemical Engineer
San Luis Postosi     1 Physicist           1 Industrial          July 1992
Chemical or
Chemical Engineer
Sinaloa              1 Architect           1 Biologist          July 1992
1 Biologist
Sonora               1 Biologist           1 Biologist           July 1992
Tabasco              1 Architect           1 Petroleum or        July 1992
1 Biologist          Chemical Engineer



- 81 -
Annex 1. 8
page 5 of 5
STATE                CURRENT STAFF         REQUIRED STAFF        DATE
Guanajuato            1 EngLneer           1 Environmental or   July 1993
InduetiLal
Chemical Engineer
JalLsco               1 Engineer           1 Biologist           July 1993
1 Architect
Morelos              2 Biologists          1 Industrial          July  1993
Chemical Engineer
Puebla               1 Engineer            I Environmental       July 1993
Industrial or
Chemical EngLneer
Veracruz              1 Engineer           1 Industrial          July 1993
Chemical Engineer
(D) - Delegate
(SD) a Subdelegate
Note: Those persons who wor:. as delegates or subdelegates devote 100% of
their time to performing admLnistrative tasks, and although they are
trained to evaluate environmental impact aseessments, this activity ia
not included among their duties.
In the column under current staff, the specialties of the engineers are not
available.



- 82 -
Annex 1.9
page 1 of 20
MEXICO
Environmental ProJect
Tmf      _J_hi    er rom e rnmtMexico Descring
Policy Regarding Protected Natural Areas of Mexico
Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology
Subsecretariat of Ecology
Mexico City, 2 Dec. 1991
Mr. Rainer B. Steckhan,
Director
Country Department 11
Latin America and the Caribbean
I would like to draw your attention to the steps being taken under the Mexico Environmental Project;
in particular, the Protected Areas Program to be financed by the Global Environmental Trust Fund
(GET).
I am therefore enclosing the document entitled "Protected Natural Areas of Mexico, Legislation and
Management Plans," which discusses the objectives of Mexican policy on protected natural areas,
management plans as an instrument of Mexican policy on proilcted natural areas, and the contents of
management plans.
That being all at present, I send you my sincere regards.
"SUFRAGIO EFECTIVO. NO REELECCION."
THE UNDERSECRETARY
SERGIO REYES LUJAN
cc.    Dr. Graciela de la Garza Garcfa, General Director of Ecological Conservation of Natural
Resources; in person.
Dr. Edmundo de Alba, Executive Coordimator of CONADE; in person.



- 83 -
Annex 1.9
page 2 of 20
SECRETARIAT OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ECOLOGY
SUBSECRETARIAT OF ECOLOGY
PROTECTED NATURAL AREAS OF MEXICO, LEGISLATION
AND MANAGEMENT PLANS
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF
ECOLOGICAL CONSERVATION OF
NATURAL RESOURCES
DIRECTORATE OF SINAP
NOVEMBER 1991



- 84 -
Annex 1.
page 3 of 20
PROTECTED NATURAL AREAS OF MEXICO, LEGISLATION
AND MANAGEMENT PLANS
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
I.  MEXICAN POLICY ON PROTECTED NATURAL AREAS
11.  MANAGEMENT PLANS AS AN INSTRUMENT OF MEXICAN POLICY ON
IPROTECTED NATURAL AREAS
III.  THE CONTENTS OF A MANAGEMENT PLAN



- 85 -
Annex 1.9
page 4 of 20
INTRODU ZTION
In recent decades Mexico has been experiencing accelerated processes of economic
development and settlement of its territory which have been accompanied by significant disruption of
its ecosystems. Soil erosion, deforestation, and similar processes of ecological degradation, as well as
the threatened or actual disappearance of wild species of flora and fauna, have created growing
concern at all national levels.
In order to confront these environmental problems, the government of the Republic has
directed its activities-through the National Development Plan, the National Environmental Protection
Program, and the General Law for Ecological Balance and Environmental Protection-toward dealing
with the country's most serious ecological imbalances.
Given the size and complexity of these ecological problems, solving them will call for well-
ordered and organized participation by the three governmental levels as well as the private and social
sector, supported by the institutional foundation of ecological policy.



- 86 -
Annex 1.9
page 5 of 20
I.    MEXICAN POLICY ON PROTECTED NATURAL AREAS
One of the principal challenges of the conservation effort has been the need to integrate the
aspects of protection and sustainable development of natural resources with the economic and
modernization processes necessary to the country's development.
In this sense, one of the primary strategies of Mexican environmental policy is the
consolidation of the National System of Protected Natural Areas (SINAP), which seeks to make
conservation of the country's representative ecosystems compatible with the need for rational use of
the country's natural resources, as a basis for sustained development of its communities. At the samne
tine, each of the protected natural areas incorporated (into the national system) itself becomes a
biological unit for the conservation of biodiversity, as well as an in situ bank of germ plasm.
The National Development Plan establishes a strategy for conservation of the country's
representative ecosystems and their natural resources in the particular case of protected natural areas.
This strategy calls for consolidation of the national system of protected natural areas through the
expansion of programs for the conservation, development, and administration of these areas;
diversification of their resource utilization, as well as rational and sustainable use of these resources
through appropriate techniques and methods of reproduction, propagation, and management; and, at
the same time, the creation of a system for ecological inspection and surveillance.
At the same time, the National Environmental Protection Program calls for the country's
economic evolution to encompass respect for nature, conservation of resources, and preservation of
the environment. One of its principal stated objectives is to ensure the recovery, protection, and
conservation of natural resources and the equilibrium of ecosystems; and the principal strategy it
proposes is to increase the area covered by the National System of Protected Natural Areas, and to
strengthen the capacity for protection and surveillance of the System's component areas.
In March 1988 the General Law for Ecological Balance and Environmental Protection went
into effect. Title 2 of this law has the purpose of legally establishing the categories, declarations, and
organization of protected natural areas. This article of the Law also includes a section on the
National System of Protected Natural Areas, and another on wild flora and fauna.
The important features of the above-cited Law are listed below:
The Law stipulates that the Federation, the states, and the municipalities shall establish
measures to protect natural areas, in such a way as to ensure the preservation and restoration of their
ecosystems, especially those that are most representative (Article 38); and it indicates that the natural
areas in the national territory can come under protection as ecological reserves and be govemed by
restrictions imposed by the competent authorities making these areas subject to only such utilization
and exploitation as are determined to be socially and nationally necessary (Article 44).
The Law considers these areas to be protected natural areas; their establishment is in the
public interest, and they have the following goals (A; uele 4;):



- 87 -
Annex 1.9
page 6 of 20
1.     To preserve natural settings that are representative of the different biogeographic and
ecological regions, and the most fragile ecosystems, in order to protect the equilibrium and
continuity of evolutionary and ecological processes.
H.    To safeguard the genetic diversity of wild species on which evolutionary continuity depends,
particularly those that are endemic, endangered, or close to extinction.
III.   To ensure rational utilization of ecosystems and their components.
IV.   To provide an area conducive to scientific research and the study of ecosystems and their
equilibrium.
V.    To generate information and technologies that make possible rational and sustained utilization
as well as preservation of the country's resources.
VI.   To protect settlements, communication routes, industrial installations, and areas of agricultural
development by establishing forest zones in mountains that are flood sources or working with
the hydrological cycle in basins, or by using any other approaches that help to protect the
surrounding elements which an area is ecologically linked with.
VII.  To protect the natural surroundings of areas that contain archaeological, historical, and artistic
monuments and remains of importance to the national culture and identity.
In order to encompass the full range of conditions, environments, and situations, SINAP
includes nine categories of protected natural areas:
1. Biosphere reserves;
2. Special biosphere reserves;
3. National parks;
4. Natural monuments;
5. National marine parks;
6. Areas for the protection of natural resources;
7. Areas for the protection of flora and fauna;
8. Urban parks;
9. Zones subject to ecological conservation.
Ihe areas included under sections 1-7 are considered to fall within the domain of the
Federation; in other words, they are to be established and administered by the federal government.
Those included under items 8 and 9 are to be local in nature, as are any that are so designated
according the corresponding state or municipal provisions (Article 46).
In addition, when it comes to establishing, administering, and developing protected natural
areas, local communities are considered to play a fundamental role in measures to protect the
ecosystems, through their participation in various programs for the protection, caretaking, and
recovery of resources.



- 88 -
Annex 1.9
page 7 of 20
The protected natural areas that are considered to fall within federal domain as a whole make
up the National System of Protected Natural Areas (SINAP), as stipulated in Article 76.
At presen., the system Is composed of 44 national parks, 8 biosphere reserves, 13 special
biosphere reserves, 1 area for the protection of wild flora and fauna, and I Natural Monument.
These areas are listed betow:
NAME OF THE PROTECTED
NATURAL AREA                         CATEGORY                        STATE
1. El Vizcaino                       Biosphere Reserve               Baja California Sur
2. Islands of the Gulf of            Special Biosphere               Baja California
California Reserve
3. Isla Guadalupe                    Special Biosphere               Baja California
Reserve
4. Isla Rasa                         Special Biosphere               Baja California
Reserve
5. Constituci6n de 1857              National Park                   Baja California
6. Calakmul                          Biosphere Reserve               Campeche
7. Montes Azules                     Biosphere Reserve               Chiapas
(Selva Lacandona)
8. Caseadas de Agua Azul             Special Biosphere               Chiapas
Reserve
9. Caflo del Sumidero                National Park                   Chiapas
10. El Triunfo Biosphere Reserve     Chiapas
11. Lagunas de Montebello            National Park                   Chiapas
12. Palenque                         National Park                   Chiapas
13. Selva Del Ocote                  Special Biosphere               Chiispas
Reserve
14. Cascadas de Bassaseachic         National Park                   Chihuahua
15. Cumbres de Majalca               National Park                   Chihuahua
16. Balneario de los Novillos        National Park                   Coahuila
17. Cerro de la Estrella             National Park                   Federal District
18. Cumbres del Ajusco               National Park                   Fedetal District
19. El Tepeyac                       National Park                   Federal District
20. La Michilia                      Biosphere Reserve               Durango
21. Mapimi                           Biosphere Reserve               Durango
22. El Veladero                      National Park                   Guefrero
23. El Chico                         National Park                   Hidalgo
24. Los Marmoles                     National Park                   Hidalgo
25. Tula                             National Park                   Hidalgo
26. Sierra de Manantlan              Biosphere Reserve               Jalisco
27. Nevado de Colima                 National Park                   Jalisco, 4olima
28. Bosencheve                       National Park                   Mexico, Michoacan
29. Desierto del Carmen              National Park                    Mexico



- 89 -
Annex 1._
page 8 of 20
NAME OF THE PROTECTED
NATURAL AREA                        CATEGORY                        STATE
30. Ins. Miguel Hidalgo             National Park                   Mexico, D.F.,
Costilla
31. Iztaccihuatl-                   National Park                   Mexico, Morelos,
Popocatepetl                                                     Puebla
32. Molino de Flores                National Park                   Mexico
Netzahualcoyotl
33. Nevado de Toluca                National Park                   Mexico
34. Los Remedios                     National Park                  Mexico
35. Sacromonte                      National Park                   Mexico
36. Zoquiapan y Anexas              National Park                   Mexico, Puebla
37. Mariposa Monarca                Special Biosphere               Michoacan, Mexico
Reserve
38. Cerro de Garnica                 National Park                  Michoacan
39. Ins. Jose Ma. Morelos            National Park                  Michoacan
y Pavon
40. Lago de Camecuaro                National Park                  Michoacan
41. Pico de Tancitaro                National Park                  Michoacan
42. Rayon                            National Park                  Michoacan
43. Lagunas de Zempoala              National Park                  Morelos, Mexico
44. El Tepoztco                      National Park                  Morelos
45. Cumbres de Monterrey             National Park                  Nuevo Leon
46. Cerro de la Sil.a                Natural Monument               Nuevo Leon
47. Isla Isabel National Park        Nayarit
48. El Sabinal National Park         Nuevo Leon
49. Benito Juarez                    National Park                  Oaxaca
50. Lagunas de Chacahua              National Park                  Oaxaca
S1. Sian Ka'An                       Biosphere Reserve              Quintana Roo
52. Isla Contoy                      Special Biosphere              Quintana Roo
Reserve
53. El Cimatario                     National Park                  Quertaro
54. Tulum                            National Park                  Quintana Roo
55. El Potosf                        National Park                  San Luis Potosf
56. El Gogorron                      National Park                  San Luis Potosf
57. Cajon del Diablo                Special Biosphere               Sonora
Reserve
58. Isla Tiburon                     Special Biosphere              Sonora
Reserve
59. Sierra de Santa                  Special Biosphere              Veracruz
Martha                           Reserve
60. Volcgn de San Martfn             Special Biosphere              Veracruz
Reserve
61. Cafhon de Rio Blanco             National Park                  Veracruz
62. Pico de Orizaba                  National Park                  Verac=uz
63. La Malinche                      National Park                 TMaxcala



- 90 -
AnnexL.2
page 9 of 20
NAME OF THE PROTECTED
NATURAL AREA                        CATEGORY                        STATE
64. Ria Celestun                    Special Biosphere               YucatAn
Reserve
65. Ria Lagartos                    Special Biosphere               YucatAn
Reserve
66. Dzilbilchaltun                  National Park                   YucatAn
In addition, among its other objectives SINAP aims to enforce the provisions of the General
Law for Ecological Balance and Environmental Protection with reference to protected natural areas in
order to preserve the natural heritage of the nation, coordinate with the appropriate provisions of the
federal public administration in the areas under its jurisdiction, and coordinate with social and private
groups regarding specialized measures oriented around the goals which the natural areas in the
national system have been established to achieve.
Articles 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, and 56 of this same Law define and categorize
protected natural areas, emphasizing the procedures and requirements they should all have with regard'
to biological importance, surface area, and the use and a'location of natural resources, among others.
Finally, in order to comply with the provisions and policies of the legislation in force, the
management of protected areas is planned through the preparation of management plans. Such plans
are categorized in the above-cited Law and serve as planning instruments that give the basic outlines
of what needs to be done in order to achieve the implicit objectives behind the establishment of a
natural protected area: preserving biodiversity and banks of germ plasm, and at the same time
promoting comprehensive community development.
II.    MANAGEMENT PLANS AS AN INSTRUMENT OF MEXICAN POLICY ON
PROTECTED .NATURAL AREAS
In line with the policies of the National Development Plan, the National Environmental
Protection Program, and the General Law for Ecological Balance and Environmental Protection, the
preparation of management plans is a fundamental stage of the planning process for protected natural
areas that are pa-rt of SINAP. These plans incorporate the programming of activities directed toward
the protection, conservation, and promotion of biodiversity and in situ banks of germ plasm; intra-
and inter-institutional coordination; and integration of the public, social, and private sectors into the
processes of conservation and rational utilization of the natural resources in these areas.
In this sense, tnanagement plans serve as a planning tool which uses knowledge about the
problems of a protectedi nattral area, as well as information about its natural resources and how they
are used, as a basis for proposals on the organization, classification, and coordination of measures
that will make it possible to achieve the objectives and targets established for that area. A
management plan is thus seen as a dynamic and flexible tool which is capable of gathering feedback
and adapting in accordance with the management policies and standards issued for that purpose, and



- 91 -
Annex 1.9
page 10 of 20
which always acknowledges the importance of fulfilling the objectives that the protected natural area
was established to achieve.
In this context, Article 65 of the General Law for Ecological Balance and Environmental
Protection stipulates that the agency or agencies of the federal executive branch who propose that a
protected natural area be established under federal jurisdiction (in this case, SEDUE) shall prepare the
management plan for that area, with the participation, as applicable, of any other competent agencies
and local authorities, within the stated time period in the corresponding declaration.
In Article 68, the above-cited Law indicates that the management plan for a reserve must
contain at least the following elements:
1.    A description of the area's physical, biological, social, and cultural features, in the
national, regional, and local context;
2.    The short-, medium-, and long-term actions *,r be taken, and how they are linked to
the National System for Democratic Planning. These actions will encompass
research, resource utilization, expansion, distribution, operation, coordination, follow-
up, and control;
3.    The specific objectives of the reserve; and
4.    The technical standards that apply, where appropriate, to the exploitation of flora and
fauna, as well as to sanitary, crop-related, and domestic cuttings, or any whose aim is
to prevent contamination of the soil and water,
HI.   THE CONTENTS OF A MANAGEMENT PLAN
The following is a description of the principal components of a management plan. It should
be noted that, since national parks and reserves have distinct management objectives, the management
plans for these areas will contain some differences as well. It is therefore noted in the text when
differences between these two types of areas occur.
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.1   Preliminary Information
The geographical location of the area is discussed in both physical and geopolitical terms,
including access routes and the area it occupies. There is also a brief description of the
general characteristics of the locale, which provides the rationale behind its conservation,
management, and sustainable development, along with an explanation of its importance in the
international, national, and regional context.



- 92 -
Annex 1.9
page 11 of 20
1.2    Background
This is a brief description of the area which reviews the information available, the legal
aspects, previous conservation efforts, the current situation, and any general issues.
2.     OBJECTIVES
The general and specific objectives of the management plan are listed.
3.     ASSESSMENT
This section describes the area's physical, biotic, socioeconomic, and cultural features, as well
as its problems.
3.1    Physical Characteristics
a) Physiography and topography
The area is put into context according to its physiographical region and province,
based on the classification system developed by J. Rzeclowski (1983). There is also a
list of such topographical features as ravines, rises, valleys, gullies, etc., in addition
to the names of its main formations, with maps and charts to back up all this
information.
b) Geology
The area is classified in terms of its geological roots and evolution, with emphasis on
its most important characteristics (volcanic activity, faults, types of rock, etc.)
c) Edaphology
Based on the FAO soil classification system, the specific features of each area are
listed, providing a profile of soil types.
d) Hydrology
The hydrological basins found in each protected area are looked at from a
hydrological viewpoint, including the principal streams, rivers, bodies of water, etc.
e) Climatology
The area is classified from a climatological perspective based on Kappen's
classification system, as modified by Garcfa E. (1981). Information is also included
on the closest meteorological season(s), if any.



- 93 -
Annex l.9
page 12 of 20
The climate data that can be classifled includes average monthly temperatures,
monthly rainfall, relatiNe humidity, and the hottest and wettest months during the
year.
3.2    Biotic Characteristics
a) Flora
The area is classified in terms of its prevailing types of vegetation and their most
important associations, with a description of the representative species in each one, as
well as any species that are endemic, close to extinction, rare, or endangered.
b) Fauna
In this section, the area is classified in terms of its fauna, with a description of the
most important vertebrate or invertebrate species, how they are associated with
ecological units and habitats, and which species are endemic, rare, endangered, or
close to extinction.
3.3    Socioeconomic Characteristics
'This aspect involves an examination of the socioeconomic conditions of the
communities present in the area or its zone of influence, and of how these
communities use its natural resources. Particular attention is paid to the following:
Property rights
Current soil use
Here, using supplementary information from the draft Land Tenancy Law under
preparation by the Secretariat, current land uses are indicated (for agriculture,
livestock raising, hunting, mining, tourism, and other purposes), along with
information on land regulation.
3.4    Cultural Characteristics
The protected natural area is classified based on the presence of any archaeological
remains of historic or cultural importance. This includes their state of preservation,
importance, etc., as well as the historical or cultural significance of the area where
they are found.
3.5    Rationale
Here the value and potential uses of both national parks and reserves are specified
according to the criteria in the following paragraphs:



- 94 -
A_nn_U
page 13 of 20
a) ecological Importance
The biological importance of the area is described in terms of the diversity of its
biological components, ecosystems, and genetic material or its genetic diversity; the
representativity of its existing ecosystems; the degree of preservation of those
ecosystems; the preservation of germ plasm because of the presence of species that are
endemic, rare, endangered, close to extinction, or of particular interest; and the
features and break-down of the area's plant substratum.
b) historical and cultural importance (if any)
c) scientific, educationai, and recreational importance
In this category, the area is looked at in terms of its value as an area for research on
the ecosystems and their components; for recreational purposes; and for the
development of environmental education programs. At the same time, the area's
social impact is pointed out with regard to the potential number of visitors, the
creation of jobs, etc.
3.6   issues
Based on the rationale and assessment, in this category the problems, limitations, and
restrictions that hinder conservation in the area are described, along with any
obstacles to the utilization of area resources.
4.    INVESTMENT PROGhAM OR ANNUAL OPERATING PROGRAM
This category details the short-, medium-, and long-term (six-year) investment program
needed in order to carry out the measures stipulated in the management plan for the protected
natural area, in complete correspondence with its horizontal and vertical breakdown and
subcomponents.
5.    SUBCOMPONENTS OF THE MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR A PROTECTED NATURAL
AREA
The following is a list of the principal subcomponents that must be included in any
management plan or investment program for a protected natural area:
5.1    Conservation Component
5.1.1    Subcomponent on the prevention, control, and fighting of forest fires
Contains measures and strategies for controlling forest fires which are aimed at
mitigating their negative impact on stands of trees and keeping fires from spreading,
as well as taking the steps necessary to prevent outbreaks.



- 95 -
AnneL1.2
page 14 of 20
5.1.2    Subcomponent on the prevention, control, and flghting of forest plagues
Includes the rapid detection of forest plagues, based on the use of existing measures
and strategies to prevent the loss of large tree populations and prevent the spread or
development of plagues by strengthening forest stands.
5.1.3    Subcomponent on reforestation
Encompasses measures and strategies that favor the recovery of plant cover and
protection of the soil in areas of erosion, and among tree populations that cannot
regenerate themselves by natural means.
5.1.4    Subcomponent on soil protection and recovery
Includes the detection of high-risk areas for erosion, as well as areas that are already
affected, in order to determine the techniques that need to be employed in order to
recover these areas within a given time period.
5.1.5    Subcomponent on protection of cultural resources
Includes measures and strategies for preserving the cultural heritage in protected
natural areas.
5.1.6    Subcomponent on management and protection of wild fauna
Involves preserving diversity in the natural area and protecting the eco!ogically
representative wild fauna that live there, in order to niaintain equilibrium in the
ecosystems present in the area.
5.1.7    Subcomponent on seedbeds
Includes measures and strategies for preserving the ecological diversity of the natural
area by protecting and propagating the germ plasm of the dominant and ecologically
representative plant species which are adapted to the environmental conditions found
there, and for maintaining a supply of the seedlings necessary for reforestation
activities.
5.1.8    Subcomponent on breeding sites
Includes measures and strategies for preserving the ecological diversity of the area by
improving the numbers and distribution of the ecologically representative wild fauna
that live there.



- 96 -
page 15 of 20
5.2    Public Use and Recreation Component
5.2.1     Subcomponent on tourism
Includes strategies and measures for providing the visiting public with recreational and
leisure facilities in contact with nature without affecting the different ecological
components of the area.
5.2.2     Subcomponent on sign posting
Sets forth strategies and measures for providing visitors with orientation on the
various services that are available, as well as any restrictions that may apply during
their stay in the area.
5.2.3     Subcomponent on environmental education
Includes guidelines for providing the elements necessary to sensitize visitors to the
Importance of conserving the area's natural resources.
5.2.4     Subcomponent on environmeiital interpretation
Includes strategies and measures that make it possible to maintain installations,
mechanisms, and activities that involve visitors in the conservation effort for the
natural area.
5.2.5     Subcomponent on research
Sets forth strategies and measures for making available technical and scientific
elements that permit rational and sustainable management of the area's natural
resources.
5.2.6     Subcomponent on infrastructure
Sets forth strategies and measures for maintaining the installations necessary to
adequately fulfill the objectives of conservation, protection, and development of the
area's natural resources, in addition to providing recreation and attending to the needs
of the visiting public.
5.3    Administrative Component
5.3.1     Subcomponent on operation
Sets forth strategies and measures for coordinating and implementing the activities,
measures, programs, and projects of the natural area and the personnel who work
there.



-    - 7L
\                                                           bml~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nex, 19
page 16 of 20
i;            5.3.2     Subcomponent on inspection and surveillance
Sets forth strategies and measures for strengthening the protection of natural resources
through activities aimed at reducing the incidence of unlawful and careless use of
those resources.
5.3.3    Subcomponent on zoning
Establishes guidelines for delimiting and setting boundaries to divide the area's surface
into specific zones, based on soil use and capability, where any activities carried out
are subject to regulation.
5.4    Coordination Component
5.4.1    Subcomponent on inter-institutional coordination
Includes measures and strategies for making arrangements and agreements with the
three governmental levels to join efforts and resources in the implementation of the
management plan for the area.
5.4.2    Subcomponent on community coordination
Includes strategies and measures for promoting the effort to sensitize the communities
that reside in the area and raise their level of ecological, cultural, and educational
awareness, so that agreements can be drawn up for community participation in the
recovery, conservation, and sustainable exploitation of the area's natural and cultural
resources.
5.4.3    Subcomponent on scientific coordination
Includes measures and strategies for fostering, organizing, and promoting participation
by the scientific community in the execution of research projects in the areas of
evaluation, recovery, and conservation of natural resources, as well as in the conduct
of socioeconomic research involving the common lands and agrarian communities
located within the protected area's zone of influence.
5.4.4    Subcomponent on coordination with non-governmental organizations
Includes measures and strategies for promoting and maintaining support from the
different social sectors.
'5.5    Legal Framework Component
5.5.1    Subcomponent or the internal regulation of the area
Encompasses preparation of tne set of measures and policies that must be complied
with when any activity is carried out within the protected area.



- 98 -
Ann-x I
page 17 of 20
5.5.2    Subcomponent on delimitation and marking of boundaries
Includes measures to physically define the borders of the protected area with boundary
stones and monuments In order to conserve its natural resources.
5.5.3    Subcomponent on land tenancy
Encompasses the determination of regulations governing land ownership in the
protected area, as well as the specification of compensation to be paid for any
subsequent damages.
5.5.4    Subcomponent on concessions
Encompasses measures and strategies for licensing installations and the provision of
services to the private and social sector in such a way as to ensure that these obtain
benefits from providing the licensed service and bring in financial resources that make
the operation of the protected area self-supporting.
6.    Annexes
6.1    List of Flora
6.2    List of Fauna
6.3    Maps and Charts (2cale = 1:50,000)
Map of the region of influence, including geographical coordinates (atitude
and longitude), access routes, and important nearby population centers.
-        Map of the area, including boundaries, zoning, and land tenancy.
-        Topographical map, including delimitation of the prevailing types of
vegetation.
6.4    Bibliography, together with research and support work on the area.



_ 99 
Annex 1.9
page 18 of 20
Secretariat of Urban Developmentand ecology
Subsecretariat of Ecology
Mexico City, 3. Feb. 1992
Mr. Rainer B. Steckhan,
Director
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
I am sending you the following pages in order to clarify certain points with respect to the document
"Protected Natural Areas of Mexico, Legislation and Management Plans," which was sent to you on 2
December 1992.
this letter will help to give you a better understanding of that paper discussing Mexican policy on
protected natural areas.
A.    LOCAL COMMUNITIES
When the management plan for each area is being prepared, the local communities will
participate and be consulted during the analysis of socioeconomic and cultural concerns of importance
to the plan, and will also help to identify the specific coordination strategies and measures required in
order to implement the management plan for the area in question.
.At this stage, it is inadvisable to establish any partial commitments with the communities
residing in the area, beyond those that have already been mentioned. 7This is to ensure that the
coordination that goes on reflects the overall perspective of the actual management plan once it has
been defined, and that, at the same time, the national strategy of coordination brigades is used, as
described in the policy paper under Section 5.4.2.
Once the management plan has been set up, more formal coordination can be implemented,
along with any improvements that appear necessary in light of the experience gained during this
coordination process. This will also help to ensure that the management plan remains a dynamic one.
B.    CURRIRNT DELIMITATION OF PROTECTED NATURAL AREAS
Although the process of formulating management plans will yield useful information for
updating the current boundaries of natural protected areas and defining their surface area, any
prospective changes must result from the overall perspective of the National System of Protected
Natural Areas, and must at the same time take into account the possibility of integrating biological
corridors.



100-
Annex 1.9
page 19 of 20
As a result, this aspect needs to be appmoached in a systematic and integrated fashion, based
on nat}onai priorities and the findings of study projects incorporated into the Environmental Sectoral
Credit which deal with the restructuring of SINAP and the creation of biological corridors.
C.    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDIES
Here I would like to discuss the procedure for evaluating the potential environmental impact
of any basic Infrastructure that migMt be established in Mexico's protected natural areas as part of the
GEF project In Mexico-such as surveillance booths, administrative buildings, seedbeds, breeding
sites, guided trails, etc.-and which is meant to be used in the management and administration of
protected natural areas and the biodiversity they contain.
On this subject, I would like to point out to you that a management plan is in and of itself a
national instrument for ecological organization and the evaluation of any potential environmental
impact that might result from works or activities for the management, conservation, and exploitation
of the natural resources that make up the biodiversity of a protected natural area.
At the sanme time, I would like to inform you that the General Directorate of Ecological
Conservation of Natural Resources--a division of the Subsecretariat which is under my charge--is the
unit responsible for evaluating management plans and the works, activities, and measures that are
planned as part of them, as well as for setting technical criteria and standards aimed at mitigating
their potential impact on the environment.
D.    TRAINING FOR PERSONNEL IN PROTECTED NATURAL AREAS
Personnel training is unquestionably an extremely important aspect of the management of
protected natural areas, and constitutes a comprehensive program for all the areas in the system.
However, we feel that it is inappropriate and economically wasteful to have various, unconnected
programs in the different areas. For this reason, the Subsecretariat has a general program to cover
the training needs of all the areas.
In fact, this program is based on the availability of highly trained personnel, some coming
from central offices and others from the delegations, who have broad experience, on the one hand,
and who have in addition attended courses for refresher training provided through international
programs. These include the course on reserves which has been organized each year in conjunction
with US-FWS, DUMAC, the Technological Institute of Monterrey, and specialized North American
organizations. There is a similar meeting on park management in which the US-NPS, WWF, and the
Antonio Narro Autonomous University talke part. The program has been repeated for five years.
The corresponding General Directorate has 18 persons who have participated in this event. Recently
specific training in fire management has been included. These trained personnel serve in turn as
training monitors for the remaining staff. We do not feel that this process should be broken down
area by area and incorporated into the management plans.



101 -
AnkI2l.
page 20 of 20
E.    INDICATORS FOR EVALUATION
The indicators for evaluation that appk,, - tl the areas have been reported to the Bank under
separate cover.
The, specific indicators for each area need to be determined in light of its definitive
management plan, and based on the opinion of the technical advisory council that is associated with
that specific area. They also need to be flexible so that they can be modified as part of the
Implementation process. The Barnk already has a foundation in this area.
In the hope that the Bank finds these details useful for its purposes, I remain,
Yours Sincerely,
"SUFRAG;O EFECTIVO. NO REELECCION"
SERGIO REYES LUJAN
cc.    Antonio Cervera Sandoval, Coordinator of Advisors for the Subsecretariat of International
Financial Affairs, S.H.C,P. [Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit].



- i02 -
annex 2.1
page 1 of 7
MEXICO
Environmental Project
Technical Standards to be Enacted Under the Proiect
WATER
Begin       Enact
study    standard
Wastewater disposal, phosphatic fertilizer manufact.        01/92       10/93
Wastewater disposal, urban drainage systems                 01/92       06/93
Wastewater disposal, pesticide formulation                  04/92       09/93
Wastewater disposal, mining (extract. & process.)           04/92       09/93
Wastewater disposal, elect. and electronics comp.           04/92       09/43
Wastewater disposal, pharmacochemical industry             04/92        09/93
Wastewater disposal, pharmaceutical industry               04/92        09/93
Wastewater disposal, synthetic resin industry               08/92       01/94
Wastewater disposal, fruit and veg. prep. and can.          08/92       01/94
Wastewater disposal, nixtemal (corn) mills                  08/92       01/94
Wastewater disposal, agricultural and livestock act.        08/92       04/94
Wastewater disposal, grain mills                            03/93       08/94
Wastewater dieposal, coal mining                            03/93       08/94
Wastewater storage                                          03/93       08/94
Wastewater utilization                                      03/93       08/94
Works for wastewater removal                                08/93       01/95
Wastewater disposal, livestock raising activities           08/93       01/95
Wastewater disposal, animal feed manufacturing              08/93       05/95
Wastewater disposal, basic petrochemical industries         08/93       11/95
Wastewater disposal, lubric. and additives manufact.        03/94       08/95
Wastewater disposal, oil and grease manufacturing           03/94       08/95
Wastewater disposal, choc. and confect. prod. manu.         03/94       08/95
Wastewater disposal, acids, bases, and salts manu.          03/94       12/95



103 -
Annex 2.21
page 2 of 7
AIR
Begin       Enact
study    standard
PM/I --wine resin production                                     01/91        10/93
HC/CO/NOx--stationary gasoline motors                            01/91        06/93
_ AC/CO/NOx--stationary diesel motore                             01/91        06/93
HC--elastomer production                                         01/91        06/93
PM/NOx--glass industry                                           04/92        09/93
NH3--ammonia production                                          04/92        09/93
NOx--production of HNo3                                          04/92        09/93
Cl--chlorine production                                          04/92        01/94
F/SO2/NOx--fertilizer production                                 04/92        01/94
Fluoride--phosphoric acid production                             04/92        01/94
PM/gases--iron and steel industry                                04/92        07/94
PM--aluminum production                                          08/92        01/94
HCl--hydrochloric acid production                                08/92        01/94
HC--production of wood treatment products                        08/92        05/94
PM--Copper smelting                                              08/92        05/94
PM--non-metallic mineral processing                              08/92        05/94
S02/H2S--petroleum refineries                                    08/92        11/94
Mercaptan/SO2/H2S--cellulose recovery processes                  08/92        11/94
PM--lead smelting                                                03/93        06/95
NOx--nitrate production                                          08/93        01/95
PM--zinc processing                                              08/93        01/95
PM--silver processing                                            08/93        01/95
Cl--chlorine compound production                                 08/93        05/95
HC--in solvent use                                               08/93        11/95
PM-HC--preparation of paints, lacquers and varnishes             03/94        08/95
HC--storage and use of paints, lacquers and varnishes            03/94        08/95
Emissions from pathological waste incinerators                   03/94        12/95
NC--solvent storage                                              03/94        12/95
NC--fuel storage                                                 03/94        12/95



- 104 -                           Annex, 2.
page 3 of 7
ENVIRONMENTAL RISK
Begin       Enact
study    standard
Study of comparative standards in order to
establish a legal framework to control the
risk of accidents.                                                04/92        07/93
General technical standards for safe
ooeration and storage with regard to risk.                        06/93        03/94
Development or adaptation of a model for
implementing the standards in the area of risk.                   03/94       03/95
Safety standards for the transport of
high-risk substances.                                             06/93        12/94
Regulations on environmental risk                                 09/94        06/95



- 105 -
Annex 2.1
page 4 of 7
WASTES
Begin       Enact
study    standard
Incinerator treatment of hospital wastes                         01/92        10/93
Management of solvent wastes                                     01/92        06/93
Sterilization of hospital wastes                                 01/92        06/93
Management of expired pharmaceutical products                    04/92        09/93
Design, construction and operation of controlled storage
facilities                                                       04/92        09/93
Management of hospital and clinical wastes                       04/92        09/93
Management of paint wastes                                       04/92        09/93
Management of agrochemical containers and
receptacles                                                      04/92        09/93
Recovery and rein. of waste oils                                 08/92        01/94
Incinerator treatment of municipal wastes                        08/92        01/94
Management of nonhazardous induRtrial wastes                     08/92        01/94
Waste management, basic organic chemical industry                08/92        05/94
Waste management, pesticides and fertilizers                     08/92        05/94
Waste management, basic inorganic chem. ind.                     08/92        05/94
Sampling and .lanagement of hazardous waste samples              08/92        05/94
Incinerator tLaatment of hazardous wastes                        08/92        11/94
Restoration of unauthorized hazardous waste disposal
sites                                                            08/92        11/94
Waste management, petrochemical industry                         08/92        11/94
Recycling and reuse of hazardous wastes                          03/93        08/94
Management of leachants from sanitary landfills                  03/93        08/94
Systems for recovery and use of biogas from sanitary
landfilla                                                        03/93        08/94
Recovery of unauthorized municipal waste disposal
sites                                                            03/93        08/94
Waste management, commercial zones and markets                   08/93        01/95
Site selection for agrochemical receptacles                      08/93        01/95
Waste management, agrochemical manufacturers                     08/93        05/95



- 106 -
Annex 2.1
page 5 of 7
Waste management, iron and steel industry                        08/93        05/95
Waste management, non-ferrous smelting industry                  08/93        05/95
Waste management, petroleum and gas extraction                   08/93        11/95
Charac. of wastes stabilized for storage                         03/94        08/95
Sit- selection for hazardous waste storage in stable
geological formations                                            03/94        08/95
Design, construction, and operation of agrochemical
receptacles                                                      03/94        08/95
Management of polychlorinated biphenyls                          03/94        08/95
Waste management, asbestos industry                              03/94        12/95



- 107 -
Annex 2.1
page 6 of 7
INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENS8
Begin       Enact
study    standard
Instructions for EIA, cement industry                             01/92        06/93
Instructions for EIA, oil, gas, and coal pipelines                04/92        09/93
Instructions for EIA, iron and steel industry                     04/92        09/93
Instructions for EIA, paper industry                              04/92        09/93
Instructions for EIA, sugar industry                              04/92        09/93
Instructions for EXA, electrical power generation                 04/92        01/94
Instructions for EIA, automotive industry                         08/92        01/94
Instructions for EIA, electrical transmission                     08/92        01/94
Instructions for EIA, petroleum exploration and extraction    08/92            01/94
Instructions for EIA, underground mining                          08/92        01/94
Instructions for EIA, open-pit mining                             08/92        05/94
Instructions for EIA, chemical and petrochemical industry         03/93        08/94
Instructions for EIA, aquaculture projects                        03/93        08/94
Instructions for EIA, airports                                    03/93        08/94
Instructions for EIA, marinas and ports                           08/93        01/95
Instructions for EIA, tourist developments without
marinas                                                           08/93        01/95
Instructions for EIA, inst., treatment, storage,
or elimination of hazardous wastes                                08/93        05/9S



108 -Ann2  2.1
page 7 of 7
TZMETABLE 0 STANDARDS TO BE ISSUED
CATEGORY                1993    1994    1995    TOTAL
Wastewater                                7       8        8        23
Air  ollution/stationary sources         7      11       11        29
Solid/hazardous waste                     8      14       11        33
Risk                                      1       2        2         5
Technical guidelines for EIA              5       9        3        17
TOTAL               1    28       44       35       107



- 109 -
page 1 of 5
MEXICO
Environmental Project
Terms of Reference for the Redesion of the
National Water Ouality Monitoring Network
to be O_erated by SEDUEZSE and CNA
This document definee the terms of reference to which the proposals for
carrying out the study known as "Redesign of the National Water Quality
Monitoring Network" must conform.
I.    General Backaround
Water is a liquid that is vital to a variety of socioeconomic activities
which are carried out in the country's human communities. It is also the
direct support of the aquatic life which ranges from the one-celled organisms
all the way up to the blue whale, the largest of the aquatic mammals.
Water has an important material as well as emotional value. It is a
resource whose presence can define success or failure for the peasant. In the
city it is used in the preparation of food and drink. Industrial plants mix
water with their products during their manufacturing processes, or use it as a
coolant.
Obviously ships need water in order to sail. Water is avidly sought for
recreation (swimming, rowing, and fishing), while land with a sea view is
appreciated for whatever social purpose.
Temporary considerations need to be added to the above description due
to the fact that water is changing in accordance with complicated patterns
which are influenced by both natural and artificial circumstances. An a
result, there is rarely enough water for all these uses in terms of quantity,
quality, and ideal locality.
Estimates from the National Hydraulic Plan make it clear that Mexico has
a sufficient volume of water to meet the supply needs of all sectors; however,
its geographical distribution is completely adverse for almost half the
national territory. In addition, as in other countries, Mexico is facing the
problem of water pollution generated by the production of wastes in urban,
industrial, and agricultural and livestock areas, which have a variety of
effects on our bodies of water, and in consequence affect aquatic ecosystems
and the various uses of water.
Thus in order to protect and, as appropriate, improve water quality so
that it is usable for all desired purposes, it is necessary to observe and
measure the changes and trends in water quality. For this reason, in 1975 the
federal government created the National Water Quality Monitoring Network,
which is made up of a series of locations along the principal rivers, lakes or
reservoirs, estuaries, beaches, ports, aquifers, and coastal areas of
interest, from which water samples are taken and conveyed to laboratories so
that they can be analyzed and their types of components identified.
In order to obtain information that would support the environmental
management activities which SEDUE is supposed to carry out in the country as a
result of its assigned functions under the current laws, in 1985 SEOUS was
incorporated into water quality monitoring, operating 108 stations, most of



- 110 -                          Annex 2.2
page 2 of 5
which coincided with those that had existed up until that time.
SEDUE's operation of the monitoring network has run up against a variety
of administrative ao well as technical problems which have led the General
Directorate for the Prevention and Control of Environmental Pollution to
propose a study called "Redesign of the National Water Quality Monitoring
Network," to be carried out on a contractual basis. The study's aim is to
improve the structure and operation of the network under the direction of the
state SEDUE delegations, so that the results of the measurements allow the
authorities in charge of water quality to make the appropriate decisions to
protect and/or improve it.
II.   Obiectives
The fundamental objective of the proposed study is to obtain maximum
efficiency in the operation of the current monitoring network run by the
Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology and the National Water
Commission.
In addition it is proposed:
To define--in keeping with the specific functions of each unit--the
placement of stations, the frequency of sampling, the pararmieters to be
measured, the operative systems, and the approach to be used to coordinate the
handling of the information obtained.
III. General Inatructions
The proposals to carry out work under the present terms of reference
should be delivered in duplicate to the offices of the General Directorate for
the Prevention and Control of Environmental Pollution, which are located at
Rio Elba No. 20 - ler Piso, Col. Cuauht6moc, C.P. 06500, Mexico, D.P.
The proposals should contain the following: a detailed description of
the activities and tasks that will be carried out; a budget, broken down by
activities and costs; a timetable of execution; and a list of the technical
personnel involved, with their professional background and the tasks they will
perform during the study.
IV.   Technical Specifications
The execution of the different phases of the study must conform to the
following specificationsa:
1.    Collection and analysis of information
An analysis is to be made of all aspects of Mexican state and federal
legislation that touch on the question of environmental management, in
particular: the organic Law of Federal Public Administration, the General Law
on Ecological Balance and Environmental Protection, the Federal Water Law, the
Sanitary Code, and the Law on Sanitary Engineering, as well as the laws and
regulations on environmental questions which have been issued by the state
governments.
The above io directed towtrd identifying the specific water quality
monitoring duties of various fecleral units, such as SEDUE, SARH, and SEDEMAR.
Information should be collected on the structure and operation of the



page 3 of 5
Global Monitoring Network/Water of the World Health Organization; from other
countries, such as the United States and Canada in North America, and Brazil,
Chile, and Peru in South America, with the objective of making comparisons and
adopting, as appropriate, any useful aspects for the network in Mexico.
2.    Definition of Monitoring Objectiveo
Based on the information collected an in consultation with staff of
SEDUE and CNA, the consultanto should develop and define the specific
monitoring objectives for each institution. These monitoring objectives mum
respond to the legal responsibilities and operation requirements of each
institution, while at the same time avoiding duplication. The consultants mus
ensure that the recommended objectives have the agreement of both SEDUE and
CNA. The must be clearly stated, specify time limits and performance
indicators, and be given in a form that allows assessment of whether or not
they have been met.
3.    Parameters of quality
In accordance with the responsibilities of SEDUE and CNA identified
above, and based on the situation with regard to sources of pollution, types
of pollutants, potentially affected aquatic ecosystems, and risks to water
users, a number of basic parameters are to be determined which will always be
measured in the waters of the receiving bodies.
There also needs to be a list of special parameters which are defined
for each station, depending on its location with respect to pollution sources
and types of pollutants.
In selecting both the basic as well as the special parameters, thought
must be given to the analysis of samples of water, esediments, and biological
specimens. In addition, it is important to keep in mind the intrinsic
differences between continental and marine waters.
4.    Frequency
In accordance with the information analyzed, the necessary frequency of
measuremet for the parameters of water quality should be determined, thus
defining the sampling frequency.
The minimum frequency for measuring the basic parameters is to be
defined; in other words, the parameters that should always be measured in the
different types of water, in addition to the frequency of measurement for the
special parameters.
5.    Measurement, sampling, and analysis in the field
Techniques should be established for the staff of the field brigades to
use in collecting samples, carrying out field analyses, and, as applicable,
measuring the flow of currents or the volume of lakes or reservoirs.
Recommendations should be made for techniques that will keep a sample's
characteristics representative and reliable until they are analyzed in the
laboratory.
Due to the fact that there are well-known differences between the
characteristics of continental as opposed to marine water, it is necessary to
define and recommend specific parameters and analysis techniques for each type
of sample that has been identified for inclusion in the monitoring.
Recommendations are to made as to the appropriate equipment,



- 112 -
page 4 of 5
instruments, materials, and reagents fo.? the taking, packing, and transport of
samples to the laboratory, in addition to field record forms.
6.    Laboratory analysis
The consultants will compile a list of water quality variables that must
be analyzed in the laboratory, and recommend detection limits and analytical
methods that will meet the objectives of the program. The consultant will
also calculate, on a monthly basis, the type and number of teats that must be
done by basin.
7.    The Private Sector Option
Consistent with SEDUE's institutional strategy, its portion of the water
quality monitoring program (from sampling to laboratory analysis) may be
contracted to private sector firms. The consultants should therefore examine
this option, recommend how best to implement it, and calculate the likely
costs of this approach. The consultants should also, in close consultation
with staff of SEDUE and CNA, define the role that SEDUE and CNA laboratories
would play under this approach and the physical facilities, equipment,
reagents, and human and financial resources that their central and regional
laboratories would need in order to play this role.
S.    Data management
As water quality monitoring produces an enormous quantity of data,
recommendations need to be made as to the way in which this data is to be
condensed for inclusion in the data base to be operated by SEDUE and CNA.
The consultants should recommend the best alternative means of operating
a common SEDUE/CNA data base. This assessment should include the need for
personnel--including professional profiles--as well as materials and equipment
for computerized information management, with the goal of producing reports on
water quality that can placed at the disposal of users of such information.
The water quality reports analyzed should include one that includes
various parameters for obtaining a pollution index, and which presents the
information in non-technical form. In addition, data management through time
series is to be included.
9.    Quality control
Due to the fact that water quality monitoring entails the performance of
analyses in a considerable number of laboratories, by different analysts, a
basic analytical quality control program needs to be set up which is directed
toward obtaining reliable results.
The above program would include instructions for assessing the
reliability of the sample collection, field analysis, and preservation
techniques employed; the selection of analytical methodo, including a clear
description of those methods; an evaluation of solutions; the preparation of
control charts; an assessment of the precision of each laboratory; and a
review and comparison of systematic errors within and between the SEDUE
laboratories.
7.    Supplementary information
The placement of stations, determination of parameters, frequency of
sampling, and interpretation of the data obtained all require additional
information, in such areas as physiography, soil and water use, the location
of pollution sources, the identification of types of pollutants, demography,



- 113 -
annex_ 22
page 5 of 5
health infrastructure, the location of water vdevel,pment and wastewater
treatment works, as well at knowledge of any aquatic ecological systems of
exceptional or special interest. In designing the network, these needs will
have to be taken into account.
8.    Progress report and final report
In order to keep tabs on the study activities and assess their progress,
a timetable should be prepared so that it will be possible to detect any
necessary corrections and changes and to effect them in a timely manner.
The final report should contain accounts of the work carried out, the
methodologies used, the conclusions reached, and the pertinent
recommendations.
The report is to be illustrated with the necessary figures and diagrams-
-prepared to the appropriate scale--tables, charts, photographs, and graphs.
The diagrams submitted should include the originals and an exact copy.
The report submitted should include the original and 10 copies, in
addition to a summary booklet giving the background, the problems addressed,
and the objectives, results, conclusions, and recommendations, and it should
be illustrated with reduced drawings of any helpful figures and diagrams.
The manuals of operation and intersecretarial coordination which have
been prepared for all the various phases of operation of the National Water
Quality Monitoring Network should be submitted.



- 114 -
page 1 of 14
MEXICO
EnvirQnmental Proiect
Terms of Reference of Studies QnEnmc
Instruments for the Environment to bi CQmmissioned in 1922
I.   BAackgrou,nd
Before 1988, the federal government had the entire obligation -- or authority, to view it
from another perspective -- for correcting and preventing the negative effects of a development
style which gave no importance to the variable of environment. When the General Law on
Ecological Balance and Environmental Protection came out in that year, the responsibilities in
this area were modified to include the state and municipal governments, as well as the
participation of the private and social sectors. Citizen opinion has become more influential,
while the capacity for action has increased, as seen in recent years. The government has made
a growing economic effort, allocating already substantial resources to environmental protection
activities. With an important credit component, the federal expenditure, which includes
government-controlled industry, is close to 0.7% of the GDP in 1991. With the support of
private industry, Mexico already stands out for its interest in designing a model of development
which could be sustainable.
Now the federal govemment must go beyond its traditional role, wherein it took care of
all matters related to the protection of the environment. The resources required to meet a
challenge of these proportions call for a structure of sizeable proportions, which goes against
the current trend toward a reduction in the state apparatus. We need to evolve toward a unit
whose technical and political structure permits us to make a more effective response to the need
for continued growth, without destroying the possibilities of future generations.
The state and municipal governments, who are taking on responsibilities which have
always been considered to fall under federal jurisdiction, have to reorganize their
administrations. With the 21 state laws in this area that appeared before August 1991, these
governments are maldng the commitment to deal fully and effectively with local environmental
problems, and with those problems that are priorities for their communities.
Finally, members of our society can take on many of the tasks which today are handled
by the authorities. We ne-id to explore mechanisms of transformation, and of public and private
financial management, in order to provide incentives for community initiative which will
formally channel it into caring for natural resources and the quality of the environment.
For all of these reasons, the Mexico Environmental Project contains a special component
which explicitly links the problem of environmental management to the current economic



- 115 -
Annle& 2.3
page 2 of 14
framework in the country. Recently, a worling group was created, made up of high-level
officials in the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology, the Secretariat of Finance and
Public Credit, and the Secretariat of Programming and Budget. The goal was to study the
interrelationships between economic policies and environmental policies. It was decided that this
group's initial work would be oriented toward answering three basic questions:
i)   How can the federal government ensure a constant flow of economic resources in keeping
with its responsibility to protect the environment?
ii)   How can the federal govemment ensure that there is consistency between economic and
environmental policies?
And, in relation to the above,
iii) How can the government use the instruments of economic policy, as well as other kinds,
to achieve the objectives of environmental policy?
In order to answer these questions, the Subsecretariat of Ecology needs to carry out five
lines of study on economic questions, related to environmental management and the utilization
of natural resources, which must be completed within a period of 12 to 14 months. Towards
this end, it is necessary to form a group of experts who can provide the Subsecretariat with the
studies described in these terms of reference. The working group will subsequently summarize
the results of these studies, in order to draw up a set of workable recommendations for the
respective Secretariats. In this way, the policy recommendations deemed necessary will be
formulated. Together with this activity, the working group will also define new research
programs, with a clear orientation toward management of the economic policies that should be
developed during the second, third, and fourth years of the project.   For these efforts the
worklng group will, as needed, seek the participation and collaboration of other entities from
the Mexican public sector, from the private sector, and from certain groups of prominent
researchers.
For the first year, the study program wilU be divided along the lines of the basic questions
mentioned above. The first three studies are related to the level of financing that can be
sustained in the ecology sector by the public and the private sector. The fourth and fifth
together are made up of a number of individual studies focusing on the effects of economic
policy on the environment. In addition, they are designed to look at the utilization of altemative
instruments which can internalize environmental costs as part of the economic decisions of
individual agents. As a result, these last studies will have to provide illustrative examples of
more general situations.
For each study, from one to four research groups will be invited to take charge of
execution. They will be asked to present proposals that conform to the corresponding terms of
reference. Given the clear economic orientation of the studies, it is particularly important for



- 116 -
Annex 2.3
page 3 of 14
the groups to include experts in economics (and/or financial analysis), or else to show that they
have specific plans to strengthen this line of activity through agreements with individuals or
other institutions of recognized ability.
A group known as the "Steering Committee" will be formed, and will include high level
representatives from the related secretariats, the private sector, research institutions, and social
groups. This committee will supervise the execution of the studies and evaluate both preliminary
and final results.
The specific details of each study will be spelled out in final form once the corresponding
proposals have been received, and the groups selected to carry out the studies.
II.   Descriptign ofLthe Terns of RefSrnce
1.    Financial analysis of the enviromnental sector at the level of the federal,
state, and municipal governments
a)    Objectives
The consultant needs to come up with the most precise possible evaluation of the public
sector's income and expenditures in relation to the environment. For this purpose, he will
evaluate current levels of expenditure in the govemmental agencies responsible for Saing care
of the environment. In addition, he will present recommendations regarding the budgetary level
that will allow these agencies to fulfill the responsibilities assigned to them under the law.
b)    Tasks to be carried out
The study will describe the duties assigned to the different agencies put in charge of the
environment at the level of the federal, state, and municipal governments; using those elements,
it will examine the financial and human resources they have been provided with. The allocation
of financial resources will be itemized to the extent possible. The consultant will define the
categories to be used, with the guidance of the Steering Committee. On the side of income, an
analysis will also be made of the various types of resources that have been generated by the
environmental sector itself, the quantities collected, the different sources of income, and the way
these funds are allocated. The study will assess how effective the different govemmental
agencies are in charging for their services. This will also provide a mear.s of evaluating possible
mechanisms for increasing the income of these agencies.
The study will focus on the federal and state levels; at the state level, work will be done
with two or three agencies so that they can be analyzed in detail Cramaulipas, Jalisco,
Quer6taro). Depending on the results obtained, the sample of states can be expanded at later
stages. At the municipal level, solely the problem of garbage collection will be examined, and
this only in a sample of urban municipalities. The data on garbage will be collected from the



- 117 -
A_nn
page 4 of 14
pilot project on decentralization in Tamaulipas, under the Mexico Environmental Project. In that
state, it has already been agreed to privatize most of the municipal waste collection and
management services.
c)    Program and information
The consultant will use the statistical infomation available on the accounts and personnel
of the federal environmental public sector, conducting interviews to get clarification and inputs
from the pertinent officials regarding specific points. At the state and municipal level, the
consultant should make use of the official accounts and payrolls available, with SEDUE support;
and when the information available is insufficient, he should, with SEDUE support, request
additional information through interviews with the relevant officials. The consultant should also
take advantage of the previous studies available, paying particular attention to the efforts already
made by the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology. In addition, he will need to
propose a system for classifying ikicome and outlay which allows a consistent analysis of all
items; this will entail reviewing the systems of environmental accounts available at the
international level.
The study will have a total duration of 12 calendar months. The consultant will present
a preliminary progress rr'port three calendar months after project initiation. The report should
make it possible to asse s information availability, as well as the classification of income and
expenditures by item, and human resources by type; it should also give some idea of the amount
of detail that can be expected in the final product, particularly at the state and municipal levels.
The consultant will pre"iwt . second progress report seven calendar months after the study is
initiated, including a preliminary appraisal of at least the major categories of income and outlay,
as well as (classified) human resources, in the environmental sector and at the three levels
(federal, state, and municipal). On concluding the study, the consultant will present a final
report containing the expected information, along with an evaluation of the appropriate budgetary
levels required in order for the different levels to fulfill their legally assigned responsibilities,
comparing them with those actually exercised. This final report should be accompanied by a
brief executive report listing the principal conclusions and recommendations.
d)    Timetable
The study will begin in December 1991 and is to be concluded in December 1992.
2.    Spending and Income of the Non-environmental Public Sector for
Environmental Protection
a)    Objectives
With the support of the Secretariat of Programming and Budget, this study will define



- 118 -
AnDo2.2
page 5 of 14
expenditure on environmental protection by the rest of the public sector and, as applicable, the
sources of income that are available for this purpose. As above, it will be necessary to try to
come up witl recommendations regarding the appropriate levels of expenditure on environmental
control, as well as possible fiscal policies and their potential impact.
b)    Tasks to be carried out
Besides evaluating expenditure and income sources related to the environmental sector
in other entities of the public sector (as well as in the Secretariats of Agriculture and Hydraulic
Resources and of Tourism, among others), the study will look at companies in the semipublic
sector as well. In each of these cases, the policies followed in the area of environmental
protection will be assessed, along with the resources that are allocated to them.
Because of their contribution to the emission of pollutants, special emphasis will be
placed on those companies that operate in the petroleum, petrochemical, chemical, mining, iron
and steel, fertilizer, electrical power, and transportation sectors.
c)    Program and information
For the tasks involved in data collection, support will be provided by the Secretariat of
Programming and Budget, under the guidance of the Technical Committee for Implementation
of the National Development Plan for the Ecology Sector (COTEIP). The consultant will define
the expenditures and income allocated to environmental protection, as such, ahead of time, with
the help of these agencies and the Steering Committee. He will devise questionnaires to be
delivered to the companies in interviews, during which these concerns will also be discussed in
depth so that the most precise results possible can be achieved. The questionnaires will take into
account the inputs and suggestions of the Secretariat of Programming and Budget, COTEIP, and
the Steering Committee.
In addition to administering questionnaires, the consultant will have recourse to secondary
statistical sources, such as the accounts of the federal public sector itself, as well as the accounts
of semipublic companies. At the same time, he will complete a suivey of the literature and
studies available on the topic. He will also document the various operations of fiscal policy for
environmental applications and the possible results of its implementation, and will include an
analysis of examples from other countries that may be of interest.
The study will have a duration of 14 calendar months. Two calendar months after project
initiation, the consultant should present his proposal defining the expenditure and income that
are to be considered as income and outlay for environmental protection. By no later than four
months after project initiation, he will present his proposed questionnaire, together with a
progress report on the project. Nine months after the project begins, he will present a progress
report on the information collection, as well as on the administration and preliminary findings
of the questionnaires. This report should delineate some of the, mechanisms that could be



- 119 -
Annex 2.3
page 6 of 14
adopted in order to increase the resources available for environmental protection, and show how
these might best be implemented. The consultant will submit a final report 14 months after
project initiation which, in addition to providing the relevant information, will make
recommendations regarding appropriate levels of spending for control of the environment and
of fiscal policies and their potential impact. This final report will be accompanied by a brief
executive report containing the principal conclusions and recommendations.
d)    Timetable
The project will begin in December 1991 and conclude in February 1993.
3.    Private Sector Expenditure on Environmental Protection
a)    Objectives
With the goal of ascertaining the private sector's levels of investment in environmental
protection for those industries that are major polluters, and as a counterpart to the studies in the
public sector, the study in question will determine and evaluate the following for certain
industrial sectors considered to be critical from an economic and environmental standpoint:
i)    The levels of private sector expenditure on the preservation and control
of environmental quality;
ii)   the extent to which the companies comply with the legal provisions in
effect, as well as any related problems that occur;
iii)  the existence and effectiveness of any agreements that the companies have
made with the governmental agencies through different channels; and
iv)   the results achieved in the area of pollution reduction and environmental
control, through investments as well as other insttruments.
b)    Tasks to be carried out
The Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology will select certain sectors of activity
tbat have economic and environmental importance as the ones to be analyzed. In order to
address the above questions, it will be necessary, on the one hand, to devise a questionnaire that
specifically pinpoints these concemns, and on the other hand, to come up with a sample of the
principal industries and companies so that the questionnaire can be administered to them. The
questionnaiie will be reviewed by the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology, COTEIP,
and the Stet-ing Committee.



- 120 -
Annex 2.3
page 7 of 14
Subsequently it will be necessary to visit the companies and conduct in-depth interviews
in order to find out how much they are spending on the environment, as well as to deteririne
the effectiveness of the technologies they have used in their productive processes. Meetings will
be held with the officials in charge of the General Directorate for the Prevention and Control
of Environmetntal Pollution to discuss their experience in this area and thus avoid duplication of
effort. Based on an analysis of the results obtained from the interviews, policy recommendations
will be presented to the workdng group.
c)    Program and informationi
Most of the information required for the study will be obtained through the administration
of questionnaires, as well as through direct interviews with officials in the companies that are
surveyed. However, the consultant will review the literature to find international points of
reference regarding levels of environmental expenditure in the selected industrial sectors, as well
as secondary sources of statistical information.  The consultant will need to specify the
categories to be considered as expenditures for environmental protection ahead of time, since
it will be important to get the comments of the Steering Committee.
The study will have a total duration of 15 calendar months. Once the items to be
considered as environmental expenditure have been defined, the consultant should devise the
questionnaire that will be administered to the sample of companies by no later than three
calendar months after project initiation. This questionnaire will be reviewed by the Steering
Committee and the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology. When its contents have
been agreed upon, the questionnaire will be administered to a representative sample of
companies in the selected sectors. The sample design and questionnaire administration will be
the responsibility of the consultant chosen for that purpose. The consultant should present a
progress report containing the preliminary findings of the information collection seven months
after project initiation. An additional progress report should be presented 11 months after
project initiation, containing preliminary findings from the interviews conducted with the
companies in order to expand and refine the information obtained through the questionnaire.
Fifteen months after project initiation, the consultant will present a report containing the final
results of the study, including his policy recommendations. This final report should be
accompanied by an executive report giving the principal findings and recommendations of the
study.
d)    Timetable
The study will begin in January 1992, and is to be concluded in April 1993.
4.    Analysis of the Environmental Impact of Different Economic Policies
The fundamental purpose of the work included in this section is to make case studies



- 121 -
Annex zU
page 8 of 14
available on the impact of certain economic policies on the environment. Of the three studies
that are the subject of these terms of reference, two essentially have to do with policies
goveming the prices of niatural resources, while the third deals with the direct or indirect
application of the "polluter pays principle."  These studies will also present specific
recommendations, both with respect to the institutional framework, as well as to the economic
policies to be followed.
It needs to be kept in mind that, in conjunction with the studies described below, others
are being carried out, at times under the sponsorship of the World Bank itself, in the
metropolitan area of Mexico City. These last will also help to provide more elements for
judging the impact of economic policies on the environment.
4.1   Costs of the Health Effects of Water Pollution in the Valey of Mexico
a)    Objectives
Perhaps one of the principal economic costs of urban pollution is the impact that water
pollution has on the health of the residents. These health impacts can range in severity from
disease (morbidity) to death (mortality), in the extreme case. This study will examine the
information and literature available on the interaction between water pollution and health in
Mexico City. In addition, it will assess the relative importance of different types of water
pollutants in terms of morbidity and mortality. To the extent possible, the impacts will be
grouped according to location, age, and socioeconomic level. The information can subsequently
be used to establish priorities for the reduction of water pollution, defining both the activities
that need to be carried out, as well as the instruments needed for that purpose.
b)    Tasks to be carried out
An interdisciplinary team, made up of at least one economist and one specialist in public
health, will compile and analyze the secondary information available on the metropolitan area
of Mexico City. Attention will be focused on the health impacts of water pollntion and their
measurement, in both physical as well as economic terms.
The physical impacts will be analyzed utilizing standardized epidemiological approaches.
In certain cases, the individual pollutants can be identified, while in other cases more general
pollutien problems will have to be examined. Although the study will rely on information
available for the metropolitan area of Mexico City, in some cases it will be necessary to refer
to and incorporate the results of studies carried out in other places.
In addition to the information on the physical impacts and on contamination by pollutants,
to the extent possible, data will need to be presented on the economic costs of the health impacts
of water pollution. This should inc'ude information on the costs of medical care, loss of
productivity due to illness, and other variables. For the latter purpose, the documentation



- 122 -
Annex 2,3
page 9 of 14
available in Mexico City will be used, along with any representative findings from other urban
studies which include questions on the economic costs of health problems.
For the execution of the study, it will be necessary to rely on both an analysis of the
information available, as well as interviews with the appropriate health authorities. The costs
of water pollution will be presented in both physical and economic terms, as described above.
However, it is important to note that the study will not go into the economic costs of suffering
due to psychological disturbances.
c)    Program and information
The study will be based on secondary statistical data and information published in other
studies, as well as on interviews with the pertinent health authorities. It will have a duration of
11 calendar months. The consultant should present a progress report tlhree months after project
initiation. A second progress report, containing a description of the preliminary findings, is
expected eight months after project initiation, and the final report, 11 months after the study
begins. This final report should be accompanied by an executive report containing the principal
findings and recommendations of the study.
d)    Timetable
The study will begin in December 1991 and conclude in November 1992.
4.2   Fuel Prices, Intensity of Energy Use, and Fuel Substitution to Reduce
Pollution
a)    Objectives
The use of fuels and other energy sources in the economy is one of the principal causes
of pollution. Thus the management of political instruments that affect energy use can have a
decisive effect on pollution. In consequence, the principal objective of these studies is to explore
the prices at which the economy can decrease the rate of energy use, as well as to see how
businesses can substitute one type of fuel for another. This will provide a measure of the prices
at which pollution can be decreased, through the use of such policy instruments as pricing.
b)    Tasks to be carried out
When analyzing the impact of fuel utilization in the different sectors, the consultants will
need to be as specific as possible about each pollutant; inventories of emissions and the known
methodologies will be used.
When comparing the volumes of emissions, weights will be assigned to each of the



- 123 -
Annex 2.3
page 10 of 14
principal pollutants. The consultants will need to use the approaches previously employed in
other studies for selecting these weights, or else to conduct a sensitivity analysis.
The consultant will make use of time series analysis of the information gathered in order
to identify the principal determinants of the amount of energy use in the economy. If it is
judged necessary, the analysis will be extended to individual subsectors. The main interest will
be in determining the elasticity of prices, production, and other variables associated with the
various energy sources, as well as the principal substitutes for and supplements to these energy
inputs. Among other things, the sectoral breakdown will make it possible to analyze the way
that the economy responds, altering the allocation of the various fuels among sectors, or even
the process of substitution and conservation within each industry. The consultants will need to
pay special attention to demand response time in the face of the change in prices and production.
It will also be necessary to assess whether the possibilities for substitution and conservation of
energy are related to the age of capital equipment and thus to investments.
Subsequently, the study will make a more detailed analysis of the demand for fuel in a
few of the industries that utilize large amounts of energy. The industries in question include
producers of electrical energy, the iron and steel industry, the fertilizer industry, and the cement
industry. In the respective analysis, the consultants should use two different methodologies:
econometric estimation of parameters based on background information; and surveys to be used
at the level of the plant in order to collect technical or engineering information, based on
interviews with the managers and other industrial experts.
On the basis of the data drawn from the selected industries, the information can be
expanded to cover all of the sectors studied. The information should cover such aspects as the
type of equipment used, the processes, the levels of emission. and control. It is important to
remember that one of the objectives is to assess the possibility of substituting one fuel for
another; therefore the relative price structure needs to be analyzed.
The findings can be presented individually, both through the estimates of the empirical
variables, as well as through the results of the simulation models. Taken as a whole, the extent
to which a number of industries can substantially reduce pollution as a result of changes in fuel
prices would be an important input in the formulation of policy. The studies should also try to
quantify the implication of prices for the industries.
As in the previous case, there would need to be collaboration with both the Mexican
authorities as well as international experts in the execu'ion of the tasks described.
c)    Program and information
The study will be based principally on secondary statistit-al data and other (national and
international) studies previously published on the topic, as well . s on interviews with managers
and industrial experts aimed at gathering technical (engineering) information at the plant level.



- 124 _
Anno_2,
page 11 of 14
The project will have a duration of 14 months. The consultant should present a
preliminary progress report four months after the study begins, and a second progress report
eight months after its initiation. This second report should include preliminary findings on the
points mentioned in the first two paragraphs under section b) above ("Tasks to be carried out"),
as well as a status report on the remaining activities. Upon completing the study, the consultant
will prepare a final report. This final report should be accompanied by an executive report
containing the principal findings and recommendations of the study.
d)    Timetable
The study will begin in January 1992 and is to be concluded in March 1993.
S.    The Effects of Water Pricing Policies on Water Pollution and the Shrinking
of Underground Aquifers
a)    Objectives
Unquestionably, water management is one of Mexico's environmental problems. Due
to inappropriate population distribution in terms of the availability of aquifer resources, it should
be considered a priority to find a strategy for matching the demand for water with the supply,
so that water can be optimally allocated among a variety of competing uses. The extraction of
underground aquifers, and actual pollution (both on the surface and under the ground), is one
of the principal water administration problems in Mexico. And both problems have been
aggravated by pricing policies which clearly have long promoted misuse of this resource. Thus
the objective of this study is to assess, for specific localities, the extent to which such policies
have contributed to the shrinking of the underground aquifers and the contamination of this vital
liquid. The entry of salt water into the aquifers can also essentially be seen as a consequence
of water extraction practices.
b)    Tasks to be carried out
As can be inferred from the above, there will be two sides to this study: one part will
analyze the effects of water pricing policies on the shrinking of the underground aquifers; the
second will concentrate on the effects of both prices and dumping fees on water pollution.
In the first case, the consultants will need to make an inventory of the principal water
consumers, whether agricultural, industrial, or municipal. This information should be available
from the National Water Commission. Based on the information provided by the Commission,
the consultants should also identify or estimate the regeneration levels of the aquifers, so that
their capacit) for sustainable extraction can be determined.  It will also be necessary to
determine the pumping costs of water distribution, as well as the prices pl ;d by the various
consumers.



125 -
Aannea.
page 12 of 14
In order to discover the relationship between levels of consumption and prices, it will be
necessary to have a study of demand in each of three principal types of water users. This could
be difficult if the prices have been largely subsidized, as has been the case in many institutions,
including water supply in Mexico City. In consequence, the consultants will have to review the
existing studies on water demand in order to get an idea of price elasticity. Using this, it will
be possible to evaluate the consumption (and, as a result, water extraction) responses to
alternative pricing.
The supply of water in the valley of Mexico will be one of the cases under study. The
state of Baja California will also be examined, as a place where water is used fundamentally for
irrigation, and diverted from other uses. A third possibility for subsequent study would be the
state of Tamaulipas or the state of Sinaloa.
The second study will deal with the relationships between water prices and pollution of
the aquifers. Until recently, neither the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology nor the
National Water Commissioni had established any fee for municipalities or industries to cover
their dumping of contaminated water. The absence of such fees, in conjunction with low water
prices, leaves both industry as well as the municipalities without any incentive for reducing their
discharges or for recycling the water they have already used.
Depending on its precise characteristics, the dumping fee could motivate these agents to
reduce both their total discharges as well as the pollutants they contain. It is foreseeable that
the polluters will control their emissions up to the point where their marginal control costs equal
the dumping fee. Thus, it is possible to motivate adequate levels of control. For this reason,
the consultants should also evaluate the structure of the schedule of fees that exists at this time,
the goal being to obtain material fof use in presenting recommendations.
In view of the fact that the study needs to be limited, it will focus on the basin of a
specific river. This could be part of the Lerma-Santiago basin, principally that section which
crosses the state of Jalisco. The study will attempt to estimate or identify the parameters
necessary to determine the "opdmum fee. " It is clear that such parameters are essentially the
pollution levels and their respective control costs.
In order to assess the efficiency of the dumping fee, it will be important to compare the
effectiveness of this instrument, which is based on market incentives, with the more traditional
control instruments currently used by the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology,
especially the 'direct negotiation' approach. The stipulated costs which would be incurred by
all polluting agents (undefined control of fees), together with the monitoring and administrative
costs of water quality (National Water Commission and Secretariat of Urban Development and
Ecology) should be compared with the costs incurred under the current regulatory scheme.
In any case, the decision as to the basin to be selected will depend on the infomnation
available; for this purpose, it will be necessary to consult with the National Water Commission.



- 126 --
Annex 2.3
page 13 of 14
c)    Program and information
The study will be based principally on secondary information sources, such as statistical
data and previously published studies. It will have a duration of 14 calendar months. The
consultant should present a preliminary progress report five calendar months after the study is
initiated, including the statistical information obtained and a description of the progress made
with each line of the study. The consultant will present a second progress report ten calendar
months after the study begins, with an update on what he feels could be the principal conclusions
up to that point, along with a detailed description of the tools employed and the specific findings
to date. Fourteen calendar months after the study is initiated, the consultant will present a final
report covering all the items addressed in sections a) and b) above ("Objectives" and "Tasks to
be carried out"). This final report should be accompanied by an executive report giving the
principal findings and recommendations of the study.
d)    Timetable
The study will begin in December 1991 and conclude in February 1993.
III.   The Conduct f theStudies
To make it possible to direct the progress of the studies, which are closely iinked with
the Subsecretariat of Ecology, a coordinator will be hired to coordinate this subcomponent on
economic mechanisms for protecting the environment, which in turn is part of the process
associated with strengthening of managerial capacity. With the Subsecretariat's Coordinator of
Advisors, who acts as the technical secretary of the working group, the forms of communication
that are most agreeable to the authorities from the three associated secretariats will be found.
The coordinator of the subcomponent will be helped by two experts:
i)    The person in charge of defining the legal framework associated with each of five
lines of study. His principal function will be to study the associated legal
ordinances, in order to be able to appropriately modulate the proposals that come
before the worldng group. In addition, he will prepare any modifications to the
current legal framework that are agreed upon in the worldng group. For this
effort, he will seek support from the General Directorate of Legal Affairs.
ii)    The person in charge of supplying technical and administrative support to
maintain the work of the persons in charge of the studies. His principal function
will be to maintain adequate ties with the Coordination of Advisors, and to
prepare any necessary documentation. He will be responsible for channelling the
administrative needs of those worldng in this subcomponent into the appropriate
channels where they can be addressed.



- 127 _
Annex 2.3
page 14 of 14
The study coordinator will have to maintain a close relationship with the Subsecretariat
in order to be able to observe the progress of the studies. According to a convenient schedule,
working sessions will be organized between the persons in charge of the studies and the
Secretariat officials who are connected with the studies.
Around June of 1992 a symposium will be organized on the environmental economy of
Mexico for a small group of participants. Experts will be invited from other countries, along
with researchers from the World Bank. The objective of this 3- to 4-day meeting will be to
assess the advances made. The progress of the Mexico Environmental Project, with regard to
the topics of economic interest, will be analyzed through presentations selected for that purpose.
The study coordinator will try to direct the work into the establishment of policies which
ensure that those who create pollution and/or degrade natural resources will be responsible for
paying the costs, which means repairing any damage they cause. The principle that "the polluter
is the one who pays" must be put into practice through the use of various instruments. Market
incentives are an important addition to motivate the allocation of more resources to the fight
against pollution and the prevention of irrational use of natural resources. It is important to
mention, in addition, the possibilities offered by the pilot decentralization projects. The persons
in charge of carrying out the studies that are the subject of these terms of reference need to take
this strategy into account.
The study coordinator will form a special committee made up of two well-known
researchers, two prominent business leaders, three SEDUE officials, and a spokesman for
environmental organizations which are recognized for their work in this field. This committee
will review the progress of the studies, collaborate in selecting the persons in charge, and
promote dissemination of the results obtained. The study coordinator will preside over this
group; its members will receive a symbolic payment for their collaboration.
As the results come in from the studies, the study coordinator, guided by the Steering
Committee, will be preparing a synthesis of the most important points. Three months after the
final study is concluded (in July 1993), the coordinator should present a document containing
the principal conclusions and recommendations of the studies, along with suggestions for new
studies that suggest themselves in light of the previous findings, so that these can be discussed
at a high level seminar or in other forums. This could facilitate translation of the study results
into concrete proposals for consideration in the process of policy formulation.



- 128 -
Annx 2.
page 1 of I
MEXICO
Environmental Project
Protected Areas Program
Eligibility Criteria For Supporting Protected Areas
1.   Each of the 17 areas selected for biodiversity protection would have to meet all of the following
criteria to be eligible for financing from the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) under the
Environmental Project:
(A)   Non-availability of alternative funding for the activities proposed in the operating
plan;
(B)    In accordance with Article 98 of the General Ecology Law, the management and
operating plans should ensure that: (i) permitted land uses are compatible with the
specific characteristics of the soils affected and should not alter the equilibrium of the
protected area's ecosystems; (ii) >ermitted land uses should maintain the physical
integrity and the productive capacity of the soils of the protected area; and (iii)
permitted productive activities should avoid practices that would lead to erosion,
degradation, or modification of the topographic characteristics of the protected area
with consequent adverse environmental effects.
(C)   The area's management plan should have as a principal objective the
protection of Mexican biological diversity of global importance, with the
pursuit of sustainable development to the extent compatible with the
conservation of that biolog3cal diversity.
(D)   Preparation of management plans should be consistent with the strategy and
description of management plans contained in the document "Areas Naturales
Protegidas de Mexico: Legislacion y Programas de Manejo" (attached to this
memorandum as Annex 1).
2.   If a selected area meets the criteria listed above, the Bank will evaluate the corresponding
operating plan to determine the appropriate level of financing from the GET. Each operating plan
would set out the specific activities or investments required to implement the programs in the
management plan (including monitoring and evaluation activities). It would provide for the phasing in
of physical investments and investments in required staff so as to ensure the maximum effectiveness
of these staff. Each operating plan would also describe other activities financed from other sources
that contribute to achieving the objectives of the management plan. Finally, the operating plan would
contain cost estimates of all activities and investments to be financed under the protected areas
program.



- 129-                                            Page 1 of 15
MEXICo
Environmental Proiect
Indicators for Monitorinct gnd Evaluation
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
1=  _           =    1                                               ourPLTs
OBIEtcrVE             ACTPIVWY                    1992                     1993|                   1994           |          1995          j
Augment SEDUE's    IIntegrto SEDUE-    I Consultant's report on  1. 7 nadonal traning       I 5 ntional tining        I 8 national training
capability and capa-   CNA industrial nd       SEDUE-CNA inte-          courses with a total    courses with a total     courses with a toul   |
city for monitoring    municipal effluent and    grated water quality   audienco of 140 people   audience of 100 people   audience of 160 people
the quality of indus-    seceiving waters      monitoring completed     compicted               comnpleted               compIeted
trial and municipal    quality monitoring
effluents, and of re-                       2. Quality assurance     2. 14 persons completed  2. 21 persona completed   2. 14 persona compIeted
ceiving water bodies  2. Tmaining of existing  manual                   2-week tnaining         2-week triing            2-week training courses
and new sff                                     courses in foreign       courses in foreign       in foreign countrics
countries               countries
3. Report on the quality of
3. Pilot audy and cor-                              surface waters in
responding report on                             Mexico based on the
the operation of                                 integrated SEDUE-
SEDUE's water quAl-                              CNA water quality data
ity monitoring netwotk                           base completed
by private firma
completed                                     4. Repoit on the imple-
mentation of a biomoni-
toring programi
Upgrade SEDUE's   I Contracts for updat-  I. Industral water pollu-  I. Data base on toxic   I Water pollution mn-   I DatA base on Mexican
information base and    ing SEDUE's rxisting   tion sources data base   substnces pollution     agement information      and foreign tehnolo-
implement pro-         data bases and          updated                 sources                  system and up-to-date    gies for the tmatment
cedures for keeping it   establishing new ones                                                  dela base                of industrial effluents
up-to-datc.                                                          2. Bioassay Methods
2. Publishing some basic                           Manual                2. Data base of municipal
manuals for                                                              water pollution sources
distribution in the                          3. Manual on Mexican
stAte and regional                              Standard Methods of  3. New edition of manual
offices                                         Analysis                 of the 'Evaluation and
Control of Toxic
4. Repon on the qjuality   Substanres'
of trans-boundtry
(with USA) aquifers
Implementrcertuin    1. Studies for develop-                         I. Computer software                              1. Matheanutical models
tools, such as sta-   ing and impeimentinr                              and nAnual for estab-                            for 5 basins and river
tistical and geognph-    new tools in SEDUE,                            lishing the pecial                               reaches
ical information       e.g., rAthematical                               discharge permaits
systems, and           models and GIS.
nuthemnatical roodels,                                               2. Computer software
for increa                                                              and     al for analyz-
effectiveness and                                                      ing ;he design of
efficiency                                                              effluent tueAtment
systems
_ - =         =-                               _--. 



ANN-EEaI
Page 2 of 15
- 130 -
AIR POLLUTION MONITORING AND CONTROL IN CRITICAL URBAN AREAS
OUTPUTS
OJECriVE              ACTIVrrY                   £992                    1993                     199                      1995
Air Polution        I.lsal new and         1. Opcnte 7 new         1. Opeate a toc of 19   I. Opete atotl of 19   I. Opcnrtao ald of 19
MonitorinS and        improve exising atr     me*oological tatons    new metorological        nw mcteoolgisal           ew metooroloSicul su-
Contrgl in Critical   quality monitoring      and 46 new monitoring    stions and SO mooi.    sttios and W0 moo-       tio" aNd     monitorig
Ubn Aas               networs                 stAtions for paiculates    ioing sations for    hiorig stations for      stations for pcinculatea
and Sases               paiculatus and pgs      paticulabts and  ac      and pus
2. Update it Nadtional
formtion Systm    2. Opera? 39 new 5eld   2. Opentc a to4l of 68   2. Operant a totsl of 68   2. Operate a total of 68
for Statonary Sources   equipment for 502,     nw equipment for         new equipment for       new equipment for
NOx + HC, and           S02, NOx + HC,          S02, NOx + HC.           S02. NOx + HC,
paiticulats to monitor    HCI, and paniculate   HCI, and psrticuIates    HCI, and paiculates to
cnd control 1560 new    to monitor and coutrol   to monitor and control    monitor and control
sationry sources        4200 new statoay        4200 nsw  ationary       4200 new staionary
sources yearly         sOurces yearly           sources yeariy



AMEX 3, 1
- 131 -                                           Page 3 of 15
ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORIES
OUTPUTS
OBJECTIVI             ACTIVITY                    1992                    1993                     1994                     1995
EsAblisb the central  I Add nCw facilities   IL Remodelling Dd new   1. Manual on laboratory  1. 6 persona (La regional  1 6 pesons (Lm regional
a*d regional labor-    and remodel cxistin    facilities in al labor-  quality aDance corn-   labs) adS 5 (L central    labs) nd 5 (an cetral
tory infrasuucture     cttal laboratory, in    toriee completed        plete                   lab) trained in ad-       lab) trained in advanced
and develop the        14exico City, Nd the                                                     vanced analytical tech-  alytil techniques
human reourceu         labortories in       2. New insruments in-   2. 12 pernoa (m regional   niques
needed to rach the     Villahmo, alaps,         aled nd capable of     labs) and S (tn cntral                         2. 20 perns (in regional
capabity and capa-     Guanajuato. Mexiuali,   anlyzing standard       lab) trained in       2. 20 penona (to regioal   labs) and 10 (in centrl|
city required for dis-    Sltillo, and        samples                  advancod analytical     labs) ad 10 (t central   lb) trined in basic
chatrgig SEDUE's       Chihuahua.                                      techniques              lab) trained in basic     aayticali tchniqucs
functions                                  3. Manual for basic,                                 alytical techniques       nd good labortory
2. Equip regional labo-   metals and organic    3. 40 pcnros (to regional    nd good laboratory     practices
ratorics with atoraic  compounds aalysis       lUbs) and 10 (in         prcttices
absorption spectro-    completed                central lab) trined in                         3. Analytical teats carried
photometers and gas                             basic analytical      3. Antlytical tests carried    out (aCe attached tables)
chronatogrphe       4. Good laboratory prac-    techniques and good      out (see attched
tices manuatl completed    labortory practicca  tables)
3. Equip the central lab-
oratory with         S. 12 persons (in regionial 4. Analytical teatu carried
additiornal capabilities    labs) and 9 (in central    out (see attached
for metals and         lab) trained in          tables)
organic compounids     advanced aralytical
analyhis               inaurumentation
4. Replacc and acquire   6. 40 persons (in regionAl
srome additional basic    labs) and 10 (in central
laborator, equipnment    tab) trtined in routine
techniques and good
5. Hire additional tuff    laboratory practices
in the central and
regional labortories, 7. Analytical tests carried
and uaining thom       out (See attached
together with oxisting    tables)
personncl
6. InIpcment an interntl
ad cxernal quality
saurarce prognm



ANNEX 3 .1
- 132-                                      Page 4 of 15
ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORIES (con:'d.)
OUTPUTS
OWECT[VE            ACIVITY               1991              1992             1993             1994              1995
Ccontt l jontoni
1. Waitr:
o Semlel                   109              130              250               300              400
o Basic                  1,600             1,900            3,800            5,000            6,500
o Mtals                    120              ISO              200               200              200
O NUtieas                  240              250              350               350              350
Orgauin compounds           0                 0               t00              200              200
o Mlcrobiologicsl          120              480              960               960              960
o Toxicity                 20                40               S0               100              100
2. Air:
o Samipls                2,400             2,S00            2,880            2,880            2,880
o Basic                  6,080             7,000           14,000            18,000           21,000
o Metals                  IS0               200              400               800             1,000
o Microbiological           0                 0              200               400              600
3, Soil;
o Samples                    0               60              150               220              280
o Basic                     0               600             1,S00            2,200             2,800
O Mculs                     0                40               100              300              400
o Nutrients                  0                0               30                90              120
1o Organic conounds          0                0               20                60              100
4. Sediments:
3mo SpylC                  45                40               90               120              IS0
oBasic                       0                0                0                 0                0
oMetal,                     43               40               90               120              IS0
oNuttioans                  0                 0                0                 0                0
.oCganic eonvound           0                 0                0                 0                0
oToxicity                  0                 0                0                 0                0
ir5.  ecipiLtion:
o Samples                  390              390              7&0               780              780
:o Bsic                  2,340             2,340            3,900            3,900             3,900
o Metals                 1,400             1,400            1,880             1,880            1,880
o•rgsnJe onWouends          0                 0                0                 0                0
o MicrobiologIcal           0                 0                0                 0                0
6. Biological Ti.ute:
o SnWIcpS                   0                 0                0                 0                0
o Maulc                     0                 0                0                 0                0
o Orgao compounds           0                 0                0                 0                0
7. SoWd Rcsidue:
o Saples                    14               14              240               400              550
o Basic                     28               20              200               300              400
o MVAIs                      5               10               40               100              IS0
o Ottaniccompounds          0                 0               20                50              I00
o Mlcrbiosklol              0                 0                0                 0                0
o Toxtchy                   0                 0               30                60              100



- 133-                                        Page 5 of i5
ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORIES (cont'd.)
OBJECrIVE            ACTIVrTY               1991               1992              1993      |       1994               1995
MexcAl lUorawar
1. Waser:
O Samples                 '.000              5,00             9,500            10,000            12,000
O Basio                   13,000            15,000            30,000            37,000            44,000
O MCtels                                                         200               350               520
O Nutrients                                                      SO                 SO               120
O Organic compound.                                              60                130               170
O Microbiological                                              2,500             4,700             6,400
O Toxicity                                                       70                120               200
2. Air:
O Samples                 3,000              4,000             5,500             6,500             7,000
O Basic                   5,SOO              6,000            12,000             15,000           17,000
o Metals                                                         500               900             1,520
O Microbiological                                                 S0               140               260
3. Soil:
o Samples                    40                 60                70                85                90
o Basic                     190                                  400               S00               600
o Metals                                       220               150               270               480
o Nutrients                                                       60               100               190
o Organic compounds                                               50                90               160
4. Sedimenta:
o Sanmplc                                                         10                20                40
O Basic                                                           20                40                70
o Metls                                                           20                30                SO
o Nutriente                                                      50                 80               120
o Organi compounds                                               40                 60               170
o ToxIcily                                                        0                  0                 0
S. Ptcipitation:
O SampIes                                                         70               160               350
O Basic                                                          150               330               780
o Metals                                                         40                 70               170
o Organic conpounds                                               0                  0                 0
O Microbiological                                                20                 30                60
6. Biologicsln  ..
O Samplet                                                        SO                 80               160
o MetAls                                                         sO                110               170
o Organic compounds                                              20                 30                50
7. Solid Residues:
o Samples                                                        0O                120               300
o Beeic                                                          40                 70               l10
o Metals                                                          30                40                t0
o Organic cotpouns                                               50                 t0               120
O Microbootgal                                                    20                30                50
o Toxicity                                                        0                  0                 0



ANEX 3. 1
- 134-                                        Page 6 of 15
ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORIES (conZ'd.)
i                      ___________                              OUTPUTS
O _EC_v       j      A_ IV-rY               1991               1992              1993              1994               1995
Chihuahus Laboratory
1. Wctcr:
o Sampies                 2,500              3,500             5,000             5,500             6,000
o Batic                   9,600             10,000            20,000            25,000            30,000
o MeLs                                                         I,S00             2,700             4,760
o Nutrients                                                     500                790             1,780
O Organic comrunds                                               150               270               480
o Microbiological                                              2,000             4,500             8,100
o Toxicity                                                      400                720             1,300
2. Air:
o Samples                   S00               900              1,400             2,300             3,000
o Basic                   2,500              2,700             5,500             7,000             9,000
o Metals                                                         800             1,440             2,590
o Microbiological                                               250                450               910
3. Soil:
o Samples                                                        70                 90               130
o Basic                                                         700                900             1,200
o Metias                                                        200                360               540
O Nutrient                                                       80                140               260
• Organic conpiounds                                              '0                50                90
4. Scdimenr:
o Samples                                                        190               340               610
o Basic                                                          90                160               290
o Metals                                                         30                 50               100
o Nutrients                                                      30                 S0               100
o Organic conVounds                                              40                 70               120
O Toxicity                                                        10                20                50
5. Precipitation:
o Samples                                                        130               230               430
O Basic                                                          90                160               290
o Metals                                                         S0                 90               160
O Orginic compounds                                              20                 30                50
o Microbiological                                                30                 50                90
6. Biolosical Times:
o Sanmles                                                        50                 60               110
o Metals                                                         40                 70               130
o Ortani compounds                                               30                 so                S0
7. SoUd lRsWue:
o Samples                                                        200               360               540
o  baic                                                           t0               140               260
o Mtala                                                          30                 50               100
o Oranie cooun                                                    10                20                50
o Mlolopacl                                                      40                 so               140
o Toxicity



X.E 3. 1
-135-                                         Page 7 of 15
ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORIES (cont'd.)
OUTpuTS
OBJECrIVE            ACFIVrrY                1991               1992              1993               1994               199S
Gu ngivato IAboraom
1. Water:
o Samples                                                       1,500              2,700             4,860
o Basic                                                          SCO                900              1,620
o Mtels                                                           300                540               970
o Nuulnts                                                         150               270                480
o Organic compounds                                               150                280               500
o Microbilogical                                                1,800              3,240             5,830
o Toxicity                                                      2,000               360                650
2. Air:
o Ssmples                                                         200               400                900
o Basic                                                           300                700             1,500
o Metels                                                          150                280               600
o Microbiological                                                 250                500             1,200
3. Soil:
o Samples                                                          50                 80               100
o Basic                                                           200                450             1,000
o Metels                                                          150               280                600
o Nuttients                                                       180               320                580
o Organic compounds                                               100                180               320
4. Sediments:
o Samples                                                         190                340               610
o Basic                                                            90                160               290
o Mels                                                             60                100               190
o Nuuienus                                                         50                 90               170
OOganic compounds                                                60                110               200
o Toxicity                                                         50                 90               IS0
5. Precipitation:
o Samples                                                         320                520             1,100
o Basic                                                           160               280                520
o Mteuls                                                          100               300                700
o Organic compounds                                                70                120               230
o Microbiological                                                  90                160               300
6. Biological imues:
o Samples                                                          50                90                200
o Mauls                                                            40                 70               130
o Organic compounds                                                30                 50                S0
7. Solid Residues:
o Samples                                                         200               3S0                600
o Basic                                                           sO                ISO                360
o Metals                                                           20                 90               IU)
o Oranc cMompod.                                                   30                70                I50
o Miorobiolocl                                                     40                 S0               160
o Toxicity                                                         30                 60               120



ANNEX 3.1
- 136-                                        Page 8 of 15
ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORIES (cont'd.)
I                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUTPUTSI
OBJECTIVE            ACrTvTY                199                1992              1993              1994              1995
L*lboraltoa
1. Water:
o Sanples                                                      2,500             4,000             6,000
o Basic                                                        1,500             2,770             5,000
o Metebs                                                          80               140               260
o Nutrients                                                       60               290               520
O Orgaic compounds                                               40                 70               120
o Microbiological                                               200                360               670
o Toxicity                                                        10                30                50
2. Air:
o Sanples                                                      2,000             5,000             8,000
o Basic                                                        7,000             12,500           20,000
o Metals                                                         60                100               200
o Microbiological                                                200               400               600
3. Soil:
o Sanmples                                                       150               220               330
o Basic                                                          600              1,500            2,0C0
o Metals                                                          40               120               350
o Nutrients                                                       30                90               120
io Otgaic compounds                                               30                70               120
4. Sediments:
o SampIes                                                         20                50               100
o Basui                                                           30                60               160
o Mtels                                                           10                20                40
o Nutrients                                                      100               250               400
o Organic conVmounds                                              20                40                80
o Toxicity                                                         0                 0                 0
5. Prcipitetion:
o SampIes                                                        200               370               660
o Basic                                                          300               540               970
•Mo Mot                                                         ISO               270               490
o Organic compounds                                               10                20                50
o Microbiological                                                 20                40                90
6. Biological issues:
o SanpIes                                                         80               150               270
o Meuls                                                          100               liO               320
o Organic compounds                                               80               ISO               270
7. Solid Rosidiws
o Sanples                                                         90               150               290
o Basic                                                           50                90               160
o Metal                                                           20                30                70
o Orgnic compounds                                                10                20                40
o Microbiooical                                                   10                10                30
o Toxicity                                                         0                 0                 0
;A- -;   -  ,                                                                  .



ANNEX-3 .1
- 137 -                                        Page 9 of 15
ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORIES (cont'd.)
Ou I PUTS
ORJECriVE             ACTIVrTY                1991               1992               1993       |       1994               1995
Saltillo Laboratorv
1. Water:
o Samples                                                        1,500              3,000              4,800
o Basic                                                            200                350               500
o Metals                                                         1,500              2,800              9,400
o Nutriens                                                        10                 270               380
o Organic compounds                                                100                Ig0               200
o Microbiological                                                   S0                140               250
o Toxicity                                                           5                 10                20
2. Air:
o Samples                                                        1,600              3,500              6,000
o Basic                                                            480             10,500             16,200
o Metals                                                            30                 50                90
o Microbiological                                                   50                 90                160
3. Soli:
o Sarples                                                          200                360               540
o Basic                                                            100                180               320
o Metal#                                                            S0                140               250
o Nutrients                                                        150                370               780
o Organic compounds                                                150                370               560
4. Sediments
o Samples                                                           50                 90                160
o Basic                                                            100                180               320
o Metals                                                            50                 90                170
o Nutrietus                                                         40                 70                120
o Organic compounds                                                 20                 30                 50
o Toxicity                                                           0                  0                  0
5. Precipitation:
t Samplea                                                          120                230               380
o Basic                                                            190                360               650
o Metals                                                            S0                 90                180
o Organic compounds                                                 20                 30                60
o Mcrobiological                                                    40                 70                100
6. BiologicalTissues:
o Samples                                                           SO                 80                190
o Metals                                                            So                 90               200
O Otranic complOUds                                                 40                 90                250
7. Solid Residues:
o Samples                                                          100                I80               220
o Basic                                                             sO                240               260
o Meuls                                                             30                 60               200
o Ofgtnic compounds                                                 20                 60                100
o Microbblotcal                                                     40                 tO                140
o Toxicity                                                           0                  0                 0



ANNEX 3a.1
- 138 -                                         Page 20 of 15
ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORIES (con 'd.)
OUTPUTS
OBJECrIVE             ACTIVrrY                1991               19                 1993               1994       j       199
Jhisy Laboratory
1. Water:
o Samples                    400                520              I,000              3,000              4,500
o Basic                    1,800              2,100              5,000              8,000             11 000
o MetlS                                                            120                480               800
o Nutrients                1,100              I,SO0              2,250              3,600              5,760
o Organic compounds                                                100                360               700
o Mficrobiological           540                700              1,120              1,800              2,880
o Toxicity                                                         200                320               580
2. Air:
o Samples                                                        1,000              2,000              3,500
o Basic                                                          2,500              3,200              4,000
o Metals                                                           600                760              1,120
o Microbiological                                                  200                400               600
3. Soil:
o Samples                                                          200                300               400
o Basic                                                            500              1,000              1,200
o Metals                                                            60                100                180
o Nutrients                                                        600                950              1,100
o Organic compounds                                                200                500               950
4. Sediments:
o Samples                                                           60                100                150
o Basic                                                            140                200               350
o MealS                                                             60                130                190
o Nutrients                                                        110                160               210
o Organic compounds                                                 S0                 90                130
o Toxicity                                                           0                  0                 0
S. Precipitation:
o Satmples                                                         300                550               780
o Basic                                                            540                960              1,700
o Metals                                                            70                110                180
o Organic compounds                                                 20                 30                60
o Microbiological                                                   20                 40                70
6. Biological Tisues:
o Samples                                                           50                 80                100
o Metals                                                            70                 90                120
o Orgaic compounds                                                  50                 70                110
7. SoUd Residues:
o Samples                                                           90                ISO               200
o Bask                                                              60                100                180
o MeSls                                                             30                 60               1IO
o Oranic compounds                                                  20                 40                S0
o Micrvblogicat                                                     40                 70               110
o Toxicity                                                           0                  0                 0



ANNEX 3.1t
- 139 -                                         Page 11 of 15
ENVIRONMENTAL AUDITING
OBJECrlVE             ACrVrrY                   1992                    1993         J          1994                     1995
Incmo SEDUE's   1. Hr   d td ais sff   1 Approved progam im- 1. Certflcatin progSm   I. Certification progam    I 1,0O0 front-ine ipec-
capacity to enforce                          plementAtion Rategy     40% compVlted (exact    100% completed (the     tdon completed
effuent standards    2, Develop and lmple-                           number of fimu to be    exact nurber of flmu
nd rebations         nmie  2nd lovel      2. Training plan and       crtified wvI be        to be cerlfled wW be  2. 800 audits completed
auditing progm pln    course outUne            established at the Ift  established at the fit
annual review)         annual rview)         3. Six regional training
3. Develop and Imp!e-   3. Six regional training                                                 courses completed
meat cerfication       seminars completed    2. 5,000 front-line   2. 3,000 front-line  pec-
progrm  for firma                              inspections compicted    tions coVpleted     4. National eminar comr-
carry out lst level    4. National serinar on                                                  pleted and proeeedings
enforcement progrm    envitonmental auditing 3. Report on the pilot    3. 500 audits corpleted  printed
conpleted an            progran for 2nd level
proceedings printed     auditing completed    4 Manual on *2nd Level
Enforcement' preptAred
5 -Approved certification  4. Six regional training
program                 cours carried out    S. Six regional training
coures completed
6. 5,000 front-line     5. National seminar on
inspections completed   '2nd Level Enforce-  6. National seminar com-
ment Activities'       pleted and procecdings
caried out and         printed
proceedinge printed



- 140 -                                           Page 12 of 15
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
OUTPUTS
OBJECIVE              ACTIVIy                     1992                    1993          j          1994                      1995
Increase SEDUE s   EIpand daff in the arm   25 new technical peoplo   7 ncw technical people
effeotivensu an     of environm al Impact plus existn  saff of 6
fficiency In        anysis
reviewing environ-                          5 additional tchniical   10 additional technical    S additional technical
metSal impSct and                           employo S to work In 5   employees to work in 10  people to work in SDe
risk emsement                              tate delegations (SDs)    SDM
documents
Prepare documentation   500 sumnury letters     600 sunmary letters      500 summary leters       400 vummary letters
for al reviews of Impact completed              completed                completed                conpleted
aueasment.
Provide training In envi- 25 technical training  7 technical training    10 refresher coures      10 refresher courses
ronmenta impact saly-  progrms completed        programs completed       completed                completed
Sis
5 pilot taining progras  4 regional training courses
for states completed    comnpleted (for 26
remaining SDs)
Expand gtaff in the area  8 new technical people    9 new technical people   13 new technical people
of risk assesnent      plus existing staff of 12
Provide training in risk   24 technical training  24 technical tnrining  10 refresher courses     10 refresher courses
aseument               programs completed       programs conpleted       completed                completed
3 pilot training programs  2 pilot training programs
completed                completed
6 trsining prograns     10 training progrms      10 training programs
completed for SDc and    completed for SDc and    conpIeted for SDr and
iates                   sates                    sutes
Prepare docunentation   300 sumanry lttens      390 summary letters      390 sumrnry letters      300 sumaruy letrs
for au reviews of risk    completed             completed                completed                completed
assessment
Regulate 5 high risk     Regulate 20 high risk   Regulate 70 high risk    Regulate 70 high risk
activities              Jativties                activities               activitier
Increeae public        Consulting study com-
involvement In the     pleted with recommended
review of environmenal procedures to increawe
docuAents              public acce to
enviroanmntal documents
Conplete workshop in
D.F. to explain pro-
cedures to represenutives
from gate delegations



ANNEX 3.1L
- 141 -                                          Page 13 of 15
REVIEW OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENTS
WORKS OR ACTIVITIES TO BE REVIEWED BY SEDUE'S STATE DELEGATIONS
WORKS OR ACrIVrTIS                  DATE BY WHICH AUTHORIZATION WILL BE    STATE DELEGATION TO BE EMPOWERED
DELEGATED TO SEDUE'S STATE                 TO AUTHORIZE WORKS OR ACrIVTIES
DELEGATION
|. FEDERAL PUBLIC WORKS                                           July 1992                                      All States
a. Rural roade
b. Dnintge
c. Sidewalks
Id. Potable water
i e Pavement
U. HYDRAULIC WORKS                                                July 1992                           1, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14 15, 16, 17, 19,
a. Well baeueder                                                                                      21, 22, 24, 26, 28.29, 32
b. Hydroagriultur l unitr(IO0W99he.)a*s
long as they do not affect any protected area            November 1993                                The rest of the states
e. Conveyanace ditc hes
m. GENERAL COMMUNICATION ROUTES                                   July 1992                           2, 3. 4, 6, 7, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20,
a. Dredging.                                                                                          23,25,26,27,28,30,31
November 1993                               The rest of the tawte
IV. INDUSTRAL ACTIVITIES
a. Snail and nmedium chemical industry                     a. March 1992                              a. 2, 5, 8, 19, 28
November 1993                              The remt of the mates
b. Beverge industry                                      b. November 1992                          b. 1, 13, 14, 17, 19, 21, 22, 24
November 1993                               7he rest of the lttes
a. Automotive industry (except terninals)                 c. July 1992                                 e. 1, 2, 5, 8, 19, 21, 28
November 1993                               The rest of the states
d. Electrical transmission lines                             d. July 1992                                   d. All sAtes
V. MINING ACTIVIIES                                               July 1992                       3, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 21, 22, 24, 26 32
a. Extraction of nonmetallic minera1s, provided
they do not include any processing plant                 November 1993                                The rest of the sttes
VI. FEDERAL TOURIST DEVELOPMENTS                                  July 1992                     1, 5, 8, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 22 24, 29, 32
A. Les than I ha. in area, without wArinas or
other worb under federcl control                         Novemiber 1993                               The rest of the lutes
VI. FOREST LANDS                                                March 1992                     8, 9, 10, 13, 14, 16, 17, 20, 23, 25, 26 27, 30
a. Alterations in soi use in areas of lesa than
10 has.                                                  Novernber 1993                              The rest of the ates
Vm. AQUACULTURE PROJECS                                          March 1992                                2, 3, 6 14, 18, 25, 26
a. Aquaculture projects In areas of les than 50
has., when not locAted In nor affecting
Mngrove swsnQc                                             July 1993                                  lbo rest of the Mates
STAIES: I-Apascslientes; 2-Baa California; 3-Baja CUliforni Sur 4-Catnpeche; 5.Coahuil;;6-CieL; 7.Chbps; 3.Chihuahua;9.Durnso; 10-DisictorFi dl;
11-Gu ajualto; 12-Guerrero; 13-HidalSo; 14-Jalisco; 15-Mexico; 16-Michoacan; 17-Morelos; 18-Nayant; 19-NuavoLeon; 20-Oaxac; 21.Puebla; 22-Quarataro; 23.
QUimans Roo; 24-San Luis Potosi; 25-Sinzaloa; 26-Sonora; 27-Tabscco; 28-Tamaulipas; 29-Thxcak; 30-Veracruz; 31-Yucatan; 32-Zacatecas



ANNEX 3.1
- 142 -                                           Page 14 of 15
WILDLIFE PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION PROGRAM
OUTPUTS
OBJECT                ACTIVITY                    1992         J          1993                     1994                     1 1995
Inreas e SEDUE'r  Inpection & Surveil.    1. Reduce significantly    Targets to be lot at fit   Targets to be et at first   Targeu to be set at firt
cepacity to eaforce    ance:                  illegal tade in wildlife annual review meeting    annual eview meeting  annua review meefting
Meican wildlife use                           an related products   based on analysis of pro-  based on analysis of pro-  based on analysis of pro-
laws                a. inspections                                  gmm on year I            gnm on year I            grm on year I
2. Catty out about 300
b. confisations            opcrtivo.- per region
c. rccive complrinta
d. apply legal actions
e. education programs
f. prepare analytical
reposts
House and rmabili-  Wildlife & Rehabilitation  icrase significantly the  Targets to be set at firt  Targets to be set at fist   Targets to be set at frs
tate confiscated    Centers:               reintroduction of animals  annual review meeting    annual review meeting  annual review meeting
animals and plants                         asd confiscated plants to   based on analysis of pro-  based on analysis of pro.  based on anlysis of proF
a. admit wildlife      their natural habitats   grm on year I            gram on ycar I           grm on year I
b. return wildlife to their
natual habitst
c. desttoy animals when
approprinate
Ineawse the nesting   Turte Protection:     Protect against poaching   Targets to bc set at first  Targets to be set at first   Targets to be aet at fist
succem of seven pe-                        tuttle nests in 12 beaches  annual review meeting    annual review mecting  annual review meeting
cies of marine tuttles a. protect turtle nesting                     batsd on nalysis of pro-  based on analysir of pro-  based on analysis of pro.
giam on yar I           grm on year I            grm on yusr
b. rearch
c. education progrems



ANNEX 3.1
- 143 -                                          Page 15 of 15
PROTECTED AREAS PROGRAM
OUTPUTS
I   ODBECIVE              ACTIVrTY                  1992         11         1993                    1994                    1995
Imnrove naLturl    I P1p.co rAgent  1 8 tttge nnt pl               I9 rn  gemcnt pbmt
resources             plant for each         sgned by the Seeretary   signed by the
management in 17      protected area         of SEDUE                Secretary of SEDUE
protected amras
elected from       2. Catry out           2 Identification i the   2. Identification (in the   2. Increaed population of 2. Increased population of
Mexico's SINAP        management plans by    MArtment plans) of      mangement pla) of       apcics-at-risk            ecieat-risk
implementing           pecietst-risk            ecieatdt-risk         identified in the        identified in the
corresponding                                                          AnrAgement plans        managemrentplans
operating panc                              3. Incrase in population
from nearby         3. Inrerase in population  3. Increase in population
communities            from nearby              from nearby
participating in the   communities              communities
aretts environmental   patnicipating in the    participating in the
educationprognras      areas' environrental     areas' envitonmental
education progrms       education progamms
4. Reduedon (since the
mangement plan) in   4. Reduction (since the   4. Reduction (since the
the land area of the   nangernent plan) in the   mrAngement plan) in the
protected ara affected   land ara of the        land area of the
by accidental fimes    proected area affected    protected area affected
by accidental fires     by accidental fires
5 Progres (since the
management plan) in  S. Progres (since the   5. Progress (since the
the land area          management plan) in      nmanagenent plan) in
reforeted (as          the land ara reforested   the land arm reforeted
appropriate)           (as appropriate)        (as appropriate)
6. Continued healthy   6. Continued healthy    6. Continued healthy
presence of the        presence of the         presence of the
biodiversity identified  biodiversity identified  biodivermity identified
in the management      in the nmangement       in the anrAgemtent pln|
plan                   plan



- 144 -
Annex 3.2
page 1 of 5
MEI-CO
Envirosmental Proi ect
Timetable for Initiation. completion and Discussion with the Bank
of Studies to be Carried-.Out Uinder the Proiect
I.    Monitoring and Control of Pollution
STUDY                     STARTING   ENDING        BANK
DATE       DATE    DISCUSSION
---___ ___   __  i_ _  COMMENTS
Redesign of the National Water Quality          1/92       7/92       8/92
Monitoring Network                               Ik_
Updating of the Legal Situation of              1/92       7/92       8/92
Sources of Industrial Pollution                                       . I
Development of a Data Base for Water       |   4/92   |  4/94         5/94
Pollution from Industrial Sources          I           l_l
Definition of Criteria and Technologies         4/92       4/95       5/95
for Control of Water Pollution from _
Industrial Sources                                     _                       I
Identification and Evaluation of Water         4/92       4/94        5/94
Pollution from Municipal Sources                                               I
Mathematical Models for Setting Source-         4/92   1  4/93        5/93
Eecific Discharge Conditions                                     _
Systematization of Criteria for the             6/92   | 12/92        1/93
Design of Waste Water Treatment Systems   _            l_l
Inventory of Sources of Water Pollution        4/92   |  4/93         5/93
from Toxic Substances                      I_ i__. _                          I
Evaluation of Water Quality in                  4/92       4/93       5/93
Tranefrontier AccquLfe,re                                         ___ ___
Implementation of Bioassay Techniques to       4/92       4/95        5/95
Evaluate Water Qualit                                             __
Compilation and Printing of Official           6/92       12/92       1/93
Mexican Standards for Analysis of Waters
and Waste Waters
operation of the National Water Quality         4/92       4/95       8/93
Monitoring Networkt_____
Studies and Adaptation of Water Quality         3/93       3/95       4/95
Models                        --



- 145 -
Annex 3.2
page 2 of 5
II.   Minimization of Negative Environmental Impacts
STUDY                     STARTING   ENDING        BANK
DATE      DATE    DISCUSSION
Monitoring of General Land-Use Management       3/92      7/92        8/92
Ecological Studies in the Central-              1/92      5/92         N/A
Northwest Region of Tabasco
Ecological Studies in the Region of             1/92      5/92         N/A
Coatzcoalcos, Veracruz                      ._                    
Ecological Studies in the Region of             1/92      5/92         N/A
Salina Cruz, Oaxaca
Ecological Studies in the Region of             1/92      5/92         N/A
Pujal-Coy (San Luis Potosi, Veracruz,
Tamaulipas)
Ecological Studies in the Region of             2/92      5/92         N/A
Uxpanapa-Chimalapas, Veracruz                                      ______
Ecological Studies in Tamaulipas                2/92   _5/92           N
Ecological Studies in the Cuatro Cienegas       2/92      5/92         N/A
Region of Coa.uil                                                 _
Ecological Studies in the Lazaro Cardenas       5/92      8/92         N/A
Reio_n of Michoacan
Ecological Studies in Industrial and            5/92      8/92         N/A
Urban Zonee along the Northern Frontier    _
Ecologica2  Studios Along the Freanillo-        5/-)2     8/92        N/A
Zacatecas Highway                           _
Ecological Studies in the Hidalgo del           9/92      12/92        N/A
Parral Region of Chihuahua
Ecological Studies in the Northeast of          9'92      12/92        N/A
Mexico                                       __________  _ n_._.,..__,1
Ecological Studieo in the Valley of             9/92      12/92       N/A
IMexico -Da io lnduntrial Corredor           _
Ecological Studiea in the Puerto San            1/93      4/93        N/A
Ecological Studies in the l.acandon             5/93      R/93         N/A
Forest, Chia
Ecological Studies in the Ocampo Region         9/93      12/93       N/A
of Chihuahua     __                          __._-._._.
Ecological Studies in the Tijuana               9/93      12/93       N/A
Hunicipality of Paia California                                   ______
Ecological Studies in the Micro-region of       5/93      8/93        N/A
presa de la lnist&d en Acuna, Coahtuila
Ecological Studies in tha Coastal Zone of       1/94      4/93        "/A
Oaxaca                       _                          _          _



- 146 -
Annex 3.2
page 3 of 5
Ecological Studies in uhe Southwest of           1/93       4/93        N/A
Mexico__ _,
Land-Use Management Studies in Northeast         2/92       5/92        N/A
Tabasco             ..__.._...
Land-Use Management Studies in the Pujal-        2/92       5/92        N/A
Coy Region of San Luis Potosi                                  --- _
Land-Ulse Management Studies in the Lazaro       5/92       8/92        N/A
Cardenas Region of Michoacan
Land-Use Management Studies Along the            5/92       8/92        N/A
Coast of the State of Jalisco
Land-Use Management Studies in the Bajio         9/92      12/92        N/A
Industrial Corredor 
Land-Use Management Studies in the Puerto        5/93       8/93        N/A
San Carlos Region of Baja California Sur_
Land-Use Management Studies in the               1/93       4/93        N/A
Hidalgo del Parral Region of Chihuahua            ___
Land-Use Management Studies in the Cuatro        1/93       4/93        N/A
Cienegas Reion of Coahuila                                          ___
Land-Use Management Studies in the Presa         9/93      12/93        N/A
de la Amistad on Acuna Micro-region of
Coahu ila 
Land-Use Management Studies in the               5/93       8/93        N/A
Coastal Zone of Oaxaca_                                            
Land-Use Management Criteria for Turiom          2/92       5/92        N/A
Projecto and Activities                        __ ____
Land-Use Management Criteria for                 2/92       5/92        N/A
Aguaculture Activities
Land-Use Management Criteria for                 5/92       8/92        N/A
Hydroagr cultural Projects                                         _____
Land-Use Management Criteria for                 5/92       8/92        N/A
Electricity Generation Projects
Land-Use Management Criteria for                 1/93       4/93        N/A
Potroleum Sector Pro ects
Land-Use Management Criteria for Airport         1/93       4/93        N/A
Project_
Land-iae Management Criteria for Port            5/93       8/93        N/A
.Projects                                     _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
Land-Use Management Criteria for                 5/93       8/93        N/A
Industrial Projects  _r-_..__.__
Land-Use Management Criteria for Mining          9/93      12/93        N/A
ActivitLea                                    ________
Land-Ure management Criteria for                 1/94       4/9k.       N/A
Agicultural Activities



- 147 -
Annex 3.2
page 4 of 5
Land-Use Manvgement Criteria for Ranching        1/94       4/94        N/A
Activitie                    .  .      . ..         ..
Land-Use Management Criteria for lighways        5/94       8/94        N/A
Projecto
Land-Use Management Criteria for Railroad        5/94       8/94        N/A
Projecte                                     I_I_a
Land-Use Managemeait Criteria for ---            9/94      12/94        N/A
Settlements Location
III.  Hodernization of Environmental Management
STUDY                      STARTING  ENDING        BANK
DATE      DATE    DISCUSSION
Institutiotlal Analysis (first phase)           11/91      6/92       7/92
Sources and Uses of Funds for the                2/92      5/93       6/93
Environmental Sector of the Federal, State
and Municial Government                       _
Sources and Uses of Funds for                    2/92      5/93       6/93
Environmental Activities of the Federal
Non-environmental Sector
Expenditures on Environmental Activitiea         2/92      5/93       6/93
of the Private Sector
Costs of the Effects of Water Pollution on    2/92         5/93       6/93
Fuel Pricing and Pollution from Stationary    2/92         5/93       6/93
Water Pricing and Pollution and Depletion        2/92      5/93       6/93
of Subterranean Acqucpers
IV.   Legislation
STUDY                    I STARTING  ENDING        BANK
DATE      DATE    DISCUSSION
Sanctions for Infractions of Environmental    2/92         1/93       2/93
Le2islation_______
Possible Conflicts Between Environmental        12/92     11/93       1/94
and Other Legislation_



- 148 -
Annex 3.2
page 5 of 5
V.     Pro-Investment Studies
STUDY                     STARTING  ENDING       BANK
.___ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ .  .DATE  DATE  DISCUSSION
Environmental Effects on Health                12/91    11/92       1193
EnvLronm3ntal Futures Study                    11/91     5/93       6/93
Consolidation of SINAP                         2/92      1/93       2/93
_etabLhnment of Biological Corredor_           2/92      1/93       2/93



- 149 
Annex 3.3
page 1 of 2
MEXICO
Environmental Project
Staff Training
AREA AND TRAINING                     BENEFICIARIES
Water Pollution
o  Sampling, measurement and field analysis             67
o  Evaluation of water quality                          87
o  Evaluation and analysis of pollution                 87
sources
o  Water quality modeling                               47
o  Interpretation and reliability of                    67
analytic data
o  Interpretation and reliability of water               7
quality data
o  Statistical analysis of water data                   40
o  Design of wastewater treatment systems               47
Air Pollution
o  On-the-job training of new inspectors                50
Environmental Laboratories
o  Advanced analytical instrumentation and              60
techniques
o  Routine laboratory techniques and good              160
practice
o  Preparation of inspectors/auditors                  164
Environmental Impact Assessment
o  Special individual training for                      39
headquarters staff
o  Follow-up individual training for                    23
headquarters otaff
o  Model training courses for staff of                  20
SEDUE's state delegations
o  Special indlvidual training for staff of             20
SEDUE's state delegations
o  Group training for staff of SEDUE'                  100
state delegations
o  Follow-up group training for staff of               l00
SEDUE's state deleoations
Environmental Risk Assessment
o  Special individual training for                      42
headquarters staff by specialty area
o  Group training for staff of SEDUE's                  62
state delegations
o  Follow-up group training for staff of                62
SEDUE's state delegations



- 150 -
Annex 3.3
page 2 of 2
AREA AND TRAINING                    BENEFICIARIES
Ecological Planning and Zoning
o  Ecological Planning Techniques for staff           90
of SEDUE's central offices, state
delegations, and state agencies
o  Preparation of self-help learning                 150
materials for state and municipal level
personnel                                 __._._._...._ __l
Wildlife Protection and Conservation
o  Introduction to Protection of Mexican              77
Wildlife
o  Procedures for Inspection and                      77
Surveillance of Wildlife Trade
o  Technical courses for animal                       49
rehabilitation staff
o  Marine turtle biology                              36
o  Protection of marine turtle nesting                36
habitats
o  Techniques in census-taking and tagging            36
marine turtles                            1      _1



.. ............................ .....~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~S ..... ....I~l....~ .*   I* .....
I-lt665  0915     oo[       I 66         6 31      5 III     colt,9   1 056    9 961    9959        063    1 3aot 50 SGg   IGal    SOlO    6 *4931 S 10 S   0 61305!.j :uu  0.
630,           o *      lo 0        91        0        0 6      a 0       0a 0     ato      3* to       319    6*       663 it     * tt      8*03    a It**63'l3  g.#
01916    00   a II     105l         5a           *1               to61 i 63 0 9    06       a *1656  a 06115   I0955   65106t   I 0600   6 *sit   0,4001                111l:w 301188403311 ta"
3*36    004   0 a      601          0          0       00       0l0 's            00       ao        , uca a    0a     0 006o   0000t    a a3      00 .:e...SI                            3
3*1  00 al     0       00a           00O       00      3060 00  I 10.      11 00  10,0 6*      t         ct  a            cat1a1 903ot59    05*6 
9-0*33   0-0      CIO       03           40l      I036                8       n          66      0         01        63      3        506        00      0561.--~*~0*
vNIC       0                               9~0 05 01  00      00a      0 0      0 0           0111    M63e   00at     0101    0a0 dab     C       0 COE                     AS~-3.s"6666
006365   00  011~~~t   a3 00a0                                   a                a S0o0 0001 0016   * 511    06        0380       Otte 60           1                           3Idb
11.     095*6t   O's                O's0         00       all      00        0a0      0 0       0 0      06fl01   00 a      06*6    0106t   00 a        0a0      00                            "3#l6*35  A
-4    939W    99* 0's           00164       ellb    11e        5*to6a1 a00           936  00805   00696    00ot       0 *69    0 3l I     0aGI     0 0        Se1a6                        13135.4-5
066931   399  00~~a'   I's         14         0       019 s    0 0       00a      ate 0     I9sel31  600      009a a    0665I    1001     a90 Si"       0 a'130
99316    093  03     *3~~~~~~W   a106               09       00       0            * 4 1 0 a        0a l,    003     06        019t   00          091150
So0 00       0        00a         66 1s31Oc          0011     0         00       00a      3261       1340  a3t01         S 061I0le00               a 6369                       d3    .30
0030     0         0       006t0                           3       00       00         3       *06       a gist*  00 a       0       0090    00 4        01*010
sO  us 533    6*03       *3.0333 so    195 0310035I "I        33531 Isubd ~itu0*   03033*5    1'lg''d  as.-pool  tom35,   53*33"    Sig*55  &*I
3.1W5p33  "n*'2 S)I53            53otii          403tov63     13 3es.1  ae-z5*   ~50s  U.3s1 5*3                             m10        *       15f
$14'w



Annex 4.2
- 152 -
MeNico
Environmental Project
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including ContingencLes
UsS
92        93          94         95       Total
A. Pollution
1. Wlter PollutIon                    799.1    2464.0    6334.6    7028.5   16626.2
2. Alr Pollution                     2587.1    2493.6       875.9      974.2    6930.8
3. Environmental Labs                5956.4    2511.5    2804.8    2402.6   13675.3
Sub-Total                                 9342.6    7469.0   10015.3   10405.3   37232.3
S. Envtronmantal Impact
1. Environmental Assessment          1359.1    1786.9    2019.8    1436.2    6600.0
2. Land-use Management               1567.5    2592.4    2335.9        511.9    7007.7
Sub-Total                                2926.6    4377.3    4355.7    19b8.1   13607.8
C. Slodiversity
1. Wildlife Protec;ion               6559.1    6064.8    3678.6    3672.2   17974.7
2. Protected Areas Program           9512.3   10145.0   11140.0    7795.0   38592.3
Sub-Total                               16071.4   14209.8   14818.6   11467.2   56567.0
D. Modernist ion of Env Mgt
1. Inst Strengthening                1757.2    1784.9       536.0      447.4    4525.5
2. Decentral Pilot Program           1639.9    1144.7    1649.6    1132.2    5566.5
3. Economic Instrument - Env          701.7      210.3      157.7      123.7    1193.4
Sub-Total                                *098.9    3160.0    2343.3    1703.3   11285.4
E. Legislation & Standards
1. Legislation & Standards            687.6    1820.3    1277.3        615.3    4400.6
F. Studies
1. Consolidation of SINAP            1130.9        0.0        0.0        0.0    1130.9
2. Ilological Corridors               385.1        0.0        0.0        0.0      385.1
3. Environ Effects on Health          353.2        0.0        0.0        0.0      353.2
4. EnvIronment Futures                129.2      180.9       16.3        0.0      326.3
Sub-Total                                1998.4       180.9       16.3        0.0    2195.6
C. Project Coordination Unit              355.2     312.1       346.6     334.8    1348.7
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    35480.6   31509.3   33173.2   26674.0  126637.2
SW                  -oSSSwes*CS...lf...
....... ........... ..........................................  ......................... 
VOluej Scaled by 1000.0 211411992 14:03



Annex 4.3
- 153 -
MexLco
Environmental Project
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
USs
92        93        94          95        Total
1. IWVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                         4974.6    3429.4    2010.0          0.0   10414.1
S. Vehicles                            2592.2      921.8      384.3      250.3    4148.5
C. Equipment/Furniture
1. Laboratory                      2660.2      458.3      198.3      244.0    3560.8
2. Office                          1102.8    1336.6         38.2       8.6    2486.2
3. Other                           2584.9    2041.0       440.0       29.5    5095.5
Sub-Total                              6347.9    3836.0       676.4     282.1   11142.5
D. Human Resources
1. Individual Consultants          3490.2    2867.2    3464.2    2430.9   12252.5
2. Consulting Firms                5697.3    4924.8    8562.4    5853.5   25038.0
Sub-Total                              9187.5    7792.0   12026.6    8284.5   37290.6
E. Training                             981.5    1669.5    1630.4    1083.2    5364.6
F. Services                             928.8      702.5     625.8      561.9    2819.0
Total INVFSTMENT COSTS               25012.5   18351.3   17353.4   10462.0   71179.2
I1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Supplies                           2464.3    3306.7    3813.8    3835.4   13420.2
B. Maintenance                          940.9    1291.9    1570.5    1772.3    5575.5
C. Human Resources
1. Long Term Consultants           2242.1    2659.9    2719.9    1847.3    9469.1
2. Personnel                       2313.9    3085.2    4316.9    5594.4   15310.4
Sub-Total                             4556.0    5745.1    7036.8    7441.6   24779.5
0. Travel/Subsistence                  1091.6    1332.0    1465.0    1424.0    5312.6
E. Services                           1415.4    1482.4    1933.8    1538.7    6370.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                10468.1   13158.1   15819.8   16012.0   55458.0
=. .   a ........ .l   .......... = .. . ..f.e.. .
ue  --c-le--b---1000.0  2/1----/1992     -----14:02   --------------------------
Values Scaled by 1000.0 2/14/1992 14:02



- 154 -
Annex 4.4
MEXICO
Environmental Proiect
Loan Diabursement_Sc,hedule Estimated at A_praisal
Bank Fiscal Year and         Quarterly                 Cumulative Disbursement
Quarterly Ending          Disbursement
(USS millions)       (USS millions)        (t of total)
FY92
June 30, 1992                  8.0  1/               8.0                   16%
FY93
September 30, 1992             3.6                 11.6                    23%
December 31, 1992              4.8                  16.4                   33%
March 31, 1993                 4.5                 20.9                    42%
June 30, 1993                  4.1                 25.0                    50%
FY94
September 30, 1993             2.5                 27.5                    55%
December 31, 1993              3.5                 31.0                    62%
March 31, 1994                  3.1                 34.1                   68%
June 30, 1994                  2.9                 37.0                    74%
FY95
September 30, 1994             2.0                 39.0                    78%
December 31, 1994              2.7                 41.7                    83%
March 31, 1995                  2.4                 44.2                   88%
June 30, 1995                  2.3                  46.4                   93%
FY96
September 30, 1995             1.9                 48.3                    97%
December 31, 1995              1.6                  50.0                  100%
1/ Includes US$5 million equivalent deposited in the Special Account



- 155 -
Annex 4.5
MEXICO
Environmental Project
Protected Areas Program
GET Grant Disbursemente Schedule Estimated at Aprraisal
Bank Fiscal Year and         Quarterly                 Cumulative Disbursement
Quarterly Ending          Disbursement
(US$ millions)       (US$ millions)        (% of total)
FY92
June 30, 1992                  3.1 1/                3.1                    6%
FY93
September 30, 1992              1.4                  4.5                    9%
December 31, 1992               1.7                  6.2                   12%
March 31, 1993                 1.7                   7.9                   16%
June 30, 1993                  2.0                   9.9                   20%
eY94
September 30, 1993             2.1                  12.0                   24%
December 31, 1993              2.2                  14.2                   28%
March 31, 1994                  2.4                 16.6                   33%
June 30, 1994                  2.5                  19.1                   38%
FY95
September 30, 1994             2.6                  21.7                   43%
December 31, 1994              2.4                  24.1                   48%
March 31, 1995                  2.3                 26.4                   53%
June 30, 1995                   1.7                 28.1                   56%
FY96
September 30, 1995             1.2                  29.3                   59%
December 31, 1995              0.7                  30.0                   60%
1/ Includes US$2 million equivalent deposited in the Special Account
C:U"Wa=\W4%h".v



- 156 -
Annex 5.1
MEXICO
Environmental Proiect
Documents Available in the Project File
1.    Lev General del Ec*uilibric Ecologico y la Proteccion al Ambiente.
2.    Proqrama Nacional Dara la Proteccion del Medio Ambiente:  1990-1994.
3.    Gaceta Ecolcaica.  Issues 1-12.  Includes:
o   regulations to the General Ecology Law
o   ecological technical norms
o   state environmental legislation
o   decrees establishing natural protected areas
o   announcements of environmental impact assessments available for
public review
4.    Reqlamento Interior de_la Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecolocia.
Published in the Diario Oficial on August 19, 1985.
5.    Charter of the Comision Nacional de Ecologia.  Published in the Diario
Oficial on April 18, 1985.
6.    Lev E     _tatal del Eczuilibrio Ecoloaico v la Proteccion al Ambi.ente of the
State of Jalisco. Published in El Eetado de Jalisco on June 6, 1989.
7.    Text of Decree No. 13592 of May 9, 1989 of the State of Jalisco creating
the "Comision Estatal de Ecologia."
8.    Comioion Nacional de Ecologia, Informs General de Ecologia:, 1988.
9.    SEDUE,  "Proposal  for  the  Mexico  Environmental  Project"  ("Programa
Ambiental de Mexico:   Propuesta de Financiamento Presentada al Banco
Mundial"), July 1991.
10.   SEDUE, "Informacion Basica Sobre las Areas Naturales Protegidas de Mexico"
(November 1989).
11.   Consultant's Report to the World Bank, "Areas Naturales de Mexico:  Un
Analisis Para Prioridades de Conservacion" (June 1991).
12.   Draft Management Plan for the Special Biosphere Reserve "Ria Lagartos."
13.   Draft Management Plan for the Biosphere Reserve "El Vizcaino."
14.   Project detailed cost tables



:  °s^owJo    t  9 s                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA
B AJA  uEod,jNsls                              --T   ---                J9d°g\"-
.,CAillFORNuA                /^oWr 
.   ,                           j C  H  I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H  U  A  It U A 
.   :   !                                   X                    tChihuah"l olorwt                    tie@tozNtrrex~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fd                                                      MEXICO
rx G 'o                                                                                                               -                                                ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
OAJA           CS                                                                           0 Arol  HidObX  t(  I Nz s A
.                         SU    1       .                    >  >Fornol                                                  0,CA.onIeRNIj                                                                   A     CENTERS FOR CONiTROL OF WItLDIFE TRADE
h K; _ \ Monebvl t t () ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENVIRONMENTAL IAORATOR3ES
:   .              oG=oXAt     1~~~~~~~~~~~-           to,,e6n                          i3   
:                     -        ^         6 r                '                                                         9   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL C-TIAI
,  :  .              0pcuXl5:\n D V ^5 A /u G O                  !          \ X          t    iA^uAul/FAs                                                 °    PRINCIFhlCITIESORlOHNS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PINCPALCIVE OROWN
laPlya   'O   \.   D"ro050@         /    ZAr4rFCAS        /   I      C'Gdod           ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~         -  STATE $0UNDARIFS
.oo                             N    D.mgo                 ACAfCA               /  I     !  3
o ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~        ~ ~          ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M:J.d:                                                                     INTERNATIONAIVISUNDARSI
e IlbSA"I9CAX')                           >ghesos                 ,      °  Ahomisoil
\    A U9Cli!GP*0  >   /  S   si          #   tAlplJ,
7 z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A su                                     tinolnt Ciew p d nlT                oao 7   i,  08L2
rot", ~  ~            ~           ~           ~           tcobuo                               fiN UR
llo                           _               _                         IDO'                                                                     *    _       p     .    ^ >.          AUGUST Irr :FGymolp 1  ktt



. ~  j --                             - ~-     liD'                                                                                      I00                                                                                                                           IBRD 23536
To'tCo0101WC0 ).       >UNITED                                                                     STATES       OF      AMERICA
SAJA                                                                          b6w NoIooO  ' ^ '   -, -.i  Juoooz
r AZItJ rI                                                 I      I   CA
S                           C R H ID   1V //u                  |
\.\,, S Cbho9   /rt.CdA./oo1.N
ta lO0 IIHooooiI Gwmso..,,CA5fA¢f/                                                                                       5 ^t >t    ,
Ch,huoog ,h'~ l0.o3
CA Ioroo               GoopooN -.                                                                 /                            Nue o00'0',                                                                               MEXICO
3                                       V                     TP torol                                     ;                '                                                          ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
/  >            W                       I~~~~0               t/Aonolvo oo
/jl \.,.,                                                                                  PP '  . t    Prvnoso>-- >  _    _OTECIED ALIAS:
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                             .. 5111(0W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SICENATIONAl PATIOS
f  °  Soh.llo®                                                                              e      NATIONAL CAPITAL
@ °r   scuIIoTdoI    ,,- Z0 r®/                                                                                                                      3     SIA1L CAPITAlS
, .                                                                                                                                                                                  PA / ,  ,  O    PTINCIPILCl.CIOIdS OTOWNS
toPol                             'r; "  I     UroooPs I,,,, r                                                                                                                         SIATATIEOVNDAIFS
buTt, ~  ~        ~       ~       r. '>  I ; DU0  8  ' '          '                       C'o                                                                      "'lni   INP.JAIOA LOLT0n01oALIE          I0Sfip ceto
CO/Ir                                                                                              C ,od 000ul ,                                                                                    i PI
-  I    ,                                         oLoon '11:1,0 .                                                                                      1               f t ;fpo 
'm Il/Iill                                                                   DC,oi.noo   000:0/,',
,. 0-l  I  I    , .       ,      ,    P     ,oocll:s'ol, ,            C      tfpoo*; ,                                                                              00001          00co
Ca1 rl                                      'o ,,0*,,
,0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~.
wimm(lin ~ ~ ~ ~     ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      Z..o^er 0-/pnco                                         8O,lOt tt                             tr-r3           <,,D                      t 
Witt$ 0              teID           IO               D9Y                                                                                                                    A4C,0btD8i
'';'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C .IA ET-A               ;   oI\MAI A                        .
10D0
rl;O PlePtr # rsa rl-rrleder El,a "oldtbl.+ + lzd*xtLoL,,                                             *                   , .l1j'j,                                                                         foToo.do-,
0        v            L ', '      loolopro.r



