Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.18922
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MEXICO ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(Loan 3461-ME and GET Grant 28604)
February 8, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units = Mexican pesos
$1.0 = N$9.9
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHT MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS            National Bank for Public Works (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
Pzblicos)
CNA, CONAGUA    National Water Commission (Comisi6n Nacional delAgua)
Credito Pzublico    Undersecretariat of Public Credit in the Secretary of Finance
Egreso             UJndersecretariat of Expenditures in the Secretary of Finance
FMCN                Mexican Fund for Nature Conservancy
GEF                 Global Environmental Facility
GET                 Global Environmental Trust
[NE                 National Institute of Ecology (Instituto Nacional de Ecologia)
NAFTA               North American Free Trade Agreement
PAM                 Mexico Environmental Program (Programa Ambiental de Mexico)
PROFEPA             Office of the Federal Attorney General for Environmental Protection
(Procuraduria Federal de Protecci6n al Ambiente)
SARH                Department of Agriculture and Water Resources (Secretaria de Agricultura
y Recursos Hidricos)
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SEDESOL             Department of Social Development (Secretaria de Desarrollo Social)
SEDUE               Department of Urban Development and Ecology (Secretaria de Desarrollo
Urbano y Ecologia)
SEMARNAP            Department of Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries (Secretaria de
Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca)
SINAP              National System of Protected Areas
SHCP                Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito P[blico
TAC                 Technical Advisory Committee
Vice President     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director    Maritta Koch-Weser
Sector Leader      Adolfo Brizzi
Task Manager        Luis Constantino



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .............................................              i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................     ii
PART I PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESMENT    .            ............................1
A. BACKGROUND .1
B. DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN .1
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES.                            3
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT.                          7
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.                                       8
F. BANK PERFORMANCE.                                             9
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .10
H. AUDITS .10
I. ASSESMENT OF OUTCOME .11
J. FUTURE OPERATIONS .11
K. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .11
PART II- ANNEXES ...................................                  14
A.  STATISTICAL TABLES ...................................       14
B.  BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION ...................................  45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



MEXICO
MEXICO ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(Loan 3461-ME and GET Grant 28604)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Mexico Environmental Project (Proyecto
Ambiental de Mexico - PAM), Loan 3461-ME and GET Grant 28604. The loan, approved on April 14,
1992, signed on April 28, 1992, and effective May 8, 1993, was reduced in 1995 from US $50 to
US $23.8 million as a result of a request from the Government of Mexico (GOM) for a partial
cancellation.' This request came on the wake and was a consequence of the Mexican financial and
economic crisis that started at the end of 1994. The associated GEF grant GET-28604 of SDR 21.4
million (US$30 million equivalent) was later reduced to SDR 17.9 million ($25 million) in April 1993,
and reduced to SDR 5.9 (US $8.7) in May 1997.
The original closing date of the project was December 31, 1995. As a result of two one-year extensions,
the project closed on December 31, 1997. The GEF grant had a first four-month extension to April 30,
1996, during which time agreements were reached to strengthen the project and the legal agreement was
amended. The closing date of the amended grant was June 30, 2000. In May 1997, a further restructuring
of the GEF grant was negotiated which resulted in (i) SDR 12 million ($16.3 million) being transferred to
a privately managed endowment fund for protected areas in July 1997 (this became GET grant 28678,
which is not discussed in this ICR) and (ii) closing of the grant GET 28604 on December 31, 1997.
Adrian Demayo and Luis Constantino, Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector
Management Unit, Latin American and the Caribbean Region (LCSES), prepared this Implementation
Completion Report, with the assistance of Edmundo de Alba (Consultant). It was cleared by Adolfo
Brizzi, Sector Leader (LCC1C), and reviewed by Christine Kimes, and Sergio Margulis.
The ICR is based on the findings of field visits, discussions with government officials and a review of
material in the project file. The borrower commented on the draft report and prepared its own evaluation
of the project, a summary of which is attached as appendix C to this Report.
' On the closing date, December 31, 1997, an additional amount of $4.3 million, representing the undisbursed
balance on that date, was cancelled to bring the balance of the loan to zero.



ii
MEXICO
MEXICO ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(Loan 3461-ME and GET Grant 28604)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   The Mexico Environmental Project (Programa Ambiental de Mexico - PAM) was designed to
strengthen the institutional and policy framework in order to enable the Government of Mexico (GOM) to
carry out environmental protection and natural resource management functions in a more efficient and
decentralized manner. The project, the second free-standing environmental project in the Latin American
and Caribbean Region2, was approved by the Board in 1992 (Loan 3461-ME) and partially financed
through a loan of US$ 50 million (Loan 3461-ME) and a Global Environmental Facility grant of US$ 30
million3 (GET 28604).
Development Objectives
2.   The project's development objectives were to:
(A) develop and increase GOM's capacity to carry out key environmental protection and natural
resource management functions.
(B) strengthen the institutional and policy framework.
(C) transform the federal organization responsible for environmental management into a "second
tier organization", i.e., an organization that would provide the legislative framework and
methodologies for environmental management in Mexico, and would coordinate and provide
the quality assurance for the environmental activities carried out by other levels of
government, other federal agencies, NGOs, and the private sector.
(D) conserve biodiversity in selected protected natural areas.
3.   To reach these objectives, the project included the following components:
(l) Pollution Monitoring and Control: (A) Water Pollution; (B) Air Pollution; (C)
Environmental Laboratories for INE and PROFEPA; and (D) Enforcement.
(2) Minimization of Environmental Impacts of Investment Projects: (A) Ecological Zoning; (B)
Minimization and Impact and Risk Assessment; and (C) Strategic Planning.
(3) Biodiversity Conservation: (A) Wildlife Protection and Conservation; (B) Protection of Sea
Turtles; and (C) Management of Protected Areas
(4) Modernization of Environmental Management: (A) Institutional Strengthening; (B)
Decentralization Program; (C) Economic Instruments for the Environment; (D) National
Training Program; and (E) Regulations and Standards.
(5) Strategic studies including review of legal framework, environmental impacts on health, and
future environmental strategy for Mexico.
2 The first self-standing environmental project in the Latin America and Caribbean Region was the
National Environmental Program of Brazil.
3 According to the SAR, the GEF grant financed reserves-related activities of the Biodiversity
Conservation component, while the loan financed the central activities, including the coordination of this
component.



iii
(6) Project Coordination
Implementation Experience and Results
4.   Overall Assessment. The project's objectives were only partially achieved. While substantial
achievements were made and there is a striking difference in environmental management capacity in
Mexico between 1998 and 1992, due in part to the project, development objectives were only partially
met. This was mostly due to reasons beyond the control of the implementing agencies. Development
objectives are discussed below.
5.   Develop and increase GOM's capacity to carry out environmental protection and natural
resource management functions. This development objective was partially achieved. The project
increased INE's capacity for emission regulation, land use planning, and environmental impact and risk
assessments substantially, and PROFEPA's capacity for enforcing environmental regulations. Moreover,
the project also made a noticeable difference in strengthening Mexico's training capacity on
environmental topics, with involvement of universities and research institutes. On the other hand, a
National Reference Environmental Analytical Laboratory to be established with project support was
cancelled due to poor initial implementation of the activity. Also, due to an institutional reorganization, a
Water Pollution Subcomponent was cancelled immediately following project approval.
6.   Strengthen the institutional and policy framework. This development objective was achieved.
Air quality management programs for the largest cities, hazardous waste policies, operational
environmental assessment and permitting systems, a revised set of environmental regulations and
standards, and a framework for ecological zoning were developed and partially implemented and various
policy and strategy studies were completed and indicators and information developed.
7.   Transform the federal organization into a "second tier" organiization. This development
objective was not achieved. Project design did not account for the fact that many of the necessary
conditions for making the federal environment agency a "second tier" institution are beyond the reach of
the environmental agencies themselves. In order to focus the environmental agency on "second tier"
roles, such as policy development, regulations, information and monitoring, while maintaining the overall
quality of public environmental management, a serious complementary process of decentralization and
private sector and civil society involvement is needed. Environmental decentralization is particularly
important, but only after the current administration came into power in 1995 and after the shock of the
financial crisis had withered away did GOM start articulating a credible decentralization process and
promoting an expanded role for NGOs. The project helped establish operational environmental agencies
in the states of Tamaulipas, Jalisco, San Luis Potosi, Aguascalientes, and Queretaro. But the project
failed in the allocation of resources for decentralized activities. Although agreements were signed at the
highest levels between the two levels of government, i.e., federal and the state, when financial constraints
appeared in Mexico, the obligations under these agreements were not kept. This caused problems for the
state environmental agencies that were counting on federal support to enable them to assume expanded
environmental management roles. The debate over appropriate roles for federal, state, and municipal
environmental agencies, for NGOs, and of mechanisms to finance these roles is starting only now, as part
of a nationwide, multisectoral process.
8.   Conserve biodiversity in selected protected areas. This objective was only partially achieved.
The project helped to create centers for rehabilitation of wildlife and protection of turtles and to
implement public educational and awareness programs. In protected area management, the project
contributed to a credible administrative presence in 10 key protected areas through management plans,
emergency plans, local consultative mechanisms, and in its final years, with improvements in the way
indigenous peoples participate in and benefit from project implementation. The project also supported the
development of a strategy for the National System of Protected Areas (SINAP), currently being



iv
implemented. On the other hand, performance varied considerably across protected areas, and
consultative processes and community involvement fell short of what was desired, resulting in conflictive
situations in some of them. Moreover, implementation was slow due to over-ambitious effectiveness
conditions and lack of adequate counterpart funds before and after effectiveness, centralized budgeting
and procurement vs. the remoteness of the areas and their needs imposed by nature's cycle, and the lack
of adequate personnel in INE, the implementing agency for this component. To correct those problems
and to ensure long term sustainability, using the original project design, a new financial mechanism was
developed (a privately managed endowment fund) in 1996-97 and in 1997 a large portion of undisbursed
GEF grant funds were transferred to an NGO to support protected areas management.
9.   Events affecting project performance. The only partially satisfactory project performance was
due to events that were beyond the control of the implementing agency. In 1992 the federal
environmental agency responsible for environmental management, SEDUE, was reorganized, just a few
days before the project was presented to Board. As a result, the first year of implementation was
consumed on project restructuring. In 1994 Mexico was hit by a major financial and economic crisis.
The strict fiscal discipline that followed reduced the available budget for the project and led to a US$ 26.3
million cancellation of the loan, and two one-year extensions of the closing date of the project. Moreover,
in 1995 another institutional reorganization led to the creation of the Ministry of Environment, Natural
Resources and Fisheries, and the elimination of SEDUE. This forced further adjustments to project
implementation schedule and activities.
10.  Bank's performance. Bank's performance was not fully satisfactory, mostly due to problems in
project design and quality at entry. Project targets were too ambitious and failed to recognize the limited
capacity of the implementing agencies and budgets available for the project. Not enough effort was put
into the design of procurement arrangements appropriate for the special circumstances of remote
protected areas so as to improve the disbursement performance of the GEF. The project financed too
many incremental staff, posing risks for project sustainability and increasing the fiscal burden on the
implementing agency. Finally, the risk of institutional reorganization was not recognized in project
design and no specific measures to deal with it were included in the project. But the most critical event
shaping project implementation, the 1995 financial crisis that led to substantial cuts in public
expenditures, could hardly have been foreseen at appraisal. This was the second free-standing
environmental project in the Latin American and Caribbean Region and one of the first GEF-supported
projects. Lack of experience with this type of projects may have resulted in an overly optimistic design.
11.  Despite the potential threat to continuity as a result of changes in Task Manager (five) throughout
the life of the project, Bank's performance during implementation was satisfactory, given the special
circumstances that occurred. Although project design did not foresee many of the events that later
hindered project performance, the Bank was quick in responding to Borrower's requests and in adjusting
the project to the new contexts through restructuring, partial cancellations and extensions. Bank
supervision missions invested considerably in negotiations with the implementing agencies and SHCP to
ensure adequate budgets for project implementation and to assist project staff in streamlining and
accelerating procedures. The Bank's supervision effort, together with the commitment of implementing
agencies, contributed to sustaining the gains in environmental management capacity in a context where
GOM's priorities were temporarily diverted to other issues.
12.  Performance of implementing agencies. In light of the special circumstances brought about by
institutional reorganizations and financial and economic crisis, the performance of the implementing
agencies, INE and PROFEPA, is also rated as satisfactory. They treated the project as a top priority and
thus key components were able to ride the turmoil created by the 1994/1995 crisis and institutional
reorganizations. Once the agencies had stabilized, after the last reorganization of early 1995, their
performance improved significantly. Given these organizational problems and the financial constraints,



v
the fact that development objectives were partially reached was a notable achievement and attests to the
effort invested by implementing agencies under very difficult circumstances.
13.  Key lessons learned. The successes and failures of the project yielded the following lessons:
*      Technical assistance projects are an important instrument in providing the underpinnings
for a basic environmental management capacity.
*      Very clear, tangible and quantifiable development objectives and monitoring indicators
need to be put in place in environmental institution projects to avoid disbursing the
project in activities whose sustainability is questionable or which have little overall
impact on the status of the environment.
*      Institutional reform is a very slow process, implying substantial changes in institutional
cultures and values, in particular for new sectors such as the environment. The project
duration needs to take this fact into account.
*      Given the long duration of environmental institutions development projects, it is likely
that they will face substantial changes in the political, fiscal and economic context. This
should be taken into consideration by building sufficient flexibility in project design to
allow it to adapt to change.
Environmental institution development projects need to be careful with the financing of
incremental staff, since their sustainability is highly questionable once the project is
finished.
*       hDecentralization activities will not be successful at the sectoral level, and in particular for
the environment, unless they are part of a clear overall political commitment forcing
change across all relevant sectors and are accompanied by appropriate fiscal
decentralization mechanisms.
*      For the development of environmental "second tier" instiitutions, a much larger, active
and direct role needs to be given to the state and municipal governments, NGOs, and the
private and academic sectors.
*      In the specific case of Mexico, once project financing has been negotiated with Credito
Publico of SHCP, an effective mechanism to commit the "Egreso" part of SHCP to the
agreed budgets is needed. In this respect, it is important to involve Egreso in project
preparation and negotiation since it is the part of Hacienda responsible for assigning
project budgets.
*      The specific way through which Bank's projects are financed in Mexico4 and the
sophistication of its environmental institutions and experts call for a different lending
approach. It is likely that much more could be achieved through a more "programmatic"
approach where the loan would finance part or all of the environmental agency's program
through the assigned national budget, or through adjustment type of lending tied to and
disbursed against the implementation of a clear long-temi strategy and performance
indicators.
*      In Mexico, as in many other countries, protected areas have often been created on
community and private lands with little consultation or respect for the rights of local
communities. While this may have been understandable given the urgency of
biodiversity protection in light of the threats, securing the trust of communities,
transferring some management responsibilities on their own lands, and putting in place
4Implementing agencies in Mexico see very little financial additionality from Bank's projects as they would receive
the same budget from SHCP independently of the presence of external financing. The most important incentive for
requesting Bank's support is the technical assistance associated with Bank supervision and the likelihood that Bank
intervention will provide greater continuity and sustainability.



vi
adequate consultation, participation and compensation mechanisms, need to accompany
any protected area program facing these problems, for conflicts to be manageable and for
the program to be successful.
*     Timely and streamlined release of funds is of critical importance for protected area
management. Under current institutional budgetary arrangements in Mexico, these tasks
are likely better accomplished by NGOs or private sector, due to typical government
cumbersome procedures. For the longer term, attention needs to be given to developing a
timely and reliable financial public management system for protected areas through
institutional reform.



I
PART L. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Background
1.  In 1990, having decided to act on its commitment to take steps to improve the environmental
situation in the country, the Government of Mexico (GOM) opened discussions with the Bank to partially
finance the GOM's Environmental Program. From the Bank's perspective, the Mexico Environmental
Project (PAM) was part of a much larger program to support economic development, with special
emphasis on the social sectors and environmental protection. More specifically, the project was designed
to strengthen the institutional and policy framework in order to enable the Government of Mexico (GOM)
to carry out environmental protection and natural resource management functions in a more efficient and
decentralized manner. The Board approved the project (Loan 3461-ME) in 1992 and it is the second
freestanding environmental project in the Latin American and Caribbean Region.
2.   The Bank's loan (Loan 3461-ME) amounted to US$ 50 million of the US$ 88 million total. The
loan was supposed to be disbursed during the period 1992-1995, with retroactive financing for some
eligible activities from 1991. To implement the Protected Areas Program, one of the components of the
project, an associated GEF grant (GET - 28604) of SDR 21.4 million, or approximately US$30 million,
was approved at the same time.
B.   Development Objectives and Design
3.   The project's development objectives were to
(A) develop and increase GOM's capacity to carry out key environmental protection and natural
resource management functions.
(B) strengthen the institutional and policy framework.
(C) transform the federal organization responsible for environmental management into a "second
tier organization", i.e., an organization that would provide the legislative framework and
methodologies for environmental management in Mexico, would coordinate and provide the
quality assurance for the environmental activities carried out by other levels of government,
other federal agencies, NGOs, and the private sector.
(D) conserve biodiversity in selected protected natural areas.
4.   To reach these objectives, the project included the following components:
* Pollution Monitoring and Control: (A) Water Pollution; (B) Air Pollution; (C) Environmental
Laboratories for INE and PROFEPA; and (D) Enforcement.
* Minimization of Environmental Impacts of Investment Projects: (A) Ecological Zoning;
(B)Minimization, and Impact and Risk Assessment; and (C) Strategic Planning.
* Biodiversity Conservation: (A) Wildlife Protection and Conservation; (B) Protection of Sea
Turtles; and (C) Management of Protected Areas
* Modernization of Environmental Management: (A) Institutional Strengthening;
(B)Decentralization Program; (C) Economic Instruments for the Environment; (D) National
Training Program; and (E) Regulations and Standards.
* Strategic studies including review of legal framework, environmental impacts on health, and
future environmental strategy for Mexico.
* Project Coordination
5.   The respective subcomponents and activities, together with the results obtained under each one, are
listed in Tables 7 and 8 in Annex 7 (a more detailed version in Spanish is in the project's electronic file).



2
6.   Major changes during implementation. Three major events drastically affected project
implementation:
* In 1992, about the time the project was being approved by the Board, SEDUE - the
Undersecretariat for Ecology and the main implementing agency for PAM, was reorganized
into two independent "sister" organizations: The National Institute of Ecology (INE) and the
Office of the Federal Attorney for the Protection of the Environment (PROFEPA), and both
became part of the Ministry of Social Development - SEDESOL.
*  In the end of 1994, Mexico was hit by a major financial and economic crisis. As a
consequence of this crisis, GOM reduced the fiscal budget and imposed strict fiscal discipline
with dramatic consequences for its environment program.
* At beginning of 1995 the new administration of President Zedillio created a new Ministry of
the Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries - SEMARNAP, and fNE and PROFEPA
became part of it, along with the National Water Commission (CNA).
7.   Changes in components due to institutional reorganizations. As a result of these events,
subcomponents, activities, and targets had to be changed in response to evolving priorities resulting from
these reorganizations. The major change to the project design was the cancellation of the whole
subcomponent " .A - Water pollution control" due to the restructuring of the sector in Mexico in the
middle of 1992, when the then Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia (SEDUE) became the new
Secretaria de Desarrollo Social (SEDESOL). The functions related to water quality and forest protection,
previously in SEDUE, were transferred to the then Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos
(SARH). The corresponding resources in this subcomponent were reallocated to other subcomponents
needing additional financial support. Also, the split of SEDUE into two new agencies, [NE and
PROFEPA, required that the resources be divided between these two agencies to ensure that the project's
subcomponents and activities for which they were responsible received the respective financing.
8.   Partial loan cancellation and extension of the closing date due to financial crisis. Budget
constraints and strict fiscal discipline that began in fiscal year 1995 led the GOM to request in 1995 the
cancellation of US$ 26.2 million of the loan, as well as two one-year extensions of the closing date of the
project, to December 31, 1997. The estimated reduction in the total amount of the project, i.e., including
the counterpart contribution, was US$ 32.8 million, or 37.2%.
9.   Because of the 1994/1995 crisis and in the context of a new federal administration, starting in FY
1995, the implementing agencies faced not only low budgets, but also considerable delays in their release.
Typically, for the fiscal years 1995 to 1997, 60% of the approved budget for activities included in this
project arrived in the last four months of the fiscal year. This "bunching" not only prevented the
complete utilization of the budget, but in some cases also negatively affected the quality of the final
products.
10.  Changes in the loan agreement. The first reorganization required a restructuring of the project,
including a reallocation of resources between components. An amendment letter to the loan agreement
was negotiated and approved in 1993. The partial loan cancellation as well as the two one-year
extensions of the closing dates also required amendments to the legal agreement.
11.  Changes in the GEF component (Biodiversity Conservation) due to implementation
problems. The subcomponent C.3 "Conservation of Biodiversity", financed by the Global
Environmental Facility - GEF through the GET Grant No. 28604. has also undergone major changes from
the original design, eventually leading to the total restructuring of the component into a new project in
1997. The implementation of the grant, especially in its first three years, ran into serious institutional and
budgeting problems resulting in implementation delays and shortfalls in meeting implementation targets



3
and development objectives. Although implementation improved somewhat towards the later years of the
project, many of the chronic problems persisted, including slow disbursements to the reserves, difficulties
in establishing operational and participatory Technical Advisory Committees (TACs) and completing
management plans in some of the reserves, unclear guidelines for the involvement of indigenous
communities in project areas and serious questions regarding project sustainability.
12.  To solve these problems and at the same time to provide a degree of future funding sustainability,
the GOM agreed to transfer (12 million SDR or approximately US$ 16 million), into a privately managed
endowment fund. Currently, the income from the fund, supplemented by GOM's own resources, is used
to fund the ten protected areas with more reserves to be added as additional donations for the endowment
fund are received and the income from the fund increases. In addition, under the new project, much
clearer procedures have been established on the operation of the TACs and administration of project
funds at the reserve and central level . The restructured project put in place strong transparency and
accountability rules, developed better monitoring indicators, and is much clearer on the institutional role
and that of other stakeholders on project implementation.
13.  Changes in the GEF Grant Agreement. The grant agreement for the Biodiversity Conservation
component was amended several times. In April 1993, as part of the first restructuring due to government
reorganization, SDR 3.5 million ($5 million) was cancelled to reflect the reduction in protected areas
covered in the project (17 to 12). An amendment in April 1996 introduced a series of changes to the
procurement procedures, such as allowing the contracting of NGOs for the implementation of an Annual
Operating Plan for a particular reserve and allowing local shopping for small purchases, a better definition
of the composition and functions of the Technical Advisory Committees established in each reserve
receiving funds from the grant, and the requirement of Indigenous Peoples Development Plans for five
reserves. Also included in the amendment was a clause that allowed for the study and eventual
establishment of the endowment fund later included in the restructured follow-up project. The May 1997
amendment included the tennination of the first grant on December 31, 1997 and the cancellation of SDR
12.0 ($16.3 million) in favor of the Fondo Mexicano para la Conservaci6n de la Naturaleza, and the
negotiation of a new grant agreement supporting the establishment of an endowment fund to provide
funds to the ten reserves financed by the original grant under new procedures.
14.  Project Risks. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) failed to identify key risks that unfortunately
later have come true. The SAR identified only two important risks that the project faced, i.e., (i) decline
in political commitment manifested in the budget constraints, exclusion of water sector, timid
decentralization efforts, and (ii) questionable sustainability that materialized in a financing crunch after
the Bank financing ended (currently being resolved). Other important risks not identified were:
*     The change in Administration and government reorganizations, with subsequent changes
in priorities, personnel and internal procedures, and which consumed significant
implementation effort from both the implementing agencies and the Bank.
*     The financial and economic crisis and the subsequent fiscal constraints, including the
delays in the release of budgets to the implementing agencies, forced cancellation of
substantial portions of the loan and led the project to fall short of its development
objectives and several implementation targets.
*     The social tensions in some protected areas which complicated the implementation of
consultative mechanisms and slowed community participation in reserve management.
C.   Achievement of Project Objectives
15.  With all the political, social, economic and environmental changes that have taken place in Mexico
since 1990, the development objectives not only remained valid until the end of the project, but they have
continued to be valid several years later, perhaps with a different order of priorities. Unfortunately, while



4
the project met many of its implementation targets, it only partially met all its development objectives.
Details of accomplishments and failures are discussed next are listed in Tables 7 and 8 in Annex 7.
16.  Develop and increase GOM's capacity to carry out environmenital protection and natural
resource management functions. This development objective was partially achieved. The project
substantially increased PROFEPA's capacity for enforcing environmental regulations, and INE's capacity
for monitoring air pollution, carrying out environmental impact and risk assessments, preparing
environmental legislation and regulation, land use planning, and in establishing information systems.
This support was particularly important during a very critical period in the development of Mexico's
environmental institutions. A significant part of the institutional environmlental management capacity that
SEMARNAP has today is directly related to the support received through PAM.
17. The project, with involvement of local universities, also made a noticeable difference in
strengthening Mexico's training capacity on environmental topics, rendering a greater likelihood of
sustainability. As a result, today there are significant human resources in Mexico capable of detecting,
understanding the nature of, and proposing solutions to environmental problems in their respective
jurisdictions. Because the training program included personnel from the three levels of government, as
well as the private sector and NGOs, it also provided an opportunity for these groups to get to know each
other in non-adversarial situations, which should only help when the real issues are addressed. To carry
out the training for the project, the universities committed themselves to incorporate the environmental
courses into their regular program, thus providing the continuity in the development of human resources
after the project ends and increasing the chances for sustainability of this activity in the future.
18.   On other activities, implementation targets were not achieved. One example was the cancellation
in 1997 of the activities related to the strengthening of INE's Central Laboratory, located in Mexico City.
Although very necessary, the progress in this important component was very slow. At the same time,
INE decided to pursue the establishment of a Central Laboratory through bilateral cooperation with Japan,
and in collaboration with the Universidad Aut6noma de Mexico. Some of the analytical capacity is likely
to be put in place through this project.
19.  More importantly, due to the 1992 institutional reorganization, a Water Pollution Subcomponent
was cancelled immediately following project approval. The most critical environmental issues in Mexico
are in the water sector and, due to cancellation, the project did not address any of its objectives in this
sector. (Note: Parallel World Bank loans and CNA addressed some of the issues in the water sector.)
20.  Strengthen the institutional and policy framework. This development objective was achieved.
The current environmental legislation in Mexico, which compares favorably with that of the other OECD
countries, is an example of the evolution of environmental management in the country to which the
project contributed. Air quality management programs for the largest cities, hazardous waste policies,
operational environmental assessment and permitting systems, a revised set of environmental regulations
and standards, and a framework for ecological zoning were developed and various policy and strategy
studies were completed and indicators and information developed.
21.  Transform the federal organization into a "second tier" organization. This development
objective was not achieved. Project design did not account for the fact thait many of the necessary
conditions for making the federal environment agency a "second tier" institution are beyond the reach of
the environmental agencies themselves. In order to focus the environmental agency on "second tier"
roles, such as policy development, regulations, information and monitoring, while maintaining the overall
quality of public environmental management, a serious complementary process of decentralization and
private sector and civil society involvement is needed. Environment decentralization is particularly
critical, but it was only after the current administration came into power in 1995 and after the shock of the



5
financial crisis had faded away that GOM started to articulate a credible decentralization process and to
promote an expanded role for NGOs.
22.  Project design was changed during implementation in an attempt to make it more consistent with
the development objective. In the original project design, the decentralization subcomponent was limited
to the financing of equipment for a state environmental analytical laboratory, training of staff, and one
specific study. By 1994, the need for a more decentralized environmental management in Mexico had
become more apparent. The subcomponent was refocused on a broader capacity-building for the state
environmental agencies, including increased emphasis on staff training rather than equipping of
laboratories. As a result, the project helped establish operational environmental agencies in the states of
Tamaulipas, Jalisco, San Luis Potosi, Aguascalientes, and Queretaro. For the supply of analytical
services, some of the states, e.g., San Luis Potosi and Queretaro, established strategic alliances with the
respective state universities and provided some laboratory equipment in exchange for laboratory services.
The Bank encouraged such partnerships as a way of ensuring the long term sustainability of the laboratory
services, and since it is now much clearer that for an improved environmental management in the country,
the state and municipal governments, NGOs, and the private and the academic sectors have to play a
much larger, active and direct role.
23.  Unfortunately, the project failed in the allocation of resources for decentralized activities.
Although agreements were signed at the highest levels between the two levels of government, i.e., federal
and the state, in Mexico, when financial constraints appeared, the obligations under these agreements
were not kept. This caused problems for the state environmental agencies that were counting on federal
support to enable them to assume expanded environmental management roles. The debate surrounding
appropriate roles for federal, state and municipal environmental agencies, and for NGOs, and of
mechanisms to finance these roles has started only recently as part of a nationwide, multisectoral process.
Future environmental projects in Mexico will have to give much higher priority to decentralization, and
PAM has provided some invaluable insights on how to go about it.
24.  Conserve biodiversity in selected protected areas. This objective was only partially achieved.
The project helped create centers for rehabilitation of wildlife and protection of turtles, and helped
implement public educational and awareness programs. In protected area management the project
contributed a credible administrative presence in 10 key protected areas, in management plans,
emergency plans, local consultative mechanisms, and in its final years, improvement in the way
indigenous peoples benefit from project implementation. The project was also influential in the
establishment of sector policies related to the natural protected areas, including the participation of private
and academic sectors, NGOs, local communities and the indigenous people in activities related to
protected areas management and conservation. In this context, the project supported the development of a
strategy for the National System of Protected Areas (SINAP), currently being implemented.
25.  On the other hand, performance varied considerably across protected areas. While some, such as
Sian-Khan, Ria Lagartos and Isla Contoy, achieved considerable progress, others, such as Montes Azules,
faced serious implementation problems. In the latter, the project was particularly unsuccessful in
establishing credible consultative and participatory processes and in defacto delegating to communities
some of the management responsibilities over their own lands. Indigenous Peoples Development Plans
were only prepared for 1997 and subsequent years, as a result of the April 1996 amendments and 1997
project restructuring. Because the project required a management plan and a Technical Advisory
Committee (TAC) before it would finance more than a minimum set of activities, as part of an
"emergency" (interim) annual plan, many activities could not be undertaken. Both the preparation of the
management plans and the assembly of an effective TAC proved to be, in some areas, very complex tasks.
For example: (i) The Islas del Golfo reserve, extending over four states, because of its large and diverse
ecology, poses very difficult scientific and logistic problems; an agreement on the methodology of
developing a management plan was reached only in 1996, but since then, the Decree establishing the



6
reserve is being questioned due to the complex management problems it generated and the plan has been
postponed; (ii) Communities in the Mariposa Monarca Reserve consistently requested changes in the
reserve Decree and eventually secured GOM's agreement to review the Decree, thus rendering premature
the elaboration of the management plan, which has been delayed until legal changes take place; (iii) In
Montes Azules, although a management plan was elaborated and approved, the consultative process that
led to it had serious limitations and is now being redone; (iv) In the same reserve, in part due to the social
conflicts in the region, a TAC was only created in 1997; similar situations occurred in Mariposa Monarca,
and in Manantldn, which covers areas in two states.
26.  Implementation was slow due also to over-ambitious effectiveness conditions and lack of adequate
counterpart funds. Effectiveness implementation was plagued by problems arising from centralized
budgeting and procurement which were not appropriate to the remoteness of the areas and their needs
imposed by nature's cycle. The difference in nature of the operational role of the Coordinating Unit for
Natural Protected Areas (UCANP) and the regulatory role of the implementing agency for the component,
the National Ecology Institute (INE) as a whole, combined with INE's lack of adequate personnel made
matters worse. To improve performance, in 1996 procedures were streamlined, and in 1997 the financial
mechanism was completely redesigned under a new project to finance protected area activities. Many of
the obstacles to project implementation seem to have been resolved in the new GEF-supported project,
although further experience must be allowed to accumulate in order to make an accurate assessment of
the outcome.
27.  Special objectives. With the exception of the Biodiversity Conservation component, PAM's
activities were not intended to and did not have a direct impact on issues such as poverty alleviation,
gender, indigenous people or vulnerable groups. The Biodiversity Conservation component, partially
financed by the GEF grant, dealt in a less than satisfactory way with some of the social and indigenous
people issues in the protected areas where such populations lived. Nevertheless, project implementation
in this aspect improved substantially, and most problems are being addressed and resolved in the new,
restructured, protected area project. For example, as part of the normal implementation procedures,
whenever possible, indigenous and local people were contracted to carry out various activities included in
the Annual Operating Plans or Emergency Plans for the respective reserves. Although not a requirement
of the original project, the preparation of Indigenous People Development Plans (IPDPs) for each of the
reserves where such a population is included in the project, became a requirement after June 1996. The
progress made since 1991, in recognition of the need to consult with and obtain the direct input of local
groups and have them participate in the management of the protected areas, is very significant and is an
achievement of the project, although much more remains to be done for a true involvement of
communities in management of the lands on which they live, consistent with biodiversity conservation
objectives.
28.  Environmental objectives. PAM was a technical assistance project whose main objectives were
to assist the GOM in strengthening environmental management in the country. The project did not
include any objectives directly addressing the global environmental issues of climate change and the
depletion of the ozone layer. However, sections of the training programs and parts of the information
systems supported by the project included these issues, thus assisting in the overall GOM's effort to
address them.
29.  Private sector development. Private sector involvement in environmental management in
Mexico was only partially achieved. While this was an important project objective and a necessary
condition for converting the federal environmental agencies into "second tier" institutions, it was lost as a
priority in light of the substantial changes undergone by the project. Opportunities for private sector
involvement abounded, for example, in operating analytical laboratory services or monitoring
environmental quality, in self-reporting of compliance with environmental regulations and in introducing



7
environmental management systems in industrial plants. Some of the reasons that explain the failure to
promote more private sector involvement are the complexity of the issues and the cultural changes that
the objective implied, but which were either not recognized or too difficult to tackle during the project
preparation phase. In 1998, when this project ended, it can safely be said that the governmental
authorities have a far greater appreciation than six years before of the importance of having the direct and
active participation of the private sector in environmental management in the country. Today, there is
also a far wider knowledge of some of the mechanisms and incentives needed for this to happen. The
new General Law for Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection of 1996, as well as some of
the programs implemented, either as part of this project or as part of the regular SEMARNAP work,
reflect this greater understanding of the role of the private sector in environmental protection and
conservation in Mexico.
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not subject to governmental control
30.  The financial crisis that hit Mexico at the end of 1994, and which led to a period of serious fiscal
constraints and negative growth, was beyond SEMARNAP control. This crisis led to a change of
priorities on the part of the Mexican government, resulting in limited budgets for the environmental sector
which affected project implementation.
Factors subject to government control
31.  Macroeconomic conditions. As a result of the financial crisis, GOM's priorities understandably
and correctly shifted to ensuring in the short run macroeconomic stability with delays in the
implementation of its long tern development agenda in the environment and other sectors. In part as a
result of this crisis, the annual budgets allocated to the project were much lower in US$ than those
anticipated when the project was approved. The problems this caused were compounded by the
significant delays in the release of the approved resources to the line agencies. The net effect was a
further reduction of the resources made available for the implementation of the project's activities. As a
result, and in spite of the partial cancellation of more than 50% of the loan and the two one-year
extensions granted, the loan had an unspent balance of approximately US$ 4 million.
32.  Counterpart funds. In Mexico, all the disbursements eligible for reimbursement from a loan are
part of the regular budget of the implementing agency. Because of the apparent "non additionality"
policy5 followed by SHCP in relation to externally-funded projects, the expenditures assigned to a loan
are entirely mainstreamed in the line agency's budget and as a result are also affected by the lower than
expected budget ceilings and by the late release of approved funds.
33.  The reorganizations of 1992 and 1995, although done to strengthen the environmental
management in the country, caused significant delays in effectiveness and implementation because of the
realignment of major responsibilities between agencies and the subsequent changes in priorities, work
plans, procedures, and staff. Even if the general objectives were not affected, the organizational changes
5 According to established mechanisms, Bank loans and GEF grants to finance projects are channeled to the
executing agencies through the national budget system. Because of the inertia embedded in the national budget
allocation process, line agencies receive about the same total budget from one year to the other. This implies that
funds needed for the implementation of Bank's financed projects have to come from the existing budget or from
internal reallocations within the implementing agency. In view of this, there may be little incentive to host Bank's
projects if Bank's requirements (procurements, disbursements, audits) appear to be different from normal national
procedures.



8
required extensive reprogramming of specific activities and reassignment of staff, thus slowing down the
execution of the project's activities. This implied from the start of project life a need to extend the project
period.
34.  Administrative procedures. Especially in the early years, the implementation of PAM was
seriously affected by the lack of compatibility between some of the procedures and criteria established by
the Bank, and those of the GOM. This was true even in procurement where standard bidding documents
were agreed to by the Bank and the Mexican authorities. The clarification of the points of incompatibility
and reaching agreement on solutions consumed an important part of the efforts of the project's
Coordination Unit and of operational personnel of the implementing agencies as well as of the Bank.
Some of these difficulties were especially noticeable in the project components related to the protected
areas and biodiversity conservation component. By its nature, this component had a large proportion of
small expenditures incurred in remote areas of the country where the regular procurement procedures
cannot always be applied. To address these difficulties, new procedures allowing for local, including
community, procurement were adopted as part of the 1996 amendment to the grant GET-28604.
Factors subject to implementing agencies' control
35.  Management effectiveness. The project supported a wide diversity of activities and included the
participation of many different units and people within the implementing agencies. All of them were
participating for the first time in a Bank-financed project and this meant that they had to go through a
learning process, lengthened because of the changes in personnel and internal regulations resulting from
the reorganizations described in the previous paragraphs. In retrospect, a strong focus on training of staff
of implementing agencies on Bank procedures should have been the key activity during the first year of
the project and should have been included in project design.
36.  Cost changes were not a major factor in this project despite the devaluation of the Mexican peso
following the 1995 crisis. The implementing agencies adjusted well to the new value of the peso and
prices, in many cases paying less in dollar terms after the devaluation than before, thus compensating to
some extent the smaller budgets available to them.
E.   Project Sustainability
37.  The project is likely to be sustainable, thanks primarily to the various changes and restructuring
that took place. These brought the project in line with the real implementation and fiscal capacity of the
implementing agency. Several factors were critical in making sustainability more likely:
*      Project size was reduced and several activities cancelled.
*     Most incremental staff is in the process of being absorbed by the implementing agencies,
although this process substantially stretched their budgets. This includes the core
management teams in the ten protected areas covered by the biodiversity component.
D      The budgets of environmental agencies, although lower thian necessary, are higher than
before this project. They are likely to remain at about current levels, despite the
completion of the project.
*     Activities piloted by PAM in both INE and PROFEPA continue as part of the regular
work program of these two agencies, including: (a) the National System for Air Quality
Information; (b) PROFEPA's regional laboratories; (c) land use planning; (d) INE's
information system; (e) environmental impact assessment; (f) a permit granting system
(g) development of economic instruments of environmental management; (h) wildlife
rehabilitation centers that will be converted to centers for integral conservation with an
enlarged scope of activities; (i) sea turtle protection activities; and () the National
System of Protected Areas.



9
*      The Project Coordinating Unit was converted to an External Credit Unit that, due to its
experience, will continue coordinating Bank-financed projects as well as projects
receiving financing from other external sources.
*      Several of the activities carried out through universities, NGOs and the private sector
helped generate an informed public opinion, likely to maintain the pressure on GOM for
effective environmental management.
*     Institutional stakeholders for environment management were established through the state
level activities, and these are likely to maintain their pressure on federal agencies for
support for state level environmental activities.
*      More effective involvement of communities in protected area management is likely to
help sustain management activities.
*     Training capacity was created at universities, which assumed the commitment of
continuing to provide training services beyond the project life.
*      The undisbursed amount of the GEF grant was used to finance an endowment fund for
protected areas. Even with capital invasions of this fund, it is expected that it will last 25
years, de facto ensuring a sustained flow of financial resources for the Mexico protected
area system. Fund-raising to expand the capital base of the endowment is also a critical
activity included in the new restructured GEF grant (TF 28678).
*     Many of the activities piloted by the project were included in the New Ecology Law,
making reversals difficult.
*      Some of the project objectives and activities were retaken in the Northern Border
Environment Project, currently under implementation, and are likely to be included again
in a follow-up operation to strengthen decentralization of environmental management
activities.
F.   Bank Performance
38.  Bank performance was not fully satisfactory, due primarily to issues of project design and quality
at entry. At the time when this project was prepared, the Bank and GOM's staff experience with stand-
alone technical assistance projects for environmental management was very limited, but enthusiasm was
great, in part due to the process around the global environmental conference in Rio in 1992. While the
project design incorporated several elements that were innovative at the time, such as the concept of a
"second tier organization", decentralization, and some first steps toward the introduction of economic
instruments in environmental management, development objectives and implementation targets were over
ambitious. Up to that moment, environmental management in Mexico had been highly centralized and
based on "command and control" mechanisms, and there was insufficient appreciation for the
fundamental cultural changes that such a process required.
39.  The Bank's appraisal of the risks and key variables also fell short of desirable. While issues of
political commitment were identified, the risks of successive administrative reorganizations were not
foreseen, nor were the social tensions affecting protected area management. Insufficient attention was
given to training of project staff in Bank procedures and to promoting local participation, particularly of
indigenous communities. The Bank did not and could not have anticipated the radical changes that have
taken place in Mexico in the aftermath of the 1994 financial crisis. As a result of the crisis,
macroeconomic stability became the overriding concern for GOM and term agendas such as
environmental management were temporarily relegated to a lower priority.
40.  During implementation, especially in the later years of the project, the Bank was effective in
responding to issues arising from project design and from the unexpected course of events. The Bank was
quick in agreeing with the Mexican authorities on the necessary changes to the project's activities to cope
with the evolving context. However, high staff rotation among Bank's task managers has played against



10
institutional memory and continuity. There were five task managers in seven years and the skills mix did
not cover well the biodiversity component.
41.  In the early years of the project, the requirement for prior review by the Bank of the procurement
activities caused significant backlogs and delays. In the later years, as the Project Coordination Unit had
built a "pipeline' of procurement actions already reviewed by the Bank, tlhe prior review by the Bank
ceased to be a problem. Also in the first few years of the project, for the Mexican institutions working for
the first time in Bank-financed projects, as most of them were in this project, there was an inadequate
realization of the significant complexity and time required for using the assigned resources due to the
additional steps and participants in the decision making process.
42.  Bank supervision was not fully satisfactory, particularly with regard to the biodiversity component.
Not only were field visits to protected areas given lower priority at times, but the skills mix of supervision
rarely included the expertise, such as in protected area management, to adequately supervise the
component. Overall 18 supervision missions were carried out.
G.  Borrower Performance
43.  Under the circumstances that existed during the implementation period, the performnance of the
government and the implementing agencies in Mexico was satisfactory. The project at its inception had
high-level political support in Mexico as well as a high priority amongst the other programs that
addressed environmental problems in the country. It must also be remembered that the period 1990 -
1992 was a very active one for the environment because of preparation work for the United Nations
Conference for Environment and Development that took place in June 1992 in Rio de Janeiro (Brazil).
Mexico was an active participant in both the preparation work for the conference and in the conference
itself. Later on, in 1993 - 1994 period, the negotiations of the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA) kept the environment issue high on the GOM's agenda.
44.  Similar considerations extend to the GEF-financed biodiversity activities. Here the lack of
experience with biodiversity conservation activities on the part of both the Bank and the recipient's staff
and given the intricacies of the Mexican budgeting system, a series of difficulties in the operational
aspects of the reserves came about for at least the first three years of the project. SEMARNAP showed its
commitment to the project objectives when it proposed restructuring of the project in order to deal with
the implementation problems that were arising. The changes introduced in the new project are
fundamental and extremely innovative; for example, the willingness to create an endowment fund and to
transfer management responsibility over it to an NGO, and in seeking more community and indigenous
peoples involvement in protected area management.
45.  Towards the later years of the project, the staff of the implementing agencies working in project
activities became truly committed, very often under adverse circumstances due to lack of adequate
financing, working conditions not exactly conducive to productivity, and job insecurity due to
reorganizations and delays in contracting. The positive contributions of the Project Coordination Unit
located in [NE and the one of the coordinator in PROFEPA should be singled out. The considerable
administrative skills of the PCU staff and the PROFEPA coordinator, backed up by a good information
system, were key in ensuring a good overall performance in coordinating and following up on the
project's implementation in INE.
H.  Audits
46.  PAM was subject to regular annual audits carried out under the supervision of SECODAM, the
Department of Control and Administrative Development of the Govemment of Mexico, with which the
Bank has agreed on a standard framework of auditing arrangements. The audits showed an adequate



11
compliance with the administrative, accounting and financial requirements from the start of the credit to
December 31, 1997. The audits covered organizational aspects; human, financial and material resources;
and the recording and information systems. The audits found the systems of internal procedures and
controls adequate, and suggested some corrective measures. For example, the audit report for 1994
commented on the delays in project's expenditures, and on the specific case of lack of a bond in one of
the contracts. In the subsequent audit, for CY 1995, the auditor noted the restrictions faced by the project
resulting from the fiscal restrictions of the GOM.
47. The grant GET - 28604 was audited separately from the loan 3461 -ME only starting with the CY
1995. The two audit reports covering the periods of January 1 - December 31, for 1995 and 1996 gave a
satisfactory assessment, but also noted some inadequacies in the control procedures, the low rate of
expenditure (CY 1995), and some inadequacies in the acquisition of goods for the reserve and the lack of
insurance for a stolen vehicle (CY 1996). Subsequent audit reports noted that the control procedures had
been corrected. The audit report covering the period January 1997 to July 31, 1998 received an
unqualified opinion.
I.   Assessment of Outcome
48. The overall evaluation of the results obtained by the project in relation to its development
objectives leads to the conclusion that the development objectives were only partially met. Many of the
"physical" objectives of the project were achieved, in particular those related to increasing public
environment capacity for environmental management and the creation of protected areas personnel and a
"permanent" protected areas system, monitoring and enforcement. However, the achievement of other
development objectives, such as decentralization and private sector and NGO participation, and reliable
transparent mechanisms at the local level to provide an effective means for local community participation
in protected area management, were only partially achieved. Nevertheless, the project went a long way in
creating a lasting impact on Mexico's approach to environmental management.
J.   Future Operations
49. Some of the programs initiated as part of PAM, notably the decentralization of environmental
management to the state and municipal levels, will also continue, hopefully at an accelerated rate, through
the new Bank-financed project of "Environmental Management and Decentralization" - (PROMAD)
project, currently under preparation. The proposed project will continue to support specific programs of
the federal environmental agencies, especially in response to the requirements of the new Ecology Law of
1997. However, most of its resources will be allocated to decentralization activities. In order to
overcome the limited budget ceiling of SEMARNAP, the preparation team is now looking at potential
mechanisms which would ensure that the resources made available through the Bank's loan reach the
state and municipal governments in a more direct manner, as well as mechanisms for generating fiscal
revenues from the environmental sector to permit a related increase in environmental budgets. Also, the
Fund for Natural Protected Areas, effective as of January 1, 1998, is a direct follow up of GEF grant
28604. The Government and the Bank have initiated a dialogue regarding a new protected area project,
modeled on the success of the Fund for Natural Protected Areas, to extend support to other protected
areas with biodiversity of global importance.
K. Key Lessons Learned
50.   Project design and execution. Project design was overly optimistic and failed to adequately
assess the institutional and fiscal capacity of the implementing agencies. Some of the key lessons related
to project design are:



12
*      Technical assistance projects are an important instrument in providing the underpinnings
for a basic environmental management capacity.
*      Very clear, tangible and quantifiable development objectives and monitoring indicators
need to be put in place in environmental institution projects to avoid disbursing the
project in activities with little overall impact on the status of the environment.
*      Institutional reform is a very slow process, implying substantial changes in institutional
cultures and values, in particular for new sectors such as the environment, and the project
duration needs to take this fact into account.
*      Given the long duration of environmental institutions development projects, it is likely
that they will face substantial changes in the political, fiscal and economic context; this
needs to be taken into consideration by building sufficient flexibility in project design to
allow it to adapt to change.
*      Environmental institution development projects need to be careful with the financing of
incremental staff since their sustainability is highly questlionable once the project is
finished.
*      For the development of environmental "second tier" institutions, a much larger, active
and direct role needs to be given to the state and municipal governments, NGOs, and the
private and the academic sectors.
*      Decentralization activities will not be successful at the sectoral level, and in particular for
the environment, unless they are part of a clear overall political commitment forcing
change across all relevant sectors and are accompanied by appropriate fiscal
decentralization mechanisms
*      In Mexico, as in many other countries, protected areas were in some cases created on
community and private lands with little consultation or respect for the rights of land
owners and local inhabitants. While this may have been understandable given the
urgency of biodiversity protection in light of the threats, securing the trust of
communities, transferring to them some management responsibilities on their own lands,
and putting in place adequate compensatory mechanisms, need to accompany any
protected area program facing these problems, for conflicts to be manageable and for
long term sustainability.
51.    Project execution, on the other hand, was fairly successful in quickly responding and adapting to
a rapidly evolving context shaped by external shocks beyond the project control. A key lesson in project
execution is:
*      Project design and execution need to be sufficiently flexible to accommodate changes in
priorities resulting from changes in the social, economic and political circumstances
surrounding the project.
52.  Financial resources. Notwithstanding the optimism and interest of Governments in protecting the
environment that existed in the period preceding the 1992 World Summit in Rio de Janeiro, when this
project was being prepared, the project was over-dimensioned incorrectly assessing GOM's capacity for
allocating budgets for environmental management. Some key lessons for future projects in Mexico are:
*      In the specific case of Mexico, once project financing has been negotiated with Credito
Publico of SHCP, an effective mechanism to commit the "Egreso" part of SHCP to the
agreed budgets is needed. In this respect it is important to involve Egreso in project
preparation and negotiation since it is the part of Hacienda responsible for project
budgets.



13
*      The specific way through which Bank's projects are financed in Mexico6 and the
sophistication of its environmental institutions and experts call for a different lending
approach. It is likely that much more could be achieved through a more "programmatic"
approach where the loan would finance part or all of the environmental agency's program
through the assigned national budget, or through adjustment type of lending tied to and
disbursed against the implementation of a clear long-term strategy and performance
indicators.
*     Timely and streamlined release of funds as well as close cooperation between
government agencies, NGOs, and the private sector is critical for protected area
management.
53.  Administrative procedures. A detailed analysis of the administrative procedures, e.g., budgeting,
budget release, contracting and hiring of personnel, that come into play in the implementation of a project
is absolutely necessary. This should be carried out during project preparation so that any potential
obstacles can be discussed, negotiated and eventually removed before the project becomes effective. This
could then be consolidated into an "Operations Manual" describing explicitly the set of procedures to be
used in projects implementation, including eligible expenses and procurement, agreed to by the Bank and
the Government. This lesson was applied in the restructured, new GEF protected areas project. One
limitation of this process demonstrated in this project is that not all implementation problems can be
anticipated, especially when the teams on both sides are new to the exercise. This aspect can be mitigated
by using, whenever possible, organizational structures already in place, and persons with experience and
that have performed well under similar circumstances and assuring continuity in task manager
responsibilities. Finally it is important to avoid frequent changes of task manager.
54. Procurement procedures. Similar to the previous point, it is essential that the details of the
procurement procedures that will be used during project implementation be put on the table, discussed,
and agreed to, before the project starts. Although legally internationally-negotiated procedures prevail, in
practice Mexican staff at the working level are--or feel--bound by Mexican procedures only. In spite of
significant advancement in this area, some differences between the Bank and the GOM procedures still
remain. Another important lesson for protected area components is that these require flexibility in the
procurement procedures for small amounts, since most of them are carried out in very remote areas of the
country.
6Implementing agencies in Mexico see very little financial additionality from Bank's projects as they would receive
the same budget from SHCP independently of the presence of external financing. The most important incentive for
requesting Bank's support is the technical assistance associated with Bank supervision and the likelihood that Bank
intervention will provide greater continuity and sustainability.



14
PART II ANNEXES
A.   STATISTICAL TABLES
I .   Summary of Assessments
2.   Related Bank Loans
3.   Project Timetable
4.   Cumulative Disbursements - Loan 3461-ME
5.   Cumulative Disbursements - Grant GET -28604
6.   Project Disbursement by Component and Subcomponent
7.   Results by Component and Subcomponent
8.   Studies Completed during Project's Implementation
9.   Project costs and financing %
10.  Status of Legal Covenants - Loan 3461 -ME
11.  Status of Legal Covenants - Grant GET 28604
12.  Staff Inputs - Loan 3461 -ME
13.  Staff Inputs - Grant GET 28604
B.  BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION



15
MEXICO ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
(Loan 3461-ME and Grant GET 28604)
Table 1. - Summary of Assessments
A.- Achievement of Objectives                       xxx
Macroeconomic Policies                                                           xxx
Sector Policies                      xxx
Financial Objectives                                                             xxx
Institutional Development                           xxx
Physical Objectives                                 xxx
Poverty Reduction                                                                xxx
Gender Issues                                                                    xxx
Indigenous concerns                                 xxx
Environmental Objectives                            xxx
Public Sector Management            Xxx
Private Sector Development                                        xxx
B.- Project Sustainabiliry            xx_
Coe Bank Performance                                xxx
Identification                                      xxx
Preparation Assistance                                            xxx
Appraisal                                                         xxx
Supervision                                        xxx            xxx'
D.- Borrower Performance                            xxx.
Preparation                                         xxx
Implementation                                      xxx           xxxa
Covenant Compliance                                 xxx           xxxi
E.- Assessment of Outcome                                         xxx
7 Loan 3461 -ME
8 Grant GET 28604
9 For availability of funds to the implementing agencies the assessment is "deficient" for both Implementation and
Covenant Compliance



16
MEXICO ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(Loan 3461-ME and Grant GET 28604)
Table 2. - Related Bank Loans and Grants
-OCr~d~ :e l;        ,    : - jio    -    .    .......                           Status
Preceding Operations
Mexico Pollution Control  Facilitate industrial pollution  1982, for US$ 60 million    Closed, 1988
Project (Loan 2154-ME)   control investments           eq.1
Forestry Development    (a) To increase productivity and    1989, for US$ 16.30 million  Closed, 1994
(Loan 3115-ME)          efficiency of forestry production    (original amount $45.5)
activities in the states of Durango
and Chihuahua by financing
equipment and technical assistance
to improve forest management,
harvesting, and industrial
technology and to permit the
vertical and horizontal integration
of the operations of forest
producers. (b) To improve the
quality of life by increasing rural
and urban employment and family
income including that of the
Amerindian communities. (c) To
rehabilitate forest roads to reduce
transport costs. (d) To improve
environmental protection. (e) To
strengthen the management and
coordination capabilities of federal
and state forestry and conservation
institutions.
Decentralization and    Environmental component:        1991, environmental      Closed, 1996
Regional Development    institutional strengthening,   component actual
(Loan 3310-ME)          Agroecological study of Selva  expenditure US$ 14 million
Lacandona. Partial success.
Irrigation Sector Project   Provide adequate levels of  1991, for US $350 million   Implementation
(Loan 3419-ME)          investments in the irrigation sector, (original amount $ 400
selected on the basis of rigorous    million)
economic and technical criteria;
10 The US$60 million loan was substantially amended in February 1984. Total disbursements were US$8.7 million.



17
MEXICO ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(Loan 3461-ME and Grant GET 28604)
Table 2. - Related Bank Loans and Grants (Cont.)
Wtn-Farm & Minor        (a) Reduce loss and waste of   1994, for US $400 million   Implementation
Irrigation              irrigation water; (b) Promote  (original amount $450
(Loan 3704-ME)          decentralization and private   million)
investment in irrigation; (c)
Increase cropping intensities and
yields; and (d) Increase crop
diversification into higher value
crops.
Water/Sanitation II     Strengthen institutional and   1994, for US $350 million   Implementation
(Loan 375 1-ME)         financial capacity of the Water
Utilities (WUs).
DRD II.                 The Project seeks to increase access 1994, for US $500 million   Implementation
of rural poor to basic social and
economic infrastructure and
income-generating activities in the
following states: Chiapas,
Guerrero, Hidalgo, Michoacan,
Oaxaca, Puebla, Veracruz, and
Zacatecas. The implementing
agency is the Secretariat for Social
Development (SEDESOL).
Environmental Project for  Strengthen the (i) environmental    1996, for US $94.6 million  Implementation
the Northern Border     agencies, and financial and other   (after partial cancellations in
(Loan 3750-ME)          municipal functions in the Northern 1995 & 1996)
Border states and municipalities;
strengthen PROFEPA and INE; and
(iii) support selected protected areas
in the Northern Border region.
Water Resources         (a) Promote conditions for     1996, for US $186.5 million Implementation
Management              environmentally sustainable,
(Loan 4050-ME)          economically efficient and
equitably allocated use of water
resources in Mexico;
(b) Support the integrated and
comprehensive management of
water resources in Mexico; and
(c) Increase the benefits and reduce
the risks related to existing
hydraulic infrastructure in Mexico.
Community Forestry      Strengthen the capacity of     1997, for US $15 million    Implementation
(Loan 4137-ME)          communities and ejidos to manage
their forest resource base



18
MEXICO ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(Loan 3461-ME and Grant GET 28604)
Table 2. - Related Bank Loans and Grants (Cont.)
Natural Protected Areas   (a) protect unique biodiversity in   1997 for US $16.35 million  Implementation
Project (GEF Grant      eligible biosphere reserves;(b)
28678)1                 strengthen protected areas
management at the reserve level;
(c) promote local participation,
including indigenous communities,
in the implementation of protected
areas operating and management
plans; and (d) ensure long-term
recurrent cost financing for core
protection and conservation
activities.
Table 3.- Project timetable
Steps in Project cycle             Date planned         Date actual
Identification                                          March 1990
Preparation                                             March 4, 1991
Appraisal                                               June 17, 1991
November 13, 1991
Negotiations                                            November22, 1991
February 11, 1992
Board presentation:                                     April 14, 1992
PAM
GEF
Signing:
PAM                                                     April 28, 1992
GEF                                                     April28, 1992
Effectiveness:
PAM                                                     April 15, 1993
GEF                                                     April 15, 1993
Project completion          June 30, 1995               Jume 30, 1997
Loan/GEF closing date       December 31, 1995           December 31, 1997
This is the restructured GEF grant referred to in paragraph 13.



19
MEXICO ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Table 4. - Cumulative Disbursements - Loan 3461-ME
(US$ million)
Adjusted in 1996                                                           3.2       6.8
Actual                          5.016    12.161    1775        18.189   18.189"  -1-9.5T3
Actual as % of
Estimate                                               _                     _
Table 5. - Cumulative Disbursements - Grant GET 28604
(US$ million)
(Approxsa US$iat 4.9) in
Estimate adjusted for the              5.0       14.2       23.2       25.1
cancellation of
SDR 3.5 million
(Approx. US$ 4.9) in
April 1993
Estimate adjusted for the                                                         8.8
cancellation of $16.3
million in June 1997
(SDR 12 million)
Actual - US$                                     3.018     3.600      4.289      6.981      8.191
SDR                                     2.198     2.570      3.029      4.931      5.408
Actual as % of                                   21.1       15.5       17.1        79
Estimate after
cancellation
12 Included retroactive financing for eligible activities after March 1 , 199 1, and the initial deposit of approximately
US$ 5 million into the special account.
13 All undisbursed amounts, including the special account, were returned to thie Bank when te project closed.
14 Although Approved on April 1992, the grant became effective only on April 15, 1993. Before that date SDR 3.5
million were canceled from the grant
15 SDR 12 million was canceled from this grant in June 1997,and an equivalent amount was transferred to a new
grant that was then disbursed immediately into a privately managed endowment fund



20
MEXICO ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(Loan 3461-ME)
Table 6.-Project Disbursement by Component an(d Subcomponent
(US$ million)
r ,.40Ub b 4,              -       . .         ruc-ui'ing
K                 , "i.,. .y *. -C!IR| l, ,,          &  
%"6After
. _____ .__._. __-__-_-__ -r__ *_____ r_ ,,__ _  .__________  .__________  , ___;_ _._  Ca iceilation "
1. Monitoring and Control of Pollution        36.8       21.8            15.166      70
1.A. Water Pollution Control                16.2    Cancelled              -       -
1.B. Air pollution Programs                 6.9       4.9              4.143      85
1.C. Environmental Laboratories             13.7      13.1             9.973      76
1.D. Enforcement/Env. Audits                           1.0             1.050      105
2. Minimizing Negative Env. Impacts of         13.6      11.9            11.587      97
Investment Projects
2A. Impact and Risk Assessment               6.6       5.0             4.944      99
2.B. Ecological and Zoning                   7.0       6.0             5.731      96
2.C. Strategic Planning                        -       0.9             0.912      101
3. Conserving Biodiversity                    21.7        7.4            10.656      144
3.A. Protected Areas"U                       3.7       0.0             3.865
(out of a
total cost
of 38.6)'
3.B. Wildlife Protection &                  18.0       7.4             6.791      92
Conservation
4. Modernization of Environmental             11.3       12.6            11.215      89
Management
4.A. Institutional Strengthening             4.5       4.5             4.045      90
4.B. Decentralization Pilot Program          5.6       6.3             5.417      86
4.C. Economic Instruments for the            1.2       0.8             0.749      94
Environment
4D. Research & Critical Studies                        0.3             0.180      60
4E. Scholarships                                       0.7             0.824      118
16 Of the total amount, according to the SAR approximately US$ 30 million was going to be financed by the GEF
grant GET-28604. This grant financed all the reserves-related activities as welil some of training activities. The loan
financed only the central coordination activities. Later, with a reduction in the number of the reserves to be
supported from 17 to 10, the grant was also reduced to approximately US$ 25 rnillion. In 1997, an additional $16.3
million was cancelled and used to establish a protected areas endowment fund administered by the Fondo Mexicano
para la Conservaci6n de la Naturaleza.



21
5. Legislation and Standards                4.4           5.1       5.796     114
6. Studies                                  2.1           1.6       1.621     101
6A. Consolidation of the National        1.1            0.6       0.277     46
System of Protected Natural Areas
6B. Creation of Biological Corridors     0.4            0.4       0.922    231
6C. Environmental Effects on Health      0.3            0.4      0.224      56
6D. Environment Futures                  0.3            0.2      0.198     99
7. Project Coordinating Unit                1.3           1.3       1.872     144



22
Table 7. - Project's Results by Component and Subcomponent
COMPONENT!    T~~~A~ViTiE~                           RESULTS
1. Pollution
Monitoring and
Control
1 .A. Water Pollution  * Redesign the National Water   Canceled as a result of the 1992 reorganization and !
Control               Monitoring Network                project restructuring
* Implement new, more effective tools
for analyzing and presenting
monitoring data
* Training
1.B. Air pollution    * Air quality monitoring networks or    . 20 meteorological stations and 79 monitoring
Programs              improved monitoring equipment in 36   stations
priority urban areas (45          * Emission inventories in 20 cities and 6 industrial
meteorological and 206 monitoring   corridors
stations)                         * SNIFF operating in 6 regions covering all the
* Update and operate the National    main cities of Mexico
Information System of Fixed Sources  * Based on SNIFF, air quality management
(SNIFF)                             programs prepared for Mexico City, Guadalajara! 
Monterrey, Toluca and Cd. Juarez.
I.C. Environmental  * Establish a National Reference   * Although additional space was built, some new
Laboratories -        Environmental Analytical Laboratory:  equipment acquired and staff recruited and
INE's Central       built additional laboratory space,  trained, this activity was eventually canceled
Laboratories          acquire new instrumentation, recruit    because of its poor quality implementation
and train new staff               * A new Centro Nacional de Investigacion y
Capacitaci6n Ambiental (CENICA) established
jointly by INE and UAM with financial
assistance from JICA will serve as a National
Reference Environmental Analytical Laboratory
PROFEPA's          * Renovate/built 6 regional laboratories  * 5 regional laboratories built or renovated and new
Regional Laboratories   and operationalize then (acquire  equipment acquired (Last regional laboratory to
equipment, recruit and train staff,  be ready at the end of 1998). They are expected
develop/adapt methodology and       to become functional by the end of 1998
prepare manuals)                  * 12 new personnel recruited
* Hire 52 staff and train 140 persons in  * 9 training courses given and 250 persons trained
various analytical techniques     * QA program established only in the Central
* Establish an intra and inter-laboratory   Laboratory. Similar programs to be implemented
QA program                         in the other laboratories when they become
operational
1.D. Enforcement -   * Recruit and train enforcement   * 15 new personnel, 15 training courses, anid 7
Environmental. Audits  personnel                          regional seminars
* Carry out 9000 inspections        * Over 70.,000 industrial inspections over the l997-
* Supervise 1300 environmental audit    97 periocl
a 750 audits supervised



23
Table 7. - Project's Results by Component and Subcomponent (Cont.)
Environmental
Impact Minimization_
2.A. Ecological     * Prepare a basic document for      * Basic document prepared in 1993
Zoning                 ecological zoning at the national level * System for Ecological Zoning of the National
* Develop criteria for ecological zoning   Territory (SIORDECO) developed in 1993, and
for 14 economic sectors            the Ecological Zoning Information System
* Design a monitoring system for     (SIORE) developed in 1996
compliance with ecological zoning    * 17 ecological zoning studies carried out
* Carry out 20 ecological zoning studies * I training course
in selected areas of the country
* Train staff
2B. Minimization of  * Analyze 2000 El submissions      * A computerized system for supporting the analysis
Impact and Risk      * Recruit and train staff for evaluating    of El submissions was implemented
Assessment             El submissions (Up to 50 new staff of * 4068 El submissions were evaluated
which 20 for the state offices, and up  * 30 new persons recruited and 5 pilot and 2
to 60 training courses)            regional courses given
* Analyze 1380 submissions for     * 1850 projects analyzed from the ER point of view
environmental risk (ER) assessment
* Issue 165 permits for high risk  * 165 high risk activities regulated
activities                        * 15 new staff, and 5 pilot, 8 state and 4 regional
* Recruit and train staff for evaluating    courses carried out
ER submissions (Up to 33 new staff   * Procedure for public consultations developed (List
and 31 training courses)           of submissions published and copy of submission
* Develop procedures for public      available for consultation in INE's library)
consultations in El assessment
2.C. Strategic      * Develop environmental criteria for    * Studies for 6 economic sectors completed
Planning               inclusion in the development plans of * Developed methodology and indicator for
specific economic sectors          establishing environmental priorities
* Establish environmental standards and * A data base and an environmental diagnostic for
guidelines for regional development   the coastal zone of Mexico completed
* Carry out cost/benefit studies in  * A study to define areas of Mexico suitable for
relation to any new standard       solid waste disposal and for establishing treatment
* Establish a data bank of           and disposal facilities for hazardous wastes
environmental "hot spots" in Mexico   completed



24
Table 7. - Project's Results by Component and Subcomponent (Cont.)
3. Biodiversity
Conservation
3A. Wildlife Protection  * Establish/renovate 7 national  * 5 rehabilitation centers established
& Conservation           centers for rehabilitation of     * Almost 8300 animals/birds attended, and over 90%
injured/confiscated wildlife       were returned to their habitat
* Prepare & distribute educational   * Reproduction and education programs established in
materials re. Wildlife conservation  the rehabilitation centers
and legislation                  * 9 training courses
3B. Protection of Sea   * Establish 12 turtle protection  * 14 sea turtle: protection centers, in 10 states,
Turtles                  centers                             established and operating
* Conduct education programs       * Over 43,000 incubation sites containing over 4
million eggs protected; over 2.1 million turtles
returned to the sea
* Numerous public awareness events re. sea turtle
protection held
* Improved cooperation with NGOs, research and
educational institutions, state and municipal
governments achieved
3C. Management of      * Prepare management plans for 10   * Management plans completed for 9 reserves (Islas
Protected Areas17        reserves                            del Golfo management plan to be completed in
* Prepare and implement operational   1999)
and emergency annual operating    * 31 operating and 32 emergency plans supporting the
plans for the 10 reserves          operation of 10 reserves prepared and implemented
* Introduce financial and economic   * Provided support to several pilot productive projects
mechanisms for sustaining the      in buffer zones
reserves                         * Endowment fund to receive donations and to support
* Develop a strategy for the        the managernent of protected areas established
management of the National       * SINAP strategy developed and accepted by the
System of Protected Areas          Government. of Mexico is now being implemented
(SINAP)                          * A study identifying potential biological corridors
* Carry out studies to support the  completed. The biological corridors concept
creation of biological corridors as a  accepted and it is being implemented as part of
mechanism for biodiversity         SINAP
conservation                                                                       l
17 Of the total amount, according to the SAR approximately US$ 30.0 million was going to be financed by the GEF
grant GET-28604. This grant financed all the reserves related activities as well some of training activities. The loan
financed only the central coordination activities. Later, with a reduction in the number of the reserves to be supported
from 17 to 12, the grant was also reduced to approximately US$ 25 million.



25
Table 7. - Project's Results by Component and Subcomponent (Cont.)
4. Modernkizaton of
Environmental
Management_
4.A. Institutional   * Design and implement an INE-wide  * INE computer network established
Strengthening          information system
4.B. Decentralization    * Strengthen the environmental  * 5 State Action Plans completed and 5
Pilot Program          management capacity in 5 states   coordination agreements between federal and
(Jalisco, Tamaulipas, Queretaro, san   state governments signed
Luis Potosi and Aguascalientes) by  * Comprehensive training programs on
providing training, acquisition of  environmental protection developed and
equipment and specific studies to  implemented through state universities
address institutional and issue  * 2 self-financing laboratories operating in
specific needs                   Guadalajara (Jalisco) and Cd. Victoria
(Tamaulipas)
* Laboratory, computing, audio-visual and
monitoring equipment acquired
4.C. Economic        * Develop economic instruments that  * Several studies to serve as the basis for policy
Instruments for the    would provide the resources needed   development completed - See table 2
Environment            for environmental protection
Ensure the compatibility of economic
and environmental protection policies
4D. National Training   * Carry out a "needs" study and  * The needs and supply study completed
Program                compile an inventory of available    * 18 regional courses developed and carried out
university training programs on  with the participation of universities and
environmental topics             research institutes in each of the states
* Develop courses on environmental   * 829 scholarships awarded
conservation and protection     * Specific professional development courses for
* Increase the number of trained  INE's personnel developed and carried out
personnel on environmental topics
4E. Regulations &    * Adapt the existing and develop new  * 82 official Mexican standards approved
Standards              regulations needed to implement the * Work in progress for the development of an
environmental legislation        integrated regulatory system
* Harmonize the environmental law    * Public access to the supporting documentation
with other legislation           for regulations and standards provided



26
Table 7. - Project's Results by Component and Subcomponent (Cont.)
5. Studies                     See table 2                           See table 2
6. Project          *Consolidate budget estimates for Caffied out the activities related to the management,
Coordinating Unit     project's activities, review annual follow up and evaluation of the project:
working plans for each of the  * Prepared consolidated annual work plans and
components, and harmonize them   budgets
with the approved budgets    * Prepared periodic implementation reports
* Suggest budget reallocations to   * Consolidated and quality assured the procurement
maximize the use of available  packages
resources                    * Provided the necessary infornation to the Bank
* Follow up on implementation and  project team and logistical support
prepare periodic reports
* Assist the operational areas in
preparing the procurement
documentation, including the
short lists (consulting) and the
bidding processes



27
MEXICO ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(Loan 3461-ME)
Table 8.- Studies Completed during Project's Implementation
2. Minimizing Negative Env. Impacts of
Investment Projects
2A. Impact and Risk Assessment      Specific environment planning             20       12
2.B. Ecological and Zoning          Risk in operating installations          427       312
Accident prevention                      284      106
2.C. Strategic Planning             Definition of priority problems           4         4
Priorities ecological criteria            6        6
3. Biodiversity Conservation           Consolidation of the National System of   1         1
Protected Natural Areas
Creation of Biological Corridors - Site   4        2
identification
4. Modernization of Environmental
Management
4.A. Institutional Strengthening    Institutional analysis                     1        1
Information system                        1         I
Infonet functioning                       1        1
4.B. Decentralization Pilot Program  Risk in Guadalajara and GIS for Tarnaulipas  I     1
Decentralization studies for Jalisco and  2        2
Tamaulipas
4.C. Economic Instruments for the   Environmental economics and natural       6         6
Environment                            resources
4D. Research & Critical Studies     Economic instruments                      6         2
4E. Scholarships                    Higher Education Environmental Education   1        1
supply
5. Legislation and Standards           Environmental crimes definition           I        1i
Conflicts between the Environmental and   1        112
other Laws
Standards                                82       51'
6. Studies
6C. Environmental Effects on Health   Environmental effects on health           2        2
6D. Environment Futures               Prospective study                         1         1
18 Done with other resources.
19 The new law reduced the number of standards to 51.



28
MEXICO ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(Loan 3461-ME and GET Grant 28604)
Table 9.- Project costs and Financing
(US$ million)
5                                                           5~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . ..   :>..   .. .
..  --       ~~US$-  %                                       US$         %
(of After
._______________  ________  ______cancellations)
Loan                              50.0   39         23.8                          19.5      81.93
GEF Grant                         30.0   24          8.2                          82__   8  IOO.Q
Govt. of                          46.6   37         35.0                          30.2      86.29
Mexico                                           (estimated)
Total:          114.8    11.8    126.6  100         67.0                         57.9       86.0
(US$ million)                                     ___
%          90.7     9.3     100    _                            __      ___



29
MEXICO ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(Loan 3461-ME)
Table 10.- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
Gu     a      rne 3461 -ME   GA.0 1    FIN         CP   - 6/30/95    12131/96    The Guarantor declares it commitment to the objectives   Two successive reorganizations, i.e., fo
ORG                                            of the Project as set forth in Schedulc 2 to the Loan  SEDUE to SEDESOL and then to
Agreement and, to this cnd, shall carry out the Project  SEMARNAP, combined with the
(through SEDUE unless othcrwise spccified in this  changing priorities of the GOM and the
Agreement) with due diligence and efficiency and in  1995 financial crisis have significantly
conformity with appropriate financial, environmental and   slowed down the execution of the
administrative standards and practices and shall provide,   project. For example, in 1995 the INE's
in a timely manner as needed, the funds, facilities, services  budget did not become available until
and other resources required for the Project.      May.
To complete the project the GOM and the
bank have agreed to a partial cancellation
of the loan ($26.2 mil.) and to a one-year
extension of the closing date to Dec. 31,
1996.
GA3.04     MAN           CP        6/30/95    12/31/96    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree or as otherwise    Although the objectives of the project
FIN                                            provided on this Agreement, the Guarantor shall carry out  have not changed, the factors described
ORG                                            the Project in accordance with the schedules contained in   above have contributed to changes in
Annexes I and 2 of the supplemental letter, of even date    priorities and to the work program. These
herewith, fumished by the Guarantor to the Bank, as such   changes have been discussed and agreed
letter maybe amended from time to time with the approval  with the Bank.
of the Bank.
GA3.05     ORG           CP        9/20/91    12/31/96    With regard to Part B of the Project, the Guarantor shall,   Most ElAs still reviewed at INE since
TCH                                            in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, carry out the  current regulatory mechanisms do not
program presented to the Bank on September 20, 1991, (as  allow for such delegations.
such program is adopted as necessary to reflect the
subsequent creation of SEDESOL), for delegating to the
SSDs responsibility for evaluating environmental impact
assessments and authorizing the carrying out of public or
private works or activities to which such assessments
apply.
GA3.06     STD           CP        12/31/93               With regard to Part B.1 (b) of the Project, the Guarantor    Study was partially completed.
shall employ consultants to study and recommend how to   Consultant did not meet objectives and
facilitate and encourage public access and input to the  was only paid about 30% of proposed'
environmental assessment                           amount.



30
Table 10.- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
111N                             TX          CVGAN          S TATUS/ . tORKlNA          .            .     ~     SWT0   ==[V~T                                           O~
NumBERt  'REF~ERENCE    CIAVO~S)    LJx         L                   UaxL
UtWittL      DAM.
____ ___    ANME~
review process (including timely public access to      EIAs are currently avial othe public
relevant documents). Traking into account the          and GOM is currently publishing such
consultants' recommendations, the Guarantor shall      public access procedures.
establish procedures for such public access, satisfactory
to the Bank, by publishing such procedures in SEDUE's
GaceaEcligc (Ecological Joumal) and making them
effective no later than December 31, 1993.
GA3.07         MAN           CP          12/31/93     08/31/96    The Guarantor shall employ consultants who shall make    Studies underway; however, GIS system
operational, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and by    has been restructured and will serve as the
no later than December 31, 1993, a geographic          core system for ecological planning and
information system for SEDUE in which shall be stored    zoning data processing and evaluation..
the results of the environmental studies and ecological
planning and zoning exercises referred to in Part B.3 of
the Project. Such studies and exercises shall be
completed according to the schedule contained in Annex
2 of the supplemental letter referred to in Section 3.04 of
this Agreement, and the Guarantor shall immediately
thereafter publish in SEDUE's Gaceta Ecol6gica
(Ecologicatl Jurnal) a summary of the resulting
ecological planning and zoning criteria for the areas in
question, which criteria shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
GA3.08         ORG           NC          6130/95      12/31/96    The Guarantor shall, through a formally established iner-  Inter-ministerial force was never
ministerial task force comprised of representatives from  established, SEMARNAP is currently
SEDUE and SHCP, supervise the carrying out of Part     carrying out Part D.3 of the Project
D.3 of the Project.                                    (environmental and natural resource
economics studies).
GA3.09         ORG            C          6/30/92                   (a) With regard to part D.1I of the Project, the Guarantor    Study was completed by Booz-Allen, but
shall cause an institutional analysis of SEDUE to be   at the same time, independently, SEDUE
completed by a management consulting firm by not later   was reorganized into [NE & PROFEPA
than June 30, 1992. An internal advisor-y group within    (SEDESOL) and the study lost its
SEDUE shall serve as liaison between SEDUE and such    significance.
management consulting firm. Such internal advisory
group shall also coordinate implementation of the action
plan referred to the paragraph (b) of this Section.



31
Table 10.- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
ORG           C          7/31/92      7/31/92      (b) The Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank, by not    The reports were furnished to the Bank.
later than July 31, 1992, the reports and       Although they include important findings
recommendations of the management consulting firm  and recommendations, they are no longer
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and shall  applicable.
allow the Bank one month to comment on such
ORG           NC         8/31/92      No           reports and recommendations. Taking into account
Longer       such recommendations and the comments of the
Applicable.  Bank thereon (as such recommendations and
comments are adapted as necessary to reflect the
subsequent creation of SEDUE) the Guarantor shall
carry out part D. I of the Project according to an
action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared
not later than August 31, 1993. Such action plan
shall include, inter alia, staffing and budgeting
targets to carry out SEDUE's mandate.
GA3.10        MAN           C                       1993         (a) The Guarantor shall agree with the States of  In addition to the states of Tamaulipas
ORG                                   1995         Jalisco and Tamaulipas and up to three other States    and Jalisco, agreement was reached with
TCH                                                acceptable to the Bank on an action plan, satisfactory  the states of Aguascalientes, San Luis
to the Bank, for carrying out Part D.2 of the Project   Potosi, and Queretaro.
C                                   with regard to such States.
MAN                                   1993         (b) The Guarantor shall enter into agreements,  Agreements were reached with the states
ORG                                   1995         satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the up to five    of Tamaulipas, Jalisco, Aguas Calientes,
TCH                                                States referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section,  San Luis Potosi and Queretaro.
each of which agreements shall specify, inter alia (i)
the obligations of the State in question to carry out its  Agreements were made clear.
action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section; (ii) the obligation of the Guarantor to
finance, on a grant basis, the investments required to
carry out the action plan referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section (except for recurrent costs), (iii) the
obligation of the State in question to finance the
recurrent costs of such action plan, (iv) the obligation
of the State in question to participate in the annual
reviews referred to in Section 3.12 (d) of this
Agreement, (v) the obligation of the State in question
to cooperate with Project monitoring undertaken
pursuant to Section 3.12 (b) and (c ) of this
Agreement, and (vi) the right of the Guarantor to
cease financing the investments required to carry out
the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section upon application of the provisions of Section
5.01 of the Loan Agreement.



32
Table 10.- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
ACMMVW-  'WAW  W-~~~~~~T    ~~ :COVENANA?
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor
shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of such    Three other states (Queretaro, San Luis
agreements,                                         Potosi, and Aguascalientes) were
MAN          C                       1993       (c ) Each of the agreements referred to in paragraph (b)    selected.
ORG                                  1995       of this Section shall make clear that the Guarantor shall
TCH                                             not provide Loan proceeds to the State in question, but
shall instead provide such State with facilities, goods or
assistance, previously procured by the Guarantor, required
for the relevant action plan.
MAN          C                                  (d) With regard to the States, other than Tamaulipas and
ORG                                             Jalisco, referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, one
TCH                                             such State shall be selected during the first of the annual
reviews referred to in Section 3.12 (d) of this Agreement,
and up to two additional such States shall be selected
during the second of the annual reviews referred to in
Section 3.12 (d) of this Agreement.
GA3. 1I       STD          CD        9/30/94       6/30/96     (a) With regard to Part D.3 of the Project, the Guarantor
shall cause SEDUE to furnish the results of the studies to
the Bank by no later than September 30, 1994, and allow
the Bank one month to comment on such results. The
Guarantor shall cause the task force referred to in Section
3.08 of this Agreement to take into account such
comments of the Bank in preparing a report, policy
recommendations and an action plan for the
implementation of such recommendations on the basis of
such studies, which report, policy recommendations and
action plan shall be completed by no later than December
31, 1994.
STD         CD                                  (b) The Guarantor shall carry out Part D.5 of the Project
according to the schedule contained in Annex 3 of the
supplemental letter referred to in Section 3.04 of this
l     _    _   l       I    l_            I  _    _  I  _    _   I  _     _      _    _    Agreement.                                            _



33
Table 10.- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
GA3.12        ORG         C                                    (a) The Guarantor shall coordinate implementation of   The PCU, was informed and is
the Project through the PCU, to be staffed and   coordinating the project's
maintained throughout Project iniplementation in a  implementation.
CD                                  manner satisfactory to the Bank.
MAN                                 Continuous  (b) The Guarantor, through the PCU, shall monitor  Difficult to get budgetary allocation
FIN                                              Project implementation by periodically evaluating  figures on a timely basis.
project progress in attaining the targets specified in the
supplemental letter referred to in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement.
MAN         NC                                   (c) The Guarantor shall cause the PCU to hold
quarterly evaluation meetings once every February,
May, August and November during Project          Rather than quarterly, the evaluation and
implementation. Two weeks prior to each such     supervision meetings have been held on
meeting, the Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank the  a "as needed" basis.
proposed agenda for such meeting and allow the Bank
one week to suggest additional agenda items.
Immediately after each such meeting, the Guarantor
shall furnish to the Bank the minutes of such meeting.
The minutes for August meeting shall include an
estimate of SEDUE's budgetary allocation required for
Project implementation during the immediately
upcoming calendar year. The minutes for the
November meeting shall include a report on the budget
allocation actually proposed to the Guarantor's
legislative branch for the Project for the immediately
upcoming calendar year. The minutes for the
November meeting (to be furnished to the Bank no
later than December 1) shall also include a detailed
report, based on the work done pursuant to paragraph
(b) of this Section, on the results of Project monitoring
for the immediately prior twelve months and
suggestions for improving Project implementation and
effectiveness. The minutes for the February meeting
shall include a report on the budget allocation actually
approved by such legislative branch for the current
fiscal year.



34
Table 10- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
0 ~ - l '-6R________(___                            3        i                 .    . '  'i '.:                                                             *''    .. X
MAN          CP                                 d) In January or February of each year during project  Reviews held August 93, April 94, and
implementation, the Guarantor, the Borrower and the  June 1995., June 1996, and July 1997
Bank, together with any of the States that have
undertaken the obligation set forth in Section 3.10 (b)
(iv) of this Agreement, shall jointly participate in an
annual review. Each such review shall, based on the
results of Project monitoring contained in the minutes of
the immediately preceding PCU meeting referred to in
paragraph (c ) of this Section, examine the status of
Project implementation and conclude with the
finalization of an annual plan of action, satisfactory to
the Bank, including specific goals and projections for
Project implementation for the calendar year during
which the annual review is held. Each such annual plan
of action shall be carried out by the Guarantor during
such calendar year.
GA3. 13       MAN          CD                                 The Guarantor shall carry out Part C.3 of the Project in    Management plans for the various
FIN                                             accordance with the terms of the Global Environment    reserves were completed but in some
Trust Fund CGrant Agreement.                       cases with considerable delays.
GA3.14        TCH          NC                                 By no later than April 30, 1993, the Guarantor shall  As part of the 1993 reorganization of the
have issued and made effective a water pollution   environmental sector in the Mexican
prevention and control regulation under the Guarantor's  federal government (SEDUE to
Federal Law for National Waters (Ley Federal de Aguas  SEDESOL) the responsibilities for water
Nacionales) or, if such law has not been enacted by such  resources management was consolidated
date, shall have instead issued and made effective such a  in CNA. As a result the water
water pollution prevention and control regulation under   component of this project was canceled
the General Ecology Law.                           and this clause is no longer applicable.
GA4.01        ADT                                             The Guarantor, through SEDUE, shall maintain or cause  INE maintains such records.
to be maintained records and separate accounts to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices,
| the resources and expenditures in connection with the
execution of the Project (except part C.3 of the Project).



35
Table 10.- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
Loan 3461 -            _LA2.01           FIN         CTh Boffower shall, for the purposes- of the Project, open  BANOBRAS -maintains such account.
ME                                                                                       and maintaini in Dollars a special deposit account in
Banco de Mexico on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.
LA3_03       MAN          c                                  The Borrower shall participate in the annual reviews  BANOBRAS participated in the annual
referred to in Section 3.12 (d) of the Guarantee  internal audit.
Agreement.
LA4;01        ADT         C                                   The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained    BANOBRAS maintains such records.
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations and
financial conditions of the Borrower, including records
and separate accounts for the Project(except for part C.3
of the Project).
Codes for Type of Covenant            Status: C      - Complied with
ADT - Audit                                   CD     - Compliance after Delay
CRY - Cost Recovery                           NC     - Not Complied with
FIN  - Financial                              SOON  - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
MAN - Management & Staffing                   CP      - Complied with Partially
ORG  - Organizational                         NYD   - Not Yet Due
RPT  - Reporting
STD  - Studies
TCH  - Technical
GA = Guarantee Agreement            LA = Loan Agreement           GET = Global Environment Trust Fund Agreement



36
MEXICO ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(Grant GET 28604)
Table 11- Status of Legal Covenants
AGBEEMi~NT    LOAN!        TIT       CONTMANT   STAI                     VIUD                      Cx OV COVENANT.,                     C-OMMENT
NUMBER   REFERENCE   t"S($)   LEV-EL    FVLLL: FI"LL
OFEATfh        DAkU
COMPUI
_________  _______                    ~~ANCE   _ _  _ _
Global        GET -    GET2.02    FIN            C                               The Recipient shall, for the purposes of Part C.3   BANOBRAS maintains such
Environment  28604                                                               of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a  account.
Trust Fund                                                                       special deposit account in Banco de Mexico on
Grant                                                                            terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Grant Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
GET3.01     MAN          CD/ClP                         (a) The Recipient and the Guarantor declare
their commitmcnt to the objectives of the Project
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, the Guarantor shall
carry out (or cause to be carried out) Part C.3 of
the Project through SEMARNAP with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial and administrative
practices and with due regard to ecological and
environmcntal factors, and the Guarantor shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required
for Part C.3 of the Project.



37
Table 11- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
GET -       GET    MAN           CD/CP                            (b) In order to comply in part with its obligations   Compliance was performed at
28604      3.01                                                   under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Guarantor,  various degree according to the
(Amended                                                         through SEMARNAP and pursuant to Area          protected areas
text)                                                            Implementation Contracts, shall cause NGOs to
carry out of Parts C.3 (a) and C.3(c) of the Project
with respect to at least five of the SINAP protected
areas referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
No Area Implementation Contract may be entered
into with respect to a SINAP protected area for
which there exists no current Emergency Plan or
Operating Plan satisfactory to the Bank. The
Guarantor shall comply with the terms of all such
Area Implementation Contracts. Except as the
Bank may otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not
amend or fail to enforce any provision of such
Area Implementation Contracts. The Guarantor
shall exercise its rights under such Area
Implementation Contracts in such a manner as to
protect the interests of the Guarantor and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust
Fund Grant.
GET -      GET      MAN           CP                              (c) With respect to Area Implementation
28604      3.01                                                   Contracts, the Guarantor, through SEMARNAP,
(Amended                                                          shall: (i) enter into Area Implementation Contracts
text)                                                            for at least three SINAP protected areas by no later
than December 31, 1996; (ii) enter into Area
Implementation Contracts for at least two SINAP
protected areas (other than those areas covered by
paragraph (c) (i) of this Section) by no later than
December 31, 1997; and (iii) maintain Area
Implementation Contracts, for at least three
SINAP protected areas, in effect at all times
during the course of Project execution.



38
Table 11- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
TEXT        VSCRIHON OF COVENANr                                                                            (OsA
NT       NUMBZR    REFERENCE         T        LEEL         L:    FU...LL
CLA S(E$      QV      F&I41    1AkrE.
GET -       GET3.01      MAN        CP                              d) The Area Implementation Contracts referred to
28604                                                               in paragraph (c) of this Section shall obligate the
(Amendcd                                                           relevant NGOs to carry out all of the actions
text)                                                              specified in the relevant Emergency Plans or
Operating Plans, as the case may be, except for
the selection, hiring, payment and supervision of
the Directors and other SEMARNAP personnel
referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(e) The Guarantor, through SEMARNAP, shall
carry out Part C.3 (d) of the Project by no later
than December 31, 1997.
GET -       GET3.02    MAN          C                               Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
28604                                                               procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
(Amended)                                                           services required for Part C.3 of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust
Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (but only if such
items are not procured by an NGO pursuant to an
Area Implementation Contract). In addition,
NGOs with which to enter into Area
Implementation Contracts shall be selected by the
Guarantor, through SEMARNAP, as if they were
consultants; their procurement by the Guarantor,
therefore, shall also be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement except as the
.__    ___Bank shall otherwise agree.             l                                  l



39
Table 11- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
RIM~~~~~~~~~
GET3.03    MAN,         C                              The Bank, the Guarantor and the Recipient
RPT                                        hereby agree that the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition) shall be carried out (or caused
to be carried out) by the Guarantor with respect
to Part C.3 of the Project.
GET3.04    MAN          C                              The Recipient shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the
Guarantor, providing for the transfer to the
Guarantor on a grant basis of the proceeds of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant. Neither the recipient
nor the Guarantor shall amend or fail to enforce
such contractual arrangements.
GET3.05    MAN          C                              Without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees the
punctual performance of all obligations of the
Recipient set forth in this Agreement.



40
Table 11- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
~~~NT     wAM      -TXT'        EUIEmm    ST1ATJ   ORUMINAt-7"L          --- s1~T      fESRIPIIO  OF COVKNANTCMM1
. . ~NPtR   IuFlRNC                CtAS($          1tV~   flLIt   DAI~TE LI,....:--. ..  
OF      1VATJt       OA1F,
GET3.06      RlT          CD                               (a) Each year during Project execution, the
Guarantor, through SEMARNAP. shall present
to the Bank thc Operating Plan or Emergency
Plan, as the case may be, for that year for each
of the SINAP protected areas rcferred to in
Schedule 3 to this Agreemcnt.
(b) Within thirty calendar days of the Bank's
receipt from the Guarantor of an Operating Plan
or Emergency Plan pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Bank shall determine the
amount of GEF TIrust Fund Grant proceeds, if
any, to be made available for that year for the
relevant SINAP protected area and shall so
inform the Guarantor.
GET3.07      ORG,         CD/CP                            (a) For each SINAP protected area referred to    Establishment of the ITACs and their
TCH                                           in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Guarantor,  performance was mixed, compliance
through SEMARNAP, shall by no later than     was carried out at various degrees
December 31, 1997 establish a TAC to support   according to each protected area.
implementation of Part C.3 of the Project in
such area. The Guarantor, through
SEMARNAP, shall cause each T AC to act
under by-laws satisfactory to the Bank and
shall, at least once a year during Project
execution, cause each TAC to meet with
officials from SEMARNAP headquarters. Each
such rxmeeting shall involve an evaluation of
execution of Part C.3 of the Project in the
relevant area and the Guarantor, through
SEMARNAP, shall prepare a report regarding
the results of such meeting and submit such
report to the Bank promptly after the conclusion
of such meeting.



41
Table 11- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
GET        GET3.07   ORG           CP                              b) The Guarantor, through SEMARNAP, shall
28604                  TCH                                         ensure that each TAC: (i) participates in
(Amended                                                           assisting SEMARNAP in the drafting of the
Text)                                                              Management Plan, Operating Plans and
Emergency Plans, as the case may be, for the
SINAP protected area in question; and (ii) is
allowed to comment on evaluations and audits
prepared with respect to the SINAP protected
area in question
GET3.08    CRY,         C                              The Guarantor, Recipient and Bank shall exert
FIN,                                        their best efforts to establish a private trust fund,
ORG                                         capitalizable with GEF Trust Fund Grant and
other proceeds from public or private sources,
for the purpose of providing long-term
sustained funding for the SINAP protected areas
referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. If
and when such a trust fund is established in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, this Agreement
shall be amended so as to permit then
uncommitted GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds
to form part of said trust fund's corpus.
GET4.01    FIN,         C                              (a) The Recipient and the Guarantor shall
ADT                                         maintain or cause to be maintained records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of Part C.3 of the Project of the
Recipient and departments or agencies of the
Guarantor responsible for carrying out Part C..3
. .  .                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of the Project or any portion thereof.        



42
Table 11- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
GET4.01      FIN,           C                                  b) The Recipient and the Guarantor shall: (i)
ADT                                              have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
the Special Grant Account, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards and procedures, by
independent and qualified auditors; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each
such year, the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information
conceming said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
GET4.01       FIN,          C                                  c) For all expenditures with respect to which
ADT                                              withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Recipient and the Guarantor
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year
after the Bank has received the audit report for
| the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures; (iii) enable the Bank's
.__________    ____________    ____________    _________    ___________    ____ _  representatives  to  examine  such  records;ords;



43
Table 11- Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
and (iv) cnsure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit rfeffred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of
such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
d) As part of its obligations under paragraph (b)
of this Section, the Guarantor, through
SEMARNAP, shall: (i) have the records and
accounts with regard to expenditures under each
Area Implementation Contract, for each fiscal
year, audited in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards and procedures by
independent and qualified private auditors; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than one month after the end of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Codes for Type of Covenant        Status: C    - Complied with
CD    - Compliance after Delay
ADT - Audit                              NC    - Not Complied with
CRY - Cost Recovery                      SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
FIN  - Financial                         CP    - Complied with Partially
MAN - Management & Staffing              NYD  - Not Yet Due
ORG  - Organizational
RPT  - Reporting
STD  - Studies
TCH  - Technical
GA = Guarantee Agreement        LA = Loan Agreement              GET = Global Environment Trust Fund Agreement



44
Table 12 - Staff Inputs - Loan 3461-ME
Project          Bank Budget               Other Bank Funds                Trust Funds                      Total
Phase
Staff Weeks      US$         Staff Weeks      US$        Staff Weeks       US$       Staff Weeks       US$
Total   Field*   Total       Total    Field*    Total   Total    Field*   Total       Total   Field*     Total
Project          76.7    20.2   156,319       14.1      9.3   23,424       4.2      0.9      6,953    95.0      30.4    186,696
Preparation                                                .
Supervision     114.1    23.0   272,706       17.0      1.2   33,537                        8,000   131.1      24.2    314,243
ICR              4.0        -     13,347                                                               4.0        -      13,347
TOTAL           194.8                         31.1     10.5                4.2      0.9              230.1      4.6    514,286
*The amount of "Field Staff-weeks" tends to be underestimated
Table 13 - Staff Inputs -GET Grant 28604
Project          Bank Budget               GEF Funds             Other Bank Funds                Total
Phase
Staff Weeks    US$       Staff Weeks     US$       Staff Weeks    US$      Staff Weeks      US$
Total  Field*    Total    Total f Field*    Total    Total  Field*   Total   Total  Field    Total
Project          25.7           43,660                                                       25.7            43,660
Preparationl                                                                     lll                      ll
Supervision**    20.6    5.2   49,276    100.8    18.1  255,744       0.6 |_     t_ 2,638    122.0   23.9  307,658
Preparation~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -                                               .___     ,      ,__   I-   . -
TOTAL            46.3    5.2   92,936   100.8    18.1  255,744        0.6_          2,638   147.7l 23.3  351,318
*The amount of "Field Staff-weeks" tends to be underestimated
**The supervision was carried out by Bank staff and consultants covering the following skills: Environmental Management (Protected Areas, Urban and
Industrial Pollution), Environmental Economics, Procurement, Project Management, Disbursements, Environmental Laboratories, Financial Analysis,
Indigenous Peoples/NGO participation.



INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ECOLOGIA
SEMARNAP
Borrower's Contribution
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ECOLOGIA
UNIDAD DE CREDITO EXTERNO
PROGRAMA AMBIENTAL DE
If
MEXICO
CREDITO 3461-ME
INFORME DE CIERRE
RESUMEN EJECUTIVO
1992- 1997
ABRIL 1998



2
RESUMEN EJECUTIVO DEL INFORME DE CONCLUSION DEL
PROGRAMA AMBIENTAL DE MIEXICO.
1. FORMALIZACION DEL CREDITO
El Programa Ambiental de M6xico financiado parcialmente con el cr6dito
3461-ME, fue formalizado entre el Gobierno de Mexico y el Banco Mundial a
trav6s de la firma de sus acuerdos legal y de pr6stamo el dFa 28 de febrero
de 1992. Al momento de su firma, estos docurnentos senalaban una
duraci6n del proyecto de cuatro afios por lo que delbi6 haber concluido en
dcicembre de 1995.
Atendiendo a la necesidad de continuar algunas de las acciones del programa
y a los requerimientos de recursos para su financiamiento, durante 1995 y
1 996 personal del Gobierno de M6xico y del Banco Mundial, llevaron a cabo
negociaciones  con  el  fin  de  enmendar  los  documentos  legales
correspondientes, obteniendo asf dos ampliaciones de un anio cada una, de
tal forma que para diciembre de 1 997 el programa ileg6 a su sexto ano de
operaci6n.
2. CAMBIOS INSTITUCIONALES
Durante el desarrollo del proyecto, se dieron cambios iinstitucionales tanto en
las agencias ambientales de M6xico como en el iBanco Mundial. En lo
referente a los ejecutores del Gobierno de M6xico, el programa lo inici6 la
Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia a trav6s de su Subsecretarfa de
Ecologia. MWs tarde, en mayo de 1 992, al crearse la 'Secretarfa de Desarrollo
Social (SEDESOL) 6sta asumi6 las funciones ambienitales a traves de dos
instancias nuevas que fueron el Instituto Nacional de Ecologia (I.N.E.) y la
Procuraduria Federal de Protecci6n al Ambiente (PROFEPA). Por Odtimo, en
diciembre de 1994, se funda la Secretarfa de Medio Ambiente, Recursos
Naturales y Pesca, la cual incorpor6 como 6rganos desconcentrados de su
estructura al I.N.E. y a la PROFEPA.
Por parte del Banco Mundial los cambios se dieron basicamente en sus
equipos de trabajo, pues el programa tuvo 5 oficiales de proyecto.
Lo anterior retras6 la ejecuci6n del proyecto pues ea pesar de que en los
documentos del Programa Ambiental de M6xico estan definidos sus objetivos
y lfneas de trabajo, los cambios descritos en el parrafo anterior provocaron
ligeros matices en la orientaci6n del c6mo cumplir las metas establecidas,
pues el personal de nuevo ingreso requiri6 de tiempo para familiarizarse con



3
el programa y posteriormente incluirlo en sus planes de trabajo,
aprovechando de 6ste su estructura y sus recursos.
Un proceso similar se dio en la parte relativa a los procedimientos de
adjudicaci6n de trabajos de consultorfa y de adquisici6n de bienes, pues el
personal encargado de Ilevarlos a cabo requiere asimilar los documentos de
licitaci6n acordados para el efecto entre el Gobierno de M6xico y el Banco
Mundial, ademas de interiorizar los tiempos de gesti6n y los pasos que
requieren no objeci6n.
1. . Conrl de la Contarninaci6on'del A-gua                          0.00
1.B. Administracion de la Calidad del Aire en Zonas Criticas  4,143,148.44
I.C. Laboratorios Ambientales                                9,972,952.79
1.D. Auditoria Ambiental (Inspecci6n y Vigilancia)           1,050,400.00
2.A. Ordenamiento Ecol6gico                                  5,731,307.06
2.B. Evaluaci6n de Impacto y Riesgo Ambiental                4,943,946.61
2.C. Planeaci6n Estrategica                                    911,571.12
3.A y B. Centros de Rehabilitaci6n de Especies Silvestres y  6,791,031.28
Protecci6n y Conservaci6n de Tortuga Marina.
3.C. Consolidaci6n de Areas Protegidas Selectas                112,454.97
4.A. Fortalecimiento Institucional                           4,045,396.13
4.B. Descentralizaci6n de Funciones de Gesti6n Ambiental     5,416,804.60
4.C. Analisis de los Mecanismos Econ6micos para la Protecci6n  749,494.12
del Medio Ambiente y Financiamiento del Sector Ecol6gico
4.D. Investigaci6n y Estudios Criticos                         180,103.35
4.E. Programa Nacional de Capacitaci6n                         823,862.08
5.A. Legislaci6n Ambiental                                          0.00
5.B. Regulaci6n y Normas                                     5,796,386.24
6. Consolidaci6n del Sistema de Areas Naturales Protegidas     277,000.00
7. Establecimiento de Corredores Biol6gicos en Areas           921,900.00
Prioritarias
8. Efectos Ambientales en la Salud                             224,200.00
9. Estudio Prospectivo Sobre el Ambiente en Mexico             198,300.00
10. Unidad Coordinadora del P.A.M.                           1,872,241.03
(1) Se refiere a los recursos del Programa Ambiental de M6xico destinados a la
operaci6n del donativo GEF-28604.



4
3. NIVEL DE EJERCICIO
En lo referente a la utilizaci6n de los recursos ejercidos, el Instituto Nacional
de Ecologia y la Procuradurfa Federal de Protecci6n al Ambiente, lograron de
1991 a 1997 un ejercicio estimado de 54,162.5 miles de d6lares que
representan un 62% del los 88,000.00 miles de d6lares originalmente
asignados al proyecto. Este porcentaje de ejercicio aumenta a 98% si
consideramos el recorte de 32,769.10 miles de d6lares efectuado en 1996.
El gasto por componente y subcomponente de este ejercicio es el siguientes:
Es importante mencionar que las subcomponentes 1.A y 5.A no ejercieron
recursos debido a que las agencias ejecutoras, Comisi6n Nacional del Agua y
la Direcci6n General de Asuntos Jur(dicos respectivamiente, no requirieron de
los recursos del cr6dito para realizar las acciones ahi previstas.
4. CUMPLIMIENTO DE METAS
Como puede observarse en los cuadros del Anexo 1, el nivel de cumplimiento
de metas varfa entre las subcomponentes e inclusive dentro de una misma
subcomponente hay variaciones en el porcentaje de cumplimiento de metas
entre sus diferentes indicadores, sin embrago se puede considerar un avance
en promedio de 71.83%.
Aunque los comportamientos son variados, destacan las subcomponentes
1.A, 1.C, 2.B, 3. B y 4.E, pues con los recursos asignados sobrepasaron las
metas originalmente propuestas.
5. LECCIONES APRENDIDAS
Los seis anios de experiencia que nos ha aportado el Programa Ambiental de
Mexico, nos permiten sugerir que el diseiio de los programas siguientes no
debe ser tan cerrado. Lo anterior en el sentido de que las acciones est6n tan
a detalle descritas en los documentos legales.
En el caso del P.A.M., en sus documentos, se describen en algunos casos
hasta los nombres de cada uno de los estudios que se programaron para
alcanzar determinadas metas, 6stos ademas estan ainualizados. Lo anterior
hizo necesario que cualquier modificaci6n o adecuaci6n que fue requerida,
demand6 la "no objeci6n" del Banco Mundial y en algunos casos fue
necesario enmendar los documentos. Con lo anterior, ademas de
entorpecerse el cumplimiento de metas, se favoreci6, en algunos casos, el
micromanejo del proyecto.
Tal vez definir marcos de referencia de trabajo dentro de los cuales se vayan



5
definiendo proyectos anuales o bianuales, permita manejar con mayor
flexibilidad los proyectos y las estrategias que favorezcan su cumplimiento y
concreci6n en acciones.
Por otro lado, el tramite de no objeciones en algunos casos retard6 la
ejecuci6n de los proyectos de duraci6n de mas de 10 meses, lo que
combinado con la autorizaci6n tardfa de presupuesto, hizo imposible la
realizaci6n de trabajos de consultorfa el mismo ano en que fueron
concebidos. Por lo anterior, consideramos que parte de la soluci6n a los
problemas del retraso en el inicio de nuevas acciones, seroa que se
requirieran las "no objeciones" a programas de trabajo, elevando a un nivel
mas global los documentos que la requieren.
Tal vez no sea ya tan necesario para el Banco Mundial conocer el detalle de
cada uno de los estudios por realizar, sino unicamente de manera
informativa, datos que le permitan al Banco evaluar la pertinencia de las
acciones que se pretenden llevar a cabo para alcanzar los objetivos definidos
en los programas.
En lo que se refiere a la asignaci6n de recursos a proyectos y sus
componentes, es importante tambi6n hacer evaluaciones de los presupuestos
asignados por parte de la Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Publico a los
agentes ejecutores que llevaran a cabo los proyectos para no sobredotar de
disponibilidad de recursos a los proyectos, es decir, se requiere diseiiar los
proyectos y sus niveles de financiamiento de acuerdo a las disponibilidad de
recursos.
6. CONCLUSIONES
En una operaci6n de duracion original de cuatro anos con ampliaci6n de 2,
existen una serie de imponderables al momento de su diseiio. Tales
imponderables van del cambio de personal encargado del proyecto, al
redimensionamiento de las acciones en t6rminos de recursos debido a los
niveles anuales de asignaci6n presupuestal.
Esta problem6tica requiere que al momento del diseiio de nuevas
operaciones, se considere la posibilidad de no sujetar al ejecutor a solicitudes
de no objeci6n para cada uno de los pasos del proceso de asignaci6n, de
cada uno de los estudios o proyectos del programa. Una alternativa a esta
limitante en la ejecucion, es que el Banco Mundial requiera el proceso de no
objeci6n para programas que impliquen varias acciones, por ejemplo para los
programas anuales de cada uno de los indicadores establecidos en los
documentos del proyectos. Al requerir unicamente no objeciones a
programas anuales de trabajo que contengan un paquete de acciones a partir
de los cuales, como consecuencia se avance en el cumplimiento de alguno



6
de los indicadores, se reducen los tiempos de gesti6n con Banco Mundial y
se reduce el riesgo que un cambio de funcionario a cualquier altura del afno,
retrase la ejecuci6n de las acciones, tomando en consideraci6n la experiencia
de que la sustituci6n requiere un proceso de asimilaci6n del proyecto.
En lo referente a los recursos asignados es indispensable proyectar cifras de
presupuesto  tomando  en  consideraci6n  los  presupuestos  hist6ricos
autorizados para cada entidad que participe y de no existir estos, buscar un
acuerdo con la parte de egresos de la Secretarfa de Hacienda y Cr6dito
Publico, para estimar con bases mas firmes el presupuesto asignado a cada
componente.
En lo referente a la ejecuci6n de las acciones del Programa Ambiental de
Mexico, las mismas requirieron de un procesos de ajuste ya sea de recursos
o de actividades, lo anterior debido a que el concepto para el que fue
diseiiado el programa no se mantuvo debido a cambios en las condiciones y
las instituciones iniciales. Por lo anterior el programa requirio de varios
ajustes en su operaci6n tanto financieros como tecnicos, lo que demuestra
que los cambios se pueden, quedando pendiente unicamente definir el
procedimiento de flexibilizaci6n que los regule.



7
SECRETARIA DE MEDIO AMBIENTE, RECURSOS
NATURALES Y PESCA
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ECOLOGIA
INFORME DE CONCLUSION DE
IMPLEMENTACION
(RESUMEN EJECUTIVO)
PROGRAMA DE CONSERVACION DE LA
BIODIVERSIDAD EN
AREAS NATURALES PROTEGIDAS SELECTAS DE
MEXICO
PROGRAMA AMBIENTAL DE MEXICO
COMPONENTE 3 C.
ACUERDO DE DONACION GEF 28604



8
INFORME DE CONCLUSION DE IMPLEMENTACION
PROGRAMA DE CONSERVACION DE LA BIODIVERSIDAD EN AREAS
NATURALES PROTEGIDAS SELECTAS DE MEXICO
RESUMEN EJECUTIVO
1. ESTADOIEVALUACI6N DE OBJETIVOS
El Gobierno Federal llev6 a cabo el Programa Ambiental de Mexico que se
integr6 para su ejecuci6n con diversas partes, entre las que figura la C.3
denominada "Programa de Areas Naturales Protegidas", y para la realizaci6n
de dicho programa el Banco Internacional de Reconstruccion y Fomento
(BIRF) en su caracter de fiduciario del Fondo Global para el Medio Ambiente
(GEF) hizo una donaci6n al Gobierno Federal Mexicano DEG 21'400,000
(veintiun  millones  cuatrocientos  mil Derechos  Especiales  de  Giro)
equivalentes aproximadamente a U. S. DLS. 30'000,000 (treinta millones de
d6lares, 00/100 Moneda de los Estados Unidos de Am6rica), destinada a
cubrir los costos de la elaboraci6n de Programas de Manejo, asf como la
implementacion de los Programas Operativos Anuales o en su caso los
Programas Emergentes de areas naturales protegidas.
2. CUMPLIMIENTO DE OBJETIVOS.
Durante el periodo 1992-1997 se llev6 a cabo el Programa de Conservaci6n
de la Biodiversidad en Areas Naturales Protegidas Selectas de M6xico,
financiado con recursos del Donativo GEF 28604, cunnpli6ndose los objetivos
que se describen a continuaci6n:
a)   Se elaboraron y consensaron los Programas de Manejo para las areas
siguientes: RB Calakmul, REB Isla Contoy, RB El Vizcaino, RB Montes
Azules, REB Rfa Lagartos, RB Sian Ka'an, Parque Nacional lzta-Popo,
Parque Nacional Cascadas de Bassaseachic, y Parque Nacional El
Chico
b)   Se elaboraron y se encuentra en etapa de consenso los Programas de
Manejo para las RB El Triunfo, REB Mariposa Monarca, y RB Sierra de
Manantlan.
c)   Se implementaron los Programas Operativos Anuales y los Programas
Emergentes.
d)   Se realizaron Programas de Desarrollo de Puebilos Indfgenas en las RB
Calakmul, REB Islas del Golfo, REB Mariposa Monarca, RB Montes



9
Azules y RB Sierra de Manantlan.
e)    Para el desarrollo de las actividades incluidas en los Programas
Operativos Anuales y los Programas Emergentes se cont6 con la
colaboraci6n de los siguientes actores:
i)    Gobierno del Estado de Campeche en la Reserva de la Biosfera
Calakmul
ii)   Instituto  Manantlan  de  Ecologfa  y  Conservaci6n  de  la
Biodiversidad, perteneciente a la Universidad de Guadalajara, en
la Reserva de la Biosfera Sierra de Manantlan.
iii)  Instituto de Historia Natural en la Reserva de la Biosfera el
Triunfo.
iv)   Amigos de Sian Ka'an en la Reserva de la Biosfera Sian Ka'an.
b)   Se establecieron  los Consejos Tecnicos Asesores integrados por
representantes de todos los actores con intereses relevantes en el
manejo del area; se elabor6 el Reglamento para los CTA's; y se
present6 a los miembros de los CTA's las Propuestas de Programas de
Manejo, Programas Operativos Anuales y Programas Emergentes para
obtener su opini6n y en su caso el involucramiento en el manejo del
area.
c)    Se promovi6 el disenio e implementaci6n del Fondo de Areas Naturales
Protegidas, dentro del Fondo Mexicano para la Conservaci6n de la
Naturaleza, A.C., que despu6s de una analisis exhaustivo result6 ser el
mas id6neo para administrar los recursos de la donaci6n, los cuales
fueron radicados en dicho fondo en junio de 1997.
d)   A fin de intercambiar experiencias e implementar las estrategias para el
manejo de areas naturales protegidas se realizaron diversas reuniones
de directores, en las que se tuvo la oportunidad de visitar algunas
reservas y de observar en el sitio el desarrollo de algunos proyectos.
e)   La capacitaci6n  de  los Directores  de  las reservas  se  centr6
principalmente en la conservaci6n de la biodiversidad y la participaci6n
comunitaria.
3. PRINCIPALES FACTORES QUE AFECTARON EL PROYECTO.
a)   Factores no sujetos a control gubernamental.
Entre los factores que afectaron el desarrollo del Programa que no estuvieron
sujetos al control gubernamental se destacan: el requisito de "No
Objeciones" desde la elaboraci6n de los Programas de Manejo hasta la
ejecuci6n de cada uno de los proyectos contemplados en los POA's; el
cumplimiento de nuevas exigencias que no estan contempladas en el acuerdo



10
de donaci6n originalmente, como es el caso de la "autorizaci6n" de P0 A's
por parte de CTA's; y el tiempo excesivo de respuesta a las solicitudes de
"No objeciones".
Por otra parte, influy6 la falta de criterios para determinar la elegibilidad de!
gasto, lo que hizo lento el proceso de comprobaci6n.
Por ultimo es importante mencionar que el cumplimiento de ia normatividad
de Banco Mundial es incompatible con la normatividadl nacional.
b)  Factores sujetos a control gubernamental.
Los recursos provenientes del Donativo entraron para su ejercicio en le
programaci6n del gasto publico, por lo que fue la SHCP quien autoriz6 su
aplicaci6n de acuerdo con la estructura programatica del presupuesto de
egresos de la federaci6n. Al tener estos fondos un tratamiento fiscal, se
impidi6 un ejercicio continuo de los recursos financieros, siendo que 10s
proyectos de conservaci6n y desarrollo sustentable en las ANP's requieren de
un flujo continuo y de una gran flexibilidad en su ejercicio, dada la diversidad
de  actores  sociales,  condiciones  socioecon6micas  y  caracterfsticas
geograficas y climaticas.
Estas rigideces producto del tratamiento fiscal estrictamente anual,
impidieron el gasto de los fondos con la agilidad requerida provocando Un
constante subejercicio, limitando el cumplimiento de las metas programadas.
Lo que se tradujo en una falta de credibilidad y confianza de los actores
sociales y la opini6n puiblica nacional e internacional.
c)   Factores sujetos a control del Instituto Nacional de Ecologfa.
Por lo que respecta a los factores sujetos a control por parte del INE, se
reduce a que no se contaba con antecedentes en el manejo y administraci6n
de areas naturales protegidas.
4. SUSTENTABILIDAD DEL PROYECTO
El prop6sito fundamental del proyecto fue financiar la conservaci6n de la
biodiversidad en las areas naturales protegidas incluidas en el mismo, con los
recursos de la donaci6n se dio atenci6n a los problemas mas urgentes y se
establecieron bases para garantizar en el futuro las actividades de
conservaci6n mediante los siguientes instrumentos:
*  Los Programas de Manejo que son el marco de referencia de
planeaci6n, en los que se establecen las estrategias tendientes a
combinar las funciones de conservaci6n, investigaci6n, desarrollo
econ6mico y recreaci6n.
*  Los  Programas  Operativos  Anuales  que  contienen  metas
cuantificables para avanzar hacia el cumplimiento de los objetivos



I1
definidos en el Programa de Manejo, con este instrumento se
posibilita la definici6n de actividades a corto plazo, su alcance y
calendarizaci6n detallada.
*  La  integraci6n  de  los  Consejos T6cnicos Asesores quienes
promueven las reglas, derechos y obligaciones en el acceso a los
recursos naturales, integrado por representantes de la comunidad
con intereses relevantes al manejo del area, vinculados a la
elaboraci6n y evaluaci6n de programas de manejo y de operaci6n.
*  El Fondo para Areas Naturales Protegidas creado dentro del Fondo
Mexicano para la Conservaci6n de la Naturaleza, A. C., donde a
partir de junio de 1997, los recursos GEF operaran como capital
semilla o como capital complementario de otras fuentes de
financiamiento, permitiendo un ejercicio multianual y una
programaci6n ordenada y continua del gasto dentro de las reservas.
-  Los recursos federales aprobados que garantizan la plantilla basica
y el gasto operativo anual destinado a la conservaci6n de manera
permanente.
*  Las nuevas aportaciones que el FMCN recabara para el incremento
de los recursos patrimoniales.
5. EVALUACION DE LOS PRODUCTOS
La evaluaci6n final del Programa de Conservaci6n de la Biodiversidad en
Areas Naturales Protegidas Selectas de M6xico, financiado con recursos de la
Donaci6n GEF 28604, dentro de la Parte 3C del Programa Ambiental de
M6xico, se considera generalmente satisfactoria ya que se le dio
cumplimiento a los compromisos adquiridos en el Acuerdo de Donaci6n, al
atender los problemas prioritarios de las diez areas que finalmente se
incluyeron en el proyecto.
El resultado final fue la implementaci6n de los Programas de Manejo a trav6s
de los Programas Operativos Anuales o en su caso los Programas
Emergentes. El gasto de los programas se distribuy6 en estudios, bienes,
sueldos y costos incrementales o recurrentes. En la siguiente tabla se
muestra la distribuci6n del desembolso por rubro y por afio, en d6lares.
1992      1993       1994      1995       1996       1997      TOTAL
ESTUDIOS      531,250.00 _____                112,692.58  110,798.45  141,624.45  896,365.48
BIENES                              88,319.56  551,926.84  447,014.31  420,501.73 1,507,762.45
SUELDOS        34,735.79  847,184.47  987,316.36 1,028,466.73 i,682,518.58 1,135,111.00 5,715,332.93
RECURRENTES    2,937.09  167,100.77  207,684.61  406,344.38  924,170.91  955,025.51 2,661,270.66
TOTAL         568,922.88 1,014,285.24 1,283,320.53 2,099,430.53 3,164,502.25
2,652,262.70 10,780,731.5
Tipo de cambio N$ 3.20/US  . N 320/US$ N$ 3.30/US$ N$ 7.50/US$ N$ 8.00/US$ N$ 8.50/US$1



12
laproximado   I
6. OPERACIONES FUTURAS
A partir del anio de 1 998 las areas naturales protegidas desarrollaran las
actividades basicas de protecci6n establecidas en sus programas operativos
anuales bajo el nuevo esquema de financiamiento por el Fondo de Areas
Naturales Protegidas, formalizado mediante el Convenio Complementario al
Convenio de Donaci6n al Fondo Mexicano para ia Conservaci6n de la
Naturaleza, A. C. entre la SEMARNAP a traves del INE y el propio FMCN.
7. LECCIONES DEL PROGRAMA
Se fortaleci6 la capacidad de gesti6n del INE en las areas naturales
protegidas, al contar con la presencia en el sitio de una plantilla de personal
encabezado por un director, responsable de coordinar y ejecutar las acciones
contempladas en los Programas de Manejo o en su caso en los Programas
Emergentes y con facultad para resolver conflictos entre los diferentes
actores relacionados con el aprovechamiento de los recursos naturales. Por
otra parte, se contrat6 personal altamente comprometido con la conservaci6n
de la biodiversidad, asr como a personas de las comunidades para desarrollar
actividades de vigilancia, combate de incendios, restauraci6n ecol6gica, etc.,
lo que permito amen de una derrama econ6mica para la localidad, el
involucramiento de estas personas con los objetivos del manejo de la reserva
y de cierta manera la difusi6n de estos a los demas miembros de dichas
comunidades.
La experiencia acumulada en los primeros anios en los que estuvo vigente el
Acuerdo de Donaci6n es reflejada en el Programa de Areas Naturales
Protegidas de M6xico 1 995-2000, instrumento que reune la base de
conocimiento cientifico sobre la importancia de los bienes y servicios que
generan las areas naturales, el manejo y la administraci6n, asi como la
capacidad de gesti6n del gobierno federal.
Se fomentaron nuevas formas de participaci6n y corresponsabilidad de los
distintos sectores de la sociedad local, por una parte mediante la
colaboraci6n de instituciones acad6micas y algunas asociaciones, en lo que
respecta a investigaci6n cientifica; por otra parte, ia participaci6n de
ejidatarios, cooperativas, propietarios, servidores turfsticos, productores y
otros usuarios de los recursos, en lo referente al fomento del desarrollo
sustentable; y por uiltimo con toda la poblaci6n al estar consientes de la
necesidad de cuidar y preservar los recursos naturales. En este sentido los
Consejos T6cnicos Asesores funcionan como verdaderos mecanismos para
procesar consensos entre las autoridades y los grupos sociales en el disenio
de estrategias y poifticas; como un medio para informar a la sociedad de
manera constante y transparente; y como un nuevo enfoque para practicas



13
de negociaci6n y resoluci6n de conflictos.
En lo relacionado a la asignaci6n de recursos al interior de las ANP's, las
tareas se enfocaron a definir prioridades, necesidades, mecanismos de
asignaci6n, y proyecciones a mediano y largo plazo, asi como los tramites
para la comprobaci6n y justificaci6n de gastos, sin embargo, resultaron en
muchas ocasiones infructuosas al no contarse oportunamente con las
autorizaciones del organismo financiero internacional a los programas
operativos anuales y los programas emergentes por una parte; o por la
disponibilidad de recursos financieros por un periodo menor al comprendido
en los presupuestos.
Esta situaci6n propici6 la identificaci6n, desarrollo y establecimiento de un
mecanismo de financiamiento mas agil, concretado mediante la constituci6n
de un fondo con los recursos de la donaci6n, como capital semilla para
captar recursos que no son necesariamente a largo plazo, que permita crear
condiciones sostenibles de financiamiento para las reservas. Lo anterior se
traduce en una extensi6n de las oportunidades de conservaci6n para nuevos
actores y nuevos esquemas de financiamiento para la administraci6n y
manejo de las areas naturales protegidas. Esto permitira asimilar y hacer
productivos los esfuerzos para promover mas la inversi6n publica, privada e
internacional, dentro de un marco institucional que garantice la articulaci6n
positiva entre manejo, preservaci6n y aprovechamiento.
En lo referente a la inclusi6n de nuevos criterios por parte de Banco Mundial
y que condicionaron el gasto como es el caso del "Programa de Desarrollo
de  Pueblos  lndigenas",  es  recomendable  que  se  consideren  las
particularidades del palis y de los programas de medio ambiente, en el caso
particular de las areas naturales protegidas, por las caracteristicas y la
dinamica de sus poblaciones,   en  algunos casos no se estuvo  en
posibilidades de atender las propuestas del Banco Mundial, por lo que un
poco de flexibilidad de su parte, en estos aspectos apoyarian el desarrollo del
programa.
Por otro lado, es obvio que las directrices que debe adoptar el Banco estan
encaminadas a proyectos de inversi6n, como construcci6n de presas o
carreteras, en estos casos el proyecto por financiar es claro que puede
desplazar poblaciones o impactar de manera definitiva la dinamica de un
determinado grupo y es necesario que los pobladores de la region en cuesti6n
expongan sus puntos de vista pues el impacto es inmediato. No es lo mismo
en programas de conservaci6n, 6stos deben tener otro tratamiento, como por
ejemplo programas de educaci6n ambiental que permitan a las poblaciones
participar en la toma de decisiones de manera informada.



14
For lo anterior consideramos que el Banco Mundial debe hacer una revisi6n
e este tipo de condicionantes antes de aplicarlas a los programas de medio
ambiente.
En cuanto a la operaci6n del programa y dado que los recursos asignados al
mismo se manejaron como presupuesto, fue necesario aplicar tanto la
normatividad del Banco Mundial como la aplicada al presupuesto de egresos
de la federaci6n, esto dificult6 la definici6n de criterios homog6neos y el
pago de algunos conceptos de gasto, por lo que en futuras donaciones
destinadas al sector de medio ambiente, especfficamente en recursos que
seran aplicados a regiones, seria recomendable que el Banco Mundial hiciera
WAs esfuerzo por conocer mas el proceso de autorizaci6n del gasto por parte
de& Gobierno de M6xico y en lo posible adoptara el rnismo a fin de evitar
confusi6n o contradicci6n en los criterios.



