Page  1
June 5, 1997
Mr. Carlos Mendoza Valencia
Director General de Crédito Público
Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
Mr. Jaime Corredor Esnaola
Director General
Banco Nacional de Obras y 
   Servicios Públicos, S.N.C.
Tecoyotitla 100
Colonia Florida
01030 México, D.F., México
      Re:
Environmental Project (Loan 3461-ME and GEF Trust Fund Grant
             No. 28604) - Amendments to the Loan, Guarantee and GEF Trust
             Fund Grant Agreements
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to: (i) the Loan Agreement between the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Banco Nacional de Obras y
Servicios Públicos, S.N.C., as amended; (ii) the Guarantee Agreement between
United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank, as amended; and (iii) the
Global Trust Fund Grant Agreement among International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (the Bank; acting as Implementing Agency of the Global
Environment Facility), the Guarantor and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
Públicos, S.N.C. (the Recipient), as amended; all such documents dated April
28, 1992.  We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to our recent
discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan, Guarantee and
Grant Agreements as follows:
I.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
Preamble
1.
In the eighth line of WHEREAS Clause (E), the term “Part C.3” is
replaced with “Part C.3 (a)”.
2.
A new WHEREAS Clause (F) is added after WHEREAS Clause (E), to read
as follows:
“(F)
by an agreement (the FMCN Global Environment Facility Trust
Fund Grant Agreement) to be entered into among the Bank, the Fondo Mexicano
para la Conservación de la Naturaleza (FMCN) and the Guarantor, the Bank
will make Global Environment Facility proceeds available to FMCN as a grant
(the GEF Trust Fund Grant), FMCN has agreed to carry out of Part C.3 (b) of
the Project, and the Guarantor has agreed to carry out Part C.3 (c) and (d)
of the Project, such Part C.3 (c) and (d) to be partially financed out of
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.” 
Schedule 2
3.
Part C.3 of the Project is amended to read as follows:
“3.
(a)
Carrying out of six 1997 Operating Plans for the
following SINAP protected areas: El Vizcaíno, Calakmul, Montes Azules,
Sian Ka ‘ an, Isla Contoy and Ría Lagartos; and carrying out of four 1997
Emergency Plans for the following SINAP protected areas: Mariposa Monarca,
Sierra de Manantlán, El Triunfo, and Islas del Golfo. Such plans to include,
in whole or in part, as the case may be, the following activities: (i)
conservation: surveillance and monitoring, demarcation and posting of signs,
fire prevention and control, habitat rehabilitation, control of exotic
(invasive) species, construction of minor infrastructure, and studies such
Page  2
as biodiversity inventories; (ii) sustainable development: training on the
management of natural resources, studies related to potential income
producing activities compatible with the specific SINAP protected area
status; (iii) Indigenous peoples development: training on conservation and
sustainable development activities and carrying out of pilot income
generating activities compatible with the specific SINAP protected area
status; (iv) environmental education and public awareness: community
training on environmental protection, and development, production and
distribution of educational material and awareness programs for visitors;
(v) administration: planning the work program and monitoring its
implementation, coordination with other institutions active in the relevant
SINAP protected areas reserve, support of the TACs, training of reserve
staff, coordination and exchange of experience amongst the SINAP protected
areas; (vi) provision of administrative support for the establishment of
the Fondo para las Areas Naturales Protegidas (FANP), the Natural Protected
Areas Fund, to be created within the Fondo Mexicano para la Conservación de
la Naturaleza, A.C.
(b)
Administration and operation of FANP, which shall include
the provision of partial financing for the activities described in paragraphs
(c) and (d) below.
(c)
Starting in 1998, carrying out of basic protection
activities in each SINAP protected area referred to in the FMCN Global
Environment Facility Trust Fund Agreement, such activities to include,
inter alia, the following: (i) conservation: surveillance and monitoring,
demarcation and posting of signs, fire prevention and control, habitat
rehabilitation, and studies such as biodiversity inventories; control of
exotic (invasive) species, and construction of minor infrastructure; (ii)
sustainable development: training on the conservation and management of
natural resources, studies related to potential income producing activities
compatible with the specific SINAP protected area status, and carrying out
of pilot income generating activities compatible with the specific SINAP
protected area status; (iii) Indigenous peoples development: capacity-
building, training on conservation and sustainable development activities,
and carrying out of pilot income generating activities compatible with the
specific SINAP protected area status; (iv) environmental education and
public awareness: community training onthe environmental protection, and
development, production and distribution of educational material and
awareness programs for visitors; (v) carrying out of income generating
activities compatible with sustainable development objectives; (vi) control
of exotic (invasive) species; (vii) construction of minor infrastructure
for the benefit of the relevant SINAP protected area;and (viii) admini-
stration: planning the reserve work program and monitoring its implementa-
tion, coordination with other institutions active in the relevant SINAP
protected areas reserve, support for of the TAC meeting activities, and
training of reserve staff.
(d)
Starting in 1998, carrying out of activities for the
benefiting a group of  SINAP protected areas, as  referred to in Schedule 3
to the FMCN Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Agreement, such
activities to include, inter alia, the following: (i) technical assistance,
training programs and periodic workshops for reserve staff; (ii) training
programs, workshops and provision of technical assistance in support of the
TAC for such SINAP protected areas; and (iii) and (iv) overall supervision
and monitoring of Project implementation.
II.
Amendment to the Guarantee Agreement
4.
Section 3.15 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.15. The Guarantor shall carry out: (i) Part C.3 (a) of the
Project in accordance with the terms of the Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant Agreement; and (ii) Part C.3 (c) and (d) of the Project in accordance
with the terms of the FMCN Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant
Agreement.”
III.
Amendments to the Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement
Preamble
5.
In WHEREAS Clause (C), the term “Part C.3”, wherever it appears, is
Page  3
replaced with “Part C.3 (a)”.
Article II 
6.
Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF
Trust Fund Grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,400,000, of
which SDR 3,570,000 and SDR12,000,000 were canceled pursuant to an amendment
letter dated February 5, 1993, and a cancellation letter dated April 24,
1997, respectively). 
7.
In Sections 2.02 (a) and (b), the term “Part C.3” is replaced with
“Part C.3 (a)”.
8.
Section 2.03 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the
Recipient of such later date.”
Article III 
9.
In Sections 3.01 (a), 3.02, 3.03 and 3.07, the term “Part C.3” is
replaced with “Part C.3 (a)”.
10.
In Section 3.01 (b), the expression “Parts C.3 (a) and C.3 (c)” is
replaced with “Part C.3 (a)”.
Article IV
11.
In Section 4.01 (a), the term “Part C.3” is replaced with “Part C.3
(a)”.
Article V
12.
Section 5.02 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 5.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF
Trust Fund Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement
have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.”
Schedule 1
13.
The table set forth in paragraph 1 is amended to read as follows:
“Amount of the
  GEF Trust Fund Grant
                     Allocated
           % of
                   (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category 
            SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1)
(a) Area
               2,150,000
100%
Implementation
Contracts to carry
out Emergency Plans;
and (b) goods, works
and services covered
by an Emergency Plan
for which there is no
Area Implementation
Contract
(2)
(a) Area
               1,900,000
100%
Implementation
Contracts to carry
out Operating Plans;
and (b) goods, works,
services, studies and
training covered by an
Page  4
Operating Plan for
which there is no Area
Implementation Contract
(3)
Incremental
              1,540,000
90% 
operating costs
covered by an
Operating Plan
for which there is no
Area Implementation
Contract
(4)
Management
                170,000
100%
support
(5)
Administrative
          70,000
100%
support for the
establishment of the
Fondo para las Areas
Naturales Protegidas (FANP)
(salaries of FANP personnel,
office and travel expenses, and
consultant’s services)
     TOTAL
              5,830,000”
14.  In paragraph 2 (a), the term “Part C.3” is replaced with “Part C.3 (a)”.
Schedule 4
15. The term “Part C.3” is replaced with “Part C.3 (a)” wherever it appears
in such Schedule.
Please confirm your agreement to the aforementioned amendments by
signing and dating this letter in the spaces provided below. This amendment
letter may be executed in three counterparts, each of which shall be an
original. Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original
to us. The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective upon:
(a) receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this amendment
letter; and (b) the effectiveness of the FMCN Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Agreement.
Sincerely,
Olivier Lafourcade
Director
Mexico Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS
                                    Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
By: Carlos Mendoza Valenzuela
By: Alfredo Navarrete Martínez
    Authorized Representative               Authorized Representative
