Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3461 ME
                      (Environmental Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
       BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
                       Dated April 28, 1992
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3461 ME
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE
OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
      WHEREAS: (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Bank has received a letter (the Strategy Letter)
from the Guarantor, dated January 31, 1992, describing its strategy
for transforming the Ecology Subsecretariat of its Secretariat for
Urban Development and Ecology (Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y
Ecologia) into a second-tier institution responsible for supervising
and coordinating the environmental protection activities of state
and federal first-tier environmental agencies and of the private
sector;
      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
Page  2
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;
      (D)   by an agreement (the Global Environment Trust Fund Grant
Agreement) of even date herewith among the Borrower (therein
referred to as the Recipient), the Guarantor and the Bank (therein
referred to as the Trustee of the Global Environment Trust Fund
(GET)), the Bank has agreed to make GET proceeds available to the
Borrower as a grant (the GET Grant), the Borrower has agreed to
transfer such proceeds to the Guarantor and the Guarantor has agreed
to carry out Part C.3 of the Project with such proceeds and its own
counterpart funds; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (b)   in Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Banco de Mexico" means the Guarantor's Central Bank;
      (b)   "CNA" means the Guarantor's National Water Commission
(Comision Nacional del Agua);
      (c)   "CONADE" means the Guarantor's National Ecology
Commission (Comision Nacional de Ecologia);
      (d)   "General Ecology Law" means the Guarantor's General Law
for Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection (Ley General
del Equilibrio Ecologico y la Proteccion al Ambiente) published in
the Guarantor's Daily Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federacion) on
January 28, 1988, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
      (e)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit within CONADE
described in Section 3.14 of the Guarantee Agreement;
      (f)   "SEAs" means State Environmental Agencies that are part
of the executive branch of State governments in Mexico;
      (g)   "SEDUE" means the Guarantor's Secretariat of Urban
Development and Ecology (Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y
Ecologia), of which the SSDs are a part;
      (h)   "SHCP" means the Guarantor's Secretariat of Finance
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico);
      (i)   "SINAP" means the National Protected Areas Network
(Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas) administered by SEDUE;
Page  3
      (j)   "SNIFF" means the National Stationary Sources
Information System (Sistema Nacional de Informacion de Fuentes
Fijas) operated by SEDUE with regard to stationary source air
pollution emissions;
      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (l)   "SSDs" means SEDUE's delegations in the States that
comprise the United Mexican States; and
      (m)   "States" means the Estados that constitute the United
Mexican States.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de
Mexico on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
Page  4
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                    Transfer of Loan Proceeds;
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank,
providing, inter alia, for: (a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the
proceeds of the Loan; and (b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the
Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to
the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not change or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual
arrangements.
      Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the general Conditions (relating respectively to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused to
be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03 of the
Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the annual
reviews referred to in Section 3.14 (d) of the Guarantee Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
Page  5
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations and financial
condition of the Borrower, including records and separate accounts
for the Project (except for Part C.3 of the Project).
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records referred to in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, its accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and records
                   and accounts for the Special Account, for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   generally accepted auditing standards and
                   procedures consistently applied, by independent
                   and qualified auditors;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year: (A) certified copies of said
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank each month certified
                   statements of the Special Account; and
           (iv)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning the said records, accounts and
                   financial statements as well as the audit
                   thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and separate accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain or cause to be retained, until at least
                   one year after the Bank has received the audit
                   report for the fiscal year in which the last
                   withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                   of the Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and separate accounts
                   are included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Page  6
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any of the States shall have failed to comply with any of its
obligations under its agreement referred to in Section 3.12 (b) of
the Guarantee Agreement. In such a case the Bank may, after
consultation with and by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor,
only suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures made in
connection with the Guarantor's obligation, referred to in Section
3.12 (b) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement, to the defaulting State.
At the request of the Guarantor, the Bank may reallocate Loan
proceeds subject to such suspension to States which are in
compliance with their agreements referred to in Section 3.12 (b) of
the Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the suspension referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
have been in effect for all States (with agreements referred to in
Section 3.12 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement) simultaneously for a
continuous period of 90 days.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the contractual arrangements, referred to in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, have been entered into;
      (b)   that the Guarantor shall have allocated adequate funds
for Project implementation in the legislatively approved budget for
the 1992 fiscal year;
      (c)   that the contractual arrangements, referred to in
Section 3.04 of the Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement,
have been entered into; and
      (d)   that the Guarantor shall have issued and made effective
the Reglamento para la Prevencion y Control de la Contaminacion del
Agua (Regulation for the Prevention and Control of Water Pollution)
under the General Ecology Law.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   on behalf of the Borrower, that the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, as well
as the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.04 of the
Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement, have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Borrower and are legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance
with their terms; and
      (b)   on behalf of the Guarantor, that the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, as well
as the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.04 of the
Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement, have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Guarantor and are legally binding upon the Guarantor in
accordance with their terms.
      Section 6.03. The date July 28, 1992 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  7
      Section 7.01. The Director General of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:
            Banco Nacional de Obras y
              Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
            Insurgentes Norte 423
            06900 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   BANTECARIO                BNOSME 01772619
                   Mexico City               Mexico City
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                         BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
                           PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
                         By /s/ Pedro Aspe Armella
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
Page  8
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Goods and                 8,300,000       100% of foreign
      equipment                                 expenditures and
      (excluding                                75% of local
      vehicles)                                 expenditures
(2)   Civil works               2,000,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                75% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)   Studies and              25,700,000       100% of foreign
      training                                  expenditures and
                                                75% of local
                                                expenditures
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4)   Incremental               9,000,000       60% until
      operating                                 withdrawals
      costs                                     under this
                                                Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                egate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $5,000,000; then
                                                30% until such
                                                withdrawals have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $8,000,000; then
                                                10% thereafter
(5)   Unallocated               5,000,000
                               __________
      TOTAL                    50,000,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor;
      (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means operating
and maintenance costs, which would not have been incurred absent the
Project, with regard to: (i) the facilities constructed, expanded or
rehabilitated under this Project; and (ii) the vehicles, equipment
and other goods procured under this Project.  The term also includes
consumable office supplies obtained for purposes of the Project, as
well as salaries only of fixed-term SEDUE administrative or
supervisory staff hired for purposes of the Project; and
      (d)   the terms "studies and training" cover fees charged by
consultants to prepare or perform studies or prepare or carry out
training activities for purposes of the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
Page  9
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$5,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (4) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
March 1, 1991; (b) any expenditures with regard to equipping
laboratories under Part A.3 of the Project until designs, satis-
factory to the Bank, for such laboratories have been completed; (c)
any expenditures with regard to Part D.2 of the Project for a State
unless that State has agreed to an action plan and entered into an
agreement with the Guarantor, both satisfactory to the Bank, as
specified in Section 3.12 of the Guarantee Agreement; (d) any
expenditures with regard to Part B.3 (c) of the Project until the
ecological planning and zoning criteria referred to in such Part B.3
(c) have been adopted by the Guarantor; and (e) any expenditures
with regard to Part C.3 of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to enhance the
Guarantor's ability to carry out key environmental protection and
natural resource management functions in the short term; and (b) to
promote the institutional strengthening and policy measures required
to allow the Guarantor to carry out such functions more efficiently
in the long term.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Pollution Monitoring and Control
1.    Improvement of monitoring and control of water pollution by:
(a) redesigning the Guarantor's national water quality monitoring
station network and operating SEDUE's portion of such network; (b)
providing training to SEDUE water pollution control staff; and (c)
carrying out studies to bring SEDUE's water quality information base
up-to-date and to provide SEDUE staff with analytical tools such as
mathematical models, geographic information systems and statistical
data analysis software.
2.    Improvement of monitoring and control of air pollution by:
(a) installing new and improving existing networks of air quality
monitoring equipment in 36 priority urban areas (excluding the
Mexico City area) with populations of more than 50,000 inhabitants
per area; (b) updating and operating SNIFF; and (c) increasing,
training and equipping SEDUE air pollution control staff, located in
regional centers in the cities of Tijuana, Chihuahua, Monterrey,
Guadalajara, Puebla and Villahermosa, so as to allow effective
measurement of stationary source air pollution emissions.
3.    Expansion, remodelling, equipping and operating of SEDUE's
central environmental laboratory in Mexico City and regional
environmental laboratories in the cities of Chihuahua, Guanajuato,
Mexicali, Saltillo, Villahermosa and Xalapa, together with provision
of environmental testing training to the staff of said environmental
laboratories.
4.    Expansion and training of SEDUE's team of environmental
inspectors so that it shall serve as a group that effectively: (a)
certifies private firms that offer environmental monitoring
services; and (b) audits the work of such firms and of firms that do
their own environmental monitoring in-house.
Part B:     Investment Project Environmental Impact Minimization
1.    Improvement of SEDUE's capabilities to evaluate environmental
impact and risk assessments submitted to SEDUE, as well as of its
ability to monitor compliance with environmental conditions imposed
on approval of public and private sector investment projects, by:
Page  10
(a) increasing SSDs staff responsible for reviewing environmental
assessments, as well as training such staff and assessment review
staff from SEAs; and (b) increasing timely public access and input
to the environmental assessment review process.
2.    Training of staff from SEDUE and SEAs in policies and
strategies regarding ecological planning and zoning and the use of
environmental studies.
3.    (a)   Establishing ecological planning and zoning criteria for
projects and activities in 14 sectors of the economy; (b) carrying
out of 20 environmental studies and 10 ecological planning and
zoning exercises for selected geographic areas where major
productive investments are planned; and (c) purchase of satellite
imagery (at a 1:250,000 scale) to be used in monitoring adherence
with ecological planning and zoning criteria adopted by the
Guarantor.
Part C:     Biodiversity Conservation
1.    Protection of Mexico's wildlife from illegal poaching and
commercial exploitation by: (a) establishing and operating a network
of seven SEDUE regional wildlife commerce surveillance and
inspection units throughout Mexico; (b) distributing educational
materials to the public regarding the importance of conserving
Mexico's wildlife and the content of the regulations which promote
such conservation; and (c) expanding and improving three,
constructing three new and operating a total of seven national
wildlife rehabilitation centers where confiscated wildlife can be
taken for care and subsequent reintroduction to the wild or
relocation to zoos, research laboratories, propagation centers or
other such facilities.
2.    Protection of seven marine turtle species found in Mexico by
constructing and operating twelve field camps for, and providing
specialized training to, SEDUE staff who shall: (a) patrol and
manage turtle nesting sites so as to prevent poaching and turtle egg
collecting; (b) carry out educational campaigns among the local
population living near the turtle sites so as to promote turtle
protection; and (c) carry out research on turtle populations,
biology and ecology.
3.    Protection of up to 17 protected areas (referred to in
Schedule 3 to the Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement)
within SINAP by: (a) carrying out emergency plans in up to 13 of
said protected areas prior to the preparation of management plans
for each of the 13 areas; (b) preparing management plans for up to
all such 17 protected areas; (c) carrying out operating plans
derived from such management plans; and (d) developing a SINAP eco-
tourism strategy on the basis of an eco-tourism plan to be prepared
for one such protected area.
Part D:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Strengthening, and if necessary restructuring, of SEDUE so as
to facilitate the efficient performance of its national ecological
functions and enhance its ability to coordinate the environmentally
related functions of other entities, both public and private, in
Mexico.
2.    Design and implementation on a pilot basis of a program to
strengthen the capacity of the States of Jalisco, Tamaulipas and up
to three other States to be selected to carry out State
environmental management functions.
3.    Carrying out of studies in the area of environmental and
natural resource economics to address issues such as: (a) how the
Guarantor should aim to ensure a sustainable flow of resources to
environmental management functions; (b) how the Guarantor should aim
to ensure consistency between its environmental and economic
policies; and (c) how the Guarantor may employ economic and other
policy instruments to achieve environmental policy objectives.
Page  11
4.    Carrying out of two sets of studies to: (a) define
environmental crimes for possible inclusion within Mexican penal
legislation as crimes falling within federal jurisdiction no matter
where they occur in Mexico; and (b) evaluate conflicts between the
General Ecology Law and other Mexican laws which relate to natural
resource management issues, so as to identify how such conflicts can
be resolved.
5.    Preparation and issuance, with the assistance of consultants,
of regulations and technical standards under the General Ecology
Law, including, inter alia, standards for the regulation and risk
management of hazardous industrial processes and for the production,
use and transport of hazardous substances, together with the
provision of training to relevant SEDUE staff on the preparation and
use of technical standards.
Part E:     Project Preparation Research
      Carrying out of the following studies for purposes of
preparing future investment project proposals: (a) a study
evaluating current protected areas within SINAP and identifying gaps
in SINAP's ecosystem and species protection coverage which could be
filled by the inclusion of new protected areas within SINAP, as well
as evaluating the management and legal framework of SINAP; (b) a
study regarding the creation of protected biological corridors
linking SINAP protected areas; (c) a study, focussing on the city of
Tijuana, to identify toxic substances handled or emitted by
industries in the area and, based on such information, develop
training and information mechanisms to allow medical personnel,
health inspectors and the community as a whole to respond to the
problems posed by such substances; and (d) a study to develop a
model, useful for long-term planning purposes, which can create
future scenarios regarding the interplay between human activity and
environmental impacts in Mexico.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
      beginning October 15, 1997           2,500,000
      through April 15, 2007
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
Page  12
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity
More than 13 years before                  1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $250,000 in
the case of goods.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mexico may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,400,000, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000
or less per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $10,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$150,000 per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $900,000, and goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract or per bid package, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $2,300,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract procured under Part
A.1 of this Section; and (ii) the first three contracts procured
Page  13
under Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contracts required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contracts.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part E:     Use of Standard Documents
      All procurement of goods and works to which international or
local competitive bidding applies shall be carried out using
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Guarantor in carrying out the Project,
the Guarantor shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Page  14
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after andto the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
Page  15
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
7.    Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall
be made from the Special Account for expenditures made in connection
with the Guarantor's obligation, referred to in Section 3.12 (b)
(ii) of the Guarantee Agreement, to a State, once the Bank has
issued the notice referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement
regarding that State.
