Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            GET GRANT NUMBER 28604
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3461 ME
                      (Environmental Project)
                               among
       BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
                                and
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
            acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
                            Trust Fund
                       Dated April 28, 1992
                                               GET GRANT NUMBER 28604
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3461 ME
           GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1992, among BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS
Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Recipient), UNITED MEXICAN STATES
(the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant funds provided by
Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global
Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
      WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank) pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14,
1991, of the Executive Directors of the Bank (the Resolution),
established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the GET,
the Ozone Projects Trust Fund and Cofinancing Arrangements with the
GET, to assist in the protection of the global environment and
promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic
development;
      WHEREAS (B) certain members of the Bank and Switzerland (the
Participants) have provided resources by way of grant into the GET
and the Participants have requested and the Bank has agreed to
Page  2
administer such grant funds as Trustee for the purposes of, and in
accordance with, provisions of the Resolution;
      WHEREAS (C) the Recipient and the Guarantor, having satisfied
themselves as to the feasibility and priority of Part C.3 of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (as
hereinafter defined), have requested assistance from the resources
of the GET in the financing of Part C.3 of the Project, and the
Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance
with the provisions of the Resolution;
      WHEREAS (D) the Recipient and the Guarantor have also
requested the Bank to provide additional financing towards the
financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith
(the Loan Agreement) between the Bank and the Recipient (therein
referred to as the Borrower) the Bank agrees to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to fifty
million Dollars ($50,000,000) (the Loan);
      WHEREAS (E) the Project will be carried out by the Guarantor
with the Recipient's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Recipient will make available to the Guarantor the proceeds of the
Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement, as well as the proceeds of
the GET Grant (as hereinafter defined) as provided in this
Agreement;
      WHEREAS (F) the Trustee has received two letters (the SINAP
Letters) from the Guarantor, dated December 2, 1991 and February 3,
1992, respectively, describing the Guarantor's policies and
procedures with regard to the administration of protected areas
covered by Part C.3 of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend a grant (the GET Grant) to the Recipient
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph
(b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement:
            (i)   Article I;
           (ii)   Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9),
                  (10), (11), (15), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
          (iii)   Section 3.01;
           (iv)   Section 4.01 and the first sentence of
                  Section 4.09;
            (v)   Article V;
           (vi)   Sections 6.01, 6.02 (except 6.02 (a) and (b)),
                  6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
          (vii)   Section 8.01 (b);
         (viii)   Sections 9.01, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
                  9.09;
           (ix)   Article X; and
            (x)   Article XI.
Page  3
      (b)   The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
            (i)   a new paragraph shall be added to the end of
                  Section 2.01 to read as follows: "the term
                  "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol "SDR"
                  mean special drawing rights as valued by the
                  International Monetary Fund in accordance with
                  its Articles of Agreement";
           (ii)   the term "Bank", wherever used in the General
                  Conditions, other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and
                  6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in
                  Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except
                  that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also
                  include the International Bank for Reconstruction
                  and Development acting in its own capacity;
          (iii)   the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General
                  Conditions, means the Recipient;
           (iv)   the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the
                  General Conditions, means this Agreement;
            (v)   the term "Loan", wherever used in the General
                  Conditions, means the GET Grant;
           (vi)   the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the
                  General Conditions, means the GET Grant Account;
          (vii)   the term "Guarantee Agreement", wherever used in
                  the General Conditions, means this Agreement; and
         (viii)   the term "Guarantor", wherever used in the
                  General Conditions, means the United Mexican
                  States.
      Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions, in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan
Agreement and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "Emergency Plan" means a plan, prepared by SEDUE, for
actions to be undertaken in a SINAP protected area, referred to in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, for which a Management Plan (as
hereinafter defined) and an Operating Plan (as hereinafter defined)
have not been prepared;
      (b)   "Group of 13" means a panel of thirteen Mexican and non-
Mexican biodiversity specialists, hired as consultants by the
Guarantor through SEDUE and referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this
Agreement, which includes experienced administrators of protected
natural areas;
      (c)   "Management Plan" means a document, prepared by SEDUE,
containing a detailed description of the physical, biological and
social characteristics of a SINAP protected area referred to in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as well as a set of management
objectives sought to be achieved for such area and a description of
the activities required to achieve such objectives;
      (d)   "Operating Plan" means a document, prepared by SEDUE,
which, based on the corresponding Management Plan, specifies in
detail the activities to be undertaken to manage a SINAP protected
area referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and includes a
description of the budget (which, inter alia, distinguishes between
investment and recurrent costs) required to support such activities;
      (e)   "Special Grant Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
Page  4
      (f)   "TAC" means a technical advisory council, used to
support implementation of Part C.3 of the Project and referred to in
Section 3.07 of this Agreement, which includes representatives from
local communities, State and local governments, SEDUE delegations in
a State, non-governmental organizations and the private sector.
                            ARTICLE II
                           The GET Grant
      Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the
Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, the GET Grant in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-one million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn
from the GET Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for carrying out Part C.3 of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
      (b)   The Recipient shall, for the purposes of Part C.3 of the
Project, open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in
Banco de Mexico on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Grant Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall
promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Guarantor declare
their commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, the Guarantor
shall carry out Part C.3 of the Project through SEDUE with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial and administrative practices and with due regard to
ecological and environmental factors, and the Guarantor shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Part C.3 of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree or
as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Guarantor shall carry
out Part C.3 of the Project in accordance with the applicable
portion of the schedules contained in Annex 1 and Annex 2 of the
supplemental letter referred to in Section 3.04 of the Guarantee
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part C.3 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the GET Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Trustee, the Guarantor and the Recipient
hereby agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating
respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition)
shall be carried out by the Guarantor with respect to Part C.3 of
the Project.
      Section 3.04. The Recipient shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Trustee, with the Guarantor,
Page  5
providing for the transfer to the Guarantor on a grant basis of the
proceeds of the GET Grant. Neither the Recipient nor the Guarantor
shall amend or fail to enforce such contractual arrangements.
      Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under this Agreement, the Guarantor hereby
unconditionally guarantees the punctual performance of all
obligations of the Recipient set forth in this Agreement.
      Section 3.06. (a) The Guarantor, through SEDUE, shall present
to two members of the Group of 13 a Management Plan and Operating
Plan for each of the SINAP protected areas referred to in Schedule
3 to this Agreement for which the Guarantor seeks proceeds from the
GET Grant. Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, the
composition and operation of the Group of 13 shall be as set forth
in Annex 4 of the supplemental letter of even date herewith
furnished by the Guarantor to the Trustee. The Guarantor shall not
add to, remove or replace members of the Group of 13 without
approval of the Trustee.
      (b)   The Guarantor, through SEDUE, shall cause the two
members of the Group of 13 referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section to give the Trustee and SEDUE a detailed report containing
an opinion as to whether the SINAP protected area in question meets
the criteria for GET Grant financing set forth in paragraph (c) of
this Section.
      (c)   A SINAP protected area referred to in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement may be deemed eligible for GET Grant financing if:
            (i)   there is no funding available from sources other
                  than GET for the activities proposed in the
                  relevant Operating Plan;
           (ii)   the relevant Management Plan and Operating Plan
                  would ensure that land use management in the
                  SINAP protected area not contravene Article 98 of
                  the General Ecology Law;
          (iii)   the relevant Management Plan has as its principal
                  objective the protection of biological diversity
                  of global importance and pursues sustainable
                  development in the SINAP protected area only to
                  the extent compatible with protecting such
                  diversity; and
           (iv)   the relevant Management Plan complies with the
                  terms of the SINAP Letters.
      (d)   After receipt of the reports referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section, SEDUE shall present to the Trustee the
Management Plan and Operating Plan, to which such reports refer, for
the SINAP protected area in question.
      (e)   Within no more than thirty days after it has in its
possession the Management Plan and Operating Plan referred to in
paragraph (d) of this Section as well as the reports referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, the Trustee shall, taking into
account the opinions contained in such reports, determine the amount
of GET Grant proceeds, if any, to be made available for the SINAP
protected area in question.
      Section 3.07. In each of the States containing all or part of
a SINAP protected area referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
the Guarantor, through SEDUE, shall establish a TAC to support
implementation of Part C.3 of the Project in such State. The
Guarantor, through SEDUE, shall cause each TAC to act under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Trustee and shall, at least once a
year during Project execution, cause each TAC to meet with officials
from SEDUE headquarters and with the members of the Group of 13 that
issued reports, referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement,
for SINAP protected areas in the State served by the TAC. Each such
Page  6
meeting shall involve an evaluation of execution of Part C.3 of the
Project in the relevant State and the Guarantor, through SEDUE,
shall cause the members of the Group of 13 participating in each
such meeting to prepare a report of their observations regarding
such meeting and submit such report to SEDUE and the Trustee
promptly after the conclusion of such meeting.
      Section 3.08. The terms of Section 3.14 of the Guarantee
Agreement shall apply to Part C.3 of the Project as if such terms
were incorporated into this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient and the Guarantor shall
maintain or cause to be maintained records and separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C.3 of
the Project of the Recipient and departments or agencies of the
Guarantor responsible for carrying out Part C.3 of the Project or
any portion thereof.
      (b)   The Recipient and the Guarantor shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Grant Account, for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with generally
                  accepted auditing standards and procedures, by
                  independent and qualified auditors;
           (ii)   furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Trustee such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Trustee shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the GET Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Recipient and the Guarantor shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Trustee
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the GET Grant
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Trustee's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Page  7
                             ARTICLE V
                      Remedies of the Trustee
      Section 5.01. (a) By no later than September 30, 1992, the
Trustee shall: (i) acting pursuant to Section 3.06 (e) of this
Agreement, determine the amount of GET Grant proceeds, if any, to be
made available to carry out the Operating Plan for each SINAP
protected area referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement for which
it received, as of August 31, 1992, a Management Plan, an Operating
Plan and the reports referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this
Agreement; (ii) add together all the GET Grant proceeds determined
to be made available for SINAP protected areas pursuant to sub-
paragraph (i) of this paragraph and multiply such sum by 1.5; and
(iii) subtract the result of such multiplication from SDR
17,900,000.
      (b)   Without limiting the provisions of Article VI of the
General Conditions, the Trustee may, by notice to the Recipient and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Recipient to make
withdrawals with respect to an amount of the GET Grant equal to the
result (if greater than zero) of the subtraction referred to in
paragraph (a) (iii) of this Section. Upon the giving of such notice,
such amount of the GET Grant shall be cancelled.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effectiveness; Termination
      Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 6.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until:
(a) the GET Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder; or (b) the
date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms, whichever occurs earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representation of the Recipient; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Director General of the Recipient, and the
Director General de Captacion de Credito Externo of the Guarantor's
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico, are designated as
representatives of the Recipient and the Guarantor, respectively,
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Recipient:
            Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
            Insurgentes Norte 423
            06900 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  BANTECARIO                      BNOSME 01772619
                  Mexico City                     Mexico City
      For the Guarantor:
            Direccion General de Captacion de Credito Externo
            Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
            Palacio Nacional, Patio Central
            Oficina 4025
            06066 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
Page  8
                                               Telex:
                                                 1777313-SHOCME
      For the Trustee:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                     Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                        197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA),
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                  82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                  By /s/ Pedro Aspe Armella
                                         Authorized Representative
                  BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
                    PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
                  By /s/ Pedro Aspe Armella
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
                    the Global Environment Trust Fund
                  By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
            Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the
amounts of the GET Grant to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                              GET Grant
                               Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Goods, works and           1,500,000        100% of expen-
    services, for                               ditures incurred
    Part C.3 of the                             in 1992
Page  9
    Project, covered
    by an Emergency
    Plan
(2) Goods, works,              9,200,000        100%
    services, studies
    and training, for
    Part C.3 of the
    Project, covered
    by an Operating
    Plan
(3) Incremental                8,300,000        90% until with-
    operating costs,                            drawals under this
    for Part C.3                                Category have
    of the Project,                             reached an aggre-
    covered by an                               gate amount
    Operating Plan                              equivalent to SDR
                                                4,300,000;
                                                then 60% until
                                                such withdrawals
                                                have reached an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                SDR 6,800,000; then
                                                30% thereafter
                             Amount of the
                               GET Grant
                              Allocated              % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Management                 2,400,000        100%
    support
                              __________
         TOTAL                21,400,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "incremental operating costs" means operating and
maintenance costs, which would not have been incurred absent Part
C.3 of the Project, with regard to: (i) facilities constructed,
expanded or rehabilitated under Part C.3 of the Project; and (ii)
goods procured under Part C.3 of the Project. The term also includes
salaries of SEDUE staff, hired for purposes of Part C.3 of the
Project to work in a specific SINAP protected area;
     (b)  the term "studies and training" covers fees charged by
consultants to prepare or perform studies or prepare or carry out
training activities for purposes of Part C.3 of the Project; and
     (c)  the term "management support" covers SEDUE staff training
not covered by an Operating Plan, expenses incurred for the
operation of TACs, services of the members of the Group of 13 and
consultant services for preparing Management Plans as well as the
eco-tourism plan referred to in Part C.3 (d) of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures covered by an Emergency Plan or an Operating Plan
unless such Emergency Plan or Operating Plan is satisfactory to the
Trustee and, in the case of an Operating Plan, the relevant TAC has
been established in a manner satisfactory to the Trustee, all
contractual arrangements specified in the Operating Plan have been
entered into and are satisfactory to the Trustee and such
expenditures are included within the amount determined by the
Trustee pursuant to Section 3.06 (e) of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $250,000 in
the case of goods.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mexico may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$6,500,000, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000
or less per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $3,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Trustee.
2.   Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$150,000 per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $600,000, and goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract or per bid package, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $2,800,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D:   Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to: (i) each contract procured under Part A.1
of this Section; and (ii) the first three contracts procured under
Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contracts are to be made out of the Special Grant Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contracts required to be furnished to the Trustee
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Trustee
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Grant
Account in respect of such contracts.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Grant Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Trustee as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which the Trustee has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Page  11
2.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part E:   Use of Standard Documents
     All procurement of goods and works to which international or
local competitive bidding applies shall be carried out using
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Trustee.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Guarantor in carrying out Part C.3 of
the Project, the Guarantor, through SEDUE, shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       SINAP Protected Areas
     The SINAP protected areas which may be covered under Part C.3
of the Project are:
1.   Reserva de la Biosfera El Vizcaino*
2.   Reserva Especial de la Biosfera Islas del Golfo*
3.   Parque Nacional Constitucion de 1857*
4.   Reserva de la Biosfera Calakmul*
5.   Parque Nacional Cascada de Bassaseachic*
6.   Reserva de la Biosfera Montes Azules
7.   Reserva Especial de la Biosfera Cascadas de Agua Azul
8.   Parque Nacional Canon del Sumidero
9.   Parque Nacional Lagunas de Montebello
10.  Parque Nacional El Chico*
11.  Parque Nacional Izta-Popo*
12.  Reserva Especial de la Biosfera Mariposa Monarca*
13.  Reserva Especial de la Biosfera Isla Isabel*
14.  Parque Nacional Lagunas de Chacahua*
15.  Reserva de la Biosfera Sian Ka'an*
16.  Reserva Especial de la Biosfera Isla Contoy*
17.  Reserva Especial de la Biosfera Ria Lagartos*
___________
*    SINAP protected areas which may be covered by Emergency Plans.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                       Special Grant Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)-(4)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part C.3 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account
Page  12
and deposited into the Special Grant Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Grant Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Grant Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Grant Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET
Grant Account and deposit in the Special Grant Account such amount
or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Grant Account, the
               Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee requests for
               deposits into the Special Grant Account at such
               intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on
               behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant
               Account and deposit into the Special Grant Account
               such amount as the Recipient shall have requested
               and as shall have been shown by said documents and
               other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
               Grant Account for eligible expenditures. All such
               deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee from the
               GET Grant Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent
               amounts, as shall have been justified by said
               documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Grant
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Trustee shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Trustee shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Grant Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly
from the GET Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant
allocated to the eligible Categories for Part C.3 of the Project,
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to Part C.3 of the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the eligible
Categories for Part C.3 of the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
Page  13
remaining on deposit in the Special Grant Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Grant Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
Trustee: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Grant Account (or, if the
Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Trustee into the Special Grant Account shall be made
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Grant Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient
shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee
such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to
the Trustee all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Grant Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
