Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               ILE  Copy
Repon No. P-2577-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 11, 1979
This document has a resdricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank muthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978                               January 1979
Unit      =    Malagasy Franc (FMG)           Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00   =    FMG 225.64                 =   FMG 212.06
FMG 1     =    US$0.004                   =   US$0.005
FMG 1,000 =    US$4.43                    =   US$4.72
(The Staff Appraisal Report is based on US$1 = FMG 220)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
MFP    -    Ministry of Finance and Planning
MTP    -    Ministry of Public Works
MTR    -    Ministry of Transport and Supplies
RNCFM  -    Reseau National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy
(Madagascar National Railway)
CATP   -    Centre d'Application des Travaux Publics
DE     -    Directorate of Equipment
DPMT   -    Directorate for Programming, Management and Training
EEC    -    European Economic Community
vpd    -    vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Public Works (MTP); Ministry of
Transport and Supplies (MTR)
Amount:              US$24.0 mi:Llion (IDA); and US$10.0 million
(EEC Special Action Credit)
Terms:               Standard IDA (for both credits)
Project        (i)  Objectives:  The project would (a) prevent futther
Description:      deterioration of the paved highway network, thus reducing
transport cost and avoiding early and costly reconstruc-
tion works, (b) increase the maintenance capacity of
MTP and (c) provide for an all-weather road connection
between the regional district of Antomboka and the
capital, Antananarivo.
(ii)  Components:  The project consists of:  (a) resurfacing
and partial rehabilitation of about 500 km of paved
roads and lthe provision of an initial stock of materials
(bitumen) Ifor road maintenance; (b) construction of
bridges for the Antsohihy-Ambanja road; (c) improvement
of road maintenance operations by strengthening MTP's
central administrative organization for road maintenance;
improving routine and periodic maintenance in two regional
districts, including a regravelling program for about
400 km of roads; and improving the mechanical workshops
in five regional district centers; (d) a study to deter-
mine the most appropriate mix of labor and equipment for
road maintenance and improvement works and implementation
of a two-year demonstration program; (e) feasibility and
detailed engineering studies for a 170 km section of road;
(f) training of MTP staff by technical assistance; and
(g) fellowships for MTP staff.
(iii)  Benefits:  Improved road maintenance resulting in reduced
vehicle operation costs and increased efficiency of the
road transport industry. The use of labor-intensive
maintenance methods will, if proven economically feasible,
increase job opportunities and save foreign exchange for
equipment and fuel. Road improvement and bridge construc-
tion will allow year-around access to the northern part of
the countr,y and benefit about 1.2 million people.
This documeint has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(iv) Risks: The successful implementation of the road
maintenance component could be jeopardized by (a) the
failure of Government to release adequate maintenance
funds to the regional district offices on a timely
basis; (b) interference of the regional political
authorities in the implementation of an established
maintenance program; and (c) Government slowness in
timely consultant recruitment and nomination. During
negotiations agreement was reached on budget allocations
for road maintenance for 1980, review of these allocations
until completion of the Project and on the project imple-
mentation schedule.
Estimated Costs:
------US$ million------
Local   Foreign   Total
I. Road Rehabilitation                       2.93      7.59    10.52
II. Bridges Antsohihy-Ambanja Road            4.12      7.04    11.16
III. Road Maintenance                          1.97    12.58    14.55
IV. Labor-Intensive Works                     0.47      0.30      0.77
V. Highway Feasibility and Engineering
Studies                                   0.09      0.84     0.93
VI. Training by Technical
Assistance and Fellowships                0.18      1.65     1.83
Total                     9.76    30.00    39.76
Contingency Allowances
Physical                                  0.65      1.27      1.92
Price                                     1.35      2.70     4.05
Total Contingencies                            2.00      3.97      5.97
Total Project Costs                           11.76    33.97    45.73
Taxes                                          4.81                4.81
Total Project Costs (net of taxes)             6.95    33.97    40.92
Financing:
Government of Madagascar                                 6.95
IDA                                                     24.00
EEC (Special Action Account)                             9.97
Total (net of taxes)                    40.92
Estimated Disbursement:
1980           1981           1982           1983
IDA Fiscal Year              --------------US$ Million--------------
IDA
Annual                        1.0           16.8             5.7            0.5
Cumulative                    1.0           17.8           23.5            24.0
EEC
Annual                        2.5            5.0             2.5
Cumulative                    2.5            7,5           10.0
Rate of Return:  61%
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 2355b-MAG, dated May 18, 1979
Map: IBRD 14098R1



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
credits to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for the equivalent of US$34
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Fifth Highway Project. One
credit of US$24.0 million equivalent would be made from IDA resources; a
second credit of US$10.0 million equivalent would be made from the EEC
Special Action Account administered by the Association in accordance with the
terms of the Agreement of May 2, 1978 between the Association and the European
Economic Community.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Bank Group economic mission visited Madagascar in July 1978.  Its
report is expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors by the end of
June. A summary of its findings is set out below. Country data sheets are
provided in Annex 1.
3.        With a GNP per capita estimated at US$210 in 1977, Madagascar is one
of the poorest countries in the world. It is predominantly an agricultural
country and 85 percent of its 9.4 million 1/ people live in rural areas with
a per capita income of about US$120 per annum. In many areas the standard
of living is close to subsistence level. Although the country is sparsely
populated (arn average of 16 inhabitants per square kilometer), there is great
pressure on cultivable land in some regions. Owing mainly to different eco-
logical conditions, the highlands are more advanced than the coastal areas,
and the south is particularly poor with a harsh, arid climate and infertile
soils. The east coast is rich agriculturally, but crops are frequently
devastated by cyclones. Internal migration is common and has accelerated as
improved roads have provided access to new areas. However, poor roads remain
a major const:raint to developmLent; many of the main highways are not passable
during the rainy season in a country where production centers may be as far
as 800 kilometers from main points of consumption. Many areas are cut off
from the resi: of the country fior several months each year.
Note: Part :[ is identical to Part I in report P-2520-MAG (Second Railway
Project) dated April 26, 1979.
1/     According to the latest: available census data, mid-year population in
1977 :is estimated to be only 8.0 million, which would raise the GNP
per capita to US$240. New population figures will be used on revision
of Social Indicators Data Sheet.



- 2 -
4.        Over the past few years the growth of the economy continued to be
slow and uneven. Having risen but marginally in the preceding year real GDP
fell in 1976 by 2.9 percent owing to a slight decline in agricultural produc-
tion and a steep drop of about 14 percent in manufacturing output. GDP is
estimated to have increased by 3.9 percent in 1977; even so, output of goods
and services showed only a slight increase over the period since 1974; and,
with population increasing by about 2.5 percent annually, per capita GDP
fell by about 5 percent. Budgetary investment outlays were stepped up con-
siderably after 1975; but the investment rate remained practically unchanged
at about 14 percent as the sharp rise in Government capital expenditures was
largely offset by a substantial decline in private investment. The savings
rate also continued to be fairly stable and fluctuated around 10-11 percent.
The resource gap as a consequence has been maintained at a low level.
5.        Agricultural production has not recorded any marked growth over
the last three or four years. Even over the longer period since 1970 it has
increased at an annual rate of only about 1 percent. Despite periodic good
crops, paddy production did not keep pace with demand; and production in 1977,
estimated at 2.0 million tons, was only about 7 percent higher than in 1970.
Groundnut production, after rising significantly in 1976, fell again to
47,000 tons in 1977, while meat production did not register any significant
rise. Imports of rice and edible oils have been increasing; at 105,000 tons
and 16,000 tons, respectively, they were about three to four times as large
in 1977 as in 1970-71. Sugarcane production continued to stagnate as there
has been no addition to the refinery capacity for several years. Among other
cash and export crops, coffee production, except for a 6 percent drop in 1976,
has been rising steadily, reaching some 89,000 tons in 1977. However, raw
cotton production, which had been increasing fairly fast, levelled off after
1975 due to shortages of fertilizers and pesticides; vanilla output declined,
while pepper showed no noticeable increase.
6.        Fostered by fiscal incentives, protection against competition from
imports and provision of institutional term financing, manufacturing normally
accounts for about 14 percent of GDP. Industrial output, which still consists
mainly of textiles and processed foods, declined in 1975 and 1976; and despite
some recovery in 1977, remained below the level attained in 1974. However,
while output of processed foods and textiles has followed a stagnant or a
downward trend, some of the minor industries - chemicals, tobacco manufactures,
rubber, paper products - maintained fairly steady growth. The setback to
industrial growth in recent years was caused by a number of factors: capacity
bottlenecks and aging equipment, owing partly to declining private investment,
uncertain and inadequate availability of agricultural materials for processing
industries, shortages of imported inputs, and, in some cases, even deficient
demand. These factors reflect to some extent the effects of uncertainty
accompanying the shift through greater Government control from a predominantly
free market system to a mixed economy. In particular, private investment in
industry was discouraged and maintenance of industrial plant suffered.
7.        With the sudden and sharp rise in current budget expenditure and
Government spending on capital development, the fiscal situation deteriorated
considerably after 1975. Current expenditures rose steeply with the rising
wage bill of the Government and increasing outlay on maintenance; and the
current budget surplus, which used to be substantial, dwindled as revenues



failed to keep pace with the growth of expenditures. Furthermore, as Govern-
ment intensified its efforts to raise investment levels and stimulate the
economy, public investment expenditure rose from 11.2 billion FMG in 1975 to
20.5 billion FMG in 1977. The outlays on the consumer rice subsidy, although
they declined in 1976, rose again to 3.6 billion FMG in the subsequent year.
The overall Treasury deficit, which more than doubled to 20 billion FMG
between 1975 and 1977, was financed increasingly through recourse to Central
Bank advances. The budget for 1978 envisaged a 26 percent increase in total
outlay as compared to the estimated actual expenditures in 1977, while capital
spending was proposed to be raised by nearly 80 percent to 36.4 billion FMG.
Revenues also were expected to go up sharply, partly as a result of tax reform
measures. Ihe overall deficit, however, might turn out to be somewhat larger
than the prcjected 16.1 billion FMG owing to underestimation of expenditure on
personnel and the settlement of payments deferred from 1977, on the one hand,
and shortfalls in revenues on the other. Even so, the overall fiscal situation
is likely to have shown some improvement in 1978 as compared to the preceding
year. The Government is contemplating economies in current expenditure,
particularly by paring consumer subsidies, so as to minimize the burden of
unproductive outlays in the future.
8.        Monetary and credit developments since 1975 have been influenced
mainly by the Government's detficit financing needs.  Outstanding domestic
credit went up by more than 50 percent to 126 billion FMG during 1975-77, due,
for the mosi: part, to the steep and continued rise in net claims on Government.
As a result, money supply, whiich had been increasing moderately, rose by 15
percent in L976 and as much as 25 percent in 1977.  Despite this monetary
expansion and little growth iLn the output of goods and services, the annual
inflation rate has been moderate -- about 9-10 percent during 1976-77, largely
because of increasing demand for cash balances and the consequent accumulation
of idle funds.
9.        The balance of payments situation which had been deteriorating
showed a substantial improvement in 1976, when a surplus of 2 billion FMG was
recorded; but the payments surplus in 1977 is now estimated to have been much
smaller. The turnaround in ithe balance of payments situation occurring in
1976 is attributable more to exogenous factors than to any significant im-
provement in the structure of the balance of payments. Trade surpluses were
recorded in 1976 and 1977 as a result of (a) a sharp rise in prices of exports,
particularly coffee, which reversed the continuing deterioration in the terms
of trade, and (b) the imposition of more strict quantitative restrictions on
imports in 1976. There was a substantial decline in the availability of
imports after 1975. On the other hand, the volume of exports dropped sharply
in 1976, and continued to fall in 1977, while there was no lasting reduction
in the services deficit, nor any sustained rise in capital inflows.
10.       The growth and development of the Malagasy economy have over a
fairly lonE period been affected by constraints resulting from shortage of
savings, slow growth in markets for major primary exports and low productivity
of traditional agriculture. The country, however, is relatively well-endowed
with natural resources and has a well-established administrative set-up. With



-4-
appropriate policies and adequate external capital assistance, medium and
long-term prospects for the economy should be favorable. There is consider-
able scope for the expansion of agriculture and livestock production. Only
about a fifth of the arable land is at present being cultivated, while fer-
tilizer consumption, estimated to be some 14,000 tons in 1976, is still rather
small. The irrigation potential has as yet been only partially exploited.
The outlook for further development of manufacturing based on locally avail-
able materials is promising. On the whole, sustained growth at an average
annual rate of 4-5 percent appears to be feasible.
11.       The Government has been taking far-reaching steps to strengthen
national control of the economy. As a part of this process, economic and
financial institutions, productive sectors, foreign trade and internal market-
ing have undergone extensive reorganization. Inspired by the basic needs
approach, the Government has also formulated long-term development objectives
which envisage a more egalitarian income distribution and satisfaction of
specified minimum consumption requirements of the population by the end of
the century. The Government also stresses national self-sufficiency and the
eventual establishment of an industrial base large and diversified enough to
meet the entire domestic demand for equipment and other manufactures.
12.       A Three-Year Plan, which is to be the first of a series of medium-
term investment programs designed to attain these long-run development objec-
tives, was launched this year. The Plan envisages overall expansion of the
economy at an average annual rate of 5.5 percent during 1978-80. The rate of
investment is projected to rise to 17.1 percent of GDP by 1980 from the Plan
estimate of 11.5 percent in 1977. The savings rate is to be stepped up,
partly through the mobilization of additional budgetary resources for capital
development. But about a quarter of the investment outlays during the Plan
period is expected to be financed through external loans and grants. Greater
emphasis will be placed on the development of food crops; and household con-
sumption is targeted to rise, in real terms, by 3.6 percent per year. The
Plan also accords high priority to manufacturing, particularly basic industry
and processing of agricultural raw materials.
13.       Madagascar's external public debt, outstanding and disbursed,
amounted to US$202.8 million at the end of 1977. Slightly over half of it
(US$102.3 million) was owed to the Bank Group, and as much as 37.8 percent to
IDA alone. The Bank Group share of debt service in 1977 was 20.8 percent.
Among bilateral donors France and the Federal Republic of Germany are the most
prominent, each holding about 14 percent of the disbursed debt. Japan and the
People's Republic of China rank next in importance (about 5 percent each)
followed by the USA (3 percent) and Italy (1.1 percent). Suppliers' credits
and commercial borrowing (4.6 percent of the disbursed debt) have been rela-
tively unimportant. The Government, in fact, has been generally prudent with
regard to external indebtedness; the outstanding disbursed debt at the end of
1976 thus amounted to nearly 11 percent of GNP as compared to the average of
21 percent for low-income countries. Because of relatively limited reliance



- 5 -
on external assistance and concessionary terms of most loans and credits, debt
service payments have remained small. The estimated debt service ratio of 3.5
percent in 1976 was only marginally higher than in 1970.
14.       The Bank Group should be prepared, in appropriate cases, to provide
some local cost financing. In terms of performance, Madagascar appears to
have performned about as well as other countries at the same level of develop-
ment encountering similar constraints. Its current domestic savings rate of
10 - 11 percent compares favorably with the average of 8 percent for countries
in the low-income group, indicating that Madagascar has made a reasonable
effort to mDbilize domestic savings; but its savings fall far short of the
country's requirements. The Government's policy of emphasizing self-reliance
has contribated further to scarcity of external resources. Despite consid-
erable restrictions on imports, the country's balance of payments and reserve
position have continued to be weak.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
15.       Madagascar has received fourteen IDA credits amounting to US$158.2
million and five Bank loans totaling US$32.6 million. About 48 percent
of Bank Group lending has been for transport, 21 percent for electric
power, 22 percent for agriculture and 9 percent for education. IFC's first
investment was made in March 1977 with an equity investment of US$290,000
and a loan of US$11.0 million for the expansion of a textile mill; other
projects in. leather and ferrochrome are under consideration. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits, and of IFC investments as
of April 30, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       The priority given to transport investment recognizes that improve-
ment in communications is a precondition for Madagascar's development. Four
projects have been for the construction of all-weather highway links between
the island's different regions, one for improvements to Madagascar's main
port of Toamasina and one for the modernization of the railway line between
Toamasina and the capital, Antananarivo. A second project supporting the
railways' modernization efforts was approved by the Executive Directors on May
8, 1979. Bank Group lending for agriculture consists of two livestock develop-
ment projects, two irrigation projects and a forestry project. A credit for
an agricull:ural development project in the Mangoky delta was signed on May 17,
1979.  A study of the problem of agricultural marketing and meat pricing is
being executed with the assistance of an international consultancy firm. Bank
Group invoLvement in the utility sector includes the financing by IDA of part
of the cost of the large Anclekaleka hydroelectric project for which substantial
bilateral assistance was secured by the Government.
17.       In the past, prob:Lems have arisen in the course of execution of
several projects. There were delays in execution, cost overruns and defici-
encies in institution building, especially in agriculture. The Morondava
Project had to be substantially cut, and the Government has prepared a plan of



- 6 -
action to deal with the remaining problems. The main aspects of this plan
include a redefinition of the implementing agency's (SODEMO) responsibilities
and financial structures, completion and audit of overdue accounts, and pre-
paration of an investment program and budget for development of the Morondava
area. Implementation of the plan of action has started and is being closely
monitored by the Government and the Association. Implementation of the Village
Livestock Project has improved substantially. The first three highway projects
have been completed and the fourth project is still being implemented.
18.       In our future lending to Madagascar, we expect agriculture to absorb
an increasingly larger share of Bank Group lending, in line with Government
strategy, which is stated in its long-term development plan and which recog-
nizes that expansion of agricultural production is one of the prerequisites of
further development of the country. A pipeline of possible projects has been
identified. We are currently assisting the Government in preparing an agri-
cultural credit project, two rural development projects, a small-scale irriga-
tion project, a third livestock project and a second forestry project. We
intend to continue supporting infrastructure development. The Antananarivo
Water Supply and Sanitation project has been appraised and is expected to be
negotiated shortly. In addition, a DFC project which will include assistance
to artisans and small-scale industries will also be negotiated shortly.
Projects in education and urban development are being prepared. We expect the
Government to seek cofinancing from external lenders for some of the projects,
and we intend to assist the Government in its efforts to mobilize new external
sources of financing.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination
19.       The country's rugged topography, its tropical climate and the
lack of suitable construction materials in some parts of the island have
made road construction and maintenance relatively costly; this has contributed
towards the isolation of some of the regions and towards uneven population
distribution in the country.
20.       Government policy towards transport development, stated in the
"Charter of the Revolution" (1975), aims at connecting regional capitals by
all-weather roads, improving road maintenance, and developing the transport
organization and services.
21.       Transport planning and coordination does not yet pose any serious
problems since the country's transport infrastructure is still very under-
developed and new investments are concentrated on providing only a very basic
system. But, when completed, the Moramanga-Toamasina road, now being con-
structed with financing from the People's Republic of China, will provide an
all-weather road link between Antananarivo and Toamasina which will compete
with rail and air transport servicing this area; thus greater intermodal
coordination will be needed on this corridor in order to optimize use of the



transport system. Future investments will require a much greater planning
effort than in the past to ensure that use of the most economic mode by
commodity is encouraged. The Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP) is
expected to be able to undertake these tasks in the near future. During
project supervision the AssocLation will review the adequacy of MFP's planning
and coordination capabilities and may consider providng assistance to MFP
under future projects, should the need arise.
22.       Responsibility for transport planning is divided between the Minis-
try of Public Works (Ministere des Travaux Publics, MTP) for roads and the
Ministry of Transport and Supplies (Ministere des Transports et Ravitaillement,
MTR) for air-, water and rail transport; overall planning and coordination of
investments is the responsibility of the MFP.  There is a shortage of qualified
transport planners in both MTP and MTR and insufficient data to analyze trans-
port demand. It is expected, however, that the data collection needed for
highway plaLning will improve with the recent resumption of annual traffic
counts and the preparation of an annual inventory of road conditions to be
started under the proposed project. In addition, a team of transport planners
(SETEC-France/Berger-US) was financed under Madagascar's First Railway Project
(Cr. 488-MAG) to assist MTR's planning effort and thus improve highway planning
through better coordination between MTR and MTP. The team, which finished its
assignment Ln August 1978, carried out a number of transport studies, including
a modal allocation study of road/rail traffic in the Antananarivo-Toamasina
corridor, but did not succeeci in training a sufficient number of local staff
since counterpart staff were not provided in adequate numbers and with the
required qualifications. The MFP is therefore assuming most of MTR and MTP's
planning functions.
The Transport Network
23.       Madagascar's translport network consists of about 27,500 km of
roads of which only 4,500 km are paved; 2 unconnected railway systems total-
ling 860 km; 4 alongside ports and 11 ports handling lighterage; and 56
airfields of which 17 are all-weather standard.
Highways
24.       The paved network consists of a main north-south artery, connecting
Mahajanga, Antananarivo and Fianarantsoa, an east-west road linking Moramanga,
Antananarivo, and Tsiroanomandidy, and several short stretches around the
major coastal towns. Other roads are generally low standard, dry-weather
earth roads and tracks which are frequently impassable during the rainy season
in the north and part of the west. Traffic volume on paved roads ranges from
about 100 vehicles per day (vpd) in rural areas to more than 1,000 vpd near
the main cities. On unpaved roads, traffic flows reach a maximum of 75 vpd.
25.       The Ministry of Transport and Supplies is responsible for setting
inter-provincial road transport rates while rates for intra-provincial freight
transport are set by provincial authorities within a minimum-maximum rate
system established by Government.  The Ministry of Finance's Tax Office
estimates that in total there are about 5,000 public freight transporters,
including large trucking firms, owner-operators, private carriers and a few



- 8 -
cooperatives. The majority of these transporters own only one truck. While
the larger companies are well-run and generally provide good service, indivi-
dual transporters lack experience in operating efficiently. Passenger tran-
sport regulations are the responsibility of MTR and the provincial authorities.
Service is provided by cooperatives and individual carriers. Although entry
into the industry is nominally screened by Government on the basis of supply
and demand considerations, in practice all applicants are admitted.
26.       MTP's present routine and periodic maintenance operations are
inadequate because of shortages of trained staff, maintenance equipment and
funds, and equipment repair facilities. As a consequence, about a third of
all paved roads (1,500 km) have deteriorated to such an extent that only full
rehabilitation of pavement can restore them to serviceable condition, while
about a quarter (1,100 km) require resurfacing to avoid further deterioration
and costly repair. Efforts to improve road maintenance have been started
under the Fourth IDA Highway Project and will be continued under the proposed
Fifth Highway Project. During negotiations, annual budget allocations for
road maintenance, which are financed from general revenues to which road users
contribute through duties on vehicle imports and taxes on vehicle ownership
and on use, were agreed for 1980 and Government and the Association will
from time to time exchange views on these allocations until completion of the
Project. For 1980, at least US$18.0 million equivalent will be allocated for
road maintenance operating expenditures and at least US$5.0 million equivalent
for equipment renewal; Government will make its best effort to obtain external
financing for an additional US$5.0 million equivalent for equipment renewal.
Agreement was also reached with Government that these funds will be made
available to the regional district offices as required for uninterrupted
operations. (Section 4.02, the draft IDA Credit and EEC Special Action Credit
Agreements).
Railway
27.       The Reseau National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy (RNCFM) operates
860 km of main line, and 175 km of branch lines and private sidings. It
has so far provided the main means of transportation between the east coast
and the high plateau where most of the population and economic activities
are concentrated. In 1977, RNCFM carried a total of 823,000 tons of freight
(with an average haul of 334 km) and 3.9 million passengers (with an average
journey of 69 km).
Air Transport
28.       Madagascar has 56 airfields, 17 of which are built to all-weather
standards. Only two airports can handle large aircraft of the Boeing-707
type. Large aircraft such as the Boeing-747 can only land at Antananarivo's
airport. The national airline, Air Madagascar, is owned 70 percent by the
Government and 30 percent by Air France. It owns 18 aircraft including one
B-707 and two B-737s. It has recently purchased a Boeing-747 which is being
operated jointly with Air France.



-9-
Ports
29.       Among the four major ports, Toamasina handles about two-thirds
of the total. national port traffic; Mahajanga on the west coast, 11 percent;
Antomboka in the north and Toliara in the south, about 4 percent each.
The other ports mainly serve coastal shipping, which is important because
of the inadequate inland transport infrastructure.
Bank Group Rle
30.       The Bank Group is aLssisting the Government in restoring and improv-
ing transport infrastructure and institutions, in training staff, and in
planning for the future development of the sector. Bank Group lending to
the transport sector has amotnted to some US$93 million, about 80 percent
of which has been for the highway subsector.
31.       Bank Group involvement in Madagascar's transport sector began in
1966 when the First Highway ]?roject (Credit 90-MAG, US$10 million, 1966)
provided for construction to paved standards of two sections of the
Antananarivo-Mahajanga road, totalling 145 km. A Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR, No. 1409) dated January 3, 1977 found that the cost of the road
construction was far below original estimates and the recalculated rate of
return was greater than estimated at appraisal. Surplus funds were used to
finance supplementary works and studies, which necessitated a delay in project
completion.
32.       Ihe Second Highway Project (Credit 134-MAG/Loan 570-MAG, US$8 mil-
lion, 1968) helped finance construction of 146 km of two major trunk roads
and construction of three bridges. The project did not completely meet its
objectives,, and completion was delayed by about one year due to difficulties
of the contractors who carried out the project. Actual project cost was
US$15.2 million in contrast to the appraisal estimate of US$11.5 million,
including contingencies. This represents an overrun of some 30 percent, of
which about: half was due to price increases and half to increased quantities.
The cost overrun was financetd in large part by Goverrment, but savings under
the First Hlighway Project also contributed to financing. PPAR No. 811, dated
July 18, 1975, found that the economic justification of one of the project
roads, Ambilobe-Ambanja (91 km), was doubtful in view of its low rate of
return (8%), primarily causetd by higher construction costs than foreseen at
appraisal.
33.       The Third Highway Project (Credit 351-MAG/Loan 876-MAG, US$30
million, 1973) provided for construction of 417 km of primary roads, detailed
engineering of the Antsohihy-Ambanja road and a review of the traffic counting
system. In 1975 the project had to be modified due to substantial cost
increases and as result of 'price and quantity increases not anticipated at
appraisal, as well as the devaluation of the US dollar. A supplementary
credit of US$5.6 million was therefore provided while construction was reduced
by 67 km. PPAR No. 2143, dated July 27, 1978, found that while the overall
recalculated rate of return of 14% was acceptable and in line with appraisal
estimates, two road sections had individual rates of return of 10% or less,



- 10 -
since expected agricultural benefits failed to materialize due to the deter-
iorating political and economic situation of the country. The PPAR further
outlines the project's deficiencies, including an insufficient provision of
funds for road maintenance and a failure to train Malagasy nationals and
thereby contribute to institution building. These problems have been ad-
dressed under the ongoing Fourth and the proposed Fifth Highway Projects.
34.       The Fourth Highway Project (Credit 641-MAG, US$22 million, 1976)
is currently helping to finance construction of 370 km of secondary roads
between Tsiroanomandidy and Maintirano and the 67 km of primary roads from
Arivonimamo to Analavory deleted from the Third Highway Project. A road
maintenance component is also included which provides for a consultant's
study to evaluate maintenance needs, including procurement of equipment
and technical assistance for training of local staff in road maintenance
at the Centre d'Application des Travaux Publics (CATP). The road construction
component is nearly completed; the maintenance studies have been completed.
However, initiation of the recommended training program has been delayed.
Training of local staff is essential to improving maintenance operations
under the proposed Fifth Highway Project. Agreement was reached during
negotiations for the Fifth Highway Project that training consultants will
be employed and that construction of training facilities will be started by
January 1, 1980 (Section 3.10, the draft IDA Credit and EEC Special Action
Credit Agreements)--both actions to be conditions of disbursement for all
project components except road resurfacing and rehabilitation (Schedule 1,
para 4, the draft IDA Credit Agreement and Schedule 1, para 5, the draft EEC
Special Action Credit Agreement).
35.       Bank Group assistance has also helped finance the construction
of feeder roads under agricultural and rural development projects. A 1974
project for Village Livestock and Rural Development (Credit 506-MAG) financed
the construction of about 170 km of secondary roads in Mahajanga province
and maintenance of about 280 km of roads. Under the Mangoro Forestry Project
(Credit 525-MAG, 1974) provision was made for construction and maintenance
of 56 km of gravelled service roads, 840 km of plantation truck roads and 910
km of tracks. The Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project (Credit
322-MAG, 1972) included the improvement of 24 km of existing secondary rural
roads and construction of about 90 km of feeder roads. Construction of farm
roads was included in the Lake Alaotra Irrigation Project (Credit 214-MAG,
1970). Feeder road construction under these projects has generally been
satisfactory.
36.       Other transport projects include a port project (Credit 200-MAG,
1970, US$9.6 million) which provided for the extension of Toamasina Port,
creation of the Toamasina Port Authority, and technical assistance for
management personnel and training; in 1973 the Credit was increased by US$1.8
million to cover a shortage of funds resulting from a currency realignment.
PPAR No. 2299, dated December 22, 1978, concluded that: (a) the physical
objectives of the project were satisfactorily carried out; (b) a revised
lower economic return at 7 percent was due to lack of traffic growth resulting
from adverse local and international political and economic conditions that
could not have been foreseen at the time of appraisal; and (c) although the



- 11 -
technical assistance towards institution building purposes did not achieve
fully satisfactory results, initially because of the low calibre of expatri-
ate experts, progress in achieving autonomy and better management is now
being made! by the port authority. The Bank Group also helped to finance a
railway project (CR. 488-MAG, US$6 million, 1974) to assist RNCFM in replacing
outdated equipment and to determine the railways' long-term prospects and
requirements; the recently approved Second Railway Project will continue
replacemenIt of outdated equipment and the track renewal program.
37.       The first four Bank Group projects in the highway subsector helped
Governmeni: to pursue its objective of providing better road access to regional
capitals. However, the corLcern for new construction prevailed and the exist-
ing network continues to deteriorate due to inadequate road maintenance and,
to a lesser extent, to a failure to enforce vehicle weight regulations. Both
problems were addressed under the Fourth Highway Project which provided
for (a) purchase and installation of weighbridges to monitor vehicle weights
and (b) a road maintenance study and implementation of part of the study's
recommendations. The Government is convinced that a greater effort will have
to be made at improving road maintenance. Capacity and know-how of the
departments concerned with road maintenance will be strengthened and funds
will be provided under the proposed Fifth Highway Project.  The Government
is expected to give road maintenance the priority it deserves.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
38.       The project proposal was prepared by the Ministry of Public Works and
the Ministry of Finance andl Planning, with assistance from the IDA appraisal
mission. The project was appraised in September/October 1978. Negotiations
were held in Washington from May 8 to 11, 1979. The Government delegation was
led by Mr. Leon Rajaobelina, Governor of the Central Bank. The main features
of the Project are outlined in the Credit and Project Summary and the Supple-
mental Project Data Sheet of this report. A detailed account of the Project
background and components is contained in Staff Appraisal Report No. 2355b,
dated May 18, 1979, which is being circulated separately.
Project Objectives and Description
39.       A study to identify maintenance and training needs, a long-term
countrywide training program for MTP staff, the construction of a central
maintenarLce workshop for equipment rehabilitation, and the general improvement
of maintenance operations in one of the country's six regional districts
(Antombola) were included in the Fourth IDA-financed Highway Project (Credit
641-MAG). The proposed Fifth Highway Project would continue the effort by
improving the country's road infrastructure through a resurfacing and reha-
bilitation program for paved roads aiming at preventing further deterioration
of the paved network, increasing the long-run maintenance capacity of MTP and
providing for an all-weather road connection between the regional district of
Antomboka and the capital, Antananarivo.



- 12 -
40.       The project would be implemented over a three-year period and would
consist of:
(a)  rehabilitation and resurfacing of about 500 km of paved roads and
the provision of an initial stock of materials (bitumen) for road
maintenance;
(b)  construction of bridges for the Antsohihy-Ambanja road;
(c)  improvement of road maintenance operations and equipment repair
facilities by:
(i) strengthening MTP's central administrative organization
for road maintenance;
(ii) improving routine and periodic maintenance in two regional
districts, including a regravelling program for about 400 km of
roads; and
(iii)  improving the mechanical workshops in five regional district
centers;
(d)  a study to determine the most appropriate mix of labor and equipment
for road maintenance and improvement works and possible implementa-
tion of a two-year demonstration program;
(e)  feasibility and detailed engineering studies for a section
(170 km) of Road No. 13;
(f)  training of MTP staff through technical assistance; and
(g)  fellowships for MTP staff.
41.       The components can be described as follows:
(a)  Resurfacing, Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Paved Roads.  The
project provides financing for resurfacing and partial rehabilita-
tion of various sections of about 500 km of the Antananarivo-
Mahajanga and Antananarivo-Fianarantsoa roads, which show extensive
cracking, potholes, an uneven road surface and broken pavement
edges. The length, location, and type of improvement works on
road sections included in the project will be identified by a
consultant's study to be financed under the Fourth Highway Project.
Government will finance about 600 km of rehabilitation and resurfac-
ing work (which is not part of the project) under its own mainte-
nance budget. The project will also provide for the purchase
of an initial stock of bitumen which will have to be replenished
annually to improve maintenance of the paved network. During
negotiations agreement was obtained from Government to ensure that
adequate amounts of bitumen be made available as and when required
for the rehabilitation and maintenance of its roads over the project
period (1980-82) (Section 4.03, the draft IDA Credit and EEC Special
Action Credit Agreements).



- 13 -
(b) Construction of Bridges for the Antsohihy-Ambanja Road. The
Antsohihy-Ambanja road (165 km) is part of the major trunk road
connecting the country's northern region of Antomboka with
Antananarivo, the capital. It is, at present, an earth road in
poor condition and impassable during the rainy season (November-
May) when many of its existing river-crossings and low-lying road
sections become flooded. Improvement of this road to all-weather
standards is essential for year-round transport and for improving
the region's economic development. The proposed project will assist
Government by helping to finance the construction of bridges and
their approaches.. Government will upgrade the road to adequate
driving condition and improve the road surface with selected
materials to allow for year-round serviceability. At negotiations,
agreement was reached with Government that improvement of the
Antsohihy-Ambanja road to adequate driving condition will be com-
pleted by the time bridge construction is finished (Schedule 2,
Part B, the draft IDA Credit and EEC Special Action Credit
Agreements).
(c)  (i)  Improvement of Road Maintenance - Strengthening of the Central
Administrative Organization. MTP's central administration does
not yet have a unit in charge of the maintenance operations
carried out by the regional districts. A central unit will be
created within the Directorate for Programming, Management and
Training (DPMT) to control and centralize data collected by
MTP's regional districts; coordinate planning, programming and
budgeting and evaluate costs and scope of maintenance work done
by the regional districts for primary, secondary and tertiary
roads; define corrective actions required and, if needed,
monitor their implementation. The unit would be headed by a
Malagasy engineer experienced in road maintenance and staffed
by MTP's existing personnel. At negotiations, agreement
was reached with Government on the establishment of this
central unit within DPMT by January 1, 1980; the appointment of
a qualified local engineer to head the unit by the same date;
and the number and qualifications of supporting staff to be
provided (Section 3.05, the draft IDA Credit and EEC Special
Action Credit Agreements).
(ii)  Improvement of Maintenance in Two Regional Districts.  Both
routine and periodic maintenance operations throughout the
country have been inadequate, but because of the limited
resources available, it is not possible to improve maintenance
to an adequate level simultaneously in all of the country's six
regions. The proposed project will therefore expand the
efforts begun under the Fourth Highway Project to improve
maintenance! at the regional level by providing the following
assistance under a two-year program to the two regional dis-
tricts of Mahajanga and Toliara:



- 14 -
(a)  technical assistance in defining a detailed program for
adequate routine and periodic maintenance, including
introduction of efficient techniques for programming,
budgeting and execution of works and cost accounting; and
training local staff in proper work methods;
(b)  procurement of equipment and spare parts to set up the
necessary recurrent and periodic maintenance brigades
(regravelling); and
(c)  operation of one road regravelling training brigade in each
of the two regions, including costs for spare parts, fuel
and materials.
(iii) Strengthening of Regional Workshop Operations. Workshop
facilities, which are the responsibility of the Directorate of
Equipment (DE) in the Ministry of Public Works, are not
equipped for adequate maintenance and repair of the equipment
fleet. To help correct this problem, the proposed project
provides for improvement of buildings and procurement of tools,
equipment and spare parts for the mechanical workshops in five
regional district centers. Details of the scope of improve-
ments to building facilities and needs for workshop tools,
equipment and spare parts have been defined by Government and
were agreed with Government at negotiations.
(d)  Labor-Intensive Work Program.  The project includes financing of an
identification study to determine which maintenance and improvement
works, if any, might economically be carried out by more labor-
intensive work methods than are currently used. The above study
will define specific projects; the most economic equipment/labor
mix; technical assistance requirements; needed equipment, spare
parts, tools and materials; capital and operating costs, and the
number and qualifications of counterparts and local staff required.
Financing of a 2-year demonstration program to be based on the study
has been provided for under the project and would include equipment,
operating costs for fuel, spare parts and materials. An outline of
the consultant's terms of reference for the identification study was
discussed and agreed with Government during negotiations (Section
3.02, the draft IDA Credit and EEC Special Action Credit Agreements).
Agreement was also reached that, following definition of the demon-
stration program, Government and the Association will discuss and
agree on specific works to be carried out, equipment and materials
to be procured under the project, and the staff required for the
demonstration program (Section 3.06, the draft IDA Credit and EEC
Special Action Credit Agreements). The demonstration program will
take into account the role and functions of local communities and
the Government's objective of developing cooperatives responsible
for road maintenance and improvement (Schedule 2, Part G, the draft
IDA Credit and EEC Special Action Credit Agreements).



- 15 -
(e) Feasibility and Detailed Engineering Studies. The project
provides financing for a feasibility study and, if construc-
t:ion is economically justified, detailed engineering for about
170 km of National Road (RN) 13, located between RN 7 and the
Manandrotsy bridge., With daily traffic of about 60 vehicles,
this road forms part of the country's major north-south axis
l:Lnking the regionaLl district center of Toliara with Antananrivo.
At: present this is an earth road in poor condition.
(f)  Technical Assistance and Training.  Government's road maintenance
e:Efort is presently constrained by a shortage of qualified staff at
a:Ll levels. Technical assistance will therefore be provided under
the project to assist Government in improving the maintenance
organization and operations in two regional districts, strengthening
equipment maintenance and repair in five regional districts, and
training local staff.  During appraisal it was estimated that a
total of 168 man-months of consultant services will be needed over a
2-year period consiLsting of:
(i) two civil eng:Lneers for a period of two years each;
(ii) two cost accounting experts for a period of two years each;
(iii) two road foremen for a period of two years each; and
(iv) one mechanica:L engineer for two years.
Training would primarily take place on-the-job.  Each civil engineer
would advise the regional district engineer (his counterpart) in matters
related to road maintenance and would advise and train the remaining supervi-
sory staff in each region (3-5 engineers and about 15 technicians). The cost
accountants would advise supervisory staff and train about 48 chiefs of
regravelling brigades in cost accounting methods. The road foremen would be
responsible for training the project-financed regravelling brigade. The
mechanical engineer would assist regional staff in implementing improvement of
workshop facilities, introducing a more effective equipment maintenance and
repair system, and training local personnel. In addition, a notional amount
of 72 man-months of technical assistance to train local staff in labor-
intensive methods has been included in the project. The average cost per
man-month is about US$6,000, plus an average US$1,400 per field man-month of
reimbursable expenses.
Government has accepted technical assistance for project execution,
and during negotiations agreement was obtained from Government on the scope
and timing of consultant services for that technical assistance. During nego-
tiations, agreement was also obtained from Government that all consultants
financed under the project will be employed on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Association (Section 3.02, the draft IDA Credit and EEC Special
Action Credit Agreements).



- 16 -
(g) Fellowships. In order to improve MTP's long-term road maintenance
capability, local supervisory staff will receive training in
specialized aspects of highway maintenance and equipment repair.
The proposed project will therefore provide fellowships abroad
for suitable qualified Malagasies. Government has agreed that
the number and types of fellowships required to train local staff
will be defined by consultants under the project's technical assist-
ance component during project implementation (Section 3.07, the
draft IDA Credit and EEC Special Action Credit Agreements).
Project Cost and Financing
42.       The total Project cost is estimated at US$45.7 million equivalent
including taxes (US$4.8 million); the foreign exchange expenditure is about
US$34.0 million or 83% of net project costs. Physical contingencies of 10
percent have been allowed for paved roads and bridges on the Antsohihy-Ambanja
road. Price contingencies for the foreign cost of civil works have been
calculated at 7.5% for 1979 and 7% per year thereafter through 1982, and for
equipment 6.5% in 1979 and 6% per year thereafter through 1982. Price contin-
gencies for all local costs have been calculated at 9% for 1979 and 8% for
1980-82.
43.       The proposed IDA credit of US$24.0 million would finance about 59%
of total project costs, net of duties and taxes. It would cover 70% of
the foreign exchange cost of the project. The US$10.0 million EEC Special
A^ction Credit, to be administered by IDA, will cover an additional 24% of
project cost, including the remaining foreign exchange cost, net of taxes.
Government would finance the balance of US$6.9 million equivalent (for Govern-
ment's recurrent expenditures for road maintenance, see para 26).
Organization and Implementation
44.       The Ministry of Public Works, assisted by consultants, would be
responsible for overall project execution. Rehabilitation and resurfacing of
paved roads would be by contractors. A consultant's study to be financed
under the Fourth Highway Project will define the work to be carried out; work
is expected to start in early-1980 and take about 12 months to complete.
Length, location and construction standards of roads to be resurfaced and
rehabilitated under the project will be agreed by Government and the Asso-
ciation following completion of the consultant's study (Schedule 2, Part A
draft Development Credit Agreement). Construction of bridges and approaches
is expected to start in early-1980 and be completed within 30 months. The
program for routine and periodic maintenance (1980-82), including a list of
roads to be regravelled, will be defined by consultants during the first three
months of their assignment, to begin in early-1980, and agreement was reached
during negotiations that Government and the Association will subsequently
agree upon the regravelling program to be implemented (Schedule 2, Part E,
draft IDA Credit and EEC Special Action Credit Agreements). Construction and
improvement of workshop buildings is expected to start in early-1980 and take
about six months to complete. The identification study to determine an
appropriate labor/equipment mix for rehabilitation and maintenance operations



- 17 -
will be carried out by consultants, commencing in early 1980 and taking about
three months to complete. During negotiations agreement was obtained from
Government that if this methodology proves economically viable, Government and
the Association will review details of a 2-year demonstration program to train
local staff in these methods (Section 3.06, the draft IDA Credit and EEC
Special Action Credit Agreements).
Procurement
45.       The contracts for rehabilitation and resurfacing of paved roads
and the conStruction of bridges and approaches will be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. It is expected that contractors from EEC member countries will be
awarded most of these contracts which will be financed by the EEC Special
Action Credit. Supervision of construction will be by consultants selected
by Government and employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Bridge construction will be divided into three separate lots and will be bid
concurrently in order to attract foreign participants. Contractors will be
prequalified to bid on one or more lots. Minor improvements to existing
regional wcrkshop buildings will be carried out by force account, and major
improvement: work or new construction would be by contractor follawing local
competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory. Equipment and spare
parts will be procured by ICB following Bank Group Guidelines; spare parts can
also be procured by other means besides ICB if Government can demonstrate to
the Association that ICB will not have satisfactory results. Contracts for
equipment, tools, materials and supplies costing less than US$50,000 will be
awarded on the basis of suppliers' quotations. The total amount of these
items will not exceed US$500,000. A stock of 400 tons of bitumen will be
purchased according to established local procedures acceptable to IDA.
46.       The project is expected to be completed by the end of 1982. A
project completion report will be prepared within six months of the Closing
Date.
Disbursements
47.       Disbursement from the Credits will be made on the following basis:
IDA Credit:
(a) 70% of total expenditures for the resurfacing and rehabili-
tation;
(b) 62% of total expenditures for construction of bridges and
their approaches on the Antsohihy-Ambanja road;
(c)  60% of total expenditures for improvement of workshop
buildings including materials;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment, workshop tools
and equipment, spare parts, fuel and bitumen, or 75% of
local expenditures if previously imported; and



- 18 -
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures for consultant services and
training.
EEC Special Action Credit:
(a) 70% of total expenditures for the resurfacing and
rehabilitation;
(b) 62% of total expenditures for construction of bridges
and their approaches on the Antsohihy-Ambanja road;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for consultants for
construction supervision under (a) and (b)
All disbursements will be fully documented (for conditions of disbursement,
see para 34).
48.       The road rehabilitation and maintenance works carried out under the
project will provide for adequate drainage and thus help to decrease soil
erosion, which is a serious problem in Madagascar. Otherwise, the project
will have no influence on the ecology of the country.
Project Benefits and Economic Evaluation
49.       The project will continue the training and maintenance effort begun
under the Fourth Highway Project. Reduced vehicle operating costs and in-
creased efficiency of the road transport industry are expected to result.
Furthermore, if labor-intensive maintenance methods prove economically feasi-
ble, the use of such methods will enhance job opportunities and reduce the
need for foreign exchange required to purchase equipment and fuel from abroad.
Resurfacing and rehabilitation will help prevent further deterioration of the
roads included in the program, all of which are key portions of the primary
road network. The Antsohihy-Ambanja road, with an area of influence of about
1.2 million people, is the only section of the Antananarivo-Antomboka road
not yet constructed to all-weather standards. The road improvement and bridge
construction on this link would allow year-round access to the northern part
of the country which is now cut off during the rainy season; Antomboka is
the only provincial capital not currently accessible to Antananarivo year-
round. Besides reduced vehicle operating costs and the generation of addi-
tional traffic, the time and cost of getting crops to market will also be
reduced.
50.       It is expected that the reduced vehicle operating costs will
be passed on to producers and consumers in the form of reduced transport
costs and reduced prices for marketed goods. Because official tariffs
are based on road conditions, they would take into account reductions in
vehicle operating costs due to road improvement. While the official tariffs
are intended for all transport, in practice, they are only applied to
government-related transport. Tariffs applied to non-government transport
do, however, reflect road conditions and such transport is competitive.



- 19 -
Overall Project Rate of Return
51.       The project's major components for which benefits have been quanti-
fied include t:he paved road resurfacing and rehabilitation with rates of
return in excess of 100%, the regravelling component with a rate of return of
37% and the bridge construction on the Antsohihy-Ambanja road for which the
rate of return is 16%. The overall weighted return for the project is 61%.
52.       Large increases in costs or decreases in benefits are unlikely to
make the road resurfacing and rehabilitation uneconomical. For the road
regravelling component, sensitivity tests reveal that a 50% increase in costs
or a 25% decrease in benefits would both yield an 18% rate of return. For the
bridge construction and road improvements on the Antsohihy-Ambanja road,
sensitivity tests indicate that a 20% increase in costs or 20% decrease in
benefits will still yield a 13% rate of return. Since generated traffic
constitutes a major part of the benefits accruing from this project component,
sensitivity tests have been carried out which reveal that a 35% decrease
in generated traffic would still allow a 12% rate of return on the road
improvement and bridge construction.
Project Risks
53.       However, the successful implementation of the road maintenance
component could be jeopardized by (a) the failure of Government to release
adequate mairntenance funds to the regional district offices on a timely basis;
(b) interference of the regional political authorities in the implementation
of an established maintenance program; and (c) Government slowness in timely
consultant recruitment and nomination. During negotiations agreement was
reached on budget allocations for road maintenance for 1980, review of
these allocations until completion of the Project (para 26) and on the project
implementation schedule.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar and the International Development Association, the
draft EEC Special Action Credit Agreement between the Democratic Republic of
Madagascar and the International Development Association as Administrator of
the EEC Special Action Account established with funds contributed from the EEC
member states, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
55.       Febatures of special interest are referred to in Section III of Annex
III of this report. As a condition of disbursement for all components of the
project, except road resurfacing and rehabilitation, the Borrower will have
initiated the training prograLm for the Ministry of Public Works, financed
under the Fourth Highway Projject.



- 20 -
56.       A special condition for effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement
would be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EEC Special
Action Credit Agreement have been met other than the effectiveness of the IDA
Credit Agreement. A special condition of effectiveness of the Special Action
Credit Agreement would be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the IDA Credit Agreement have been met other than the effectiveness of the
EEC Special Action Agreement.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and that the EEC Special Action
Credit would comply with the criteria established by the Agreement of May 2,
1978 between the Association and the European Economic Community.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credits.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 11, 1979



- 21-                                                         PaSe 1
R*6AIASC.&3 - mOL l_tC*1O3  DASA S313A
3133I  CU l! (AAJUBT  13340S
LU.  AR        A (  sQ . M.)               MAMSC3)
TOTAUL          592.0                                                  S          S          1 SIGI
AMCULTURAL      345.6                               "an Ud3!    GUMAflIC    DMU t4 30
1980 1k    1970 1k  U6    2UCICO LI               Q co  w    OIP jj
GNP PE  CAPITh (US$)                110.0       150.0    210.0           223.6    12.9         432.3
2;rW c0ONSU1PV1ON PiO CAPITA
(ILGAMS 01 ODAL lEUDVALSIT)        38.0 2      t.0      71.0            8A.7       U.9        251.7
POPULATION AD VITAL SATISTZCS
TOTAL POPULATION, M13-IAR                                    *
QtILLIONS)                        5.9        7.6       9.4
ORM   OPUlATION (P1AZNS Ot TOTAL) 10.0         14.1     14.4            13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATio00 D1S4 mT
P  SQ. at.                       10.0        13.0      16.0            16.4      46.6        42.1
PU SQ. 33. A2ICDLTUAL D3         16.0        21.0      26.0           53.6      254.1        95.0
POPLmATIOI ACt STuUCTOiU (P3CT)
0-14 ns;.                        39.0        46.I     47.             44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 UI.                      * 57.5         50.2     49,2            52.7       53.3        52.8
65 Us. MM ASOVE                    3.5         3.7       3.5            2.8        2.9         3.0
.OTAL                             2.4         2.6      3.1             2.6        2.4         2.7
eRA                               4.0         8.2       5.2            5.         4.0         LS6
CPDS S1E IAT MU (MlL tP 051)       50.1        49.7      50.2          4f.9        44.3        4.2
cowC DUII RATE (PU (M 0THOU )    23.6          24.2      21.1           20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS SiODCTION  nATE               2.9 J       3.2       3.3            3.1        2.9         3.2
PnaCLT PLAJEUI
ACCPTOS. AAL (ToAns5       )       ..          . 
USUS (P 3  OP t           M)    ..             ..        *.            2.5       14.6        14.2
NoWo AD 50721T1ON
mixDt Of TOOD PR.ODUCTION
PU CUITA (1970-100)              9.         L00.0   190 0             94.2   ff.4           104.3
PU CAPITA SUP L OP
CAW3IES (PUC3D Ot
22-I2A;i7z           _        ;104.0      103.0     l.0               .1       92.3        6.5
P10TIMS (GRAMS  M DT)            55.0        53.0      57.0           55.2       50.0        56.8
Of WICK A1mWL  AND PUL1        17.0        17.0      15.6 h          17.1      13.9        17.3
(UID (AGZS 1-4) OQALIT RATE          ..        33.3                      ^ ..  ..    ..         7.5
RIALTEI
LlI2  1 TC! AT 1RT2 MZARS)    15.9           40.9      43.5           43.7       45.6        53.3
MANT ISITALm IT.  (MP
UOOSA1ID                          13h0       1 102.0                   1 .-  1364  102.7      52.5
*CU:SS To SUI WAlL (P?=T OF
PopTA101)
TTAL                               *.        11.0      25.0            22.4      26.4        31.1
VURA                               *.         7.0      76.0            66.3      63.5        68.5
NAL                                ..         1.0      14.0           10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCS    XC IC & DISPSAL (PXRCWT
OP POPMLATION)
TOTAL                               .          ..        ..            23.9       16.1       37.5
GLUl                               *-        6.0        ..            70.3       65.9        69.5
gpA                                .           ..       9.0            14.2       3.4        25.4
!OPMuATXo  PE PRYSICIAU         10400.0j   11390.0  10620.0 5j       21737.5   13432.7       9359.2
P0tTO.1  M E  NOSI  mEso         3930.01&  3760.0   3640.0 ,          3473.8    6963.3       2762.5
POPULATOl PER HOSPITAL zD
1TTAL                           5L0.0       400.0    420.0            645.4    1157.6       736.5
MAN                                .        1 170.0    240.0          172.9     183.3       278.4
ECRaL                              ..       520.0    500.0           1292.6    1348.6      1358.4
ADWSSI10S Pt1 HOSPITAL UD            ..          .         *             19.2       19.5       19.2
EIOISIING
A41ArR SIZZ Olr HOUSROLD
TOTAL                                         5.8       4.7             4.9        5.2
D                                  ..         5.3       5.0             5.0        4.6
KUA                                .          5.9       4.7             4.7        5.3
AVlZCI Nl:OthtBO PErSpNs ciR  lOO
70TAL                                    ..         ..           ..           ..          ..
01.341                             ..          *.        .-              ..        1.6         2.3
304                                ..          ..        ..              .           ..
OP5 b1T KLNlCs)      (?R
WOTAI..                                       5.0       1..                      25.9        26.3
01541                              ..          ..        ..              .          ..
* Accoieding to the latest available census data maid-year population in 1977
i8 estimated to be oaly 8.0 million which would raise l:he GNP per capita to
US $                                                                                               23



ANNEX I
- 22 -
2 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ha
aI AC      - SCIAL ZNICATMOE  DATA 5MW
3BM-UCGROUPS (AD*JUT   AVERAfl
- 0.T REUIT RSTINTt)
am    SAMK    mmn SIGNZ
ieOST icwr      COApxIC    tlau          xCM
140 A      1970 / ESrITitAI tb             LE      u  14 Li   caouwp /a
UOCATION
ADJUSTED EEOLUIUT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                52.0        83.0      $5.0            52.1      62.9        75.S
Fouls               45.0        77.0        ..            37.4       45.9         7.9
SEWANT:   TOTAL                   4.0        11.0      11.0             8.0       14.4       17.7
FOUALt               1.0         8.0       9.0             5.0        8.8        12.9
OCATIOUAL (PERCENT OP SS'CUOT) 9.0            9.0       7.0             7.2        6.t        7.4
NP1L-TEACII RATIO
ftmAST                           70.0        65.0      *3.0            43.2      38.5        14.3
SE1M0AIT                         24.0        20.0      24.0            22.8       19.8       23.5
ADULT LITlRACI ILATZ (PERCENT)       ..        39.0      40.0            20.3       34.7       63.7
Ol1S3UTION!
PASSENGER CARS *n TEOUSAND
POPMATION                         4.0         4.0       4.4             3.9       3.1         7.2
UDIO nczflx45 tu mouuw
POPIATIOS                        15.0        80.0    112.0             60.1       31.1       71.1
TV RICElUS MU TOOSAN
POPULATION                         ..         0.5       1.0            2.2         2.8       14.1
331StAtn (MAILT GUUAL
I51ZR1T,) CIRCULATION m
T5OIAND POUATION                    8.0         6.8       9.0             3.9        4.0       14.3
C SMA ASUUAL ATTDAIIE  Pn CAPITL  0.5           0.7       0.4             1.2        1.4         1.6
TOTAL LASO  FORCE (TMUSAIDS)    2100.0 t   3S00.0   4400.0
PLUi   (PUJDIT)                  46.2        43.7      45.5            32.1      24.2        28.0
SAICULTUES (PECNS)               93.0        83.0      83.0            73.3      60.7        54.1
131S? (PUCUNT)                    2.5         3.4       ..
FARTICIPATIOS RATE IPUdNI)
TOTAL                              53.7        52.3      50.5            42.0      39.8        37.8
KALI                               58.7        57.7      54.0            54.8       53.3        50.3
iDULE                              46.9        47.0      45.2            27.3       19.6       20.9
scocaac D3PInDUCT RATIO               1.1         1.1       1.0             1.2        1.3        1.3
I3O DSUISIEISUTION
PinCSuT Or PLIVATE DICOIS
RECVD my
G1C5?S  RUCZNT OF  OUSszuLDS   41.0 ja         ..        ..            25.7       20.3        19.5
am=5S 20 PrQCInT OF MOUSEUULDS  6g.1 lj        ..        ..            55.l       45.1       48.9
WOST 20 PUCZNT OF HOUSE.DS    5.2 a            ..        ..             5..        5.7         5.9
L8T 40 PERacNT OF NOUSESULDS   13.0 n          ..        ..            14.5       16.J       15.7
POVsm     TARCET GROUPS
UESYIATID A SOLUTE POTENY ICO
LVL (u5$ Pn CAPITA)
03*3A                              ..          ..        ..           106.6       U.S        155.9
UAL                                ..          ..       5.0            7.1        71.9        97.9
ES  AlED INATiv? lOVeS
LEVL (QS$ P  CAPITA)
M"                                 ..          ..    110.0            124.4      100;        143.7
NMl"                               ..          ..      50.0            59.4       42.0        87.3
IDIAED POPUIATIoS szLoU  POVETY
INCOMELEVEL (PnCENw)
URBAN                              ..          ..      25.0            24.8       44.0        22.9
MEAL                               ..          .       90.0            47.4       48.0        36.7
Not avallable
Not applicable.
/c   The adjusted greip averegee for each indicator are Popul-ttea-w_ebtped 5e_.tric mecn. excludiet the extre.
_ales of the indicator aed the mc populated coatry In each  rcOup. Coverage ef countries  mesg the
Indicators depend.   availaeility of data and lo set miters.
A     DVale  otherviat noted. data for 1960 refer to eay year betwe. 1959 sad 1961; for 1970, between 1949
end 1971; and for Mosr Recent Eatinete. betwee 1973 sad 1977.
jc Afrtca Souch of Sahere;  Id  L   Iucem  (029 or low per cepit. i976);  L   Lower Middle Incee
($21-53t0 per capita. 1976);  Li 1962. rural population only;  A   1961-63;   Lh  1972-74 average;
/L  L966; /I Including ascsttannt uedici of ftlere _ad dentiete;  /k  lecludee mideivee and  s-eletet
edivtivs;   /I  lecladiug etdlwtv;  Lo  1957;  /a  Populatton.
Septemer. 1973



-23 -                                                                           ANNEX T
Page 3
LiE  NIF TIONS OF biOCiTN  iNrTtArRS
(leEr'  hiroophtl,e dote  r   rt'  ttec,rC              -11erii   cdped -ht mos  oo'rrto    nd reliable. it ts-Iod alan be noted that the- may not be intr-,
natio,,olv .tc.prritlr ocrt'l    le[c'a' ot-c.rdi,od detinfiova and concps coed by dIffern- tutrn   in co-Lcing the dEts.   The data are. nonethelees,
cod toe.rIl1,n  if        I'oto   irioetends, and chartoiriee certain' nor differences  b-etwen coun tries.
li    flcudi.jutocr    a  ec loio o   r  ppitinwigtdgecti  sen . Icluding tthe  -treoe vetoes, of. the inIao nd the Most
Peyttl-.1  "r'r.Iri             p      .irr   t.ciievncteidicacr  deprdbo aal Ihlt, of dat  and ictouur.                                             Lic  t   at   fdais,
grecop urrgri    oi o..n.cil    ptecad indocr-rt."of .ccess to easr                                nrto    disposal, housing. fooedianthainadpoet   e
sinpic p,'plottIrn-:iglited  -e-oeric asse  aititont the  -onlo- l   ni estroisvaus
LAND AKEA (tho-n-d sq. in)                                                                  PoPolo!tion per  oce1ttul hd - total  ura.and r-rci -ouaIon(toatl,
Totl    - Fta  tr ateors :c-elinig land area rod inland ustess.                         ubn., and rural) d-cided by their respecti Ic -cboe of hopia  bd
A&Assrl- font recent enri-tot  uf ageltoltcral area usod tenporarily                  available, In pob1li  sod private Asner1 and ..necialioed hosapital and ras-
ce f aescenly icr nrcju, patuc.  ace  cod nitchen gardens on to                          hahilItatio  rnters    fosp.italn are estobli.ufoneti  pccmacently staffed by
lefollow                                                                                at.leat on  phv-ictan.   fntublInh. orntc providing prIncipallycutia
tuneo se  oct teteeded .  R-c1s h-cpitols. hbawevet, include health and -edi-
Gil PEE  cAP _t ('d$j -GNf  pot capita  sisr  at correct market prices.                      ral contort not pern-nntl,  Ltofied by a physician (but by a mdical as,
rairoltod by sn  coceun reid  nWrld bank Atlos (1971-77 basis);                            aistact. -.rc-,  idwitr. et.  tahith offer in-potient aromdatioc and
1961, 1970, ord 177 Lda                                                                    pronide a lioftod tongs of  edicc1 facilities.
Adolssions per hospita  hd-Total comber of admissions to or dischargas
ENERGY CO_KSUI'PTTiON  ER CAPITA -Annual ucncoption of c-merrial energy                       from hospitals divided by the cachet of beds.
Ic   an cd lignirt,  pccco,ctri  gun  nd ihydra-,nulear sadgo
t heralnec-tri cit) In, kologroo-o I cc  suvlet opc  capita                            O N
Average site of ha..cebold (peocprhcead)-ttl   re sd rural.-
POPULATION tNt VITAL fTATIfTICS                                                               A h'..udoossso               agopo   nivdosd   caslce  quarters
Tta.l  ,  3atfcc-g-cat   (illlon -. As of July 1: if not available,                          and thir .ain  eas    A boarder or lodger cop or cay cu theIincluded in
u   Itaf   Lfic  -ro-yae- n..ats  196G. 1970. and 1977 diata,                         the houshold for statistical purposes .  Stattstical deirniticnn of house-
biaottiatoJfcrccoi - cictal) -  ai   f cehan to total paopla-                              hold vary.
ot-n  lfto-n  d-t iit oc.n.    eha  areau coy affeot  -aspaabiliny                   Anec   ehro   ecn   o   on-rt.1f,rba..  and rural - Aoerags moe-
rf d.rearg -     -oeni.ie.                                                                her of person. poer roan It oil, *b-.o, and  orurl occpied  -cnnet1.n.a2
Pcoclcticc density                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dwellings, nespectlvely.  Dwellings occlude nao-pertuasent structures sad
PetL  _<jv -a MIid-per copelutio- pee square ktilomneter (l.0O hentareal                    unoccupied parts.
tccl ona                                                                          Annec., so-electricity   pnrnnct of dutllcescl - total. wehan. and ersi -
pot ci. i.  grtc-ltot-  land - tonp,ated on above for ogriunlteral land                     Conneutlocal dwi.lliogv with  lecirlitiy In, living quacten.asc percentage
only,                                                                                      of total, urhac. and rural dwellings reapectieely.
Pocalc tg r-cytre ip_rurcntl - Chilldren (i-14 years), waking-age
(Il-hi 00crm;   end rrsirnd (65 y-arc and uver) as perrontages of mid-                EDUJCATION
ye-  population                                                                        Ad1usted ..nralimect ratios
bplt  Eth  A0l-rct -r-cra.end urb.n - tompaood acuarPtnc -nhool _ totl, and Enmale - Total ad tfemle enrollT.e.t of all &ags
gec-th tar     I I corl -cI urban  id-yoat popelati-n  far 1950-60,                        at the. primacy loya  an pnecentaisc of renpecLively oticery subo-i-ag
1hl-i _     d190                                                                          papulatioot  normally inciad-c thildren aged 6-11 years hut adjusted far
fC-dt brtct,ae(o  thictoceod) - mend.  live births per thousand of                           differcot lengtbs of pnicary ed-ctiun; fur countrien with nacirsesl edu-
-od--c.y......crcror  ylictoit-  -vro.ges ending in 1960 and                               rotten e.orlloeot may emcee.d 109; percent clues sons pupils arc below or
157C -d fl-.                tei. 1975 fur ...cv recent eb.a-.shv  tic cititial .chool age.
Frit cc-,t  tan    .     ' - .rr.d   r  ci d-uhv pvr thoccod a! mid-                    Sec-cary -n.fel  -  ua,cdfeae-trueda   bv;scondary edaca-
roar       tIcto    tO    a    -cnol        eae   ning in 1960 and 1970                    tiun requitr.  at  ou..t foot- ...r si afppenord primary inctou-t.nol pto-
and   --        a   'rt.G o  5. 1975 fec -ocrecet eutinae.                                 nldes genenal nctol,or teacher trciring  .ntr                  ..ot  for pupils
c-runs cc 'c  -'00"octs A-A.'rgcnc-boo  ct doughtetuota.nan.e  will boat              usually 01 12 to 17 years of age; r-epcndonoe   norest  are generally
cc ocourca   trfraucs. ne. ye'..- if uhn enpenieocee present age-                     esciuded.
np-zit' I-tr'a - -       - rcoc   --cull  fiv-you  averages enoing is 19hi,             Vocational en-ollc-t 'per,en  of --codac-) - Vocational inutitutionat in-
1970cd l97-                                                                               'Iudsmhnctiu ci, It other programs which opera.te independently
Fa. c  'c.-ariS .ts2c.a!             tcusnn)-Annual nonober of                         or cc deyactettvt  cf secondary  nrFtitUtinnu.
ettcy'octc' has f--cr-reFdur-reuadct ce-pirso of natIonal family               Pcpll-t.ccher rt-pimr.cd c-cndarn - Totu1 crodstts enr.olled in
ole-yen.  acat:.                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~prisarya,-. utndcory te-s- dioidrd by n-oher  of teachers ie,the eoeee
lt..tuIrjj.totv.as    of carried conan) ~~~~~~~~F- ra-cga of                  spendin  leel.
"arIc t-   "oc  f                              yi.Fobafcat(5a   ears)  hn use birth-enntru1  Adult lit erar  rtet (pe..cent) - Literate  adalts (able to read and write) as
dococI  all men..rr,  ocrn it tar  ae  group.                                             a percertofe of rtatl adult popula.tin, aged 15 years and over.
ffOD AK.rPJtFCFCOthiUieiION
dcuf fa ad  r,datfotAy   oaiz3  (1971iG)  - loden nanber of pee                      Pass...oer Cars (pe  tho-s       LIe ceaL-atian   - Pass..enger cars canytprue  occur catu
tapIt.aenocel prodanti-  ot all foci otodis.seating l... that. eight p-onoa;  hnldscbnacs   earn.s and military
Per  -oitircttrlofolris    eren o            f  ecrmns)-Competed fro.                     vehicles.
`oned  nqaleuio"t of t_ t   :roud  -ulo    vitable in  cuortry per capita              fadia receivers (Per rhourond_poplation)_ - oti typeo of ce..eivecs Ece iradio
per dcr.  he{.obls r-pplln-  -uprne  c-to-tu  Production, lecors  es               broadoasts to general yublic per rhoua-d of pupulationt .n.lIodea cLceoe
soocoso. on1 ohuogec  c on-o.  hot cappie  eroclde -A-i1 food, seeds,            rcefoiern  in~.. ceteiee acd in years when  -egiutratian  of radilosts wan in
q-crti-t acd Ic tool proceccoca. sad I..co   iv dicta1ibutino.  Rs-                   effect; data for recnt peare may nat b.e-copoable since .no  aouts
qoI-ontowre  utit-ttd by  AOA  haccd un phyninlogical needs far non-                     cholished licensIng.
mat IA.taity and health  --cidc,tig cerr-neutai to.epret-r. body                       TV racau-ec (per th-ccAti   1citn..   - :V recei-rn  fan broad...ct it. goncrM1
wniglic, afc a-OS ccc. flctcllattat.u  of pupalatian, and ..etlgI  per-          public pet thousa.nd pcpala,Itn  c-iudo-sicoe   TVroics  ctu
net for twaceat household level.                                                         trioa and Is pears when  egiutration uf TV  -eto wa  in effect.
L. r  n Ij aeapni'oL) ortelo  (crat  per d.yl - Protein contest of per                   Newspaper eirclari:ai   (.perithou~sand  ouair  -fihuasthe average ciruala1-
capita set c-pply of teod pot day,  lot acpply of fond to definsd satins of 'daily genrlitere   owppo"   efined asaprfodioal pob.i-
abong .  aeqeira.nesi  far oil countrIes ectableshsd by, JSDA provide fee                  cation denoted primarily to re-rding inatel noun.  ts is coocidcd in 4t
a mleoi.onstic..ccna.t hO gran  of  utatl protein par day and Ii0 grassi                   he "daily" if it appears at leat fourc tines a week.
of aina L" or.d pulce prototo. of 'aklh 1I grams ubould he anima  proten               Cinem~a sanua a.Ittendance  per capita con year - Bused on the n..eber of tickets
The..set-adardsae1crti.utoeo75gasotoapoenad                                                sold during the year, Locloding adisosto drive-in citnemas and mobile
23 grana of acintI p-eroto a  an averge for the world, propos..ed by                      unite.
PAP in. the  hird Wcl Idted fe-vy.
!srs9alAiryt1prti~  i-ron aulya  and   tl   - Protein supplp of food             DEMLOYM5ENT
derived fron  _nu_lc cd  r1o itconpndoy.                                               Total labor force (thu...onds) - Ecan..cirally action percssn, inclading arced
Child  (acoc 1-i) cooroI t _flt   -nr tL.ootard)  -~A Anea  deatha pen thea.-         foecasiand uneaplnyod bat ouclud ing h..oauv       c  utedenta, etc.  DefinE-
and in age gro-op 1-4 y-ear t. cchildreon Eu thin age group.                               tions is various rountires ore notcortbe
Fe-ale (neecesil - Female labor foote as p-rontage uf ntotl labor farce.
HEALmH                                                                                    kietuc(rcent) - Labor ferca in  amig  fornurry, hunting  acd flehing
liftCe   , yrta t -'a hi  t  tae   A-ecnn  .usbet at "esof ILfe                              as percentage of total labor furme.
remaiolcg at hi,cos;  -oca]1y tie-yrc-  -vrag-o ending In 1960, 1970,                   ndtr (poerI-Labor force in efoinJg, occrtrtc,  sufooru-ing cod
arc 1975.                                                                                  electoicity, water and a,  o ., percntage of to-al lebur force.
1sfi at mo.rtaity rte pnr  Ihotuad) - Annual deaths of  cinfnts 'ander                   Participation rate (psecent) -  oa.nue,id_fmo,tni  - Tota.1cle  and
One year of age per ticon-d line-        rhs                                               feos1  laohr farce on pecuentag-n of methentir           c  popalotluo,s.
Accen-  to -cm  water      ~ (ract of p'roAtit(-total  Lya0,i   ua                           Tbene are 1L0's sd).oed p-rtiopatino rct-  tefi errig a-e-so
N-eehcr of people (tta,u-a, cod cral]" -th reeno-ble ..cceun to                            strurt-are of the population, and Catig tine tre-d.
sat  water supply (i-1id-e tr-eao  suface caters or entreated but                      F-onoir deceede.... .. tic, - Ptvie of Popalatior 'coder 15 ard 65 and cyst to
andoota.-ctd w,ote  -eah acthot fcoo Protecte  brhes                 pig,the labor focec J. age gruap of 1-64 yrae.
and anItary  aalu    ,c   rrvtgcof their ..oapectire  "pnplntaons.
Inan sorb,ai aeesbhcttruor etacd Iont  occd cotmor                                    mCOi  DISTRIBUTION
than 200Icvet. fe      ''c  tyh c        una Ideo _a   bengwth  on-fecct                            of pri-tn  ncy  (both to coan cud hind) reraicad by richest 5
senahie eceecs of   -it itnuro.  In earal ereac ceasonahie acruotraucid  ' peccant.nt iohicho 1t 2 ecp ont,tpoorest. 21t percent,aand pocrest4hOppercen
irply that rho bh,'  tItot'ocryo   h  hoonniold do cct  --v t0                             of hou..eholds.
spend a diisfrp-rttt.  I-t  of tClv can in fetching the  enir
water, ned                                                                            POViERn  TAEiT Gill?)
moa' -\ctrc,   -'o;ls'sa.  oo,anbtrl(rro    -5'-rt.                                      kb-ote ponycry ty-c  iolIs that  yyr -lve  heluc whIchaeloa
diupeal a~;e'rct tea  ofIrrro,ntoptca'.  f rta                                        nutritie.altpI  atlqtat  dint pi.. esetalnn-feod tcqeitr-setn  lo not
Iposa C t    a   e ~~tfin  "I (not~ to rd dlptl, th.  witt,tt                       affordable.
tt-e-Le'o   ~f hao   r,r n  .n   cae       yat  hutr'-ion:-n otas                      tstlnotcdteior-e3v-ty jwoter leel (PRO pen    it.Uy) - oirac ndrro  -
oti      i it F,  J. detoa   In-tolatl~ucs                                         lEnlaciv- Puort..y loeon'li  that Fuur  leve  lees tha o.ce-.third
Orpror           a: - et.1'~~~P"  i,e''-  ttI-r'ui by "-toh- of --r-rerng             per capita        _ pe oi [scen  -i the  cotey.
Fr' I  t   -'-''to  - i'ry'Ios ic S (cued  ip~~~~t  y-it-c                     Pereent of popolaci-i  (urban a-. octal wk.c ac  hra" absolute p-e" or
ca:- i                f-u ~:It 9-o-i'le c-1 n-,   to   -:s  oi, , and                      'reistive Poor`  hicf.r-or  is greoter.
Economfoicolpols and  _ejeLi .oc  leparemeont



-  24  -                                                                   ANNFLX I
ECONOMIC lNDICATOR9
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                                                                ANNUAL RATRF.S (f GROV'Jll
-US Mln            Z                 1967-70              1'i?0-75               19-76
CNP at Market Prices                                         1,651.2        100.0                  5.4                 0.6                   - 0.9
cro-; D-rstHic Investient                                      213.4         12.9                  6.0               - 1.0                   - 8.6
Gtrosc, National Saving                                        190.4         11.5                 28.5               - 8.5                     1.0
Cuirrtltn  Account Balance                                   -  23.3        - 1.4                  -                    -
:.ports of Goods, NFS                                          372.0         22.5                  0.8               - 2.0            -        1.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                                          418.0         25.3                  1.8               - 3.9                   - 7.0
Ot"rr:T lILABOUR FORCE AND
1jlu'WJCllVr'r'Y IN 1976                                                  1                                     2/
Value Added                            Labour Force                 VA Per Worker
US$ Mln                     %             Mln                 1.        IJ1                _
Agriculture                                           633.0                    38.0             3.36              84.0        188.4             45.0
Industry                                              318.0                    19.0            0.20                5.0      1,590.0            378.0
Services                                              654.0                    39.0
Unallocated                                            69.0 3/                  4.0 2/         0.42               110       1,721.0           409.0
1,674.0                   100.0            3.98              100.0       420.6            100.0
GOVEPNMENT FINANCY
Central Government
FMG Bln               % oE GDP
1977             1977      1975-77f
Current Receipts                                      68.0              15.3       14.8
Current Expenditure                                   78.0              17.6       15.6
Current Surplus                                     - 10.0            2-7        - 0.7
Capital EtmAitures                                    20.5              4.6        4.2
External Atsistance (net)                              4.6 4/            1.0        1.2
4ONEY-. CUDIT AND PtCU
1972     1973      1974      1975      1976      1977
(Billion FiE Outstanding at the End of the Period)
MoRep amd Quasi Momey                                  68.2      71.5      85.3      86.9      100.0    121.0
Bat Credtt to Public Sector                           - 2.9    - 3.5        6.0      12.7       19.4     29.7
(v*  AreAit t.n Private R,d Parp-Phblic Secrtrs      65.2      65.1     76.3      78.3       82.2      95.9
(Pefcentages or Index Numbers)
l*ney and Quasi Money as Z of GDP                      24.3      23.5      23.4      22.8       25.0      27.3
GDP deflator (1973 . 100)                              72.d      81.3      96.9    100.0       108.2    115.3
Annual percentage changes in:
CDP deflator                                            3.0      12.8      19.2       3.2        8.2       6.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                           70.3   - 20.7    171.4    111.7          52.8     53.1
Bank Credit to Private and Para-Public Sectors    _ 0.3    - 0.2           17.2       2.6        5.0     16.7
NCOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
I/ At narket prices
2/ Total labouir force; unemployed workers are allocated to sector of their norval occupation. (Source: mission estimtates)
'/  TI,l.rt duties
rebri,nrv 1?, 197



- 25 -
TRADE PAYENTS AND CAPITAL 11054
(diltion of US$)
Ral-no  of Psveots                      17*2          1973          1974                           76      197                              ERCNDIE XPRTS (AVE8ACE  974-761
EP-ort of Go-dC   Ws                    223.7         250.4         309.4         385.4          372.0     402.6    Y3. n36
l.p.rts of Goods. NFS                                                    Vwilla                                                    ~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17.3  6.4
toiports of Goods IUFS                  262.A         285.4         378.4         495.5          418.8     451.8    clov,                                                        40 7           15.0
Resoores Cop                           - 19.3        - 35.0        - 69.0         110.1         - 46.0    - 49.2    Neat  nd )1oat Prd..tet                                       6.,            25
lt-erest Psyeoto (not)                    1.9           1.7           3.8            0.8        -  I.6    - 1.7 I    RFiah a   Shell3sh                                           S04             48.2
-kor-r   R.rittance. fent3             - 31.5        - 23.0          16.8        - 22.1           18.2    -24.4      Petro1eua Prod13ts                                          25.6            9.4
OLh:r Fttor P6.5r- (ocr)                - 2.5           7.9          07.9            6.             .3    - 3.2      All other  ,oo,oditieg                                      81.2           S0.0
lot Troosfor                          _ 36.5           33.1          38.5           48.9          45.8      45.0
B,oltoe on  Correot AOtourt              3T.8        -30.9           51.8           88.5        - 23.3    -33.5                Total                                            271.           100.0
hieoot F-iur  oreloloestrt               12.7          10.5           13.2           3.6           2.9       2.8                         IXTERNAL DEBT. DECEHR 31, 1977
rlet tILT Bor.-ing:
Di.bor.maentu                        13.3          26.0          20.3          41.3           20.1     22.0
Aoortteatioo                         32.4         - 9.0     ,          -       7.  0.4     - 13.8        3.3                                                                      -MU
044100.1                          - 18.9           17.0          13.2          30.9           6.3      18.7     Poblit  Debt, ti-lodie.8 9sr.nt.ed                                 803
Copitl Gr-ats        5/ 51.9                          16.9           20.0          33.6          21.6      20.0    No.n-Gu.r.t ed Private Debt
other Copital (net)                       1.9         - 3.0         - 6.3          10.9            0.7    --7.6     Total Ottaeding & Djsb.rsed 4
l-c-oose to R-oerves  1-)             - 13.7          -10.5          11.7   *       31.3       -  a.2    -0.4
Tras,ti-r tfth, 79I)                                   -           (3.9)        (13.1)         (- )    (1.6)
ieorts of Pftroleos                      17.7          19.4          50.4          73.2           57.1                                   Dnr SERVICE RATES Ff5  976
l.ooao( Ostooloto.                        1.7          1C.4           3.2           26.1          27.                                                           1 -
Gr.s. Reserves                                                                                        N-bl~- .  Poijo Debt. teol.dieg V-&rtored
Gross Reserves                           52.2          67.9          49.4           35.6     -    42.2      68.9    SodPrlvsts Debt                                                   _5
Net Reserves 5/                          76.6          98.0           79.0          57.2          57.8      36.9    rotal Ottsgtatding &. Dib-rsed                                    3.5
RATE OF EXCHA3CE
1972               1973                 lo7.                 1Q75    _           1976
USS151o"F .0-F 52.2  u'ssl.uo1 L>Z_. ; Cs.Oclt~   ..F  4".' US$1 (FSO-FX!23l,.5   USS1.00-HQMr239.0
FMC;1 .00-S00.0040  F03E1.O0-USS0.OG45  Ff:A.00-1US$0.301.2  F11.600US0. 1047  FR'l8.00.U1S0.0042
1977
Ul1l.o0l.7C 21.5.7
Flitl.00.IS$0.0041
Po Poelioloary
. -F 1 r4 staff estittes                                                                                  IBRD/IDA LENDING APRIL 30, 1979 (US$ MILLION)
_-    c  Imtu     trroOs ort ot-j     SUj:R.. ste a.locatior-  n.d o.be- private  h-oot 5e0, o.pit.1
2.1I E:lated ratio of 4.t  oea, to  rorto of Zoods and noo-factor seri                                                                                                  BRD              IDA
'N: fotrign as-e:s of 6t  b-nLt,q .y:oc.
Outstanding & Disbursed                                   26.59                 84.81
Undisbursed                                                 5.39                84.70
Outstanding incl Undisbursed
including Undisbursed   31.98                                          169.51
May 24, 1979



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of April 30, 1979) 4/
Loan or                                                          US$ Million
Credit                                                      (net of cancellations)
Number      Year      Borrower       Purpose      Bank        IDA      Undisbursed
Four Credits and four Loans
have been fully disbursed                       25.83      26.25         -
200-MAG  1970   Madagascar    Port                         11.40 1/    0.34
322-MAG  1972       "           Irrigation                 15.30        3.45
351-MAG  1972                   Highways III               20.60 2/    0.04
488-,MAG  1974                  Railways                    6.00        0.46
506-MAG  1974                   Livestock II                9.60        7.89
1065-MAG  1974                   Forestry         6.75                   5.39
641-MAG  1976                   Highways IV                22.00       13.79
663-MAG  1976                   Education II               14.00 3/   13.73
817-1NAG  1978                  Andekaleka
Hydroelectric             33.00 j/   33.00
881-MAG  1979                   Mangoky                    12.00 5/   12.00
TOTAL                                  32.58    170.15       90.09
of which has been repaid               .60       .64
TOTAL now outstanding                  31.98    169.51
Amount sold
of which has been repaid              -          -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA         31.98    169.51
TOTAL Undisbursed                       5.39     84.70       90.09
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of April 30. 1979)
Loan        Equity     Total
(US$ Million)
1977      Sotema - Textile Mill at Majunga    11.0             0.29      11.29
1/   Including a supplementary credit of US$1.8 million made in 1973.
2/   Including a supplementary credit of US$5.6 million made in 1975.
3/   Including a Norwegian grant participation of US$7.0 million.
4/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
,,   Not yet effactive.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 322-MAG:      Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project;
US$15.3 million credit of June 30, 1972; Date of
Effectiveness: April 30, 1973; Closing Date:
June          .
Initially, the project was to rehabilitate and extend, in the
Morondava area, existing irriLgation systems, and develop 9,300 ha (4,700 ha
for smallhoLder rice, 2,700 ha for a tobacco state farm and 1,900 ha for a
cotton state farm); village development, roads, schools and health facilities
were included. The project as revised and substantially reduced in February
1976 will complete major civil works envisaged at appraisal, implement on-
farm development works on 2,500 ha of rice areas, establish an applied
research station, and provide agricultural support services, roads and health
facilities.
Major civil works (including construction of a diversion weir at
Dabara, rehabilitation of the Dabara Canal and the North Canal, construction
of secondary irrigation and drainage canals, and construction of the 8.1 km
road between Mahabo and Ankilivalo) are almost completed and work has been
satisfactory. However, SODEMO, the agency responsible for on-farm development
and agricultural services, faces serious management and financial problems and
as a result, on-farm development works have lagged behind schedule and agricul-
tural production is poorly organized, with a small area cultivated and very
low yields., The Government and IDA have agreed on a plan of action to clarify
SODEMO's responsibilities and financial plan and to improve overall management,
but this will require careful monitoring in the coming months.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 488-MAG:      Railway Project:  US$6.0 million credit of June 27,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1974;
Closing Date: July 31, 1979.
The project comprises relaying of 60 km of track, extension of
yards and sidings, acquisition of fifty freight wagons, passenger coaches and
miscellaneous equipment; and provision of technical assistance to the railway
in management, financial and operational areas, and to Government for transport
planning and coordination studies. Because of cost overruns the Association
is financing only 35 out of the 50 freight wagons and 5 out of the 20 passenger
coaches originally included in the project; the Caisse Centrale of France is
financing 10 out of the remaining 15. Procurement of items in the credit has
been substantially completed.
The review phase of technical assistance to the railway has been
concluded; implementation will be completed under the Second Railway Project,
which was approved by the Executive Directors on May 8, 1979. Technical
assistance to the Government in the transport planning and coordination areas
has also been completed. The closing date was extended to July 31, 1979 to
allow completion of procurement.
Credit No. 506-MAG:      Village Livestock and Rural Development Project:
US$9.6 million credit of August 21, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: June 17, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project encountered serious problems in the three years follow-
ing credit signature, and, principally because of legal and organizational
difficulties, little progress was made. Following significant changes in
institutional and management arrangements, the Credit Agreement was exten-
sively amended; the Amended Agreement became effective September 1, 1977.
The project's situation is much improved. FAFIFAMA, the principal
project implementing agency, is now well-established and operational, with
a full staff complement. Implementation of the project's most important
component - the development of veterinary and livestock services for village



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
producers - is proceeding well. Pasture improvement is also being undertaken,
but better monitoring of results is required. Schools and health centers are
being constructed, albeit behind schedule. The development of water points
and road improvement began this dry season and results are fully satisfactory.
Cooperation with fokonolona institutions in all aspects of FAFIFAMA's work is
excellent. I;n the middle west, OMBY continues to provide extension services
to villages surrounding the raLnches established under the IBRD-financed Beef
Cattle Development Project. The pilot pig program and ODEMO cattle share
fattening programs have barely begun, with action limited to construction of
some buildings. Financing and administration arrangements have been worked out
however, and the share fattening program should get underway shortly. The pig
program has iencountered two new problems; the fivondronam concerned has arrears
to the BTM and is therefore ineligible for new loans. Secondly, breeding stock
urgently required renewal.  The Government is working to resolve these problems.
The Government has selected consultants for a study of cattle marketing and
meat prices, and field work for the study is underway; preliminary work has
progressed well. The Governmient has also retained consultants to evaluate the
results of the current programn and to prepare a second phase project for the
Majunga faritany.
Loan No. 1065-MAG:        Mangoro Forestry Project; US$6.75 million loan and
Credit No. 5,25-MAG       US$6.75 million credit both of December 23, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: July 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project assists in the planting of 35,000 ha of pine plantations
as part of an overall planting program of 96,000 ha, which it is proposed will
eventually supply a future pulp mill to provide pulp for export.  The planting
program is progressing according to the schedule and cost estimates are likely
to be in line with forecasts,, despite a reorganization of the project which
entails more building and infrastructure than originally estimated, and
the need for more intensive soil preparation than foreseen at appraisal.
Technical difficulties which occurred at the early stages of the project now
appear to be resolved.
Credit No. 641-MAG:       Fourth Highways Project; US$22.0 million credit of
June 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 19,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project assists the Government in the construction of two major
roads with a view to reducing transport costs and providing access to areas
with a high, agricultural potential. It also includes training and strengthen-
ing of the country' s road maintenance organization. Project implementation
is satisfactory. However, start of the training program for personnel in the
Ministry of Public Works on highway maintenance has been delayed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 663-MAG:      Second Education Project; US$14.0 million credit of
December 10, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 15,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is designed to assist the Government in decentralizing
educational control and to improve the quality of basic education. It in-
cludes five Regional Education Centres and vehicles for school inspectorate,
one Teaching Materials Production Centre and funds for textbook development,
technical assistance and fellowships.
Architectural design work on all project institutions is now com-
plete. Detailed operational planning for the Teaching Materials Production
Centre is being carried out. The two key technical advisors for this Centre,
provided by ORT (Organisation for Rehabilitation through Training) arrived in
Madagascar during September 1977. Architectural work has generally been well
executed although this has taken much longer than expected. Work on the major
project components, the Regional Education Centres, was completed about 14
months behind the appraisal schedule, although with ORT assistance, the plan-
ning schedule for the Teaching Materials Production Centre has been maintained.
The project is presently about one year behind schedule due to cum-
bersome Government approval/decision procedures, and the Government's recent
proposals for the "socialisation" of the construction industry has introduced
a further element of uncertainty which may adversely affect project imple-
mentation. Serious delays have also been encountered on: the preparation
of an educational sector survey; the establishment of a task force for educa-
tion evaluation; proposals for decentralization of education; and textbook
production.
Norway requested 50 percent participation in the project, and an
agreement to that effect was signed on December 16, 1977. The US$7.0 million
of IDA monies thus saved is available for future projects in Madagascar.
Credit No. 817-MAG:      Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 19, 1978; Terminal Date of Effec-
tiveness: May 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project would meet the growth in electricity demand until
1992 in the Antananarivo area and provide for the strengthening of JIRAMA,
Madagascar's national electricity and water corporation. It includes a
concrete diversion dam and an intake structure; a 4-km tunnel, underground
power house, tailrace and access tunnels; two turbines and two generators;
electrical and mechanical equipment; a transmission line to Antananarivo;
engineering services; preliminary investigation and design for a storage
reservoir; and technical assistance and training for JIRAMA Staff.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Tenders have been received for civil works, gates, turbines,
generators and switchyards. Total project costs are expected to be about
20% higher tlian estimated at appraisal.  However, even at the higher cost,
the Project is still the least cost solution for the supply of power in
Madagascar.
Credit No. 881-MAG:       Mangoky Agricultural Development Project;
US$12.0 million credit of March 6, 1979;
Terminal Date of Effectiveness:  September 17, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Project would support the development of about 3,700 ha for
production of rice and cotton, to be farmed by about 3,200 families. It would
complete an irrigation system serving about 10,000 ha in the Lower Mangoky
Valley which has been under development since the early 1960s. These invest-
ments are based on a long-term master plan for the region which aims ultimately
to bring about 100,000 ha of land into production. The Project will be
implemented over a five-year period and would comprise: development of
primary and secondary irrigation and drainage networks for 3,700 ha and road
infrastructure; development of 3,300 ha and production of canal segments for
tertiary and. quaternary irrigation networks; design studies; applied agricul-
tural research; social infrastructure; research, training and project prepara-
tion for agriculture and new development projects. IFAD is financing about
25% of the total project cost. The Credit was signed on May 17, 1979 and is
not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project          10 months
(b)  Preparation                            Ministry of Public Works,
Ministry of Finance and
Planning, assisted by IDA
appraisal mission
(c)  Initial discussions with IDA           January 1978
(d)  Pre-appraisal mission                  April 1978
(e)  Appraisal mission                      September/October 1978
(f)  Follow-up appraisal mission            February 1979
(g)  Negotiations                           May 1979
Section II. Special IDA Implementation Actions: None
Section III. Special Conditions of the Project
-    Agreement on 1980 budget allocations for road maintenance and
periodic review of these allocations until completion of the
Project (para. 26);
-    Improvement of the Antsohihy-Ambanja road to adequate driving
condition by Government by the time bridge construction is
finished (para. 41(b));
-    Establishment by January 1, 1980 of a central administration
unit for road maintenance within the Ministry of Public Works
(MTP) (para. 41(c)(i));
-    Definition and implementation of a 2-year demonstration program
for the use of more labor-intensive methods in road maintenance
(para. 41(d)).
-    Initiation of the training program of MTP financed under the
Fourth Highway Project will be a condition of disbursement for
all project components except road resurfacing and rehabilitation
(para. 34).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
A special condition for effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement
would be that all conditions precedent to effectiveness of the
EEC Special Action Credit Agreement have been met. A special
condition for the effectiveness of the EEC Special Action Credit
Agireement would be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the IDA Credit Agreement have been met (para 56).






IBRD 14098R1
42'                                                                      45                                  48'                                  50             MAY 1979
12  ^AnEomboka
MADAGASCAR
TRANSPORT SYSTEM
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                    NOSSI-BE
HelN-vi                                  Vokor1no
PREVIOUS  HIGHWAY  PROJECTS:
PAVED ROAD CONSTRUCTION             *         -- FEASIBIUTY STUDY                                     & A
GRAVEL ROAD CONSTRUCTION              ---DETAILED  ENGINEERING
BRIDGES                                 A,  WORKSHOP IMPROVEMENT                                                                                       W 4
EXISTING   ROADS:               IFTH  HIGHWAY  PROJECT:                                                                                   L t r/
PAVED                  A    WORKSHOP IMPROVEMENT
ALL WPEATHER        -       PAVED ROAD REHABILITATION                                                     13-
------  NON- PERMANENT               (SELECTED SECTIONS)                                ArsIau                  .
BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (Antsohihy-AmoojeRotRd} )Aro
RAILROADS           ....* FEASIBILITY STUDY & DETAILED ENGINEERtNG                                                                    AnTa-ha
+      AIRPORTS                    PREFECTURE  BOUNDARIES r
RIVERS                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                      hefondrn
MitES Mah:ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oro,0/oanIserro  |
0a          so           1            160 
MILES
0      5E      Icc     150    200      2                                                                                            97nanand
(I IDMFTERS
En, ,olom, b 
Beia74  ~~~->                                                                        1 Mp vasnannororry  5 fl  >    Andr Omen*'  4
/ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~'I'~~                     -p   n bl1arnva                      AIEIQnllOtl
18'     za t-n~ > s                                         l        / q   e    Moretron  Fsoee                    Ambro odrata,.                                     189
1h                                                                                 ,.,S         D;keravzonig ) *$ <^woO oamBsina,
ArrEozoomnorrovaronzla   ;  An1ozr ,   -Fonaindrar a  -
oh,2nne/ z                              p mb q' "                        a/
C's ahr r'n  6smon /^t ,,  Fanjckamartdros No                                              s
MebSotrdr     ,Mbt Iz 8Asod         rea.<iseFrrJs           ;Abc-p Fa                 /
Tsirbehl   = F\n                  ,                  K  XAchemoro                        O  C  e  cY n           20An 
, ,  ArsostoroatnoranooF d                           nd ro no
Chann     nel     F2.rij                                                -?kfma  I                                               I                        2a
22'                                                                                                ThiI tep h.t b-st, Pt d by the
Monokoto                WordBa,kos ot e feaeitorey f-r
th. oWrsteao hFe     a  f treaderdo
/)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                            \'hpst                   thet reor to ok ti ette22ed
ip.-            ~~~~~The deetsetsa"ed-ed the
J                                                                     do, et )ftply.ot 0the palt Of the
rafangano          rad oo ad o thhs.)te- an
\\)SX _f V ; ,! t~~~~~~~~~~~~~Foarfanaana                                 .     '    t,,,o s te I,X,sge  tso
eoytetrtsV0o any osdoers"-f
24'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.h6~Ie                                                        .Th~-
Toliar o         \                                                                                                      50 3'ok 
(   tBetoW}      S    2   MdenGvru ua          p/Vangaindrec,-A                                              -
24-lan l   BMadnandorsy   0r24-o'S                         -    
42'  4   mpo4nA                     4 )               X                                                               (6G-ean
42'                                4J-                                  46                                 49                                                  ADGSA



