CONFORMED COPY
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 22 MAG
Special Action Credit Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Dated July 30, 1979


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 22 MAG
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1979, between the DEMOCRATIC REPUB-
LIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Action Account estab-
lished with funds contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN
ECONOMIC COMMUNITY.
WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;
(B) the Borrower has requested of the Administrator assis-
tance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of a project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Administrator has determined that such assistance would be
in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement of May 2, 1978
referred to above;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) IDA is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to twenty-four million dollars ($24,000,000)
(hereinafter called the IDA Credit); and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,


﻿-2-
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;
(c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom;
(b)- "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
ment; and
(c) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose of
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of IDA, dated March 15, 1974, as


﻿-3-
made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to
the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Special Action Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, the following currency
amounts:
twelve million two hundred
twenty-nine thousand        Belgian francs       (BFl2,229,000);
one million five hundred
twenty-two thousand         Danish kroner         (DKl,522,000);
five million eight hundred
seventy-eight thousand      Deutsche marks        (DM5,878,000);
six million two hundred
fourteen thousand           French francs         (FF6,214,000);
thirteen thousand
six hundred                 Irish pounds           (Irk 13,600);
seven hundred twenty-one
million one hundred ten
thousand                    Italian lire       (ItL721,110,000);
three hundred eighty-five
thousand                    Luxembourg francs       (LF385,000);
eleven million six hundred
twenty-five thousand        Netherlands guilders (Dfll,625,000);
and
one million four hundred
ninety-eight thousand
six hundred                 Pounds sterling        (1, 498,600).
Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of the Special Action Credit
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may


﻿-4-
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures (i) in the currency of the Borrower, or (ii) for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, (A) any of the Member
States and (B) any developing country which is a member of the
International Development Association and could be the recipient
of a special action credit, as determined by the Administrator.
(c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts with-
drawn from the Credit Account and outstanding from time to time.
The amounts of service charge in various currencies so found, and
additional service charges (if any) payable pursuant to Section
3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be payable in the currency
of the United States of America, or in another currency selected
by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph (b) of this Section, after their conversion into such
currency on the basis of exchange rates determined in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4.05 of the General Conditions.
(b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible or
freely exchangeable by the International Development Association


﻿-5-
for currencies of other members of the International Development
Association for the purposes of its operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currency as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of such
notice, service charges shall be payable in such other currency.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 1989
and ending May 1, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in
the various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall
be found by multiplying the total amount in each currency so
withdrawn by the applicable installment percentage as specified
in paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to each payment
date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of fractional
currency amounts.
(c) If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the Administrator shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been withdrawn in
the currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.
(d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Borrower
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any cu.crency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal required under this Agree-
ment upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds therefor in
a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator shall be acting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower


﻿-6-
shall be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extent that the Administrator has
received such payment in the currency or currencies required.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry responsible for public works with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
and experts, whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Admini-
strator, as shall be agreed to by the Administrator.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the
Administrator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Administrator shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds


﻿-7-
of the Special Action Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Administrator's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Administrator at
regular intervals all such information as the Administrator shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits -
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
and the Administrator of their rEspective obligations under the
Special Action Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Special Action Credit.
Section 3.05. The central administrat.ive unit for road
maintenance to be established under Part D of the Project shall
be established and shall be headed by a qualified and experienced
engineer by January 1, 1980 and shall be provided with adequate
supporting staff.
Section 3.06. Following completion of the study included
in Part G of the Project, the Borrower and the Administrator
shall agree, on the basis of the recommendations made in said
study, views on the specific works, equipment and materials
and on the staff required for the demonstration program included
in such Part G.
Section 3.07. The number and kinds of fellowships to be
provided under Part H of the Project shall be agreed upon by
the Borrower and the Administrator.
Section 3.08. Sections of roads to be regravelled under Part
E of the Project shall be restricted to those having an economic
rate of return of at least 12% as evaluated using methods satis-
factory to the Administrator.


﻿-8-
Section 3.09. The bridges and approaches thereto to be
constructed under Part B of the Project shall be as described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall prepare and carry out
a training program (the training program) on road maintenance for
the staff of its Ministry of Public Works.
(b) For purposes of preparing and carrying out the training
program, the Borrower shall:
(i) not later than January 1, 1980, employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Administrator; and
(ii) consult with the Administrator on the decisions
that the Borrower proposes to take in the light of
the recommendations made by such consultants for
the execution of the training program.
(c) The Borrower shall construct such training facilities
as shall be required for purposes of the training program; such
construction to start not later than January 1, 1980.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
Ministry of Public Works and of any other department or agency of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) In order to cover the cost of maintaining
the Borrower's primary and secondary road networks in 1980, the
Borrower shall:
(i) allocate at least 3,000 million FMG, and cause
its provinces to allocate at least 960 million FMG,
for operating costs; and


﻿-9-
(ii) allocate at least 1,100 million FMG for equipment
renewal, and make its best efforts to obtain
such additional amounts as shall be required for
this purpose (estimated at 1,100 million FMG).
(b) After 1980 and until completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
(i) from time to time, exchange views with the Associ-
ation on the adequacy of its budgetary allocation
for the maintenance of the Borrower's primary and
secondary roads networks taking into consideration
cost increases due to inflation and the scope of
required maintenance operations; and
(ii) ensure that such allocations be made available to
the regional district offices of the Ministry of
Public Works promptly as needed for uninterrupted
maintenance operations.
(c) For purposes of this Section, "FMG" means the currency
unit of the Borrower.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that adequate
amounts of 1 tumen be made available as and when required for
the rehabilitation and maintenance of its roadq.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all action as may be
required to maintain adequately its road network and bridges in
its highway system including without limitation, the workshops
related thereto, shall promptly make all necessary repairs thereof
in accordance with sound engineering practices, and shall maintain
and renew, as and when needed, the road maintenance and other
equipment required for the purpose.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that vehicle dimen-
sions, weights and speeds are appropriate to the geometric and
structural standards of the Borrower's road system and shall
take all necessary action to implement and enforce traffic rules
and regulations designed for such purposes.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified


﻿- 10 -
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any loan or credit made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(ii) any such loan or credit shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of s!.tion 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additiona! event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof namely, that the event specified
in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Special Action Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date October 29, 1979, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Special Action Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance  is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere aupres de la
Presidence de la Republique
Charge des Finances et du Plan
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINPLAN                         22339
Antananarivo
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ N. Rakotomalala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By Is/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the
Special Action Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Action Credit to each
Category and the percentage for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Special Action Credit            % of
Allocated (Expressed         Expenditures
Category         in Dollar Equivalents)       to be Financed
(1) Rehabilitation           5,200,000             70%
and resurfacing
of roads
(2) Consultants'               300,000             100% of foreign
services                                      expenditures
(3) Construction             4,400,000             62%
of bridges and
approaches
thereto
(4) Unallocated                100,000
TOTAL   l0,00,000
2.   The total dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall be
adjusted from time to time as required to reflect the aggregate
dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn currency amounts in the
Credit Account; the unallocated dollar amount shall be adjusted
accordingly.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule: the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of, and for goods
produced in or services supplied from, (i) any of the Member
States and (ii) any developing country, other than the Borrower,


﻿- 14 -
which is a member of the International Development Association and
could be the recipient of a Special Action Credit, as determined
by the Administrator.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit decreases or increases,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Administrator.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures (i) prior to the date of this Agreetent or (ii) under
Category (3) for any Part of the Project except Part A until the
Borrower has employed the consultants referred to in Section 3.10
(b) of this Agreement and has given the "ordre de service de
commencer les travaux" in respect of the facilities referred to in
Section 3.10 (c) of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an aount of the Special
Action Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Action Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Action Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order ,that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
7.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿- 15 -
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Special Action
Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the Admin-
istrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Administrator under the Special
Action Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
currency amounts of the Special Action Credit as, in the Adminis-
trator's reasonable opinion, represent the currency amounts which
would otherwise have been eligible for withdrawal out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit in respect of such expendi-
tures.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to improve and rehabilitate certain
roads of the Borrower and to increase its long-run maintenance
capacity by strengthening its maintenance organization. The
Project includes the following:
Part A:   Rehabilitation and resurfacing of about 500 km of
paved roads as agreed between the Borrower and the
Association on the basis of the study being carried out
under the Project described in the Development Credit
Agreement between the Borrower and the Association
dated June 23, 1976.
Part B:   Construction of bridges and approaches thereto for the
Antsohihy-Ambanja road and repair of such road to allow
all-year traffic, such repair to be completed upon or
prior to the completion of the bridges and approaches.
Part C:   Purchase of an initial stock of bitumen for road main-
tenance.
Part D:   Establishment of a central unit responsible for road
maintenance within the Ministry of Public Works.
Part E:   Improvement of road maintenance in Mahajanga and Toliara
regional districts, including the carrying out of a
regravelling program for about 400 km of roads as agreed
between the Borrower and the Association on the basis
of a list of roads, a list of types and quantities
of equipment and the timing of their procurement and
a determination of staffing requirements, all as iden-
tified by consultants; procurement of equipment,
materials, fuel and spare parts for the purpose.
Part F:   Improvement of the regional mechanical workshops at
Antananarivo, Mahajanga, Fianarantsoa, Toamasina and
Toliara, including construction and improvement of
buildings and procurement of tools and equipment for the
purpose.
Part G:   Conducting a study to determine the most appropriate
mix of labor and equipment for road maintenance and


﻿- 17 -
improvement works taking into account, inter alia, the
functions in this respect assigned by the Borrower
to local communities and the Borrower's objective to
develop cooperatives in charge of road maintenance
and improvement; implementation of a two-year demon-
stration program based thereon and procurement of
equipment, spare parts, fuel and materials for the
purpose.
Part H:  Training, including the provision of fellowships, for
personnel and staff of the Ministry of Public Works
in road and equipment maintenance and repair under
Parts D, E, F and G above.
Part I:  Feasibility and detailed engineering studies for the
section of road RN13 located between road RN7 and
the Manandrotsy bridge.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement and except as provided in Part B
hereof, goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Administrator as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of Ehe first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Adminis-
trator shall reasonably request; the Administrator will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods &d works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.   For the construction of bridges and approaches included in
Part B of the Project:
(a) bidders shall be prequalified as described in part 1.3
of the Guidelines;
(b) works will be divided into three lots as agreed between
the Borrower and the Association; and
(c) bidders will be invited to bid on any one or more lots.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state


﻿- 19 -
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Construction and improvement of workshop buildings under
Part F of the Project may be carried out under force account or
under contracts awarded following competitive bidding advertised
locally.
2.   Contracts for equipment, materials and supplies estimated
after grouping to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may be awarded
on the basis of competing quotations; provided, however, that the
aggregate cost of the contracts so procured does not exceed
$500,000 equivalent.
3.   Spare parts for which international bidding is inappropriate
because of low cost or requirements for standardization, as well
as bitumen, may be procured following applicable local procedures.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Administrator in detail of
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifica-
tions in said procedure as the Administrator shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Administrator for its comments before the appli-
cants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower
shall make such additions to, deletion from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:


﻿- 20 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other biddin8 documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Administrator's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the eva-
luation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Administrator of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The Adminis-
trator shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.


﻿- 21 -
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Bridges and Approaches
Number of
River Crossing              Station      Span     Traffic Lanes
(km)
Andampy                      16.229     2 x 30m         1
Anjingo No. 1                17.600     1 x 30m         2
Anjingo No. 2                18.227     2 x 40m         1
Tsilokivary                  19.995       26m           2
Sahavalanina                 30.001       32m           2
Antsohihely                  32.017       17m           2
Maevarana                    42.641     8 x 40m         1
Manambaro                    59.341     1 x 40m         1
Maropapango                  64.403     1 x 30m         2
Antotoro                     67.296       21m           2
Mahitsihazo                  69.002     2 x 30m         1
Ratsianarana                 72.327     1 x 30m         2
Ampanolaka                   78.186     1 x 30m         2
Ambahitsivikinini            89.490     1 x 30m         2
Anadroadro                  104.718       21m           2
Ankaramihely                110.897     2 x 16m         2
Ankaramibe                  115.140     2 x 16m         2
Andaingibe                  137.024       26m           2
Ankingameloka               138.690       32m           2
Djangoa                     145.749     3 x 30m         1


