Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
Report No. 8581
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1147-BD)
APRIL 30, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$                                 Bangladesh Taka (Tk) 30.40 (1987)
Tk 100                              US$3.29
Tk 1 million                        US$32,895
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                          3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =         0.62 mile (mi)
1 hertare (ha)             =         2.47 acres (ac)
1 maund (md)               .         37.3 kilograms
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BADC        -           Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BB          -           Bangladesh Bank
BIBM        -           Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management
BKB         -           Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BRBD        -           Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BSBL        -           Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd.
DTW         -           Deep Tubewell
GtB         -           Government of Bangladesh
HYV         -           High Yielding Varieties
KSS         -           Krishi Samabaya Samiti
PCI                     Participating Credit Institutions
RCPD        -           Rural Credit Projects Department
SAR         -           Staff Appraisal Report
STW         -           Shallow Tubewell
UCCA        -           Upazilla Central Cooperative Association
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR 0MCU^L use ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Opwtimrat Evalt"wn
April 30, 1990
ME(ORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on BANGLADESH
Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1147-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Bangladesh - Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1147-
BD)- prepared by the Asia Regional Office.  No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMzZUON  WEORT            FOR OMCIAL Use ONLY
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CRDIT I PROJECT
(CREDIT 1147-BD)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE    ......................... .  i
BASIC DATA SHEET  ....................... . . i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ................. ....... . iv
I.   INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
II.   PROJECT FORMULATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
-  Project Origin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
-  Identification and Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . 2
-  Project Appraisal  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
-  Negotiations and Credit Effectiveness  . . . . . . . 4
-  Implementataion Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
-  Progress of Project Lending Programe  . . . . . . . 4
-  implementation of TA and Training Components . . . . 5
- Procurement ....... ... 7
- Project Cost ....... ..                                    7
A  Project Financing and Credit Allocation  . . . . . .  7
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT . . . . . . . 8
-  Implementing Agencies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
- Bangladesh Bank ...... ..                                  8
-  Participating Credit Institutions  . . . . . . . . . 10
-  STW Turnkey Contracts  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
-  Accounting and Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
-  Compliance with Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
V.   PROJECT IMPACT  ..................  .  . 13
-  Agricultural Impact       .......... . 13
-  Farm Incomes      ..                   .      . . . .  .15
-  Economic Re-Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
VI.   IDA PERFORMANCE ................... . 17
VII.   CONCLUTSIONS ..... . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .  . . .  18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peformance
|of their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
TABLES
1.    Comparison of Appraisal and Actual Project Cost
2.    Total Cost of Project Credit Component - By Participating Bank
3.    STW Sales - By Participating Bank and By District (Numbers)
4.    Training Courses Held and Number of Participants
5.    Total Bank Branches, E:igible Branches, and Average Loan Recovery
Percentage
6.    Project Districts:  Saallow Tubewells and Command Areas
7.    Cropping Pattern and Cropping Intensity (X)
8.    Crop Yields, and Production Input per Acre
9.    Area Cropped, Yields, Production
10.   Computation of Economic Prices (in 1987 Constant Terms)
11.   Financial and Economic Prices
12.   Farm Model - Barind Tract
13.   Farm Model - Other Shallow Flooded Areas
14.   Economic Analysis
MAP   IBRD 15591R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT I PROJECT
(CREDIT 1147-BD)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews implementation of the
Agricultural Credit Project in Bangladesh for which Credit 1147-BD in the
amount of US$40 million was approved on May 21, 1981.   The Credit was
closed in December 1986 following a one-year extension of the Closing Date,
when an undisbursed balance of US$6.34 million was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by FAO staff under the FAO/World Bank Coope-
rative Program on the basis of a PCR prepared by Bangladesh Bank, a review
of the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement, IDA supervision mis-
sion reports, project files, progress reports prepared by project manage-
ment and discussions with officials of the implementing agencies and
Government of Bangladesh.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and implementing agencies on Janu-
ary 31, :993. for comments by March 21, 1990, but none were received.



PROJECt COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT I PROJECT
(CREDIT 1147-BD)
Basic Oita Sheet
KEY PROJECT DATA
Col. 2 as
Ainraisal                       I
Estimate        Actual    of Col. I
(1)            (2)          (3)
Total Project Cost (USS million)        62.4           48.9          76
Credit AOunt (SOR million)
- Disbursed                           32.6          2n.4           84
- Cancelled                            -              5.2
Proportion of fqysical Targets Net  1/
- Shallow Tubewell-                 27.000         36,646         136
- Villnge Workshops                     50             -            O y
- Mechanic's Kits                      50              17            3
- Grain Storage (No. of Stores)         20             25          12S .y
Ecoimic Rate of Return                   60%             14%          23
CUMULATIVE DISBURSENENTS
FY 82  ft  83   FY 84  FY 85  FY 86   FY87
Appraisal Estimate (SOR million)    0.25    4.75   15.66  27.70  32.60   32.60
Actual (SOR sillion)                 -       5.05   14.43  25.17  26.85   27.43
Actual as % of Apraisal Est. (S)    0        106       92    91      82      84
PROJECT GATES
Oriinal 
Plan
Identification                                          'e". 1O
Preparation                                             NAy 1960
Appraisal                                               Oct.-_v. 1900
Negotiations                                            April 1981
Board Approval                                          21 Nay 1981
Credit Signing                                          21 _an  1961
Credit Effectiveness                                    6 Oct. 1981
Credit Closing                    31 Dec. 1985          31 Oec. 1986



{iii
STAFF VuF   (Steff weeks)
Pro
Took         FY77  "Y7  FY76  FY79  FY0  FfO   FY62 FY8  FY84  FY65 FYS8  FY87  FY60  fY69   TOTAL
P4eappralsal    7.   .3  217  18.8  ii4  81.u 0 
Appraisal                                    78.7                                                      78.7
Nogotlations                                  8.8   1.1                                                 4.5
Loan Pioc.       .4    .9    .7   .2   .1  8.9                                                         11.0
Supervtsoin                                    .1 27. 8*3.2  21.6  26.4  28.0   9.8   8.0             181.4
FCR                                                                                     11.3    .2    11.6
Proj. Admin.                                   .3   1.0   .1   .0             .6   .1                   2.0
Total         7.7   1.9  22.8  13.9  14.6 122.8  29.9  a8.8  20.0  28.4  28.6   9.4  14.8   .2   348.2
MISSION DATA
No. of      s      Specializations    Ty                O ! !f
Niissi                Oate          s n Fied   R s     ted    ,/ Status Tren   Pablm
Idmtiftcat010       Jan. 80     3         90       e,c.e9
Pr"paration          May s0      4       104        e.t.eng
Appraisal            Oct. 80     S       1SS       f 4illsag
Suprisio I           Nov. 81     1        10            f         2       1         o
Supirsion  2         Apr. 82     1        10            f         2       1       f.o
Superision 3         Oct. 82     1        10            f         2       1       e
Superisiot 4         May 83    2          24          p.c         2       1       *.t
Supeision  5         oct. 83     3        30        e.f.eng       2       1       *,t
Supervision 6         ay 84      4        n/          p.f         2       1       *t
Supervision  7       Oct. 84     2        18            f         2       t       *.t
supervision  a       Mar. 85     1        14            f         2       1       m.t
Supervision  9       Jun. 85     2       R;18           p         2
Supervision 10       Now. 8S     2        20          f.c
SupervioiOn 11       June 86     2       Re             p
Supervision 12       Jan. 87     2       RM8            p
Follow-on project:  under preparation/diff.rent approach.
OTHER DATA
Borrower:                             Goverment of Bangladesh (GOB)
Fiscal Year of Borer:                 I July - 30 June
Name of Currency (Abbreviation):      Taka (Tk)
Exchange Rate (Tk/USS):
A ppraisal Year Average (1980/81)   USSI * Tl6.O0
- Intervening Years (1981/82-85/86)  USSI * T126.06
-1986/87  Average                    US$1 - Tk3O.40
y  Az at project closing date of 31 Decemer 1986.
No locos wer disbursed for this line.
Achieveswnt was 75S of appraisal target in terms of grain storage capacity
created.
a a agricudturalist. en economist. fu financial analyst. c- credit
specialist. eng  engineer. p. pogrm officer.
/ 1 Pblem free or Minor Problems. 2- Moderate Problms, 3. Major Probles.
y I a *Iproving. 2a Stationary, 3- Deteriorating.
Y To Technical. Me Managerial. Ps Political, On Other.
y Project Identification and preparation (by FAO/CP) was based on a report
by consultants ewloyed in 1977 to review the agricultural credit system,
and finamced under the First IDA Technical Assistance ProJect (Credit
409-80).
/ Sup ision done by staff frm  the World Bank's Resident Mission in Bangladesh.



iv
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1147-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       To support the Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 1147-BD),
with an estimated total project cost of US$62.4 million, a four-year
Credit of US$40.0 million (SDR 32.6 million) was approved by IDA on
May 21, 1981.  The Credit became effective on October 6, 1981.  The
project was closed on December 31, 1986, after a one-year extension.
At the time of project closing, total disbursement of the Credit
amounted to SDR 27.4 million and the balance of SDR 5.2 million was
cancelled.
Obiectives
2.       The project was intended firstly to establish a replicable
system for delivery of long-term agricultural credit and secondly to
increase agricultural production, rural incomes and employment
opportunities  (SAR 4.02).   Other objectives and features were to
further the Government's policy of privatizing the procurement and
distribution of irrigation equipment (which had been supported earlier
under three IDA assisted projects) (SAR 4.04) and to allocate at least
half of lending to small farmers or landless persons (SAR 6.17).
3.       The project was appraised in October/November 1980 and
emphasized financing of shallow tubewells in the Rajshahi Division of
Northwest Bangladesh. Other credit components were for: (a) equipping
tubewell maintenance and repair workshops; (b) tool kits and bicycles
for village mechanics; (c) construction of grain stores, and (d)
pioneering new lines of credit (e.g. for water distribution channels
and farm equipment).   Funds were also provided for participating
credit institutions for 56 manmonths of consultants' time and for
local and overseas staff training.
Imolementation Eggerience
4.       Implementation of the major project component, lending for
shallow tubeweils, was slow the first year but increased thereafter to
total 36,648 wells or 1361 of the SAR target.   Tubewell funding
totalled 129X of the SAR target in local currency, but because of



V
devaluation only 85X of the SAR target in US$ terms. T-.bewell funding
was 951 of total credit disbursements. By project closing, 25 grain
storage loans for a total capacity of approximately 7,500 tons had
been disbursed (the SAR target was 20 loans and 10,000 tons total
capacity). Other credit components were neglected initially and there
was no funding of workshops and very little for mechanics tool kit.
Disbursements for "pioneer" credit lines eventually exeeeded the SAR
target. The project was successful in further supporting the private
procurement and distribution of minor irrigation equipment. There is
conflicting information on whether the target was achieved of half
lending going to small farmers and the landless.
Results
5.       The primary objective of introducing a "replicable" long term
agricultural credit delivery system was clearly not achieved.   The
already poor loan recovery performance of the participating credit
institutions deteriorated even further and the Rural Credit Project
Department of Bangladesh Bank, which was responsible for
implementation of the project, did not develop into the intended rural
credit monitoring and development agency.   There was only partial
implementation of institutional aspects of the project, including that
technical assistance and training components were not fully
implemented and were always behind schedule. The project was extended
a year to allow recruitment of two consultants, but these staff were
not recruited.   The nroposed overseas training program was not
executed, and although local training was carried out it appears to
have made a limited contribution to upgrading technical skills.
6.       Annual incremental agricultural production for all crops has
been estimated at about 224,000 tons which is 61 per cent of the
369,000 tons envisaged at appraisal.   Two explanatory factors are
smaller average tubewell command areas than projected and inadequate
agricultural extension support to farmers.
7.       The recalculated overall ERR for the project is 14%, compared
to the SAR estimate of 601. This difference is due mainly to the SAR
estimate not allowing for phasing of tubewell installation, the
smaller tubewell command areas and lower than predicted cropping
intensities, which together result in a more gradual rise in
production than projected in the SAR.    Another influence has been
higher rates of increase in input prices than in output prices.
Sustainability
8.       Institutional sustainability was not achieved by the project.
The sustainability of a long term credit system, the primary objective
of the project, which achieves only 29 percent recovery performance
(and has since fallen to about 20 per cent) is clearly in doubt.  So



vi
long as government (and donors perhaps) are prepared to finance the
large implied subsidies the program may survive, but it is more a
grant-in-aid  system than a replicable  credit program.   The
sustainability of the main investments, the shallow tubewells, is less
debatable, although the failure of the project's maintenance and
repair components contributed to operating problems reported in the
PCR.
Findings
9.       The poor performance of the institutional component, and
therefore the failure to introduce a viable long term credit system,
can be attributed mainly to unrealistic expectations at appraisal
relating to the commitment of the Government and concerned agencies to
th.e project's main objective.  The training and technical assistance
was only partly implemented because, as the PCR reports, there was
little suppor; for these activities to be financed under the project.
Similarly the failure to reverse declining credit recovery rates
suggests that there was also lack of political support for improving
credit discipline (the PCR notes that repayment capacity was not a
problem as the shallow tubewell investments are profitable).   In
summary it may be concluded that the context in which the iroject was
conceived, prepared, and negotiated was too narrow, since a broader
commitment to financial sector rectitude was needed if the project's
main objective was to be achieved.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT I PROJECT
(CREDIT 1147-BD)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1         Increasing agricultural production has been, and is, a primary
development objective of the Governmc'nt of Bangladesh (GOB). Consequently,
GOB policy has emphasized the development of irrigation, drainage and flood
control facilities, more intensive use of inputs such as better seeds,
fertilizers and pesticides. and strengthening support services such as
research, extension and credit. However, despite considerable support to the
sector, annual foodgrain imports averaged around 1.7 million tons in the
1970s. In analyz.ng the problems, various contributory factors were
recognized, including lack of agricultural credit to finance private
investment in productive assets such as STWs.
1.2         The Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1147-BD), was initiated in
1981 both to continue support for GOB's programme for expanding small-scale
irrigation, and to strengthen the agricultural credit institutions. The
project area was restricted to the Rajshahi Division in Northwest Bangladesh.
The main emphasis of the project was on financing shallow tubewells (STW).
Other components included financing private workshops and village mechanics,
and developing diversified lending, including grain storage. In addition,
funds were peovided for technical assistance and for local and overseas
training. Over a four year period, the project was estimated to cost US$62.4
million.
1.3         A draft Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the
Bangladesh Bank (BB) in June 1987. That draft, along with additional
information collected by BB, provides the basis for this PCR. In addition,
this report is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR no.
3348c-BD); the Development Credit and Proj^'ct Agreements (dated 9 June 1981);
IDA supervision miseion reports; and a visits to Bangladesh between 14-19 July
1987 and 10-19 January 1988 by FAOIWorld Bank Cooperative Programme missions.



2
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
Proiect Origin
2.1         In the early post independence years, there was general
recognition that the Bangladesh agricultural credit sector was weak, and an
important constraint on agricultural development. Institutional sources of
agricultural credit were severely limited, and in particular commercial
banks played an insignificant role in the provision of credit to farmers. In
view of the unsatisfactory situation, the Government, assisted by the First
IDA Technical Assistance Project (Credit 400-BD), employed consultants in
1977 to undertake a comprehensive review of the agricultural credit system,
suggest improvements and identify investment opportunities through
agricultural credit.
2.2         The consultants submitted their draft final report in August 1979.
Although the report lacked a critical analysis of the credit situation in
the country, it put forward various proposals for dispensation of credit and
institutional development. Broadly, these included: (a) credit for irrigation
development, (b) credit for fisheries development, and (c) training support to
personnel of lending agencies. In late 1979, the Consultants' report was
reviewed by the Government and banking authorities concerned and, in agreement
with the World Bank, it was decided that an initial project for agricultural
credit should concentrate on support for minor irrigation development for food
production.
Identification and Preparation
2.3         Based on the consultants' report, the project was identified and
subsequently prepared by missions mounted by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme in January 1980 and May 1980 respectively. As prepared, the five
year project was aimed at providing credit for the purchase and installation
of STWs (25,000 units) and deep tubewells (1,000 units); for the establishment
of private workshops; for tool kits for qualified private mechanics; and for
pioneering new lines of credit. In addition, the proposals included a
component (including 24 man months of technical assistance) for training
agricultural credit personnel. The report proposed centralized training of
all banking staff at a strengthened training center at Bogra; and since the
first batch of trained personnel would be needed when the project became
operational, IDA technical assistance was proposed to cover the cost ;f
training during the first year of the training programme (i.e. before the
project became operational). Project lending was confined to the Rajshahi
Division in the Northwest Bangladesh, comprising the districts of Rajshahi,
Dinajpur, Rangpur, Bogra and Pabna. This was done to keep the project within
the managerial capacity of PCIs, and to take advantage of the high
agricultural potential of the area for which there were adequate
hydrogeological stud!es supporting proven availability of groundwater.



3
Project Appraisal
2.4         A five man IDA mission visited Bangladesh in October/November 1980
to appraise the above project. Broadly, the project as appraised was in line
with the proposals included at preparation. However, due to funding
constraints, the project was scaled down in size, and in duration (to four
years). The appraisal mission scaled down the DTWs to 200 units (from 1,000
proposed at preparation); however, due to various problems (including
difficulties foreseen in delineating DTW areas to minimize interference with
DTW operation) the component was dropped altogether with a corresponding
increase in the STWs to be financed (to.a total of 27,000 units). The
appraisal mission also added specific technical assistance for restructuring
the Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd. (BSBL). In addition, the participating
banks found the proposal for having centralized training of all banks, staff
at Bogra unsuitable. At the time of appraisal the local training programme
was not finalized (oniy an outline plan was agreed at negotiations); it was
however agreed that a detailed plan, satisfactory to IDA, would be prepared by
the Bangladesh Bank.
2.5         Project Description.  Aimed at increasing agricultural production,
the basic thrust of the project was to: (i) establish a replicable system for
delivery of long term agricultural credit; and (ii) support on a large
scale GOB's policy to divest the Bangladesh Agriculture Development
Corporation (BADC) of its centralized role in the procurement and distribution
of minor irrigation equipment and to transfer this responsibility to the
private sector. As appraised, the project included tne
following components:
(a)   Credit: i) to farmers' groups (including UCCA/KSS) and
farmers for constructing and equipping STWs (for estimating
project cost, financing for 27,000 STWs was assumed); ii) to
workshop owners for equipping tubewells maintenance and
repairs workshops (assumed project total of 50 loans); iii)
to village mechanics for purchasing toolkits and bicycles
(500 loans assumed); iv) for construction of grain storage
(total capacity to be created assumed at 10,000 tons); and
v) for pioneering new lines of credit (US$2.0 million).
(b)   Funds for Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs): i) for a
technical assistance programme of about 56 man months
consultants time; and ii) for local training programmes and
about 70 man months training abroad.
BB was to provide refinance to the PCIs, and it's Project Department was made
responsible for planning, supervising and monitoring all aspects of project



4
implementation. The PCIs were the Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB)1 and the
Sonali, Janata and Agrani Banks.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Negotiations and Credit Effectiveness
3.1         Negotiations for the proposed credit of SDR 32.6 million (US$40
million) between the GOB and IDA took place during 15-16 April 1981. The
Bank's Board of Directors approved the credit on 21 May 1981. The credit was
signed on 21 June 1981 and became effective on 6 October 1981.
Implementation Schedule
3.2         The project was scheduled to close on 31 December 1985. However,
the project actually closed on 31 December 1986, after a one year extension.
While the time overrun for the project has not been significant, the proposed
institution strengthening component has not been implemented in line with
appraisal expectations. It was expected that while lending activities would
be modest during the first year of the project, the technical assistance and
training programme would be initiated. However, consultant recruitment was
significantly delayed, no short term training abroad undertaken, and the local
training programme also delayed (paras 3.7-3.11). In actual fact, the project
was extended by one year principally to allow for consultant recruitment and
additional local training to be completed.
Progress of Proiect Lending Programme
3.3         STW Loans.  STW lending was the project's major activity
with the SAR projecting loans for 27,000 units, representing 87Z of the SAR
estimated total project cost. The granting of loans for this component got
off to a slow start, principally because the project's objective to privatize
the sale and distribution of STWs met with serious initial problems. The
major problems revolved around the following: initial oversupply of STWs in
the hands of the public sector (BADC and BKB) in 1981; public sector STW
prices being Tk 5,000-6,000 lower than those charged by private dealers;
delays in authorizing bridging finance of foreign exchange for importers of
STWs, causing delays in issue of licenses and opening letters of credit;
different borrower contribution requirements by BKB from those proposed under
the project, and prevailing subsidies under BKB's own programme. These
problems were all largely resolved by the second half of 1982.
1   Since 1987 the Rajashahi Krishi Unnayan Bank has been set up, which
has taken over all of BKB's operations in the project area. However,
since during the project the participating bank was still BKB, it is
referred to as such throughout the PCR.



5
3.4         As shown in Table 3, the number of STW loans granted each year
far exceeded SAR targets after year 1 of the project, with the project's total
lending target (of 27,000 units) being fully achieved by year three. Bank
loans for a total of 36,648 STWs were provided during the project period.
representing 1362 of the SAR target. Against this, BB provided refinance of
Tk 913 million towards bank loans by PCIs for 33,453 STWs (912 of total),
totalling an estimated Tk 1.1 billion. Of the total STWs, 362 were fielded in
Rangpur district, 271 in Rajshahi, 192 in Bogra, and 91 each in Pabna and
Dinajpur (see Table 3). During the course of implementation, concern was
expressed by GOB on excessive STWs being sunk in some areas, and based on
preliminary observations further sinking of STWs was halted in 26 upazillas
(15 in Rajshahi, 8 in Bogra, and 3 in Pabna) in early 1984.
3.5         Grain Storage, and Other Loan Categories.  These components were
largely neglected during the early period of project implementation, and
progress was very slow. With regard to grain storage loans, initially it was
suggested by the Rural Credit Projects Department (RCPD) of BB, that private
investment was not financially attractive at the prevailing rate of interest;
also RCPD had in the early stages set the borrowers' contribution towards such
investment at 5O0 (contrary to the SAR proposal of 10X), which also acted as a
disincentive. The latter was subsequently changed to 102. Regarding the
proposed lending for workshop and mechanics' kits, there was lack of demand
for bank loans for these activities in the project area. Finally, with regard
to the 'other diversified lending" category, it became apparent that even
though certain qualified PCI branches were lending from their own resources
for non-irrigation equipment, they were not aware that such loans could
qualify for refinancing under the project. To address these problems, it was
suggested that both RCPD and the PCIs should undertake a vigorous publicity
campaign to create awareness both among PCI branches and prospective
borrowers.
3.6         Due to the initiatives taken, lending activity under these
categories picked up in 1984/85. By the time of project closing 25 grain
storage loans (SAR target 20) had been disbursed, for a total storage capacity
of around 7,500 tons.2. However, only 17 loans were disbursed for mechanics
kits (SAR target 500). With regard to the 'other lending' category, it was
found that many loans made by eligible bank branches did not qualify for
refinancing from BB as their lending terms did not tally with those proposed
under the project. Consequently, while the PCIs record 13,494 loans (Tk 93.28
million) as having been made under this category, BB provided refinance for
only 5,482 loans (totally around Tk 52 million under the project). In Taka
terms, the latter represents 127Z of the SAR target (Tk 41.0 million).
Implementation of TA and Training Components;
3.7         Technical Assistance.  Six consultancies totalling 50 man/months
were proposed at the time of appraisal, as follows: for Bangladesh Bank -
Credit Specialist (10  /im), a Training Specialist (10 m/m), and an
2   30 Loans were actually approved for a total capacity of 8,825 tons.
However, only 25 loans were disbursed.



6
Agricultural Economist (6 mlm); and for Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd. (BSBL)
- Cooperative Credit Expert (8 Wml) and a Management Expert (10 m/m). Finally,
a Cooperative Agricultural Credit Specialist (12 m/m) was proposed to
undertake a review of the UCCA/KSS cooperative system. At the time of
negotiations, it was agreed that the credit specialist for BB and the training
specialist would be appointed by 30 November 1981, the Cooperative
Agricultural Credit Specialist by 31 December 1981, and the others by 31 March
1982.
3.8         In actual fact, only three (Credit Specialist, Cooperative
Agricultural Credit Specialist and Cooperative Credit Expert) of the above six
ronsultants were appointed for a total of 34 man months. In all instances,
Lu.eir appointments were considerably behind the originally proposed schedule.
Of the three consultants recruited, the work of the Cooperative Agricultural
Credit Specialist was found to be most useful.  He reviewed the UCCA/KSS
cooperative system, prepared a Banking Plan for the IDA assisted Second Rural
Development Project (Cr. 1384-BD), and assisted in arranging and conducting
seminars ard workshops for Sonali Bank and BRDB staff on the use of the Plan.
The Banking Plan was eventually adopted on a nationwide basis. BB found the
work done by the other two consultants less useful.
3.9         Various factors contributed to both the delays and the
non-recruitment of some of the consultants. At the beginning there were
delays in preparing the terms of reference for consultants. Thereafter, in
the early stages of project implementation, some consultants were nominated by
BB, but were either found to be unsuitable by IDA, or early clearances were not
forthcoming from GOB.  In some instances (agricultural economist, management
expert), posts had to be readvertised, and the selection process re-started
afresh; in other cases (for e.g. Training Specialist), by the time GOB
clearance was obtained and the offer was made by BB, the nominee was no longer
available. The project was extended by a year to allow the recruitment of two
consultants (training, economist/credit specialist) under the project. These
were eventua4ly not recruited. There is an apparent reluctance on the part of
GOB to recruit international consultants.
3.10        Training.  The proposed overseas training programme was not
implemented. With regard to local training, there were delays in drawing up a
programme as BB was awaiting the appointment of the training consultant.
Eventually, in early 1582 RCPD met with the heads of the Bangladesh Institute
of Bank Management (BIBM), and Training Institutes of PCIs, and obtained broad
agreement on the number of courses, and the outlines of syllabii/curricula for
the different courses. Details of the training courses held and numbers
trained are shown in Table 4.
3.11        Under the project, five Basic and Follow-up courses were
conducted by BIBM for staff at managemant level (above the rank of Branch
Managers); these were attended by 84 PCI officials. At the field level, 46
Basic courses were conducted by PCI training institutes, and attended by 948
branch officials, while 46 Follow-up courses were attended by 814 officials.
In addition 23 borrower training courses were held (total of 1,003
participants) jointly by RCPD, PCI trainia.. institutes and representatives of



7
STW dealers; refresher and motivational courses for PCI field staff were also
held. Overall, while the training programme has been successfully, completed
in terms of organizing the number of planned courses, its effectiveness
appears to have been limited. As noted in IDA supervision mission reports,
the courses have contributed little in upgrading the technical skills of PCI
staff.
Procurement
3.12        Recognizing that the previously prevailing system of centralized
procurement through BADC and BKB had proved to be unsatisfactory, GOB and
IDA had agreed that under the project, the procurement and distribution of
irrigation equipment would be based on "farmers' cnoice", and handled
through the private sector. It was agreed that eight engine brands,3 which
had been identified by farmers' choice procedures through earlier schemes
(including Credits, 724-BD and 990-BD) and which had proved satisfactory for
Bangladesh conditions, would qualify for project supplies.
3.13        Procurement of STWs and materials was accordingly arranged through
private turnkey contractors, under the monitoring mechanism of RCPD. For
reasons stated in para 3.3, importers were a little cautious initially, and
the project had to start by selling, through dealers, STWs with locally
assembled engines. However, once these were solved, there were no major
problems in procurement, with adequate supplies being imported by the dealers.
Due to the lack of demand for two engine makes (Mayur and Deutz), they were
replaced in agreement with IDA, by two other makes (Daedong and Javahar).
While there were some problems identified with regard to the new private
sector system (para 4.9), on the whole the project was successful in
establishing the role of the private sector in the sale of STWs.
Project Cost
3.14        Table 1 shows a comparison between actual costs and estimates made
at appraisaL-of total project cost. On completion, the project has cost
Tk 1,200 Billion (US$48.88 million), which is 1202 (782 in US$ terms) of the
SAR estimate of Tk 998.8 million (US$62.42 million). The cost of the STW
component represents 94Z of actual total costs (87? of SAR total cost
estimate). The cost overrun, in Taka terms, is wholly the result of 362 more
STW units being fielded, as compared to the SAR target of 27,000 units;
average unit price of STWs sold under the project have been lower than those
estimated at the time of appraisal (price including the price contingency
provision). The total cost in US$ terms is lower on account of the
significant depreciation of the Taka vis-a-vis the US dollar since appraisal
(present exchange rate Tk 30.4 per US$; SAR Tk 16 per US$).
Project Financing and Credit Allocation
3.15        Project Financing.  The IDA Credit of SDR 32.6 million (US$40
million) was expected to finance 64Z of SAR estimated total project cost.
3   Deutz, Kirloskar, Krishi, Kubota, Maur, Mitsubishi, Usha and Yanmar.



8
At the time of Credit closing SDR 27.43 million (around US$28.5 million) had
been disbursed, representing 84t of the original Credit. This amount covered
58Z of actual project cost. Annual disbursements are shown in the Basic Data
Sheet. The undisbursed balance of SDR 5.17 million, or 162 of the Credit, was
cancelled.
3.16        Credit Allocation.  A comparison of the planned allocation and
actual Credit disbursement is shown below:
Planned         Actual       Credit Cancelled
Category              Allocation     Disbursement    Amount    Z
......... (SDR million).
1. BB Refinancing of Loans
made by PCIs               31.03               27.12        3.91    (13)
2. Local Training               0.66                0.15        0.51    (77)
3. Overseas Training/
Consultants' Services       0.91                0.16        0.75    (82)
Total           32.60               27.43        5.17    (16)
while only 131 of the original allocation for meeting BB refinancing
costs has been cancelled, around 802 of the allocation has been cancelled for
the other two categories. This reflects the lower achievement of SAR targets
(partially from Government reluctance to borrow for such items), with a
corresponding adverse effect on the institution strengthening objectives
of the project.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Implementing Agencies
4.1         As originally agreed, the credit component was handled by
the four PCIs, with BB providing refinance against approved project sub-loans
to final borrowers. National and district project coordinating committees
were set up to deal with problems BB could not settle, review work programmes
and deal with policy issues. The committees proved particularly useful in
addressing early start-up problems (particularly regarding STWs), and later in
developing campaigns to promote the project lending programme in the project
area.
Bangladesh Bank
4.2         Initially, the Agricultural Credit Project Division under the
Agricultural Credit Department (ACD) was designated as the Project
Implementation Unit in BB. Subsequently in January 1982, the Division was
upgraded to a separate Department, called the Rural Credit Project
Department (RCPD), with an organization structure largely in line with the



9
SAR proposals. Also, supervision cells were established by RCPD in each of
the five project districts. The total strength of the Department in early
1982 was 35 staff; at present (January 1988) there are 54 staff (against 58
sanctioned posts).
4.3         The performance of RCPD must be viewed in the light of the new
responsibilities which were taken up by BB under the project. The project
envisaged the creation of a central agency for planning, supervising and
monitoring the financing of rural credit project activities, as well as
to assist lending agencies to acquire development lending capabilities.
Clearly, the project has made little progress in meeting this institutional
objective. Several factors havo contributed to this situation. Although
three consultants were provided under the project to strengthen the Department
and improve its capability in its new role, only the credit specialist was
eventually appointed. No in-depth training (local or foreign) was provided to
the staff to make them better able to perform their new tasks. Successive IDA
supervision missions pointed out that with only one officer in the district
RCPD cells and no vehicles, there was weak supervision over project
activities. Furthermore, there were vacancies in technical staff positions in
RCPD, and more important, a regular turnover of staff. During the five year
project period, there were five different General Managers of the Department.
4.4         However, RCPD has played an important monitoring role,
particularly in the earlier stages of the project, in ensuring that
quantitative lending targets were met. In early 19P2, it issued
various procedural guidelines and circulars on project credit operations, to
assist both the PCIs and STW dealers/importers. It made allocations between
different engine makes, based on agreed criteria. In collaboration with PCIs
and the District Coordinating Committees, it conducted an intensive
information campaign in the project area; initially, it also played an
important role in clarifying project lending operations to PCI regicnal and
branch managers. RCPD took the initiative in drawing up the training
programme, and assisted in conducting some of the courses. In its supervisory
role, RCPD fpcussed largely on the STW component. It reviewed the operations
of the private dealers, ensuring among others, that: adequate branches were
being opened by them in the project area; there was not a concentration of
dealer activities in the urban and more accessible areas; there was an
equitable distribution of STWs between the project districts; dealers were
keeping suitable number of mechanics on their staff to provide STW buyers with
after sales service. In fulfilling these objectives, RCPD was successful to
varying degrees; to the extent possible, they followed up on complaints lodged
against dealers. Finally, RCPD had important reporting functions (para 4.11).
However, IDA supervision mission found that at times there were
inconsistencies in project reporting, and that the activities of the RCPD
Planning Wing needed to be made more effective.
4.5         Overall, RCPD was more involved under the project in issues
related to procurement, physical implementation and reporting. At one stage
GOB questioned the need for them to be so closely involved in these matters,
and expressed a desire that RCPD should focus more on matters related to
credit, refinance, appraisal, and PCI branch supervision.



10
Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs)
4.6         Table 2 shows lending by PCIs for the STW and graini storage loan
categories. As can be seen, 33Z of STW sales were financed through BKB, 51?
through Sonali Bank, 112 through Janata Bank, and 5? through Agrani Bank.
Nearly 70? of the STWs financed by Sonali Bank (12,967 STWs, or 35Z of total
project sales) have been through UCCA/KSS. As can be seen from Table 3, in
the first year of the project, over 80? of STW sales were financed through
BKB. This was largely on account of BKB's greater prior experience in term
lending, and the delay in appointing field staff by the other PCIs. Also,
UCCA/KSS demand for STW was largely neglected in the early stages. Lending by
the other banks, and particularly lending to UCCA/KSS increased after year 1.
With regard to grain storage, 20 loans were given by Sonali Bank (representing
73Z of total cost), and five by BKB (financing 27? of total cost). Detailed
breakdown by PCI, of the "other diversified lending" category (which was
eligible for refinancing) is not available. Overall, as noted in IDA mission
reports, the Nationalized Commercial Banks (i.e. PCIs other than BKB) have
generally been reluctant to promote in a large way agricultural term lending
for a number of reasons, including low profitability, lack of experienced or
trained staff, and poor past record of recovery.
4.7         While the PCIs have exceeded the quantitative lending targets,
their performance in loan recovery has shown a declining trend. At appraisal,
it was proposed that no PCI branch would be eligible to lend under the project
if loan recovery were to drop below 40? of demand (defined as overdues plus
amount falling due) and after 31 December 1983, below 50? of demand. A format
for a Loan Recovery Status Report (LRSR) was agreed, which was to be submitted
by each PCI branch to report on their recovery performance, and establish
their eligibility to participate in the project. Other than determine branch
participation eligibility, the LRSR was expected to become an important
management tool for PCIs to monitor their loan recovery performance and
initiate measures where it was not satisfactory. Table 5 provides details of
total branches, eligible branches, and average loan recovery percentages for
the different PCIs in the project areas. Average loan recovery percentages
for three years are summarized below:
As at 30 June
1982        1985          1986
BKB                    68X          29Z           262
Sonali-Direct          39           38            32
- through UCCA/KSS  55            43           36
Janata                 54           39            39
Agrani                 46           61            53
Total (for all PCIs)  44            n.a.          29
Eligible Branches
as X of Total PCI
Branches               78a          532           402



11
As can be seen, loan recovery percentages have declined Ln all cases.
with the exception of Agrani Bank (which also had the lowest share in total
term lending under the project,. Furthermore, eligible branches as a
percentage of total PCI branches in the project area has also declined
significantly. The poor loans repayment performance of borrowers does not
necessarily reflect a general inability to repay the loan. As shown in paras
5.8-5.9 (farm income analysis), the investment in STWs yields adequate
financial cash flows to fully meet the debt servicing liabilities.
4.8         While the above are the only data readily available to measure
PCI performance on loan recovery, it is necessary to point out that the
majority of PCI field staff are still not able to prepare the report
correctly. Consequently, the report has not effectively served the purpose
envisaged for it. Various instances have been recorded by IDA supervision
missions of errors in LRSR submissions by individual PCI branches; it was also
pointed out that expertise to appraise agricultural term loans is still
lacking in many cases. Various factors contributed to this situation:
(a)   training courses being both inadequate, and also not
effective;
(b)   transfer of trained staff outside the project area, with
newly posted staff not receiving training (some of these
staff may come from urban branches, with little prior
experience in rural lending);
(c)   field staff of PCIs lack mobility to visit borrowers or
project sites;
(d)   the accounts, as presently prepared by bank branches, do not
generate the data necessary to prepare the LRSR (in the form
as agreed at appraisal); branch offices would need to
compute specific figures for the report, which not all are
able to do.
Furthermore, even RCPD staff (in sufficient numbers) did not have the
necessary training to be able to review, on a sample basis, PCI branch
reports, and correct inconsistences and errors. Other than submitting the
loan recovery data to IDA, as part of their reporting functions, RCPD staff
were unable to do much to monitor the recovery position of the PCIs. Finally,
there has been a rapid increase in the number of PCI branches (from around 500
to over 700 between 1981-86, as shown in Table 5), with inevitable staffing
problems.
STW Turnkey Contractors;
4.9         Overall, the project was successful in getting the private sector
involved on a large scale, in the procurement and distribution of shallow
tubewells (having sold in excess of 36,600 STWs during the project period).
However, both IDA supervision missions, as well as two project evaluations
carried out by BB and by consultants, brought out certdin weaknesses in
their operations. To begin with, the contractors were found reluctant to
operate in the less accessible areas (up to March 1983, nearly 40Z of the



12
STWs fielded were in Bogra). To some extent this shortcoming was addressed
with dealers being required to open offices in all project districts; at the
time of project closing, of the total STWs fielded 36Z were in Rangpur, 27Z in
Raishahi, 19Z in Bogra, and around 92 each in Pabna and Dinajpur. Also,
dealers were found to be initially reluctant . sell through UCCA/KSS
(eventually, about 352 of the STWs sold went t, UCCA/KSS). Complaints were
also voiced with regard to availability of spare parts and of mechanics to
provide after-sales service. Dealers did increase their .et'.:ork of facilities
and the availability of mechanics. However, since the project has closed and
dealers' sales activities reduced, it is reported that they have cutback on
offices in the project area, as well as mechanics hired by them. Of the total
STWs fielded under the project, there were 412 Mitsubishi, 222 Kubota, 212
Yanmar, and 162 of the other five makes.
Accounting and Reporting
4.10        As required by the DCA, separate accounts were generally
maintained by the PCIs of project related lending activities. As agreed,
audit reports on project expenditures were submitted to IDA through RCPD;
however, there were delays in their submission. Since UCCA/KSS were to be
involved in project lending, it was agreed at appraisal that during the
project period, overdue audits of UCCA/KS in the project area would be
brought up to date. According:y, a programme was agiied to complete the audit
of 3,028 "A" and "B" class KSS (covering 4,326 audits) through the Consultants
for Cooperatives. By project closing a total of 4,288 audits were completed,
covering 2,990 KSS. The registration of -he remaining 38 KSS were cancelled.
4.11        Quarterly progress reports on project implementation were to be
submitted to IDA by Bangladesh Bank (RCPD). In addition, RCPD was required to
submit annually a consolidated LRSR, on the basis of which PCI branch
eligibility to participate in the project was to be established. Generally,
IDA supervision missions have stated that project reporting was not effective,
and in most instances reports were submitted late. lt was found that the data
reported arei-often both incorrect and inadequate. To address some of the
shortcomings, the quarterly progress report format was amended by the World
Bank in consultation with RCPD, in February 1985. To some extent the
poor quality of reports was the result of difficulties faced by the
RCPD district cell staff in getting accurate data from the PCIs. To address
the weakness in preparing the LRSR, one-day courses were organized in 1985 for
branch staff directly involved in its preparation. However, weaknesses still
remain.
4.12        Finally, a mid-term evaluation of the project was carried out by
local consultants in December 1984. This was followed-up by a month long
evaluation study conducted by RCPD in July/August 1986. On the whole, the
reports are of a very general nature. However, they (particularly the first)
brought out shortcomings, as well as instances of irregularities by credit
agencies as well as by dealers, and made various recommendations.
Essentially, these findings further point to the need for and urgency in
initiating institution building measures in the country.



13
Compiance with Covenants
4.13        The borrower did not recruit all the consultants agreed upon.  The
reasons are explained in paras 3.7 to 3.9. With regard to other covenants,
they were generally complied with. However, there were various instances
where target dates specified were not met.
V. PROJECT IMPACT
Agricultural Impact
5.1         At appraisal, it was expected that STW installation in the project
area would be confined to the Barind tract (with heavy Barind clays and
subject to shallow flooding) and to the other shallow flooded areas (which had
lighter soils). As there were differences in prevailing and projected
cropping patterns between the two areas, separate analyses were carried out.
However, as no bench mark survey was carried out and crop performance
during the project not monitored, comparing appraisal expectations with actual
agricultural development is difficult. RCPD, the main monitoring agency under
the project has no agricultural staff and there was little or no liaison with
the Department of Agriculture. Furthermore, STW sales were reported district
wise but not according to Barind Tracc and other shallow flooded areas
respectively. Uhile sample surveys were carried out by RCPD, and a
socio-economic evaluation study conducted by consultants in 1984, they were
generally inadequate for carrying out a detailed comparative analysis.
Hence, mission assumptions of cropping pattern, cropping intensities and
yields were based on discussions with District Agriculture Officers and
farmers, in addition to the data available from sample surveys and the
socio-economic evaluation study.
5.2         The project was expected to result in higher production of paddy
and wheat, and replacement of pulses and oilseeds by more profitable crops
such as potatoes. It was expected that in the Barind Tract a Boro crop would
be added to the transplanted Aman dominated cropping pattern, while in
other shallow flooded areas, the main effect of irrigation would be the
replacement of broadcast Aus by transplanted HYV Aus. The project is
considered to have reached full development since virtually all the STWs
(36,352) had been installed by 1984185. Consequently, current cropping
pattern and yields, on which this report is based, are not expected to change
considerably in the near future.
5.3         Net Cultivable Areas.  At appraisal an average 10 acre command
area per STW was assumed. Various estimates have been made in the past of
the area irrigated per STW in northwest Bangladesh (ranging between 10 to 12.5
acres). A sample survey of 200 STWs (40 in each project district) carried out
by RCPD in 1987 for preparing the PCR, provides the most recent estimate.
This shows that comnand area per STW ranges from as low as 2 acres to over 20
acres in some cases. On a district basis (see Table 6), the sample shows that
the average comnand area ranges between nearly 5 acres (Rajshahi) to nearly 16
acres (Pabna). Accordingly, the weighted average of 8 acres command area per



14
STW has been used for financial and economic analysis. Based on data from the
survey, the STWs installed under the project have resultcd in irrigating
around 280,000 acres. It is roughly estimated that 8,000 STWs (22Z of total)
have been installed in the Barind Tract, and the remainder (28,648 or 78z) in
the other areas.4
5.4         Cropping Pattern.  As expected at appraisal, irrigation from STWs
fielded has resulted in broadcast Aus being partially replaced by HYV T. Aus;
HYV Boro added to the cropping pattern in the Barind Tract; and a considerable
increase in wheat acreage (Lables 7 and 9). The increase in Boro and wheat is
greater than appraisal estimate, but contrary to appraisal expectations, the
jute area has decreased, pulses and oilseeds continue to be cultivated, and
the increase in potato area is less than anticipated.
5.5         Cropping Intensity.  A comparison of actual and SAR estimated
cropping intensity (see Table 7) is summarized below:
SAR                            PCR
Barind     Other Areas         Barind    Other Areas
........................... ............................
Without Project      120             165              125           145
With Project         190             210              180           190
Incremental           70              45               55            45
For the project as a waole, the SAR estimated cropping intensities to go
up from "without project' estimates of 1472 to 201Z "with project". Based on
the data available, overall cropping intensity for the project has actually
gone up to 1882, from 141% "without project'.
5.6         Crop Yields.  As anticipated at appraisal, yield increases are
higher for HYVs than local varieties (Table 9). However, yields of all crops
except potatoes are lower than appraisal estimates. Although the use of
fertilizers has increased, its application is mainly confined to HYV.
Furthermore, the rates of application of fertilizers, pesticide and irrigation
vary considerably and are generally below the recommended rates. Also, water
management practices in non-Barind Tract areas where the s,ails are mainly sand
loam are generally poor. Based on discussions in the field, it appears that
farmers are not getting adequaee extension support; this is reported as being
due to problems of staffing and inadequate mobility.
5.7         Production.  The estimated annual production "with" and "without'
project is given in Table 9. Paddv production has increased from about
4 At appraisal, the distribution of the proposed 27,000 STWs was
projected at 8,000 units and 19,000 units for the two areas
respectively.



15
278,000 tons to 474,000 tons and wheat from about 8,000 tons to 59,000 tons
annually,  Comparative annual incremental crop production is summarized below:
CroRs                       SAR                  PCR
....... ('000 tons).
Boro paddy                        79.2               141.3
Other paddy                      196.0                54.0
Wheat                             28.2                50.7
Jute                              10.2                (3.4)
Pulses & Oilseeds                 (8.7)               (0.4)
Potatoes                          83.8                28.5
Compared with appraisal estimates, incremental production is higher for
wheat, T. Aman (HYV) and Boro paddy, but lower for all other crops.
Farm Incomes
5.8         At appraisal, four farm models were prepared to estimate
incremental financial returns from STW investment. For each of the two areas
(Barind and other shallow flooded areas), two models were prepared, one
showing return when the farmer owns the entire command area irrigated (10
acres per STW), and the other, when half the area irrigated belongs to him,
and he sells water to neighbors to irrigate the remaining half of the
command area. A similar analysis (but assuming eight acre command area per
STW) has been carried out (see Tables 12 and 13) for the PCR, based on
cropping pattern assumptions shown on Table 7, and per acre crop budgets shown
in Table 8. The table below presents the salient features:
SAR    (10 actes)              PCR (8 acres)
No. Sale       With Sale         No. Sale     With Sale
of Water        of Water         of Water     of Water
BARIND TRACT
IRR                     40S                29Z              332          202
Incr. Net Cash Flow    Tk12,300           Tk6,600          Tk7,630       Tkl,730
2 Increase in Cash
Inflow 'with project"  792                 852              272          122
OTHER AREAS
IRR                     402                282              32Z          212
Incr. Net Cash Flow    TK11,500           Tk6,000          Tk7,000       Tk2,200
2 Increase in Cash
Inflow                  562                59S              26Z          172



16
5.9         In all cases, while the investment remains financially viable,
returns are much lower than those estimated at appraisal. This is on account
of a 202 reduction in the average command area per STW as compared to SAR
assumptions, reducei cropping intensities, and finally, a higher increase in
input costs as compared to output prices between appraisal and now. Finally,
financing costs have also gone up by 23Z, from 132 p.a. interest rates on
loans at the time of appraisal to 162 p.a. at present.
Economic Re-Evaluation
5.10        At the time of apprais'. economic rates of return (ERR) were
estimated on a model basis. For ti.d purposes of the analysis, the life of the
STW was assumed at seven years; however, recognizing that the pump and
tubewell would still have some useful life remaining a 1OZ residual value was
assumed. The analysis which was carried out in 1980 constant price terms,
yielded ERRs of 632 for STUs in the Barind Tract, and 57? for those in the
other shallow flooded areas. A weighted average project ERR of 60? was also
estimated for the STWs only. However, since the analysis was done on a model
basis an implicit assumption in calculating the project ERR was that all STWs
would be sold in project year 1.
5.11        In re-estimating the projects economic impact the basic
assumptions made at appraisal have been retained. The principal difference is
that total incremental benefits arising from the project have been phased on
the basis of actual annual STW sales, in estimating total project ERR. Also,
an average command are of 8 acre per STW has been used. The analysis has been
carried out in 1987 constant price terms. Historical STW investment costs
have been restated in 1987 price terms by applying the specific STW price
index. These costs have been restated into border price terms by using a
specific conversion factor of 0.84. In estimating this, duty and local taxes
have been excluded, and the cost of local items restated in border price terms
by applying the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.80.
5.12        The majority of STWs (971 of total) were installed during the
three year period FY83-85. Given that incremental benefits in the year of STW
installation (i.e. year 1) are assumed to be nil, and that full development
benefits are reached in year 3, incremental project benefits were relatively
insignificant prior to FY85. Accordingly, average economic farmgate prices
for traded commodities have been estimated (in 1987 constant terms) for the
periods 1985-89 and 1990-95 (see Table 10). The prices of non-traded
commodities have been restated into border price terms by applying the
standard conversion factor of 0.8 to their financial prices. In line with
estimates in recent World Bank appraisal reports, farm labor has been
valued at 75Z of the financial wage rate, and a conversion factor of 0.85
has been applied on financial STW operating costs.
5.13        Based on the above assumptions, the cropping pattern and per
acre crop budget assumptions shown on Tables 7 and 8, and a 13 year period
of analysis, the current estimate of ERR for the project as a whole is around
14? (see Table 14). As mentioned earlier, this is not directly comparable



17
with the project ERR estimated at appraisal, since the latter does not take
into account the phasing in STW sales. ERfl' have also been estimated
for the Barind and other areas separately (see Table 14). giving the following
results: and ERR of 152 for the Barind Tract (SAR estimate was 63Z), and of
142 for the other shallow floc.ed areas (SAR - 57Z).
5.14        There are various factors which have contributed to the lower ERRs
as compared to appraisal estimates.  The more important ones include:
i. a 202 lower command area per STW, than that expected at
appraisal;
ii. at appraisal, the overall cropping intensity was expected to
increase by 54Z (from 1472 to 2012); revised estimates put
the increase more than 10 lower, at 482;
iii. actual yields obtained "with project" are in important cases
(T. Aus and Boro paddy, wheat), significantly lower
(between 10-202 lower) than those projected at the time of
appraisal;
iv. finally, economic costs in Taka terms have increased much
more than the increase in the price of agricultural output.
while the economic price of labor is five times that
estimated at appraisal, urea between 64? (1985-89) and 1252
(1990-95) higher, and TSP between 35-552 higher, the
farmgate economic price of paddy has gone up by only beLween
13-232.
However, while overall returns are lower than those estimated at the time
of appraisal, the investment in STWs remains economically viable. At the
same time, the potential economic benefits are not being fully achieved,
particularly in terms of areas irrigated per STW. The fact that many STWs
are being used to irrigate areas in excess of 10 and 12 acres each, achieving
an average of 8 acres is considered low. If average 10 acre command areas
were to be achieved, the ERRs would go up 192 for the Barind Tract and 18Z for
the other areas.
VI. IDA PERFORMANCE
6.1         This was the first IDA financed project in Bangladesh aimed
specifically at addressing some of the weaknesses of the country's
agricultural credit sector. Other than increasing agricultural production,
the project was appropriately designed to strengthen the role of the
nationalized commercial banks, particularly in agricultural term lending, and
to accelerate the process of privatizing STW distribution and sales.
6.2         However, the institution strengthening objectives of the project
have not been satisfactorily met. While institutional development is a
long-term process, it is possible with the benefit of hindsight, to identify
some weaknesses in project formulation/appraisal, particularly with regard to
the training component. In this context, it should be pointed out at the



18
outset that the non-appointment of the training consultant by BB/GOB, has to a
large extent undermined the possibility of that component playing its desired
role. However, appraisal expectations that BB's Project Department (RCPD)
would be able to play an important catalytic role in institution strengthening
were ambitious, particularly as staff appointed to RCPD were undertaking a
role new to them. It would have been useful if, at appraisal, a more detailed
assessment of training needs had been undertaken, and broad training
programmes drawn up. The fact that training imparted under the project has
not always proved effective, points to the project designs' shortcoming in not
making specific provisions for training the proposed trainers, as well as RCPD
staff.
6.3         While the objective of bringing about uniformity in branch and
higher level loan accounting by the PCIs was certainly desirable, it was
optimistic to expect the changeover to take place within a relatively short
span of time. Consequently, the LRSR was unable to play the role designed for
it, since in most instances where it was checked by visiting missions it was
found to be incorrect.
6.4         A total of 12 supervision missions were fielded by IDA between the
five year project implementation period; five of these were manned by IDA
staff from its Resident Mission in Bangladesh. Good continuity of staff was
maintained between missions. The missions played an important role in
highlighting weaknesses in project performance, and in particular
continuously reiterated (unfortunately without result) the need for GOB
to recruit consultants as originally agreed.
VII. CONCL'JSIONS
7.1         The primary objective of the project was to increase agricultural
production through the sale of STWe. While the project has more than met
the STW sales target, incremental agricultural production is less than
that estimated at appraisal; overall economic returns from the project are
also lower. A matter of particular concern is the relatively smaller average
command areas of STWs sold under the project. While detailed data are not
available, this may be a reflection of poor selection of beneficiaries by
both PCIs and contractors; it may also be a reflection of the fact that
farmers may be less willing to sell water to smaller farmers nearby, as
incremental returns from selling water appear to be low.
7.2         There are conflicting data available on whether the project met
its equity objectives, i.e. meeting the project requirement that at least 502
of credit for financing STWs should go to small farmers(with less than three
acres of land). Various factors contribute towards lower participation by
smaller farmers: the existing land tenure and sharecropping arrangements in
the rural areas often preclude participation by smaller farmers; furthermore,
the prevailing social structure also inhibits small farmers from organizing
effective irrigation groups around STWs; finally, incremental cash inflows
from selling irrigation water appear to be low at present prices.



19
7.3         In terms of meeting the objective of transferring to the private
sector the responsibility for procuring and distributing minor irrigation
equipment, the project can be considered to have been generally successful.
While problems and shortcomings did emerge during the course of
implementation, most of these can be addressed by effective and impartial
institutional supervision. Overall, the rapid pace at which distribution and
sales of STWs proceeded in the project area was the result of the private
sectors positive response to GOB's policy of privatization.
7.4         While the project has generally met its physical targets,
the impact of the project on strengthening the agricultural credit
institutions has been limited. In particular, the experience in recovering
loans made has been extremely disappointing. Among various other factors,
this reflects the continued weakness in PCIs, particularly at branch level, in
loan appraisal and supervision capabilities. While it is debatable whether
the loan recovery performance of the PCIs would have been significantly better
had the technical assistance and training component been better implemented,
it is certainly true that these components, as eventually implemented, have
not contributed in any large measure in upgrading the technical skills of
particularly the PCI branch level officials. While RCPD, which was expected
to become an important development agency, has played an important role in
the project in various respects, as a rural credit monitoring and
development agency it is still weak, and most staff at present require
considerable training to upgrade their technical capabilities.
7.5         The principal lesson which can be gleaned from the experience of
this project is that it is desirable to assess carefully institutional
capabilities, and ensure adequate preparation of all components prior to a
credit becoming effective. The inability of RCPD to draw up a comprehensive
training programme and that of the respective training institutes to
effectively train bank staff was the result of an optimistic assessment of
their capabilities. Furthermore, key appointments (such as the training
consultant) aritical for meeting what was one of the fundamental objectives
of the project must also be made prior to the project becoming operational.



AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECt
tCr. 1147-SD)
\ C04parison of Appraisal and Actual Project Cost
Appraisal                               Actual                         Actual as X of Appraisal
Category                        No.    Tk  Million  tJS$ MillIon        No.       Th  itillton   USS # illion It        No.    Taka    USS
Credit Componmt
Shallow tubewells             27.000  t68.0             54.25        3t.648 21      1.123.3          45.92            136       129     a5
Workshops - Tools S               S0       30.6          1.91           -                              -                0         0      0
Eouipment
Village mechanics' rits          500        7.1          0.44             17             0.2          0.01              3         2      2
Grain Storage                     20       22.0          1.38            25             15i2          0.58            125        69     42
Other Diversified Lending       n.a.       41.0          2.56         5.482             52.0          2.00            n.a.      127     78
Sub-Total        -       968.7         60.54           -           t.190.7         48.51             -        123      80
.___._   _      __                            _                 _                   
ITotal Loans Disbursed)                 (909.01                                   (1.078.0) 3'
Technical Absistance & Training
Consultancies                  56 o/m      10.4          0.65         34 aim 4           4.1          0.18             61       41      28
?ellowshaps                       50        5.8          0.36           -               -              -                0         0      0
Local Training                 1.000       13.9          0.87           -                5.0          0.19             -         36     22
Sulb-Total       -        30.1'         1.88           -               9.3          0.37             _         31      20
Total Project Cost                         998.8         62.42                        1.200.0         48.58                      120     78
1i Following rates of exchange (per USSI used: 1981182 - Tk2O.05. 1982083 - Tk23.37. 1983184 - Tk24.88. 1984185 - Tk26.06.                            Ot
1965186 - Tk29.92. 1986/87 - Tk3O.40.
Source: IIF. International Financial Statistics.
2' Refinance provided by BB aqamnst only 13.453 STt'F.
3  Dased on amounts refinanced by Be. gros.ord I) by ,.tt mated part scipatuaiq bank cnolribut in  of 10. toowards amount disbursed.
4 Excludes consultant time spent on preparing evealuatio,i i.tudirs. and for auditing UCCA'KSS.
Source: RCPD. Bangladesh Bank.



SANGLADESN
ACGRICLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Cr. 1147-80)
Total Cost of Prolect Credit Component - Dv Particioating flank
Shallo" Tubewaells                       Oral.  Storage                Other Loans
Bank                       No. of Loans    L-Shars)   Ttsl  _Qt           No- Of LLans  TQatt:ICQ5t       NLQ,offLJ.nafi  Amaont
(Tk Million)                   (Tk Million)                   (Tk Million)
Sds.Uledesh Krishi Sank          12,21S          (33.3)         362.62             5           4.09                n.s.         n.a.
Sonali Sank                      18.788 jI       '5'.3)        590.36 L/          20          11.14                n.a.         n.-.
Janata Sank                       3.643          ,IO.S)         11.50             -            -                  n.s.         n.a.
Ageatis S antkh                   1.802            (4.9)         54.62             -             -.a.                           n.a.
Iaai. 6    SD(1001          i.-Z1     25  1          5        .2.a3           S.499 V/       S2L.17 V
tJ Of this. credit for 12.907 STWs (total cost of Tk426.92 million) was disburscd through UCCA/KSS.
ZI Detailed breakdown by banha not available. Amount disbursed, based on refinance provided by 88. grossed up by estimated
participating bank contribution of 10% towards amount disbursed.
Sources RCPD. ttnglad-sh Sank.
cr



S
DANCLADE'SH
AGRICULTUIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Cr .1147-BDI)
STW Sales - By Partictpating Bank and By District (Numbers)
1981162     t982183       t983184     1984185    1985186    1986187       Total    X Share
STIs Financed - By Part1e1pating bank
Bangladesh Irisbi Bank                   628        7.000         3.986         533         34         34        12.215    33.3
Sonall Bank                               96         4.432        7,644       6.463        .110        43        28.788 ti 51.3
Janata Dank                               25         1.794        1.135         632         52          5         3.643 -  10.5
Agrant Dank                               19         1.070          520         175          to        -          1.802      4.9
Total                      768        14.296       13.285       8.003         214        82        36.648   100.0
STn Sales - By District (Old)
Rayj4aba                                 121        4.212         2.829       2.531         40         11         9.744    26.6
Pabna                                    117         1.909          670         564         54         -          3.314     9.0
0ogra                                    450        4.958         1.433         242          3         -          7.086    19.3
Rangpur                                   80         2.373        6.877       3.579        102         66        13.079    35.7
Danajpur                                  -            844        1.476       1.087          15         3         3.425      9.4
Total                      768        14.296       13.285       8.003        214         82        36.648   100.0
Appra aal Target 2'                      2.000         5.000       11.000       9.000          -         -         27.000
Actual as % of Target                      384          286;         12i.         59         n.a.        n.a.        136X
11 Of thas. credit for 12.907 STIs was disbursed through UCCAIKSS (annual breakdown not ava lablet.
TI Distract allocation not made in SAD.
Souree: RCPD. Bangladesh Dank.                                                                                                                   s
I!
is



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAI CREDIT PROJECT
(Cr. 1147-BDI
Trainang Courses Held and Number of Participants
Type of Training Course                      198182         1982153      1983154      1984185    1985t16    1986187    Total    Level of  Start Trtlued
L Course bu;raston
t. Basic Course - No. Held                        1             8             27          35          -            -          51     Nanagewent S field Lvel
- No. of Participants         19            169           558          286          -           -       1.032              (6 days)
2. Follow Up Cours-  No. Held                     -             -              8          32          11           1          52
- No. Participants         -             -            115         563        200           20         896              (6 days)
3. Borrowers  Trg. Courbe - No. Held              -             -              1          14           -           8          23     Borrowers
- No. of Participants                      -            50         600           -         353       s.003              tl day)
4. Refresher Course - No.  el4                    -             -              -          -          21            -          21     Branch Managers
- No. of Participants   -                -              -          -         545            -         545              (1 day)                      N
S. Refresbher Course   No. Held                   -             -              -          -          23            -          23     Lower Level Branch Staff
- No. of Participants             -              -                 -         476            -         476              t4 days)
6. Refresher Course - No. Held                    -             -              -          -            -          22          22     Lower Level Branch Staff
- No. of Particapants   -                -              -          -            -         538         538              42 days)
7. Motivational Course - No. Held               12              -              -          -           -            -          22     field Level Staff
- No of Participants  409                -              -          -            -           -         409             II day)
8. Motivational Course - No. Held                 I             -              -          -           -            -           I     Field Level Staff
- No. of Participants  21                -              -          -            -           -          21             (4 ddyb.
9. Induction Programme                            -             I              -          -           -            -           1     fanatj-ieni Le%el Stafr
- No. of Particapanto    -              25              -          -            -           -          25              (6 daybI
lO Trainers  Training - No. field                -              -              -          -           I           -            I     Traineri  for .RSR
- No. of Participahtb -                -              -          -          17           -           17             It day)
Source: RCPD. Bangladesh Bank
I!



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Cr.1147-SD)
Total Bank Oran_hes.. ,1.tOle  Canch mas  a        8ec oyo  yPavcenao
Songai Oank                                         Efliible as S
gmI    Oireci   UiCALKSU Sn   JanaSa   haraLi      Total    of Total Branches
As at 30 June 1981
Total Branches (No.)                     73       132         69         150      83           507          -
No. of Eligible Branches                 73        92         69         133      fi           428          84
Avg. Loan Recovery Percentage (S)    Si           100 I/      Z/           /      54 I          49          _
As at 30 June 1982
Total Branches (No.)                     42       129         el         142      93           487          -
No. of Eligible Branches                 40        96        fi3         110      72           381          76
Avg. Loan Recovery Percentage (%)    68            39         55          54      46            44          -
As at 30 June 1983
Total Branches (No.)                    otO       138         93         152     86            570          -
No. of Eligible Branches                 70       106         63         152      72           463          el
Avg. Loan Recovery Percentage (S)    53            51         58          56     51             50          _
Ab dt 30 June 1984                                                                                                                L
Total Branches (No.)                    122       139        107         153    101            622          -
No. of Eligible Branches                 34        82         70          93      79           358          58
Avg. Loan Recovery Percentage (S)    17            40         72          42      65            34          -
As at 30 June 1995                     1
Total Branches (No.)                    124       164        123         154    107            672          -
No. of eligible Oranches                 25        93         76          77      81           355          53
Avg. Loan Recovery Percentage (%)    29            38         43          39     61            n.s.         -
As at 30 June 1986
T9tal Branches (No.)                    132       178        138         154    108            710          -
No. of Eligible Branches                 31        79         60          St     61            282          40              @
Avg. Loan Recovery Percentage (%)    26            32         36          39      53            29          -               %
Soufce: RCPD. Bangladesh Bank.
1/ Only 2 branches extended term loans.
2' No term loans extended.
a/ Only I branch extended term loans.



26
Table 6
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Cr. 1147-BD)
Project Districts: Shallow Tubewells and Command Areas
Total                         Estimated
Number        Command             Net
District             of STWs         Area          CultTvable
installed      per ST   i/        Area
(acres)       ('000 acres)
Bogra                 7,086           5.7              40.4
Dinajpur              3,425          10.6              36.3
Rangpur              13,079           8.0             104.6
Pabna                 3,314          15.8              52.4
Rajshahi              9.744           4.7              45.8
Total      36.648           7.63 2/         279.5
1/ Based on a sample of 40 STWs per district, surveyed by RCPD in the
second half of 1987.
y Weighted average.



27
Table 7
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Credit 1147-0D)
CropDana Pattern and CroppinQ Intens1ty (X)
SAR                 ,PCI
Barlnd     Other Shallow      Barind     Other Shallow
Tract      Flooded Areas      Tract      Flooded Areas
B. AUS    (local)      _      _    20       _        10     10    25      1S
T. As    (0")          -        -    -     CO        -      10     0       5
T..An    (local)      75     70    70      60        75     80    75      SS
T. Am     (HW)        25     30    30      40        25     20    25      45
SO.       (et:;        -     60      -      -        0      30     0      35
Sub-total   100    160   120    160       110    IS0   125    1SS
nuER CRPS
Wheat                 10     20    1S      20         5     20     5      25
jute                   -      -    20      20         -      -      7      3
Pulses ndm0,iseeds    10      -    10       -         5      3     6       4
Potatoes               -     10      -     10         5      8     2       3
Sub-total    20     30    45      S0       15      31    20      35
Total
Cropping Intensity (5) 120    190   165    210       125    181   145    190
i a Future without project
g = Future with project



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CtREDIT PROJECT
(Cr.t147-OD)
Crop Yields, and Production Inputs per Acre
S.     T.           T.           T.
Aug.   Aus.         Aimn         Ain            Boro        Wheat        Jute       Pulses G    Potatoes
tL=ocail tI TR      (Local)    (tHYvI           tHv-WT       trJv ILItVI             Oilseedas
W.W    W           W    W       W    W          w           W    W      w     w      w     w      H     w
co
INPVT8
8eed-                   (kg)        30      15       24      14      14    11        30       50    50      5      5    12    13    85    75
Fertilisers             (kg)
Urea                               0     60        20      30     40    60        70        45    50    iS    15    20    40    45    60
TSP                                0     45         0       0     20    40        55        40    40    10    10    30    50    40    80
HP                                 0     25         0       0      0    20         35       20    20    au    20    15    25    25    80
0o                             1.300  1.600    2.200  2.200  1.400 2.000    2.200    2.300 2.400 3.000 3.000 1.200 1.200 2.000 2.900
Plant protection        (7k)       145    250       180    210    200   340         300       80   too   100   ISO    50    80   140   170
Animal power (bullock praday)    22        I4        20      20     24    25         26       24    26    in   20    l2    15    45    45
Hired labour (maniday)              28     41        36      37     41    43         47       22    24    36    38       4      5    42    48
Irrigation Coststacre (Tkl                500                             300    1 o0r             700                       300          600
YIELD (tonlacre)                 0.48   1.30       0.80   0.83   1.14  1.30       1.49      0.59  0.88  0.51  0.66  0.22  0.29  3.60  4.63
Itr



BANCLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ICr. 1Mt47-S1O
Arco Cropped. Yields. Production
Area Cropped  *i lelds                                                     ProductAon
S                   PFCR   1SR 5A1                           _              SAN                   PCR
U      t      t              W     I        U               W t   w            w     N     I      v         N      I
............. 00 acr       ...........               (t crel .......        ............... to000 to n.          ..
PAUM
B. Auu     (local)      35.0    -    -35.0   60.8   38.9  -21.9    0.51  -         0.51  0.5t         17.9    -    -17.9    31.0  19.8  -11.2
T. Aus      INIVI        -    114.0  114.0    -      17.0   17.0    -      1.47    -      1.20         -    167.6  167.6      -     20.4   20.4
T. Aen    (local)    189.2  170.0  -29.2  209.7  169.0  -40.7    0.73  0.81    0.80  0.88            t30.1  137.7  -0.4   167.8  148.7  -t9.1
T. Amen   t("VI         74.6  100.0   25.2   70.0  110.5  40.5    1.10  1.29    1.14  1.30            82.3  129.0  46.7    79.8  143.7   63.9
sort       t NVW         -     48.0   48.0    -      94.8   94.8    -      1.65    -     1.49                79.2  79.2       -    141.3  t41.3
Sub-total          299.0  432.0  133.0  340.5  430.2  89.7    -        -       -     -           238.3  513.5  275.2  278.6  473.9  191.3
OTHER CROPS
Wheat                   35.3   S4.0   18.7   14.0  66.9   52.9    0.73  1.00    0.59  0.88            25.8   54.0  28.2       8.26  58.9  50.7
Jute                    35.0   38.0    3.0  15.3    6.t   -6.7    0.59  0.81    0.51  O."6            20 6   30.8  10.2       7.8    4.4  -3.4
Pulsfe  atnd Oilbced,    26.4    -    -26.4   1I.1   10.5  -5.6    0.33  -         0.22  0.29          8.7    -     -8.7      3.5    3.1  -0.4
Potatoes                 -     19.0   19.0    7.4   11.5    4.1    -       4.41    ].30  4.60          -     83.8   83.8    24.4   52.9  28.5
Sub-totel           96.7  111.0   14.3   52.8   95.4   42.6
Total Croppm Atea       39S.7  543.0  147.3  393.3  525.6  132.3
4'000 acres)
Wet Ctfltavable Are     269.2  270.0    -    279.5  Z79.5    -
( 000 acre,. )
Cropping Intensity tXI 147    201      54    141    288      47
I I 8.ut.e ,11 Pbtilmated dibtributlon or pro)vct SThs at. follmbF: 8.000 sm. liaragi Tract *Im. 2a.644 10, tiw * tiwr *arOs.
; K rotture without project
W a tuture with project
I c Ineremental



B^ALDVSH
AGR1C[ILTRAL. CREDIT PROJECT
U-. 1147:8lr--
C.outati of Econ@ir P _rices fie 197 Cons!ant -e-s)
Paddv               Uheat               Juoe              Urea               TSP                IP
n99M9Uj5 Ms-g --- MEM  M9:895991:95 reS -                                              -r95 TVUerT- rY5
Proiected Price (USMtonWl/  ?30          234       164        165      438      388      141     204       136        161      79       93
h9usimlnt Fatior 21            0.9       0.9       1.1        L.I      1.0      1.8      1.4     t.4       1.4        1.4     1.4      1.4
CtF/FOB Chittaqong
- M      tton                217       229       180      1?        408      368     197      286       190       225      109     131
-Taa/in V/                 6,417    7,f9f     5,580      5,64?   12,648  11,409   6,107   8,866    5,610        6,975   3,379   4,031
ItarnG   tTi7 ten) U -  ert     1,0     66    1,000      1,000    1,606   1,600       880      no0       880       ego      880     881
Processing, Ilandlin
Tpt. o(naret to Firnr) 1/   83         080      200        200    1,44U   1,440       200      200      "00        200     200      218
Fhrqgale Price               6,537    7,219    6,380       6,442    9,608   8,369   7,187   9,j46    6,970         8,055   4,459   5,111
Processing Ratio               652       65%       -          -        80       M S     -        -          -         -        -        -
Faragate Price - Adjosted
foTk/ Pnes5ig              4,250    4,692    6,380       6,44?    7,686   6,694   7,187   9,946    6,971        8,055   4,459   5,tlO
1/ lased on 1ED published 'Hl2f Yearly Revision of Commodity Price Forecasts", September 1987.                                    '                          .4
U  l  ed on past relationship hetuten inport (export for jute) unit prices aM reference quality prices.                                                       cr
11 Adjusted by SCF of 0.96.
-h



31
Table 11
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Cr. 1141-80)
Financial and Economic Prices
Financial Price 1/    Economic Price 2/
CROPS
Paddy: Aus                             5.1                  4.3-4.7
Aman                           6.1                  4.9-5.4
Boro                           5.1                  4.3-4.7
Wheat                                  5.3                      6.4
Jute                                   5.1                  7.7-6.7
Pulses & Ollseeds                     12.5                     10.0 3/
Potatoes                               4.8                      3.8 3/
INPUTS
Fertilizer: Urea                       4.8                  7.2-9.9
TSP                       4.8                  7.0-8.1
MP                        3.9                  4.5-5.1
Manure                    0.1                      0.08
Seeds:,Paddy (Local)                   6.4                  5.4-6.0
(HYV)                    7.3                  6.2-6.9
Wheat                           5.9                  7.1-7.3
Jute                           7.0                  10.6-9.2
Pulses, Oilseeds              12.0                       9.6 3/
Potatoes                       7.2                       5.8 3/
Animal Power (pair-day)                 30.0                     24.0 3/
Hired Labour (man-day)                  35.0                     26.3 A/
.JI Based on presently prevailing farmgate prices.
y1 Average prices estimated for traded commodities for the periods
1985-89 and 1990-95 (see Table 10).
3/ AdJusted by SCF of 0.80.
4/ Adjusted by a conversion factor of 0.75 as used in latest
World Bank appraisal reports.



8ANLADESN
ACRICULWRM CgR%DT PROJECT
Farm Wel - brind Tract
ItE'1115
Vith,,                                                                IJI thout
MIX     Year I       ~YeAr 2      YeAr 3-7       Y~t srjU                    Ya           ea        eriT
*..rnotfSiTting wJkIrJrri~ ..................      ( nerSeITing MiFer 4-3t2....
Criss Valve of Production         53.96           53.96        82.51        94.74          94.14        26.93        26.98       41.26       4.37        47.37
Revenue frof Sale of Water          -               -            -                           -             -             -        3.11        4.40        4.40
53.96           53.96        K1.51        94.74          94.74        26.98        26.98       44.37       51.7?       51.7
CASyUlUTFLOU
STU lnopstont Cost                  -             32.30          -            -            (3.23) 3/      -          3.30         -                      (3.23) 3/
Crop Prodoction Cost              25.32           25.32        38.05        43.51          43.51t       12.66         t2.66      19.03       21.76       21 76  -
StUo&                               -               -           3.40         4.86           4.86          -            -          3.40        4.86        4.86
Inctemental Vorking Capital 41   -                 9.77         3.44          -          (13.23)         -            4.38        2.10         -        (6.9)
htill                    25.32            67.39        44.91        48.3?          31.91        12.66        49.94  .    4.53        26.62       16.40
Lq   i_IIEO      LyE   S          28.64          (13.43)       37.60        46.37          62.83        14.32        (22.86)     19.84       25.15       35.37
nuerwntal Flsw                     -              U2.607)       8.9k        17.73         34.19          -          (37.18)       5.52       11.83      21.05
IhR a 33% (SAR- 40%)                                            1Rt  202 (SWi - 29%)
Long Tern Loan /                   -            29.40           -            -              -           -           29.40
Short loan                          -              9.77        13.23        13.21                         -           4.88        6.99        6.9
Debt Service - Long Terq loan    -                  -          M4M75)       '7.98)         (7.98)        -             -         (4.71)      (7.9B)      (7.98)
-   arl Terp Loan   -                -         (11.33)      (15.353        (15.35)         -             -         (5.66)     (8.11)      (8.11)
'let Finamcing                      -             39.17        (2.90)     (10.1R)        (23.33)         -           34.29       (3.37)      (9.11)     16.09)
291.64          25'.74       34.93       36.27          39.5O        14.32         11.42       16.47       16.05      19.28               1
md1        fom                28r 3I.no        (2.90) 5/    6.16         7.63          10.88          -           (1.90)5/    2.15        1.73        4.96
pr 1 1tK'ftuurnd outflows from colti9ating total I acre uanmd area. R.i)d op rate ar.r-eed at 02 for Year I (i.e. year of installation),      f to eW
t,/ CghIuetiug blonow  4 atres, and rtenuie from salp of wAter for 4 acres al an average sale price of T1,210 per asee of irrigated crop. Peild up
13J eJI"ageS ealR ssumed
cof lb. IiK W  itora tin  cost is the followine  par.
faru sn'  otributioa at Taia2,900, and long term loan lor financing thp balance. Loan at 16Z interest, vith a 7 leap repammot period  intlditn
oce wiod.



MCGI ADES
AGICU.^T'UAIP CfII PROJECT
Far lMldel _ Ot_er %hallow Flooded Areas
llijbjt                                                           Mi tout
fFutc-I        1       Year 2     Year 3-7       Year_ 8     P    s!&       YarA        UZ      Ta   -
...ir~er not7SMITng uJfiFrrr.         .t- (4p9ijjg Aeilp  or 41rfyj.'K
rovng      xSe lt    Ibter                                         -             ------                                     .57                  S6
. m T55.00                            55.00        83.37       95.53         ?5.53       27.51         27.51      45.72      53.53      53.53
SW  noentsnt Cast                 -            32.30         -            -           (3.23) 3/    -           32.30       -           -        (3.23) 3J
CFO& Ndlttill Cast             28429           28.29       40 83         :3           46 22       14.15        14t15
xw- OL4  ~      ~        --                         4.00          A52                                               :0         :          :
Inctemntal Working Capital Y   -                9.27        3.55         -           (11.9?)        -           5.14       2.21        -        (7.34)
lt1i                    29.29          68.96        48.38       51.92         36.87        14.15       51.59      26.62       28.82      18.25
Ut    Iw- E PUE FLN-A)NJ         26.71         413.86)      34."         43.61         58.66       13.35       (24.19)     19.16      24.71      35.29
lncremental Fla                  -            (40.57)       8.29       16.90         31.95          -         (37.44)      5.75      11.3       21.93
III : 321 (SAR - 40?)                                 1 :212 (SAM - 29M)
Loq Terom Lo  5/                  -            29.40         -            -             -           -          29 U        -           -          -
shot 1uon -0.27                                            11.82       11.92            -           -           5.14       7.34       7.34        -
Debi-bSmnic - Long TFr- Loon                               (4.76)       (7.O9)        (7.98)        -            *4.70)              (7.98)    (7.1?B
- Skert Term Loan   -                         (9.59)     (13.71)       (13.71)        -            -         MM.96)     (8.51)     (8.51)
et Financing                     -             37.67       (2.47)      (9.87)        (21.69)        -          34.54      (3.3?)     49.15)    (16.49)
IETIBQY  PIf  FINANC1ILN        26.71           23.81       32.52       33.74         36.97        13.35        10.t45     15.78      t.5S       1.79
To            16ew19iR1tJI-fW- -(2.90) 5/   5.81                         7.03         10.26                    12.90)/t   2.           .21       5.44   <,
VrIt1 5INMIDand sotflows from cultivating total 8 acre cnmnd area. build up rate ass,med at 09 for Year I (i.e. year of installatisnl, 70? for Year
2and I6OU  (romt Tear 3 on,.i
3/ tbtiwating his own 4 acres, and revenve from salP of ater for 4 acres at an average W.Je price of TkI,280 per acre of irrigated crop. Build up
sate      Ian  as abosu s.
N  56Z eoftaeo intne in o*atino cost in the follouinn loar.
f larwrs' cut ibution at Tak&21900, and long ter loan  or financing thp balance. Loan at 16% interest, with a 7 lear rearint perid, including
grace period.



BANGLADESH
!1tultural Crek% Pre,ett
CKrinc g: lk.lIlifv
=ZZZz--e--                                                                                 -----.-----
Year                            1 21     2        3         4        5        6        7        8        9       It      11        12      13
STis tiqWde 31
iNrttl iricir                        768.0  2988.1  2710.0   1632.6
Oth. Areas                             3. 1 11396.0  10585.0   6371.0    214.0      82.0
1.1a1 SIMs                           761.0  1426.0  13285.6   8803.0   214.0    82.0
liiesiRlm  rest                         19.5        .3    73.1     43.8       6.0      1.0      0.0    -2.1    -7.6    -7.3    -4.4         1.0       1.0
le  r daction              ~~350.4    349.9   451.6   'S 1.5                                        578..06   371.    141.l
A,;r   Xc-ti $A269.7   231.4   314.7    A.9   44  .0 975 .                                5 I   t5'6   258 24. 141: 1
trrmqatil  06116.0                               2.2    11.5       22.8    39.8      .8 8     32.8     32.      29.7     17.8      6.7      1.6       .
tle~cwunta  II.C.                       7.5     31.3    38.2       27.1      6.8       .0    0o.       -7 5    -3:.3   -38.2    -33.9       0.0      I.
elect goef jis             -        7.      I -,                        IO       U | ; I'-%    519          11      `0  N  56. 1- :1    7:1       I
Econosic Rate of Return . 15 
XwesCost                0.0    2.f.7    X6.b  ~~717.         5.4      2.6      0.0      -.0       -0    -20.7    -7t       -0.5    -0.2
~~~~~~~o                             6.6    294.1                      27 I 831 23                235,1       -
Valvef #,gductisn                        0.6   13150D  16033   19.3   2271.   83             2351.1       .   235Z.    t523.4          7    26.1      7.2
Cut of Prduction                         0.6   1068.8  1248.5   100.8  1678.7   1712.8  1789.7  1730.2  1730 2   108 .6   42.7    1e.?               5.2
triga ien 0B11                           0.0      0.0    38.7       91,8   12-.3    139.5   148.1   141.2   14 2           4.4    32.81      1.       .4
ftno0lt Project 8henefits                818    W.,    2                   2  :    25  1        2A:1 2I zs'1            1   9    '3:3      1  7      0t
l*t bv. knefits                          1.0   -411 9   -375.4  -129.0   177.0   224.4   229.:   229.4   371.6   379.9   281.5    33.t                2 8
tOSAL FROZEC                                                                    Economic Rate of Return * 14%
atincr W .iets                         -27 0   -514 9  -4U3 O   -tS1 9    2233.9    2Y2.4   Z51.1   306.9   471j9    476.8   259.1          33 5      2.8
Econftic Rate of Return * a14
IJ  Based on estimated average conmand area Per SIV of 8 acres. For purposes of discounting  no incremental benefits assumed in year
of StV installation. 70S In Year 2 and 100I   from year 3 on. Useful life of STU assuied as 7 years, with a 10* residual value at
the end.
2/  Year I relates to 1981/82.
31  Distribution between the two areas roughly estimated by the mission.



IBRD 15590O
MARCH 1081
210                                                                                                               BANGLADESH                              27
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LAND USE
E. ViCROPPING PATTERN I (Mainly 8natz Amen, Fallow)
i   CROPPING PATTERN It (MainIy Tranwlant Aman, Fallow)
I    N        D     I    A                                                      F          CROPPING PATTERN III (Maindy  ranWant Aman, Ausl
- LIlT] OTHERS
A                                                                         -     MAJOR ROADS
i  \_.                                                                  ,---.--. - RAILWAYS
i(1 A                                                                             THANA BOUNDARIES
r.                                     -. - _ -DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
'                      .                                         -. *-i _._INTERNAriONAL OOUNDARIES
,.A,  4      1.s,,                                                               20
, ,r\J   /.                          -                _ . ) I CR KILOMETEFRSS    I    20   30   4    6
260                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~260
* 'iI    N                                                                                  D    I   A
I  N        D   I   A ea(lusively I1 
rho   ~ deo',e,n  sedt?                                f;<\   riso. -*                                                        1 a
bowidegies Mown en ~~~                                                     -A     
24~~~~~~~ do not imly -, the pa l 'fth.
en, tnwenitoftyrof cX,> ---,- ,,,,/fany endoreJen
880~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
boie how on  w ap { \ %S=Q  - .,::..5.,                                 ..   ......................... . CS  4l OAA %
24   * ktfetnotnafldif w    two   \                ._KSH: \     '       -       g   .................................ULE
en*iovonvmet i/+;;s e  ml)tt =Au
.2~~~~~~ue a,8d ft                                                                                               INDI\X:_t[            ^      - 



