Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY          X           pr v
Report No. 3348c-BD
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 17, 1981
Agriculture D Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket
of reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling serving as inter-
vention currency. On February 26, 1981, the exchange rate was set
at Tk 37.10 buying and Tk 37.20 selling per Pound Sterling. Depending
on exchange rate movements between Sterling and the US Dollar, the
Taka/Dollar cross rate is subject to change. For the past five months,
this rate has fluctuated at levels slightly above Tk 16/US$. Through-
out this report, the rates shown below have been used:
US$             =  Tk 16.0
Tk 1            =  US$0.0625
Tk 1 million   =  US$62,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 square mile (sq mi)              =      259 hectares
1 acre (ac)                        =    0.405 hectares
1 foot (ft)                        =     30.5 centimeters
1 maund (md)                       =     37.3 kilograms
I ton (ton)                        =     27.2 maunds
1 cubic foot per second (cusec)  =   0.0283 cubic meters per second
1 imperial gallon                  =    4.545 liters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONY4S
ADB     -    Asian Development Bank
BADC    -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BB      -    Bangladesh Bank
BKB     -    Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BSBL    -    Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd
CB      -    Commercial Bank(s)
DCCB    -    District Central Cooperative Bank(s)
DTW     -    Deep Tubewell(s)
GOB     -    Government of Bangladesh
HYV     -    High Yielding Varieties
IRDP    -    Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS     -    Krishi Samabaya Samiti (Village Credit Society)
STW     -    Shallow Tubewell(s)
TCCA    -    Thana Central Cooperative Association
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Description of Rice Crops
B. aus    -  broadcast aus - mostly broadcast sown in March-April
and harvested July-August
T. aus    -  transplanted aus - transplanted in March-April and
harvested early July-August
B. aman   -  broadcast aman - deep water rice - broadcast sown
March-April and harvested November-December
T. aman   -  transplanted aman - the main crop - transplanted
July-September and harvested November-January
Boro      -  irrigated transplanted crop - transplanted December-
January and harvested May-June
This diumnt has a restricted duiWbution at may be used by recipients only in tbe performance
of thi odicial duties Its contents may not oterwise be disckiesd without World Bank authorization.



I



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE  AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  .................................                                                   1
General               ..................................1............... 
Potential  and  Constraints   ...................                               ...1......... 
Production  Trends   ..                                .....................................                  2
Irrigation   .........                    .....................................                               2
II.  CREDIT INSTITUTIONS ......                             ........................                                  4
Credit  Operations   ........... ..... . . .. . ..   ............................   .                        4
Bangladesh Bank ................................... ..                                                       5
Bangladesh Krishi Bank ......                            .......................                             6
Commercial  Banks   .........  . ..  . . ..  . . ..  .    .......................                            7
Cooperative Credit ........................                                                                  9
III.    THE  PROJECT  AREA  ........................................                                                  11
General                   .................................................                                 11
Climate,  Topography,   Soils                              ..............................                   11
Water  Resources  and  Drainage   ............                           ..        ..............           12
Farm  Size  and  Land  Tenure   ............................ ...                                            12
Land  Use  and  Agricultural  Production                                      ....................          13
Transport   Infrastructure   ................................                                               14
Inputs   ..................................................                                                 14
Electricity  Network  and  Diesel  Supply  ...................                                              15
Agricultural  Credit   ......                   .............               ..................              15
Agricultural  Extension  and  Research   .....................                                              16
Marketing,   Storage  and  Processing   ..........                            ..       ...........          16
IV.    THE  PROJECT   .............................................                                                  17
Project  Genesis                           .........................................                        17
Project   Summary  .....................................                                        ...         17
Detailed  Features   .......................................                                                18
Environmental  Aspects   ...................................                                                22
Project  Phasing   ...................................... ...                                               23
V. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS   ...................................... ...                                               23
Cost  Estimate   ........                    ...................................                            23
Financing                     ...............................................                               24
Procurement   ......                             .     . ......................                             25
Disbursements   .................                        .    ..........................                    26
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. G. Stern, and C. Hachero (IDA) and H. Babcock, P. Kotaiah and
G. Nelson (Consultants), that visited Bangladesh during October/November
1980.



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
VI.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND  IMPLEMENTATION                         .................   26
Bangladesh  Bank Project Department  ......................                         26
Lending Operations  ......................... .............                         27
Proposals  for Restructuring Cooperative  Banking  ....                    .....    29
Proposals for Improving TCCA/KSS Cooperatives
Operations        .        ...........................................           30
Lending  Terms and  Conditions  ................ .............                      31
Training  ..........              ......................................            33
The Role of  BADC  ........................................                         33
Project  Coordination  ......            ......................         ........    33
Tubewell  Spacing and Groundwater Monitoring  .............                         33
Reporting Requirements  and Evaluation  ................                   ...      34
Accounts and Audits  ......             ...............................             35
VII.   PRODUCTION MARKETING,  PRICES AND FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS  ..                          35
Production          .......................         .......................         35
Marketing and Prices  ..           ..................         ................      36
Financial  Projections  ......  ......................... ........ .                37
VIII.   BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ........................                            38
Benefits  .           ...............................................               38
Economic Evaluation  ......              ......................... .... .           38
Beneficiaries  ...........................................                          39
Risks  ............             .......................................             40
IX.    RECOMMENDATIONS  .........................................                           40
Schedule A - Lending Terms and Conditions
Schedule B - Agreed List of Diesel Engine Makes for Sale to Project Borrowers



- iii -
Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEX 1   -    Credit Institutions
Table I -    Recovery Performance of Credit Institutions
Table 2  -    Bangladesh Krishi Bank Balance Sheets for Fiscal Years
1975/76-1979/80
Table 3  -    Bangladesh Krishi Bank Profit and Loss Statement--
Fiscal Year 1975/76-1979/80
Table 4  -    Consolidated Balance Sheet - Sonali, Janata and Agrani Banks
Table 5  -    Consolidated Profit and Loss Statement Sonali, Janata and
Agrani Banks
Table 6  -    Operation of IRDP Cooperatives
Table 7  -    Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd., Balance Sheets 1975/76-
1979/80
Table 8  -    Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd., Profit and Loss Statement
1975/76-1979/80
Table 9  -    KSS Merit Criteria
ANNEX 2   -    NW Region Data
Table 1 -    Land Utilization - NW Region
Table 2  -    Production of Major Crops
ANNEX 3   -    Cost Tables
Table 1 -    Project Cost
Table 2  -    Shallow Tubewell Cost
Table 3  -    Workshops Tools and Equipment Cost
ANNEX 4   -    Disbursement Schedule
ANNEX 5   -    Bangladesh Bank Project Department - Functions of Project
Implementation Unit
ANNEX 6   -    Guidelines for Loan Accounting for Loan Recovery Reporting Systems
ANNEX 7   -    Cropping Patterns, Crop Production, Prices and Financial Analysis
Table 1 -    Cropping Patterns
Table 2  -    Present Average Yields and Future Yields in the Project Area
Table 3  -    Present and Future Crop Yields, Area and Production
Table 4  -    Financial and Economic Prices
Table 5  -    Crop Production Costs Per Acre at Financial Prices
Table 6  -    Five Acres Farm Model Projected Income and Financial Returns
Table 7  -    Ten Acres Farm Model Projected Income and Financial Returns
Table 8  -    Five Acres Farm Model Projected Income and Financial Returns
Table 9  -    Ten Acres Farm Model Projected Income and Financial Returns
Table 10 -    Financial Rates of Return and Switching Values
ANNEX 8   -    Economic Analysis
Table 1 -    Prices for Economic Analysis Traded Commodities, 1982-1990
Average
Table 2 -    Crop Production Costs at Economic Prices
Table 3  -    Economic Analysis - Cost and Benefit Streams
Table 4  -    Economic Rates of Return and Switching Values
ANNEX 9   -    Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files



- iv -
Table of Contents (continued)
LIST OF CHARTS
Chart No. WB 22503    -  Project Organization and Credit Flow
Chart No. WB 22504    -  Bangladesh Bank Project Department Proposed
Organization Chart
Chart No. WB 22505    -  Implementation Schedule
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 15591R            -  Tubewell Suitability and Banking System
TU1on  Si9R            -   Land Use



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
1.01      Bangladesh, with an area of 55,000 square miles and a population of
about 92 million, is among the most densely populated countries of the world
and presents a complex development problem. The population is poor (per
capita income about US$90), overcrowded (1,550 per sq mile), growing at 2.7%
per annum, in many cases unemployed and largely illiterate (about 75%). Apart
from agriculture, the country has few natural resources and the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) gives priority to agricultural development as the means to
benefit the largest number of people.
1.02      Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for 57% of
GDP, 75% of all employment and directly or indirectly, over 80% of the country's
exports. Out of 35 H1 ac about 22.5 M ac are under cultivation at a cropping
intensity of about 135%. Rice is by far the most important crop and accounts
for over 80% of the cultivated area; jute, the principal export and industrial
raw material crop, for 6% and a variety of other crops such as wheat, pulses,
oilseeds, sugarcane and vegetables for the balance. The dominance of rice is
due to the flat topography of the country, heavy monsoon rains and river flood-
ing, which saturate most soils during the six months rainy season, a condition
well suited for rice cultivation and tolerated by some jute varieties but
unsuitable for most other crops.
Potential and Constraints
1.03      There is high potential for increasing agricultural production in
Bangladesh because of fertile soils; the climate, which is suitable for year
round cropping; and above all abundant and as yet hardly exploited groundwater
resources. However, there are also serious contraints to agricultural develop-
ment such as scarcity of cultivable land, limited potential of part of the
cultivated land, climatic hazards, lack of irrigation facilities, and deficient
transportation for moving farm inputs and produce. The major constraint is the
heavy pressure of population on land. Most land holdings in Bangladesh are
small and fragmented--a typical holding being about two acres split into six
plots. This constitutes an obstacle to efficient farm management and makes
the organization of cooperative irrigation systems difficult. An additional
constraint is the agricultural tenancy arrangements, under which about 30% of
Bangladesh farmers operate. Because of the customary rental arrangements, the
tenant is normally expected to provide all of the inputs, but receives only
about half of the crop and has no right of occupancy. Under such an arrange-
ment there is reduced incentive to develop land for irrigation or to adopt
improved farming practices.
1.04      Farmers in Bangladesh are receptive to proven innovations.  Their
efforts have been, however, handicapped by inadequate amounts of inputs such
as seeds, fertilizers and pesticides on the one hand and inadequate technical
advice on the other. GOB is addressing these problems by encouraging the



-2-
private sector to take a much greater part in inputs distribution, expanding
inputs storage, expanding seed production; 1/ and by its efforts to improve
extension and research services. 2/ As a consequence, in the last two to
three years, the situation has much improved.
Production Trends
1.05      Foodgrain self-sufficiency has been the main government objective
since preindependence days, and remains the cornerstone of GOB policy today.
However, the objective has been elusive. Foodgrain imports, while down from
the peak 2.8 million tons following the combined disruption of the war of
liberation and bad drought in 1972/73, have still averaged 1.3 M tons over the
last five years. Production has fluctuated with weather conditions but peaks
have been rising from 11.3M tons in 1969/70, to 12.6 M tons in 1975/76, to 13.1
M tons in 1977/78 and the current crop is estimated to break all records and
may exceed 15 M tons.
1.06      GOB policy of emphasizing use of inputs such as seeds, fertilizers,
pesticides and irrigation and of supporting research and extension are begin-
ning to pay dividends. Latest high yielding varieties (HYV) of rice and wheat
released by research stations are finding increasing acceptance by farmers.
Progress in promoting improved farming during the last decade has been encour-
aging and includes increase of almost 1 million acres under modern irrigation
methods; growth in fertilizer consumption from about 300,000 tons per annum
to almost 1 M tons (mainly during the last five years) and spread of rice and
wheat HYV from less than 1 M acres to about 3.5 M acres.
1.07      There have also been disappointments that have caused the slower than
targeted increase in production, particularly the relatively modest increase
in production from rainfed rice (about 85% of the paddy area and 75% of produc-
tion), and the slower than anticipated development of irrigation. GOB in its
Second Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85) is determined to attain foodgrain
self-sufficiency and the target is a production of 18 million tons foodgrain
per annum by the end of the plan period. The Bank has assisted GOB in draw-
ing up the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan which indicates development
activities needed to attain the production target. Accelerated development of
privately owned irrigation wells, to utilize the abundant groundwater resources,
is the most important part of the plan. Because of all pervasive poverty in
rural areas, outright purchase of wells and equipment would be possible for
only relatively few farmers and the Bank agrees with GOB that adequate credit
would be necessary for rapid spread of minor irrigation. Provision of such
credit for accelerating minor irrigation and improvement of credit institutions
for that purpose would be the main objectives of the project.
Irrigation
1.08      Because of abundant rainfall and fertile soils, it was only in the
1950s that food requirements of the rapidly increasing population outstripped
1/   Supported by Credit 410-BD and a second project under appraisal.
2/   Supported by Credit 729-BD.



- 3 -
supplies and the possibilities of intensifying agricultural production by
irrigation were given prominence. At that time the Government realized that
irrigation would allow crop production during the dry season, when most land
was fallow and would help to ensure good yields during droughts in the rainy
season.
1.09      First government efforts to develop irrigation focussed on large-
scale gravity schemes. These proved costly and slow maturing and the strategy
then swung to relatively cheap and individually small (1-2 cusec) low lift pump
schemes based on surface water resources. Starting from scratch, in the late
1950s the program has now extended to some 40,000 pumps irrigating an estimated
1.3 million acres and is approaching the limit of available dry season surface
water resources.   Most low lift pumps are owned and maintained by the
Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) and rented to farmers.
Five IDA projects (Credits 340, 542, 605, 725, and 990) support low lift pump
development.
1.10      Large-scale groundwater development started in the late 1960s and
to date has hardly made any impact on groundwater resources, that must be
among the richest in the world. Most of Bangladesh consists of deep, uncon-
solidated alluvium which contains water bearing sands. The resultant aquifer
is annually recharged by the heavy rains and by flooding and is virtually
inexhaustible. In many areas groundwater level reaches the surface during the
rains and then rejects further recharge and even in the dry weather does not
sink more than 10-20 ft below ground level. Such aquifers are ideal for
exploitation by hand pumps or shallow tubewells (STW). In some parts of the
country, groundwater levels are deeper and require more costly deep tubewells
(DTW) for irrigation pumping. Apart from the coastal belt where groundwater
may be saline and small areas of nonalluvial rock, irrigation coverage from
groundwater, of the greater part of the land not already served by surface
sources, should be possible. Intensified cropping, based on groundwater
development, has been given increasing priority in recent years.
1.11      Until four or five years ago, groundwater development emphasis
was on DTW, typically two cusec units capable of irrigating over 100 acres.
Construction requires technically skilled supervision, which was mainly
provided by BADC. About 11,000 DTW have been installed and the program has
been supported by IDA Credit 341-BD, which financed 3,000 of the DTW. Pro-
gress of the IDA project was slow and beset by procurement and construction
problems. Efficient utilization requires formation of sizeable farmers groups
which is also a slow process. As with low lift pumps, DTW are mostly owned
and maintained by BADC at this time and rented at relatively nominal rates
to farmers groups that operate them. However GOB has recently introduced a
policy to sell both types of facilities to farmers.
1.12      Development of STW started in the mid 1970s and is being supported
by two IDA projects Credit 724 and part of Credit 631. Typically STW are about
0.5-0.75 cusec units, easily and quickly installed by local drillers using
simple equipment. About 20,000 STW have been installed; about half each by BADC
and the Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB). While STW are privately owned either by
individuals or small farmer groups, procurement and installation has so far



-4 -
been centrally organized by the two agencies, which has led to considerable
delays. However, as a result of past STW programs, considerable farmers'
demand has been created, numerous STW drilling contractors are available and
there is a network of small workshops and some village mechanics to cater for
repairs, particularly for STW installed by BKB. For the rest, BADC still
provides spare part and repair services from workshops that also cater for
low lift pump and DTW maintenance. These services as well as procurement and
construction of STW are proving increasingly burdensome to the Corporation.
In the project, equipment supplies and STW repairs would be handled by the
private sector.
1.13      Development of hand tubewells, each costing only about $100 and
capable of irrigating 1/2 to 1 acre of land, and thus most suitable for very
small farms, is the most recent groundwater program. About 120,000 have been
installed to date and IDA is processing a project for providing a further
180,000 to Bangladesh.
II. CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
Credit Operations
2.01      Institutional lending for agriculture is directed and coordinated by
the Bangladesh Bank (BB), the country's central bank (para 2.05) and channeled
through cooperatives, BKB and the six nationalized commercial banks (CB).
Lending, which was only for Tk 150 M per annum at independence, has expanded
rapidly, particularly during the last four years when it rose from Tk 1,060 M
in 1976/77 to Tk 2,684 M in 1979/80. Important features in development of the
rural lending program were expansion of the new TCCA 1/ / KSS 2/ cooperative
system (para 2.20); expansion of BKB; involvement of CB in rural lending in
1973 and rapid expansion of their rural branches; and introduction in 1977,
of the Tk 100 crore 3/ scheme for crop production credit to be executed by
BKB and CB. The annual lending program for each institution is drawn up by
BB, which also provides refinance as required. In 1979/80 for instance, BB
refinanced about two thirds of total rural credit disbursements.
2.02      With almost 70,000 village cooperative societies, more than 3,400
CB branches and 414 (at September 30, 1980) BKB branches, Bangladesh has an
excellent credit outlet network. Over the last four years, BKB and CB have
more than doubled the number of their branches, many of which are now not
covering costs. While there are plans for opening more branches, GOB and BB
are taking stock and considering rationalization by branch mergers. Lending
achievements have been below target each year, particularly of the 100 crore
program, which raises questions about credit demand and the need for so dense
1/ Thana Central Cooperative Assoc.ation.
2/   Krishi Samabaya Samiti (Village Credit Society).
3/   One crore = 10 million.



a credit network. However, demand for purchased inputs and hence for crop
production credit remains limited due to lack of irrigation facilities, without
which, heavy investment for inputs is often not profitable. The project would
increase the supply of minor irrigation facilities and this would help to build
up demand for credit and thereby improve profitability of the rural banking
system. Fast expansion of credit institutions has resulted in a shortage of
trained bank staff. All agencies are strengthening their training facilities
and the project would also assist to expand training programs (para 4.13).
2.03      There are several aspects of loan recovery performance that require
attention. There is no uniform recovery reporting system and therefore no
basis for accurate comparison of loan recovery performance. BB will introduce
a suitable system (para 6.09). The older institutions including BKB and tradi-
tional cooperatives are burdened with a legacy of old overdues, some dating to
preindependence that obscure their recent improved collection efforts and would
need special treatment. CB repayment collection record ranges from 37% to 72%
of demand 1/ (Annex 1, Table 1). Part of their overdues problem may stem from
adverse climate and poor crops during 1978/79 and part from early lending under
the 100 crore scheme, with inadequate staff and having to rely on local govern-
ment personnel for selection of borrowers. CB's staffing position has now
improved. TCCA/KSS practice a strict lending discipline that disqualifies KSS
from lending unless recovery is 80% for current lending and 100% for previous
lending. Consequently, their recovery record is quite good, over 60% during
the last two years. While TCCA/KSS borrowers may often be unable to pay very
punctually, overdue loan installments more than three years old are negligible.
In general, recovery efforts of recent lending appear to have been reasonably
successful and overdues (excluding the older overdues referred to above) are
in the nature of delayed repayments rather than potential bad debts. Never-
theless, further improvement of collection is necessary and is described in
para 6.09. On the whole, the credit system with strengthening described in
Chapter VI is suitable for implementing the project. Main agencies are
described below.
Bangladesh Bank
2.04      The Bangladesh Bank established in 1972 is the central bank.  It
is managed by a GOB appointed governor, assisted by a deputy governor, three
executive directors, an economic advisor and an officer on special duty with
the rank of deputy governor. BB has five main departments--Banking Control,
Exchange Control, Agricultural Credit, Research and Statistics and the
recently established Projects Department that would implement the project.
Its capital of Tk 30 M is fully owned by GOB. BB in 1979/80 made a net
profit of Tk 1,010.5 M.
2.05      Apart from performing all central banking functions, BB through its
Agricultural Credit Department draws up the annual credit program, devises new
credit schemes (such as the 100 crore scheme), advises credit institutions on
1/   Repayments of capital and interest fallen due during the year plus
capital and interest repayments due at the beginning of the year.



-6-
rural credit matters, inspects CB, BKB branches and major cooperatives engaged
in rural credit operations and channels refinance for rural lending to them.
The Agricultural Credit Department also collects statistics on agricultural
lending. The Department is performing its functions competently.
2.06      Based on recommendations of consultants employed under IDA assistance
to review agricultural credit practices and to propose improvements and invest-
ment opportunities, BB, in November 1979, established the Projects Department
for identifying, preparing and implementing long-term credit schemes. The
consultant had suggested that a unit for long-term credit should be set up in
the Agricultural Credit Department, but BB considered that rapid expansion of
long-term agricultural credit warranted a separate department. The Department
is headed by the Officer on Special Duty and has nine professional officers.
It has been closely associated with preparation of this project and has also
prepared a shrimp rearing and banana cultivation scheme and is preparing
several other schemes. Preparation documents of those schemes show that more
experience in technical and financial evaluation is needed by the Department.
Proposals for strengthening the Project Department are described in paras 6.01
through 6.05.
Bangladesh Krishi Bank
2.07      The Bangladesh Krishi Bank, established in 1973 as an autonomous
GOB owned bank is the successor of the local division of the Agricultural
Development Bank of Pakistan. It is now the largest single source of institu-
tional credit for agriculture, and in 1979/80 accounted for 53% of institutional
lending to agriculture. Its lending volume increased eightfold over the last
six years from Tk 176 M in 1974/75 to Tk 1,415 H1 in 1979/80. During this time
BKB benefitted considerably from its association with the Asian Development
Bank (ADB), including technical assistance for a range of managerial and tech-
nical subjects which is still continuing. BKB operates through 18 regional
offices and 414 branches. Further branch expansion is contemplated, but
because only 204 branches covered their costs in 1979/80, such expansion
requires caution. The Managing Director, who is Chairman of the seven member
GOB appointed Board, is an experienced professional banker and heads a staff
of over 5,000. Senior staff all have long experience in agricultural banking.
To cater for training new staff employed as a result of the recent fast expan-
sion, BKB has been or is in the process of establishing four training centers,
including one at Bogra in the project area. BKB has a detailed loan manual
for guidance of its staff and branch managers are authorized to approve STW
loans up to Tk 24,000 and other loans up to Tk 5,000. To support its STW
lending, BKB has established an engineerrng department which is being further
strengthened.
2.08      Total assets increased from Tk 811 M in 1975/76 to Tk 2,960 M in
1979/80 while net profits fluctuated between Tk 17 M in 1975/76 and Tk 32.0 M
in 1979/80 (Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3). Because borrowing from GOB and BB had
increased fourfold, from Tk 406 M in 1975/76 to Tk 1,742 M in 1979/80, GOB
almost doubled BKB's paid up capital from Tk 120 M to Tk 220 M. In view of
further proposed expansion, GOB will increase paid up capital by a further
Tk 160 M over four years, so that BKB would have a satisfactory capital base
for future lending.  BKB has not fully complied with ADB's request to provide



-7 -.
an annual allocation equal to 2% of loan disbursement for bad debt reserves,
but GOB has converted part of its past loans into a contingency reserve to
suppiieti)'LL BDLl provision for bad and doubLful accounts.
2.09      Loan recovery has improved steadily from 38% in 1975/76 to 57% in
1979/80, reflecting better staffing and management, resulting in part from
ADB assistance. BKB is making efforts to improve collection further and
retirement of some of the oldest debts should be considered. While collection
performance is not accurately recorded by lending purposes, there are indica-
tions that recovery of early STW lending is less than the average recovery
rate, due to initially inadequate appraisal and follow up. Both of these
features have improved considerably in recent years.
2.10      BKB is expected to play a leading role in the project and is well
equipped to do so. Points that will need watching are adequacy of interest
spread to allow continued profitable operations; expansion program to ensure
that BKB does not overstrain its resources; and further improvement of loan
collection efforts.
Commercial Banks
2.11      General.  The six nationalized CB--Sonali Bank, Janata Bank, Agrani
Bank, Rupali Bank, Pubali Bank and Uttara Bank--were established in December
1971, at the time of independence of Bangladesh, from ten banks operating in
the country at that time. Each one has management vested in a GOB appointed
seven man board with representation from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Commerce and BB and is staffed by competent bankers. Since they are fully
government-owned, they have been able to operate with a small amount of paid
in capital and a resulting high debt equity ratio; up to 119:1. To support
further large-scale expansion of operations, consideration may need to be
given to increasing CB's equity. The first three are the largest of the CB
with total assets of Tk 39,726.0 M for fiscal year ending 1979/80. Their
branches represent 68% of all CB branches in the country. Because of their
bigger resource and staffing base, they would be the only CB to participate
in the project initially. They have participated in the First and Second
Small-Scale Industries Projects (Credits 353-BD and 285-BD) and are helping
to implement the recently agreed Third Small-Scale Industries Project (Credit
1065-BD). For purposes of planning the 100 crore program, BB appointed each
bank as lead bank to a number of unions 1/ in which they would be responsible
for developing agricultural lending. To date, agricultural lending by CB
remains small, representing 22% of total agricultural lending in Bangladesh
and less than 3% of CB total lending.
2.12      Sonali Bank - is the largest CB in Bangladesh with most experience
in agricultural lending, including refinance for TCCA/KSS lending and for
Jute Associations under the Jute Project (Credit 765-BD); and direct lending,
virtually all short term, for the 100 crore program and for a variety of pur-
poses. Sonali is also participating in the Shallow Tubewells Project (Credit
724-BD) both for refinancing TCCA/KSS loans and for direct lending but, up
to November 1980, had processed very few STW loans. Total agricultural lending
in 1979/80 reached Tk 512 M which included Tk 206 M refinancing for TCCA/KSS.
1/   Administrative subdivision.



2.13      Sonali operates through 917 branches (63u rural) and has established
a rural credit department with a 28 man professional staff at head office,
headed by a deputy general manager. Field staff consists of 950 krishi (agri-
cultural) clerks--one per union for which Sonali is lead bank--supervised by
37 agricultural graduates and 60 farm technologists (diploma holders) and is
adequate for present level of business. Sonali has excellent training facil-
ities, but agriculture has hardly featured in the training programs to date.
2.14      Sonali's total assets increased from Tk 8,965 M to Tk 17,595 M
(Annex 1, Table 4) between 1976/77 and 1978/79, while deposits grew from
Tk 4,661 M to Tk 8,388 M over the same period.  In 1978/79 total income
was Tk 611 M and net profits amounted to Tk 96 M (Annex 1, Table 5).  While
profitable overall, 55% of branches (mostly newly established) showed losses.
Sonali has been most successful of the CB in recovering agricultural loans
with 72% collection reported for 1979/80.
2.15      Janata Bank - is the second largest CB and operates through 729
branches (September 30, 1980) of which 483 are rural. Agricultural lending
amounted to Tk 205 M during 1979/80 predominantly for loans under the 100
crore scheme. Janata does not have an agricultural credit department, but
instead has a rural credit division in its loans department. The division
is headed by an assistant general manager and has a staff of 11 professionals
at headquarters. Field staff consists of 762 rural credit assistants, one
for each lead bank union, which is adequate for the present level of business.
2.16      Total assets stood at Tk 14,446 M at December 31, 1979 (Annex 1,
Table 4) and deposits amounted to Tk 6,628 M. Total income for 1978/79 was
Tk 725 M resulting in a net profit of Tk 96 M (Annex 1, Table 5).  As with
Sonali, while overall profit was considerable, 71% of the branches showed
losses. Agricultural loan recovery has been only fair at 53% for 1979/80.
Relatively high overdues could be the result of an expanding loan portfolio
or the after effects of the 1978/79 drought. Janata is making efforts to
improve recoveries.
2.17      Agrani Bank - is the third largest CB and operates through 694
branches (September 30, 1980) of which 459 were rural. Like Janata, its agri-
cultural credit division forms part of its loans department. Headed by an
assistant general manager with an 11 man professional staff at headquarters,
agricultural credit field staff consists of 15 rural credit officers who
supervise 350 rural credit assistants. Total agricultural lending was only
Tk 87 M1 for the same purposes as Janata. Present staff would be adequate to
sustain a higher agricultural lending level. Agrani also has staff training
facilities that, as with the other two banks have concentrated mainly on
general banking training.
2.18      In 1978/79, total assets stood at Tk 7,685 M (Annex 1, Table 4) and
are rather lower per branch than Sonali and Janata.  Income totalled Tk 353 M,
of which net profit was Tk 46 M (Annex 1, Table 5).  Recovery of agricultural
loans has not been satisfactory and has deteriorated each year to 37% in
1979/80.  Therefore, as a condition of participating in project lending, Agrani
would implement a loan recovery program, satisfactory to BB and the Association.



-9-
Cooperative Credit
2.19      General.  At present, two cooperati.re systems operate i- Bar½lpdesh,
both involved in agricultural credit operations--the traditional system consist-
ing of the Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd (BSBL) as apex financing 16 Land
Mortgage Banks, 12 Central Sugarcane Growers Societies and 62 District Central
Cooperative Banks (DCCB), to which about 30,000 village and union multipurpose
societies are affiliated. The TCCA/KSS (para 2.20) is of more recent origin
and was, until 1973, refinanced by BSBL and since then, because of BSBL's
resource constraint, by Sonali Bank. GOB guarantees 30% of loans by Sonali to
TCCA.  The two systems have existed in parallel, to some extent to each others
detriment. Recently GOB decided that the two systems should merge and that
all primary societies should become KSS and affiliate with TCCA and that BSBL
should become the apex bank of the unified system. Implications are discussed
in para 6.10. The two cooperative systems are briefly described below.
2.20      TCCA/KSS.  The TCCA/KSS system is based on a model developed by the
Bangladesh Academy for Rural Development at Comilla. lMain objectives are to
form a KSS of 40-60 farmers in every village and to federate KSS at the thana
level into a TCCA. KSS should collect thrift deposits, introduce group manage-
ment of irrigation equipment and provide regular training, institutional credit
and at a later stage possibly inputs and marketing services. Adopted after
independence as national program, the system spread rapidly and now covers 267
thanas and comprises almost 40,000 KSS with 1.3 M members. Capital formation
(savings and shares) stands at Tk 92 M. Lending, almost entirely short term,
also expanded rapidly from Tk 45 M in 1975/76 to Tk 205 M in 1979/80, (Annex
1, Table 6) despite much higher short-term loan interest rate--17.5%--than
that charged by other institutions--up to 12%. However, as explained below
(para 2.22), TCCA/KSS development would have been even greater if interest
rates had been more in line with those of other banks and if lending criteria
and procedures had been less restrictive. As already indicated (para 2.03),
loan recovery has been quite good, to date. Capital and savings more than
cover overdues, and were not less than 50% of annual borrowing compared to
other institutions that range from 9:1 for BKB to over 100:1 for some CB.
Lack of irrigation equipment has been a major constraint to credit business
expansion, so that the project would help development of TCCA/KSS cooperatives
greatly. The cooperatives are participating in the Shallow Tubewell Project
(Credit 724-BD) and since 1979/80 have started financing medium and long-term
credit. Early indications are that KSS groups tend to achieve better STW
utilization than other owners.
2.21      To support TCCA/KSS Cooperatives, GOB established the Integrated
Rural Development Program (IRDP) with headquarters at Dacca and district
offices. GOB through IRDP supports TCCA financially at a rate of Tk 850-1,000
per constituent KSS, which helps to pay training costs and the cost of two or
three senior staff per TCCA. Recent surveys indicate that TCCA should become
financially self-sufficient about six years after formation. IRDP has intro-
duced a grading system--Classes A to E--for KSS, based on membership coverage
of the village, and savings and share capital contribution, borrowing and
repayment performance and training attendance of members, which is illustrated
on Table 9 of Annex 1. Only A and B class cooperatives with 80% and 60% grad-
ing in most categories, including loan recovery, would participate in the



- 10 -
project. One weakness at present is delay in auditing accounts by the Coopera-
tives Department which would need to be improved (para 6.26). However, on the
whole, TCCA/KSS has proved itself a reliable credit channel. In fact, because
of demonstrated ability to reach the large number of smallholders, and initiate
farmers group formation, which would be necessary for STW development in view
of small farm size and fragmentation of holdings, TCCA/KSS cooperatives are
expected to play a major role in the project.
2.22      GOB and IDA have recently conducted a joint review of TCCA/KSS coop-
eratives, which has identified major constraints to the development of these
cooperatives. While increase in KSS membership and lending has been reasonable,
the higher interest rate to final borrowers than that charged by other banks
(para 2.20) has slowed down the pace and had adverse effects on operations by
stopping many farmers from joining and many members from borrowing. GOB has
recognized the need for reasonably uniform interest rates for similar loans
granted by different institutions, and is considering necessary steps for
narrowing the gap in short-term credit interest rates between TCCA/KSS coop-
eratives and other credit institutions. Restrictions to KSS and farmers'
eligibility for borrowing, represent another constraint to operation of the
cooperatives. Restrictions are caused by GOB credit ceilings, central planning
of the seasonal lending program, limited range of farming activities which
qualify for loans, and rules that prevent TCCA/KSS from employing their own
resources for lending to members. Procedures for preparing seasonal lending
programs are cumbersome and often cause late sanctioning of loans. As a
result, members usually receive much smaller loans than they apply for, fre-
quently late; consequently, many members have stopped borrowing. In view of
the importance of TCCA/KSS cooperatives to the project, the major constraints
to their rapid and sound development described above, require to be addressed
as soon as possible. Proposals for measures for effecting change in loan
eligibility criteria are discussed in para 6.13.
2.23      Traditional Cooperatives - date back to 1904.  BSBL, the apex is
the successor of the East Pakistan Provincial Agricultural Bank established in
1948. BSBL does not have branch offices and has not been able to supervise or
guide constituent societies. Of the intermediate cooperatives, Land Mortgage
Banks have offices only at district headquarters and their level of business
has remained quite small; mainly for land purchases and some land improvement.
DCCB have senior staff seconded from the Cooperatives Department and overall
staffing is inadequate in most cases for supervising and guiding affiliated
primary societies.  Many of the latter are moribund due to heavy and chronic
overdues.  They would not participate in the project unless they can be reor-
ganized in future and qualify as A or B class KSS, affiliated to TCCA.
2.24      Because of lack of resources of constituent societies, performance
of BSBL reflects that of the whole traditional cooperative system. Total lend-
ing volume increased from Tk 100 M in 1975/76 to Tk 270 M in 1979/80, but loan
recovery performance at 32% of demand at June 30, 1980 remains unsatisfactory.
While recovery on current loans has averaged about 60% over the same period
the size of overdues in relation to outstanding debts and owned capital causes
concern. Overdues at June 30, 1980 amounted to Tk 298 M and included about
Tk 147 M from loans granted between 1960/61 and 1974/75. Total overdues amount
to 53% of outstanding loans and chronic overdues are far higher than owned
capital of Tk 78 M consisting of paid in capital and reserves (Annex 1, Table



- 11 -
7). Financial rehabilitation would be needed and reorganization and strength-
ening of staff before BSBL would be a suitable apex bank for a unified coop-
erative system or suitable for participating in the project. Proposals to
this effect are outlined in para 6.12. Until BSBL is so qualified, Sonali
Bank would continue to be the refinancing agency for TCCA/KSS for project and
other lending transactions.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project would cover the Rajshahi Division in northwest Bangladesh,
comprising Rajshahi, Dinajpur, Rangpur, Bogra and Pabna Districts (Map no. IBRD
15591), divided into 14 subdivisions and 111 thanas. The total area is 13,370
square miles with a population estimated at about 21.6 M, over 90% of which is
rural. There are only eight towns with population over 50,000 which are admin-
istrative, educational, communication and trade centers and house most of the,
as yet, relatively small industrial development of the Division. To allow
effective development of necessary institutions, the project area would not
be too large and would be confined to a reasonably compact area. The Rajshahi
Division has been chosen because of its known groundwater resources, high crop
production potential and relatively well developed agricultural services
described below.
Climate, Topography, Soils
3.02      Rainfall is high and averages between 60 and 90 inches per year in
various parts of the area. Over 90% usually occurs as monsoon rains between
May and October and precipitation is inadequate in remaining months for high
crop yields. Monsoon rains are preceded by "Norwester" showers during March-
April which are important for sowing jute and broadcast rice crops. They tend
to be erratic and for that reason yield of the early sown rainfed crops are
poor. On average about twice in a decade rainfall is much below average
causing considerable yield drop of rainfed crops.
3.03      November to February are the coolest months with mean minimum in
the low to mid 50 F and mean maximums in the upper 70 F range.0 April to July
are the hottest months with maximum temperatures in the mid 90 F range which
drop to the upper 80 F range during the monsoons. Hot season and monsoon
season temperatures are suitable for tropical crops while cooler winter weather
allows production of wheat, potatoes and a variety of temperate zone vegetables.
3.04      The land slopes gently to the southeast with elevations touching 300
ft in the northwest going down to 25 ft above mean sea level in the southeast.
Topography is almost flat and consists of wide shallow basins and ridges.
Soils are all alluvial and vary from sandy ridge soils grading through loams
and silts to heavy clays. Free draining sandy and loam soils are most common
in Dinajpur and Rangpur Districts. The Barind tract, situated in Western Bogra
and Rajshahi Districts, consists of heavy clay soils that set hard during the
dry weather and., without irrigation, are difficult to cultivate at that time.
In most other parts silt and clay soils predominate with more permeable loams
confined to narrow ridges. There are no major soil fertility problems and
crops respond well to standard fertilizer applications.



- 12 -
Water Resources and Drainage
3.05      The project area is bounded in the south by River Ganges and in the
east by the Brahmaputra (Jamuna). The Tista River crosses the northeast corner
of the region and a number of small rivers cross the region in a north-south or
south-east direction. In the rainy season, partly due to river flooding and
partly to locally impeded drainage, much of the land is flooded but only about
15% deeply (more than three feet). In the dry season, however, surface irriga-
tion potential is small and already largely utilized by traditional irrigation
devices and about 4,500 low lift pumps operating in the area. There may be room
for only another 1,000 such pumps. Total surface irrigation is estimated at
about 650,000 acres and large-scale increase would only be possible if supplies
are augmented by major river regulation or other construction works, some of
which are under consideration.
3.06      By contrast, groundwater resources are rich and sufficient for irri-
gating the greater part of the cultivated area. Depth to water is within 10
to 20 ft below the land surface in much of the region even at the end of the
dry season, making it suitable for STW development. However, in the western
parts of Bogra and Rajshahi Districts, in the older alluvium, depth to water
is greater or storage capacity of the shallow aquifer is relatively low and
therefore the area is more suitable for DTW development (Map IBRD 15591).
Water quality is excellent throughout the area.
3.07      By June 1979 a total of about 10,500 STW and 4,200 DTW had been
installed in the project area. Estimates based on a computer model projected
that about 60,000 additional STW and 15,000 DTW could be fielded. However,
the assumptions used were very conservative and based on conjunctive use of
DTW and STW, and an irrigated area of 15-20 acres per STW and 80 acres per
DTW. The assumed areas per well are high. Substituting 10 acres per STW,
which is more in line with present utilization and which gives satisfactory
financial returns (para 7.06), would increase the potential to over 100,000
STW. The computer model is being updated and will be based on maximizing
STW development, which should raise the potential numbers of STW that can
be fielded considerably. Ongoing IDA and ADB projects and GOWB commitments
provide for about 33,500 STW and 1,850 DTW for the project area, so that there
is still a long way to go before the full potential for groundwater development
can be attained.
Farm Size and Tenure
3.08      There are no regional data for farm size or farm size distribution
since the 1960 agricultural census. At that time average farm size in the
project area was 4.5 acres (compared to the 3.5 national average), ranging
from 3.8 acres in Bogra to 5.5 acres in Dinajpur. About two thirds of the
land was in holdings of more than 5 acres and was farmed by one third of the
land holders. About half the farms were owner operated and most of the rest
were operated by owners that rented in land, mostly on a sharecropping basis.
Pure tenants comprised less than 10% of farm operators.  As in the rest of
the country, farms were severely fragmented, which makes farm management,
particularly irrigation, difficult but provides some safeguards against
total crop failure.



- 13 -
3.09      The main change since that time is the increase in numbers of hold-
ings, estimated by a national sample land occupancy survey in 1977 to be about
30%. Accordingly average farm size in the project area would now be about 3.5
acres. A sample of villages in Dinajpur indicates increase in holdings of less
than one acre from about 15% to 30% of holdings and a decrease in holdings over
five acres from 30X of total to 20%. A pilot agricultural census survey of a
thana in Dinajpur showed the average farm consisting of six fragments with
fragmentation ranging from 12 to about 4 depending on holding size. Tenure
arrangements seem to have changed little over the last 20 years. Because of
somewhat smaller than national average population density and slightly larger
farms, provision of services to farmers would be easier and potentially credit
worthy borrowers more plentiful than in many other parts of Bangladesh.
Land Use and Agricultural Production
3.10      Out of the total area of about 8.5 M ac about 6.8 M ac are cultiv-
atable and net cropped area and current fallow account for about 6.6 M ac
(Annex 2, Table 1). Multiple cropping is common and total or gross cropped
area is about 9.6 M ac, giving a cropping intensity of 145% of net cropped
area and current fallow or about 140% of cultivatable land.
3.11      Rice is by far the most important crop and is grown on about 7 M
ac (73% of total cropped area), followed by jute on about 0.6 M ac (Annex 2,
Table 2). Other important food crops are pulses and oilseeds and in recent
years wheat production has spread rapidly and 0.65 M acs were reportedly grown
during 1978/79 mostly on residual moisture during the cool weather. About half
the sugar cane and tobacco area of Bangladesh is in the region which produces
a little over half of Bangladesh's sugar and tobacco. In addition, a wide
variety of vegetables is grown on the lighter soils.
3.12      There are three major land use systems determined by soil type
and flood levels during the monsoons (Map IBRD 15590). In the deep flooded
southern portion, deep water rice (broadcast aman) 1/ is the dominant crop,
mixed with early season rice (aus) 1/ and followed during the dry weather by
pulses and oilseeds grown on residual moisture. To date, there is no rotation
proven on a large scale, that yields reasonable returns on investments for
irrigation in these areas. For instance, introduction of an irrigated boro 1/
crop in the dry season (normally the most profitable option when irrigation
becomes available) has not proved profitable because it replaces all other
crops, since its harvest is too late to allow sowing of deep water rice.
Higher boro yield does not compensate for higher production costs. Farmers
and GOB research services are exploring alternative rotations to improve
returns to dry weather irrigation in deeply flooded ares, which comprise
0.7 M ac or about 11% of the cultivated land in Rajshahi Division. Large-
scale minor irrigation development in these areas may therefore be possible
in future, but is unlikely during the project period, unless flooding in any
locality is controlled by drainage works, which would convert the land use
system into one of the shallow flooded categories, which are described below.
1/   The various rice crops grown in Bangladesh--b. aus, t. aus, b. aman,
t. aman and boro are explained in the glossary.



- 14 -
3.13.     On the heavy Barind clays on which flooding is shallow, only one main
season rice crop--transplanted aman (t. aman) 1/ is commonly grown under rain-
fed conditions and irrigation would add a second paddy crop--boro--during the
dry weather. In the rest of the project area flooding is shallow or absent,
soils are lighter and a large variety of crops are grown, including most of
the jute, wheat, tobacco and vegetables of the region. Rice crops are more
adversely affected by drought conditions and irrigation would help improve
main season crops in drought years. The main effect of irrigation would be
cropping intensification during the dry season by increasing wheat area and
yield, encouraging cash crop production, allowing boro cultivation and conver-
sion of low yielding broadcast aus to HYV transplanted aus (t. aus). 1/
3.14.     Rice production in the five districts has fluctuated over the last
five years between 3.2 and 3.5 M tons per annum increasing very gradually.
By contrast, wheat production has grown eightfold over the same period, from
50,000 to over 400,000 tons. Main increases in rice production had been
expected from increased fertilizer use in all seasons, spread of HYV t. aman
and the impact of irrigation, particularly on aus and boro production. Spread
of irrigation works is too recent for impact except over the last two years,
1979/80 and 1980/81. In 1979/80 effect of improvements was masked by extreme
drought but production would have been substantially lower without irrigation
developments of the preceding two or three years. The current harvest, which
is forecast to be an alltime record high, was helped by favorable weather, but
may be a sign of the impact of improved technology.
Transport Infrastructure
3.15.     The region is furthest from ports and access is difficult due to
the two major rivers--Ganges and Brahmaputra that divide it from other parts
of the country. A 500 mile paved highway and a 600 mile railways system link
main towns. These systems are adequate for agricultural inputs supply and
crops transport, provided enough lead time is given for movement of goods.
Internal communications are poor and villages are connected by dirt roads
passable only on foot or by bullock carts during the main rain. Bullock carts
therefore remain the main mode of transport for inputs or produce. While
improved communications would be desirable, existing infrastructure would
be adequate for the proposed project.
Inputs
3.16      BADC is responsible for import or local procurement of fertilizers
and for distribution and storage down to thana level. Its storage system is
being strengthened by assistance from USAID. IDA has also supported improve-
ment of fertilizer supplies through four credits, two for fertilizer manufac-
turing 2/ and two for fertilizer imports. 3/ Retailing is done by private
1/   The various rice crops grown in Bangladesh--b. aus, t. aus, b. aman,
t. aman and boro are explained in the glossary.
2/   Credits 527-BD and 1023-BD.
3/   Credits 944-BD and 1044-BD.



- 15 -
dealers. Arrangements are satisfactory and fertilizer use has almost trebled
over the five-year period 1974/75 to 1978/79 from about 70,000 tons to almost
200,000 tons and continues to expand. Pesticides, formerly imported and
distributed by the Department of Agriculture, are now handled by the private
sector. Distributor change coincided with removal of the subsidy and resul-
tant steep price rise has temporarily reduced demand. A satisfactory dealers
network has been established and improved packaging has also started. Produc-
tion, import and distribution of most seeds is BADC responsibility and has not
been altogether satisfactory to date. Improvements are supported by an ongoing
IDA supported Credit 410-BD and are to receive further support from a follow-
up project being processed at present. Supply of paddy seed has not proved a
problem, but wheat and potato seed have been scarce at times and the proposed
seed project would address these problems. Overall supply and distribution
arrangements for major inputs are adequate for the project.
Electricity Network and Diesel Supply
3.17      The rural electricity network has not been sufficiently developed
in the project area to provide power for a significant number of irrigation
pumps. Considerable rural electrification work is in progress, notably the
USAID supported rural electrification scheme, and IDA is also planning a project
to support rural electrification. As a result, during the later stages of the
project, installation of electrical pumps may become possible in small parts
of the project area. However, the main source of power for pumps during the
project period would continue to be diesel engines. Importing, bulk distribu-
tion and storage arrangements of diesel and lubricating oil by the Bangladesh
Petroleum Corporation and three nationalized oil marketing companies are
adequate for the project. BADC and oil marketing companies agents and subagents
retail diesel in the project area. BADC initially sold fuel only to farmers
using BADC or BADC installed pumps, but latterly has agreed to sell to other
farmers as well. With about 1.5 million gallons bulk storage at 48 thana or
district centers, stocks of drums at most other thana headquarters and with
plans for considerable expansion of bulk storage, BADC aims to cater for at
least 50% of rural diesel fuel demand. Oil company agents are in major urban
centers, but there are subagents, selling kerosene in every village, who
receive supplies in drums by bullock cart. They already handle diesel fuel
during the irrigation season and are expected to do so increasingly as demand
expands. The supply network is therefore adequate and farmers have rarely
experienced diesel shortages in the past. However, they have complained about
poor quality of fuel at times, particularly that purchased from oil company
agents and subagents and fuel quality would need to be monitored during the
project.
Agricultural Credit
3.18      There are 756 CB branches (546 rural), 93 BKB branches and almost
11,000 KSS affiliated to 76 TCCA in the project area (Map IBRD 15591). Of
these about 550 CB branches which belong to Sonali; Janata and Agrani Banks;
all BKB branches and about 4,000 A and B class KSS would be available for
project lending and comprise a very adequate credit outlet network. With the
exception of BKB, which has financed over 5,000 STW in the area, other credit
institutions have so far dealt predominantly with short-term credit. In



- 16 -
1979/80 for instance all but about 2% of about Tk 210 million disbursed by
CB and KSS in the region was for short-term crop production credit. However,
loans for about 1,500 STW had been processed during the year by KSS as part
of implementation of two IDA supported projects, Rural Development Project I
(Credit 631-BD) and Shallow Tubewells Project (Credit 724-BD). The capacity
of credit institutions to process STW loan applications needs to be expanded,
but the considerable experience with short-term credit will facilitate provi-
sion of adequate crop production credit to support investments in irrigation
equipment.
Agricultural Extension and Research
3.19      Agricultural research is coordinated by the Bangladesh Agricultural
Research Council and conducted by a number of GOB or semiautonomous institutes
including the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute, Jute Research Institute and
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute. The latter works on most crops not
dealt with by specialist Institutes and has substations in the project area.
Rice research supported by the International Rice Research Institute has been
most successful to date and the IDA supported Agricultural Research Project
(Credit 828-BD) is helping to strengthen staff, equipment and other facilities
of the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute.
3.20      Two IDA supported projects--Extension and Research Project (Credit
729-BD) and the Jute Project (Credit 765-BD)--are helping GOB to improve
extension and field research in the project area. Both projects are using
"Training and Visit" extension concepts. Impact of the Jute project has been
quite promising to date and the general extension services have also made some
progress, but their advice has so far reached the field level only in some
parts of the project area. Efforts are continuing to improve performance
elsewhere as well. The two projects will help ensure that the Rajshahi
Division will have well staffed and well-equipped extension services.
Marketing, Storage, and Processing
3.21      Marketing, storage and processing facilities for main cash crops--
jute, sugarcane and tobacco are reasonably satisfactory and the Jute Project
(para 3.20) is exploring ways of further improving Jute storage and marketing
arrangements. While the bulk of rice is used for subsistence an average of
about 200,000 tons foodgrain per year (mainly rice) is procured by the GOB
Food Ministry in the Rajshahi Division. For that purpose and for storage to
meet foodgrain deficits in part of the area, the GOB Ministry of Food maintains
about 245,000 tons foodgrain storage capacity in the project area. The IDA
assisted Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Credit 787-BD) is adding 90,000
tons storage there and a third storage project, to be prepared in 1981 would
explore additional storage requirements. Grain procurement arrangements do
not work smoothly in all areas, particularly during good crop years and
greater participation by the private grain trade in procurement would help to
stabilize prices. In fact, GOB expects that the greater the demand for grains
from private traders, the less harvest time prices would have to fall to equate
marketed supply and effective demand. Inadequate storage has been identified
as a major constraint to private sector participation in grain trading and GOB
has recently instructed CB to provide credit to grain traders for storage
construction. The project would support the GOB program (para 4.11).



- 17 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Genesis
4.01      The Government of Bangladesh has for some time been exploring the
possibility of Bank Group support for agricultural development through credit.
In the early post independence years the Bangladesh agricultural credit sector
was weak and in 1977, assisted by the First IDA Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 409-BD) GOB employed consultants (Messrs. Robert Nathan and Associates,
Inc.) to review the agricultural credit system, suggest improvements and iden-
tify investment opportunities through agricultural credit. The consultants
published their final report in August 1979. Based on their report, the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program identified a project in January 1980 and
followed up in May 1980 to prepare the project. The project is based on the
August 1980 Report of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program and on the
findings of an October/November 1980 appraisal mission.
Project Summary
4.02      This would be the first IDA assisted agricultural credit project in
Bangladesh. Its main objectives would be (a) to establish a replicable system
for delivery of long-term agricultural credit, and (b) to increase agricultural
prcduction,rural incomes and employment opportunities. The project period
would be four years and the project would cover the five districts of the
Rajshahi Division of northwest Bangladesh. As indicated in para 3.01, the
compact project area would allow concentration of efforts to develop a long-
term lending system that could then be spread to other parts of Bangladesh.
The Bangladesh Bank and participating credit institutions (particularly CB
that have done virtually no term lending to date) would concentrate efforts
in a confined geographical area or on a relatively small part of their branch
network, to build up long-term lending capacity. Similarly, the compact
project area would allow more effective organization, initially, of equipment
supplies, workshops and drilling contractors, compared to dilution of such
efforts over a wider area. However, extension of the project to other areas
of high development potential could be considered jointly by GOB and IDA,
later during the course of the project. Main emphasis of the project would
be on provision of credit to farmers or farmers' groups for installation of
STW. There would also be a pilot component to help develop diversified
lending including grain storage. In addition, to improve tubewells repair
and maintenance, there would be credit for equipping workshops and village
mechanics. Finally, to strengthen participating credit institutions, there
would be funds for technical assistance and for local and overseas training.
The following is a list of project components:
(a) Credit
(i) to farmers' groups and farmers for constructing and
equipping STW;
(ii) to workshop owners for equipping tubewells maintenance
and repairs workshops;



- 18 -
(iii)  to village mechanics for purchasing toolkits and bicycles;
(iv) for construction of grain storage; and
(v) for pioneering new lines of credit for such investments
as water distribution channels and for various items
of farm equipment.
(b) Funds for Participating Credit Institutions
(i) for a technical assistance program of about 56 man-
months consultants time; and
(ii) for local training programs and about 70 man-months
training abroad.
While it is difficult to forecast the exact quantity of each component that
beneficiaries would borrow for, financing of 27,000 STW; 50 sets of workshop
equipment and 500 toolkits for village mechanics has been assumed for the
purpose of estimating project cost.
Detailed Features
4.03      General.  The project, by supporting long-term credit to agriculture,
would be a continuation and acceleration of IDA assistance for developing the
minor irrigation potential of Bangladesh (paras 1.09-1.13). It would fit in
well with the Manually Operated Tubewells Project, which has also been recently
appraised and which has been specifically designed to benefit very small far-
mers who own less than 1 acre of land and who might not have opportunity to
participate in an STW program in the project area. There is great scope for
rapid increase in agricultural production by providing credit to farmers for
installing irrigation facilities. The project area is particularly suitable
for this type of development, with its high production potential; well-
developed banking network; proven groundwater resources; improvement, partly
through IDA support, of supporting services such as extension and research;
and existence of farmers' demand and construction and maintenance facilities
for tubewells created by earlier development schemes. However, there are two
preconditions of success for developing minor irrigation through agricultural
credit. The first is to adapt the credit delivery system to long-term lending
and steps to develop such system are described in paras 6.01 through 6.09.
The second is an adequate supply of equipment in rural areas available to
borrowers and cash customers on demand. Measures to gear up such supply are
discussed below.
4.04      Equipment Supplies.  In the past, supplies of irrigation equipment
have been unsatisfactory. Centralized procurement through BADC or BKB has not
placed enough equipment into rural areas or provided it at the right time. As
a result, there is no equipment for sale in shops in the project area. GOB
and IDA agree that the solution to the equipment supplies problem would be to
let the private sector import or manufacture equipment and distribute it. The
first step towards such an arrangement was taken with the Shallow Tubewells
Project (Credit 724-BD). Procurement based on "farmers' choice", from a number



- 19 -
of makes tested and found to be satisfactory in Bangladesh was introduced and
helped to speed up the project, which earlier was seriously delayed due to
problems in procurement by BADC. Further measures towards private sector
supplying minor irrigation equipment were taken in the Low Lift Pump Project
(Credit 990-BD), which includes procurement of pumpsets (essentially the same
type as those used for STW) in two stages. The first batch of 1,500 are to be
procured by BADC, based on the farmers' choice system, but the second batch
of 4,000 sets are to be imported by selected private sector dealers of engine
makes identified by the farmers' choice system, for direct sale to farmers
participating in the project. Involvement of the private sector in supply
of irrigation equipment was further emphasized by the Ninth Imports Program
Credit (Credit 1071-BD), which includes funds for import and direct sale to
any farmers of STW equipment, by dealers of makes previously qualified under
Credits 724-BD and 990-BD. Based on measures evolved in the above three
projects, STW equipment for the project described in this report would be
supplied by the private sector and stocked in the project area, so that
farmers would be able to purchase equipment of their own choice.
4.05      Up to now, the private sector has mainly supplied equipment on the
basis of orders and, has not had to risk investments in sizeable equipment
stocks to be sold in the open market. All firms concerned assured the appraisal
mission that they would welcome open market competition to develop the poten-
tially lucrative STW equipment trade in Bangladesh. However, participating
firms would need encouragement, particularly in the early stages, to build up
adequate equipment supplies. Three prerequisites for encouraging adequate
imports by private firms would be: adequate open import licenses for STW
equipment and spares; foreign exchange; credit for holding stocks; and a
satisfactory profit margin. GOB undertook to provide these facilities and
conditions to participating firms under the Ninth Import Credit and would
continue to do so for this credit.
4.06      Importing firms would apply to the Chief Controller of Imports and
Exports for necessary imports licenses and inform BB of foreign exchange and
credit requirements. BB would immediately recommend all qualified applications
and arrange adequate foreign exchange and credit through the applicants' CB.
To reduce interest cost to importers, standard margin requirement at the time
of opening letters of credit for STW imports would be maintained at 20%
compared to 25% for most other purposes, as agreed by BB for the Ninth Import
Credit. In addition, since BADC is likely to remain a major STW equipment
sales agency for some time, the safeguards against subsidized sales by BADC
that could undercut private sector competitiveness, and which were agreed
for the Ninth Import Credit, would also be maintained for this project. The
safeguards required BADC to include import duty (currently 15% of c.i.f.
value) plus a 14% margin based on c.i.f. or local ex-factory equipment cost,
to cover handling costs and profit margin. The latter two measures should
ensure a reasonable profit margin for private suppliers of STW equipment.
To replenish equipment from time to time as needed, import licenses would be
renewed, based on recorded sales in the project area. To ensure satisfactory
services to farmers, assurances were obtained that open import licenses
would only be provided to firms with an adequate distribution network in the
project area with spares, repairs and STW construction facilities satisfactory
to the Bangladesh Bank.



- 20 -
4.07      There are already eight engine brands identified by farmers' choice
procedures under Credits 724-BD and 990-BD or established under other schemes,
mainly BKB lending, which have been tested and have proved to be satisfactory
for Bangladesh conditions. The equipment ranges from more costly modern, to
cheaper equipment for which design may be outdated in developed countries,
but which has proved its value in developing countries. Competition between
representatives of different makes for attracting "farmers' choice" orders
through the public sector has been intense and is expected to continue when
firms will have to sell equipment stocked at their own risk. In addition,
most of the makers of engine brands in common use, have made arrangements for
local manufacture or are discussing plans with GOB for doing so. Because of
limited market size, introduction of additional brands would discourage exist-
ing agencies from making the necessary investments needed for an adequate
equipment supply for the project and would make provision of spares and main-
tenance facilities difficult. The appraisal mission therefore agrees with
GOB that only engine brands established by farmers' choice procedure or other-
wise already widely distributed should qualify for project supplies, and the
list of such brands was agreed at negotiations (Schedule B). So far, two firms
who are represented on the agreed list have started small-scale production of
diesel engines in Bangladesh. It would be important to maintain a reasonable
choice of equipment for farmers and adequate competition between qualified
firms. Therefore, if any manufacturer or dealer withdraws from the agreed
list, or proves unsatisfactory, GOB would encourage a new dealer/manufacturer
to enter the market, provided the concerned firm has suitable equipment and
can establish satisfactory repairs, spares and distribution facilities in the
project area.
4.08      The representatives of the selected engine suppliers would couple
the engines to pumps, which they would purchase locally or import. There are
12 manufacturers of pumps in Bangladesh and their prices are generally compe-
titive despite very high tariffs on the raw materials needed for pump manufac-
ture. The items - scrap metal, steel, coke and synthetic sand - make up
55%-75% of pump manufacturing costs and bear import tariffs of between 60%
and 120%. GOB is discussing with IDA ways and means of stimulating its
engineering industry. A reduction in currently burdensome tariffs on raw
materials is likely to be one method selected and this should increase the
competitiveness of domestically made pumps. The engine represents about 73%
of a pumpset cost and the pump and coupling materials about 27%.
4.09      Shallow Tubewells.  Long-term loans would be provided to groups
of farmers or farmers for purchase and installation of about 27,000 STW. A
typical STW would consist of approximately 90-110 ft of 4 inch diameter piping
including blank piping in the upper portion with about 40 ft well filter at
the bottom and a pumpset on a metal frame consisting of a centrifugal pump
coupled to a 5-6 hp diesel engine. Well discharge would range from 0.5-0.75
cusecs. Drilling would be by local contractors, who are available in adequate
numbers, using inexpensive locally made equipment. The Technical Cell of BB's
Project Department (para 6.03) would, in consultation with groundwater engi-
neers of the Bangladesh Water Development Board, BADC and BKB provide guide-
lines for STW designs, particularly with regard to drilling depth and length
of strainer to suit different geohydrological conditions in the project area.
Normally the pump and engine would be placed at ground level, but in some



- 21 -
cases water levels may fall lower than 20 ft below ground level and at such
depths centrifugal pumps beccome ineffective. In such cases the pump and engine
can be placed in a shallow pit, but when the pit needs to be deeper than three
ft, either the engine should be fitted with an elongated exhaust pipe Lo avoid
danger from fumes or should be placed at ground level and connected to the
pump by belt and pulley. Need for pits deeper than three ft is expected to be
small. Since individual fields are small and pumpsets portable, one pumpset
could service a number of well points that would represent only one third of
the cost of an SB;.  By this means small farmers unable to afford an STW could
participate, as could landless people who would be able to borrow for purchase
of a pumpset to service well points, or pump water from pools or streams. GOB
has already initiated this type of lending on a small scale and the project
would provide opportunity for greater participation of landless people in
profitable utilization of the country's water resources.
4.10      Workshops, Equipment and Tools for Mechanics.  Most STW repairs
take place on farm, but for major repairs engines are taken to workshops.
At present BADC provides workshop and field mechanic services for its owned
or installed equipment. In addition there are several private workshops in
each major urban center and a growing number of village mechanics. BADC is
interested in scaling down its workshop activities on the one hand and on the
other the number of irrigation pumps, particularly STW is increasing rapidly
so that privately operated repair and maintenance facilities will have to
expand. The project would finance basic equipment such as lathes, drills,
grinders and supporting tools for 50 workshops. Funds for buildings are not
needed since workshops operators prefer rented premises. In addition funds
would be lent to 500 village mechanics to purchase tools necessary for STW
maintenance and repairs; and a bicycle each. These investments would augment
funds for equipping workshops provided by Credit 724 and by the recently
approved ADB Second Credit Project. There is an adequate source of trained
mechanics from politechnics, an ILO funded mechanic training scheme and from
on-the-job training in BADC and existing workshops to take advantage of this
part of the credit.
4.11      Grain Storage.  To support the GOB program to expand the role of
the private sector in foodgrain marketing (para 3.21), the project would
provide credit to private investors for constructing grain storage. Demand
for credit for storage has not been determined and participating banks have
little experience to date with this type of lending so that total construc-
tion under this component may only be modest and may not exceed capacity for
10,000 tons foodgrain storage. Stores would be from 100 to 500 tons capacity.
Design would generally comprise raised concrete floors, brick walls and either
corrugated iron or reinforced concrete roofs, but use of new designs, at pre-
sent under development would not be excluded. To ensure satisfactory design,
only borrowers using plans satisfactory to BB would qualify for project loans.
4.12      Other Diversified Lending - would include funds for lending for
miscellaneous farm implements, irrigation water distribution systems and other
as yet not identified lending purposes. Any schemes for lending under this
part of the project would require BB approval.



- 22 -
4.13      Training.  Basic training in commercial or cooperative banking is
provided by each CB and by cooperative training institutes, but only BKB has
undertaken agricultural credit training programs. The main gap is lack of
training in appraisal, supervision and loan recovery of long-term credit.
This would be provided by the project partly through short-term training
abroad, but mainly through local training of the approximately 1,000 banking
staff who would be needed for the project. GOB and participating institutions
agreed to a program of 50 short-term training fellowships abroad each of about
4-6 weeks duration, a total of 70 man-months. Estimated cost would be about
US$4,300 per training month including air travel, local travel, subsistence,
tuition and other minor expenses. Assurances were obtained that the program
for training abroad, satisfactory to the Association would commence before
November 30, 1981.
4.14      The much larger local training program had not been finalized by GOB
at appraisal and an outline plan for such training was agreed at negotiations.
The outline plan, on which cost estimates for this component have been prepared,
provides for CB to train junior field staff in their own training institutes,
BKB to train its own and cooperative staff in its recently opened training
center in Bogra and for senior staff training to be initiated at the Bangladesh
Institute of Bank Management which is already conducting some banking training.
Training would take place in rented premises and the project would provide
equipment, vehicles, furniture and recurrent expenses over the project period.
Assurances were obtained that a detailed plan, satisfactory to IDA, would be
prepared promptly and that execution of the agreed training plan would commence
by November 30, 1981.
4.15      Consultants.  The project would finance 56 man-months of consultants
time. Of this, the following would be required for the Bangladesh Bank; 16
man-months for two consultants--a credit specialist (10 man-months) and an
agricultural economist (6 man-months)--to assist development of the Project
Department of the Bangladesh Bank; 10 man-months for a training specialist,
who would design and initiate the project training program; and 12 man-months
for a cooperative agricultural credit specialist to help plan and implement a
program to improve TCCA/KSS operations (para 6.13). The balance of 18 man-
months would be needed for two consultants (a management expert for 10 man-
months and a cooperative credit expert for 8 man-months) to help strengthen
and develop BSBL. Cost of consultancies has been estimated at US$10,000 per
man-month, which would include air fares, living expenses and local travel.
All consultants should be recruited as soon as possible, but there is special
urgency for appointment of the credit specialist for Bangladesh Bank and the
training specialist. Assurances were therefore obtained that the credit
specialist for the Bangladesh Bank and the training specialist would be
appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA by November 30, 1981,
the cooperative agricultural credit specialist by December 31, 1981 and the
others by March 31, 1982.
Environmental Aspects
4.16      The project would have no adverse environmental aspects.  Tubewells
investments would do no harm to groundwater resources, but might cause a small
increase in malaria incidence, due to rice cultivation in the dry season.



- 23 -
However, any minor ill effects would be far outweighed by improvement in
health of project area inhabitants by provision of more widely spread drinking
water sources and, through increased agricultural production, improved nutri-
tion. In addition, GOB is already stepping up malaria control work in the face
of increased incidence in most parts of the subcontinent, in recent years.
Project Phasing
4.17      During the first year, lending activities may be quite modest while
steps are taken to organize the BB Project Implementation Unit (para 6.02),
training and staffing for participating credit institutions and the equipment
supply pipeline. Nevertheless, GOB has been urged to take early action to
encourage import and distribution of equipment for the first year, for which
orders should be placed by March 1981. In the second project year, all
project lending is expected to gain momentum, and reach a peak in the third
year. Notional achievement forecasts for project lending operations, used for
cost estimates, are shown on Table 1 of Annex 3. Expenditure on consultants
and short-term training abroad is projected to take place during the first two
years, while local training would continue during the whole project period.
V. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost Estimate
5.01      Total costs are estimated at US$62.4 million equivalent of which
US$34.1 million or 55% would be foreign exchange costs and US$8.8 million
would be duties and taxes. Estimates are based on October 1980 prices. Price
contingencies for foreign exchange cost of 9% for 1981, 8.5% for 1982 and
7.5% for 1983 onwards and of 7% compounded annually for local cost have been
applied to base cost. Total contingencies amount to US$14.1 million or 23%
of total cost. Detailed costs are given in Annex 3 and are summarized below.



- 24 -
Summary Cost Estimates
% of
Tk million              US$ million        Total
Category           Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Cost
Credit
Shallow Tubewells          301.3   368.3   669.6    18.8   23.0    41.8        67
Tools and Equipment
for Workshops              5.9    17.8    23.7       0.4    1.1      1.5      2
Tools and Equipment
for Village Mechanics      2.2      3.3     5.5      0.1    0.2      0.3      -
Grain Storage               14.3      2.5    16.8      0.9    0.2      1.1       2
Other Diversified
Lending                   17.6    14.4    32.0       1.1    0.9      2.0       3
Subtotal               341.3   406.3   747.6    21.3   25.4    46.7        74
Technical Assistance
and Training
Consultancies                  -      9.0     9.0        -    0.6      0.6       1
Fellowships                    -      4.8     4.8        -    0.3      0.3  ) 2
Local Training               9.0      2.2    11.2      0.6    0.1      0.7  )   2
Subtotal                 9.0    16.0    25.0       0.6    1.0      1.6      3
Base Cost                  350.3   422.3   772.6    21.9   26.4    48.3         77
Price Contingencies        101.8   124.4   226.2       6.4    7.7    14.1      23
Total Project Cost    452.1   546.7   998.8    28.3   34.1    62.4    100
Incremental staff and other incremental expenses of project agencies were not
included in the estimates because they are fully recovered by interest on
loans paid by beneficiaries of the credit category.
Financing
5.02      The proposed IDA credit of US$40 million would be made to GOB on
standard terms and would cover about 75% of project cost net of duties and
taxes, 64% of total project cost or all foreign exchange and 21% of local
costs. The balance would be met by farmers, other investors, GOB, Bangladesh
Bank and participating banks as shown in the following financing plan:



- 25 -
Proposed Financing Plan
Other
Borrowers       GOB        BB        Banks        IDA         Total
US$M    %   US$M   %   US$M   %   US$M   %   US$M   %   US$M   %
Shallow
Tubewell     3.2      6    -       -  11.4   21   5.4   10  34.2   63  54.2   87
other Lending  0.4      6    -       -   1.3   21   0.6   10   3.9   63   6.2   10
Training and
Consultant    -       -   0.1      5    -      -    -     -   1.9   95   2.0    3
Total     3.6      6   0.1     -  12.7   20   6.0   10  40.0   64  62.4  100
5.03      GOB would make US$1.9 million of the IDA credit available to the
Bangladesh Bank and through it to other participating Banks to pay for train-
ing and consultants expenses, on standard terms for such assistance to its
agencies. GOB would also execute a Subsidiary Agreement with Bangladesh Bank
under which it would onlend the balance of the credit, US$38.1 million, to the
Bangladesh Bank, repayable in periods depending on the repayment period of
Bangladesh Bank refinance to participating credit institutions, but not
exceeding 15 years, at an annual interest rate of 5% to banks lending directly
to ultimate borrowers and 3% to Sonali Bank for onlending to TCCA/KSS.
GOB would bear the foreign exchange risk. It would be a condition of credit
effectiveness that the Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to IDA had been
executed.
Procurement
5.04      Procurement involving relatively small investments by farmers and
other borrowers would be based on farmers' choice through local dealers and
contractors. Typical items would be STW pumpsets, piping, screens and con-
struction, workshop equipment, tools, bicycles (for village mechanics), and
miscellaneous farm implements such as sprayers, carts and threshers. STW
equipment would be the main item and measures for building up an adequate
supply and choice for farmers has been described in paras 4.04 through 4.07.
Construction of storage godowns would be based on contracts let under local
procedures, approved by the Bangladesh Bank. The procedures are satisfactory
to IDA. Furniture, equipment and vehicles for training establishments costing
in total US$0.2 M equivalent would be procured over three years by local
competitive bidding and remaining local training costs amounting to US$0.5 M
equivalent would be for staff pay, operating costs and trainee stipends and
would not be subject to tender procedures. Small off-the-shelf items, costing
less than US$10,000 and not more than US$0.1 M in aggregate, which are urgently
required for the project training component would be purchased by prudent
shopping, through normal commercial channels.



- 26 -
Disbursements
5.05      IDA disbursements of the credit would be against:
(a)  75% of amounts disbursed by Bangladesh Bank to refinance
loans made by participating credit institutions;
(b)  100% of consultants and training fellowships costs; and
(c)  90% of local training costs.
Disbursements for cost of consultancies and training fellowships would be made
against full documentation, to be supplied by GOB to IDA. Other disbursements
would be made against: (a) Bangladesh Bank's certified statements of loans
made by participating credit institutions and refinanced by Bangladesh Bank;
and (b) Bangladesh Bank's certified statements of expenditures for expenses
incurred for local training. Documents in support of the certified statements
of expenditures would not be submitted to IDA, but would be retained by the
Bangladesh Bank and made available for inspection to the accredited representa-
tives of IDA's supervision missions. Bangladesh Bank would verify each applica-
tion for refinance by participating banks to ensure that it conforms with
agreed lending terms and conditions. Each loan would be physically verified
by the lending bank, which would issue a completion certificate for each
completed loan, and Bangladesh Bank would carry out sample checks. Certifi-
cates of expenditure would be audited by independent auditors as part of the
annual audit of Bangladesh Bank (para 6.26). A schedule of estimated quarterly
disbursements is shown in Annex 4.
VI. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Bangladesh Bank Project Department
6.01      The Bangladesh Bank through its Project Department would be the
main executing agency. It would be responsible for planning and supervising
all aspects of project implementation including adequacy of equipment supplies,
and construction agencies; execution of the technical assistance and training
programs; and the refinancing of participating credit agencies for approved
project lending to final borrowers. The agencies would be BKB, the three main
commercial banks--Sonali, Agrani and Janata Banks--and the TCCA/KSS coopera-
tive system. Later during the project BSBL may also participate as apex insti-
tute for the cooperatives (para 6.10). BADC would be an important supporting
agency which would provide technical support to cooperatives (para 6.19).
Project organization, credit flow and coordination is illustrated on Chart
22503.
6.02      The Project Department, through its role in implementing this proj-
ect should become an important development agency, capable of planning and
implementing agricultural credit schemes and helping Bangladesh credit agencies
to acquire similar capabilities. For these purposes the Department would be
strengthened, and organized into four Wings--the Planning Wing, the Operations



- 27 -
Wing, the Monitoring and Evaluation Wing and the Special Schemes Wing. The
first three of the above Wings would constitute the Project Implementation
Unit, which would manage all aspects of the project, and would be headed by
the Project Director. He would report directly to the Department Head--the
Officer on Special Duty (para 2.06). To avoid disrupting ongoing operations
of the Department, present and planned lending schemes other than the project
would be managed by the Special Schemes Wing. It would operate independently
under the Project Director and may, in time, merge with the Project Implemen-
tation Unit. The above organizational arrangements (Chart 22504) were dis-
cussed and agreed at negotiations.
6.03      The Operations Wing would include a Supervision Cell, a Supplies
Cell and a Finance and Accounts Cell and would also control subunits for
intensifying field supervision, to be set up later, one in each of the two
BB regional offices in the project area. The Planning Wing would have three
Cells--Policy, Technical and Training. Functions of the Wings and Cells
comprising the Project Implementation Unit are described in Annex 5.
6.04      Early recruitment or deputation of key staff would be important,
in particular, appointment of the Project Director who should be at least of
Chief Officer rank; a senior supplies officer and a training officer. The
Project Director's appointment, satisfactory to the Association has been
confirmed and that of the other two key personnel, would be a condition of
effectiveness. Each wing would be headed by an officer of at least Deputy
Chief Officer rank and appointment of this staff, together with nine suitably
qualified officers as preliminary staffing for various cells and subunits
should also take place soon, and would also be a condition of project effec-
tiveness. Appointment of the supplies officer would be particularly impor-
tant to undertake the difficult task of initiating the project equipment
pipeline. Appointment of the training officer would be equally important
to establish the project training program.
6.05      As already indicated (para 4.15) the Department would be supported
by three internationally recruited consultants. The first would be a credit
specialist, who over a 10-month period would help to establish the Unit,
draw up an operations manual and design reporting, loan appraisal and loan
recovery systems. He would be needed as soon as possible. However, pre-
liminary lending operations guidelines to ensure early start of lending
operations, would be provided by the Department even prior to arrival of the
consultant. The second would be a credit training specialist to help to plan
and organize the project training program, he would also be needed as soon as
possible; and the third consultant would be an economist to establish scheme
evaluation systems and would be needed by March 1982 to initiate studies that
would start in the fall of that year.
Lending Operations
6.06      Under a subsidiary loan agreement with the Bangladesh Bank (para
5.03) GOB would onlend the main part of the credit to the Bangladesh Bank
for refinancing BKB, the three commercial banks and through Sonali Bank
the TCCA/KSS cooperatives which would provide loans to farmers and other
borrowers. Participation of these institutions in project lending would



- 28 -
be subject to completion of a participation agreement satisfactory to the
Association, between BB and the institutions. Sonali Bank as their refinan-
cing agency would cover lending by TCCA/KSS cooperatives in its participation
agreement with BB. The agreement would embody lending terms and conditions
relevant to any one of the institutions. Assurances were obtained that par-
ticipation agreements satisfactory to the Association would be completed by
participating credit institutions. Bangladesh Bank would prepare a banking
plan that would include inter alia the Bangladesh Bank role in project imple-
mentation; proposals for banking coverage of the project area and allocation
of specific areas and types of loans to each institution; lending targets and
phasing; staffing and training arrangements and norms; loan processing cri-
teria and procedures; procurement and construction procedures; supervision,
monitoring and reporting requirements; coordination arrangements; and services
to be provided by other agencies. Completion of the banking plan satisfactory
to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness.
6.07      The following table shows proposed areas and lending purposes of
participating credit institutions:
Credit Institution           Area                       Lending Purposes
BKB                    All areas except                 STW
thanas served by the
ADB Second Agricultural
Credit project
All areas                        All other purposes
Commercial Banks       All areas                        All purposes
for direct lending
to borrowers
TCCA and "A" and       All areas covered by             STW
"B" Class KSS          "A" and "B" Class KSS
refinanced by
Sonali Bank
To avoid confusion, particularly in applying for project refinance from ADB
and IDA, BKB would not lend for STW in thanas included in the Second Agricul-
tural Credit Project recently agreed between GOB and BKB with ADB, which also
finances STW.
6.08      Organization and basic staffing patterns of participating institu-
tions are generally satisfactory but staffing would need strengthening for
successful project implementation. BKB would appoint a senior officer in
the Special Projects Department at headquarters to oversee the project. In
the field, where the organization has not already been strengthened for the
ADB project, BKB would designate a senior officer at each regional office (one
in each district) to be responsible for project implementation and appoint a
groundwater irrigation engineer at that level and junior engineers and loan
officers (investigation officers and supervisors) according to banking plan
norms (para 6.06). Participating CB would also appoint a senior official in



- 29 -
each of their headquarters agricultural credit departments and at each regional
(district) office tc be responsible for the project. They would also employ
one senior groundwater irrigation engineer at headquarters and at least one
groundwater engineer initially at each regional office. For appraisal and
supervision one trained farm technologist or senior agricultural clerk could
be used for a group of branches initially. Both engineers and loan officers
would be increased when lending expands, according to banking plan norms.
Participating TCCA would each designate two of its most experienced inspectors
and the Deputy Project Officer for project loan appraisal and follow up and
arrange for appropriate training. As with other credit agencies, the number
would be increased as specified by the banking plan, to cater for increased
lending as well as short-term lending of each TCCA. While BKB and CB would
be responsible for technical aspects of appraisal and verification, TCCA would
rely on BADC for those services. TCCA would, however, in common with BKB and
CB help borrowers to contact dealers for choosing equipment and contractors
for STW construction.
6.09      Improvement of loan recovery would be necessary for most institu-
tions, As a first step, GOB and BB would obtain accurate information on loan
recovery status of agricultural loans of each institution, and assurances
were obtained that the information would be collected by December 31, 1981.
Data for short-term and term loan recoveries should be presented separately
and guidelines for drawing up a loan recovery reporting system are shown in
Annex 6. Where recovery of any outlet in the project area is less than 60% of
demand, the institution would develop a program satisfactory to BB and IDA to
improve recovery. Such program would include employment of adequate trained
staff for appraisal, supervision and loan collection efforts; secondment by
GOB of special loan recovery officers, particularly to CB to accelerate loan
recovery through GOB revenue collection; adoption of special loan recovery
programs; and measures for dealing with debts that are more than five years
old. However, no credit outlet in the project area would be eligible for
participation in project lending if loan recovery drops below 40% of demand,
and, after December 31, 1983, below 50% of demand, for as long as loan recov-
ery remains below those respective levels and assurances to this effect were
obtained. In addition, assurances were obtained that during the course of the
project GOB would develop performance criteria to be agreed by IDA before
December 31, 1983 that would determine eligibility of any credit institute to
receive GOB or BB refinance for agricultural lending.
Proposals for Restructuring Cooperative Banking
6.10      GOB is planning to reorganize agricultural cooperatives.  While
there had been no detailed planning as yet, broad proposals under discussions
by GOB at appraisal included unification of the two cooperative systems by
affiliating traditional primary cooperatives with TCCA; retaining DCCB, but
in a greatly reduced role; establishing thana banks as TCCA banking outlets;
and replacing Sonali Bank as a refinancing institution for TCCA/KSS coopera-
tives by BSBL, as apex and sole refinancing institution for the unified
cooperative credit system.
6.11      Unification of the two cooperative systems is desirable but represents
an enormous and complex task which, to avoid disrupting ongoing operations,
should be carefully planned and phased. Assurances were therefore obtained



- 30 -
that reorganization of the cooperative credit system, if undertaken in the
project area, would only take place in phases, on the basis of a detailed
plan, satisfactory to IDA. BSBL would need considerable strengthening before
it could assume the task of sole refinancing agency for cooperative credit,
including refinancing project credit (para 2.24). GOB has therefore agreed
that Sonali Bank would continue to refinance TCCA/KSS in the project area for
the time being and that participation of BSBL in the project, if eventually
considered desirable, would be subject to successful implementation of a
development and strengthening program satisfactory to IDA. To assist BSBL
in carrying out such program, the project would provide two consultants; a
management expert for 10 man-months and a cooperative credit expert for 8
man-months, who would be appointed by March 31, 1982 (para 4.15).
6.12      BSBL would need staff restructuring and reorganization and establish-
ment of regional offices should also be considered. However, in addition,
financial rehabilitation would be needed in view of low capital base and
high level of loan default (para 2.24). Measures to be considered for such
rehabilitation should include:
(a) Determination during 1981-83 of balances of short-term loans
granted prior to 1974/75 and overdue installments of other
loans at June 30, 1975, placing them into a special suspense
account and by conversion of GOB loan to BSBL, credit an
equal amount to bad debt reserves;
(b)  Increase of paid in capital to Tk 50 M by a GOB injection
of at least Tk 29.8 M through payment of Tk 15 M in 1981/82
and Tk 14.8 M in 1982/83 partly by converting remaining GOB
loans to paid in capital; and
(c) Annually, starting in 1982/83, transfer of loan payments
overdue five years or more as under "a" above by conversion
in the same year an equal amount of GOB loan to bad debt
reserves.
Proposals for Improving TCCA/KSS Cooperatives Operations
6.13      Constraints to TCCA/KSS cooperative development due to existing
criteria that determine loan eligibility of the cooperatives, were discussed
in para 2.22. The GOB/IDA review mission of the cooperatives recommends
considerable changes such as eligibility based on internal resources of the
cooperatives, including a part of the members' savings and on performance of
individual TCCA/KSS. The review also recommends TCCA/KSS lending for all
agriculture related production purposes including some, like sugarcane pro-
duction and fisheries, which are, at present, reserved for special agencies.
However, such sweeping changes require careful study and phased introduction.
For that purpose, Bangladesh Bank would establish a working party with member-
ship from Ministries of Finance, Local Government and Cooperatives, and
Agriculture, IRDP, and Sonali Bank that would co-opt representatives of other
agencies or the public as necessary. The project would finance 12 man-months
technical assistance for employment of a cooperative agricultural credit
specialist to conduct studies of the impact of existing criteria and pro-
cedures, on which proposals for changes would be based. He would help with



- 31 -
planning and subsequent implementation of those changes. His work may neces-
sitate several short assignments. The study and planning period would require
about one year and subsequent implementation would be over a two-year period.
The working party would initiate the study not later than December 31, 1981
by which time the consultant would also have been appointed. To ensure that
improvements are implemented as soon as possible, assurances were obtained
that, by December 31, 1982, GOB would furnish a plan, based on the study and
satisfactory to IDA, for improving loan eligibility criteria of TCCA/KSS and
planning of lending operations. The plan should include a timetable for
prompt implementation of its recommendations.
Lending Terms and Conditions
6.14      Loans to final borrowers would, as far as possible not be in cash,
but instead in the form of payment for authorized and verified construction
or equipment purchase. Lending terms and conditions are detailed in Schedule
"A" and were agreed at negotiations. They would form part of the participa-
tion agreement between BB and participating credit institutions (para 6.06).
Interest charged to final borrowers would be not less than 13% on loans
channelled directly through BKB and CB and not less than 14% on loans channeled
through the TCCA/KSS system of cooperatives. The higher rate for cooperatives
lending is justified because of additional services to borrowers which make
borrowing more accessible and convenient. Projections of future inflation
rates indicate that these interest rates would be positive in real terms.
Although overall inflation has been estimated at over 17% during FY80, when
rice prices increased sharply in response to the severe drought and serious
crop shortfalls, the agricultural situation has improved considerably in FY81
and inflation for the year as a whole is currently projected at slightly over
8%. For the medium-term future, aggregate price levels are expected to rise
on average by about 8-10% annually. In view of possible changes in inflation
rates, consultations on interest rates would be undertaken, between GOB and
IDA from time to time.
6.15      Interest spreads at 1% for BB; 7% for CB and BKB for direct lending;
2-1/2% for Sonali for refinancing TCCA/KSS loans and 7-1/2% for TCCA/KSS would
cover lending costs and ensure reasonable returns to participating agencies.
Borrowers' contribution would be 5% by groups borrowing through cooperatives
or small farmers or landless borrowers, and 10% by other borrowers. The
contributions to be made for different investments by borrowers and participat-
ing institutions and annual interest rates to be paid by them are illustrated
in the following schedule:



- 32 -
L o a n s f o r
STW, Village Mechanics' Tools,       Grain Storage
and Diversified Lending      and Workshop Equipment
-----------By       -------         ------By----
Small Farmers      Other            All Borrowers
Contribution                       and Groups       Borrowers
Borrowers' Contribution minimum          5%            10%                 10%
TCCA/KSS Loans /a up to                 95%            90%                 90%
Sonali Bank Refinance /b up to         100% of TCCA/KSS Loan                -
CB and BKB Loans /a up to               95%            90%                 90%
BB Refinance up to                90% of CB and BKB Loans and Sonali Bank Refinance
GOB On-lending                          --------- 75% of BB Refinance-------
IDA Disbursement                        ----------75% of BB Refinance-------
Annual Interest Rate
TCCA/KSS Loans /a                       -----------------14%--------------
Sonali Refinance /b                     ------------6.5%--------------
CB and BKB Loans /a                     -----------------13%---------------
BB Refinance                      a)  6% to CB and BKB for direct lending
b) 4% to Sonali Bank for refinancing TCCA/KSS
GOB Loans to BB                  a)  5% for refinancing CB and BKB for direct lending
b) 3% for refinancing Sonali Bank for refinancing
TCCA/KSS loans
IDA to GOB                              -----------------Standard-----------
/a   Loans to final borrowers.
/b   Sonali Bank refinance to TCCA/KSS for loans to members.
6.16      Loan repayment would be according to ability of borrowers to repay,
but would not exceed the life of the asset and would also be on concessionary
terms for groups and small farmers. Typical examples of repayment periods for
different loans would be: 9 years including up to 18 months' grace period for
KSS or small farmers for STW loans, and up to 7 years for others; 7 years for
mechanics tools; 12 years including 1 year's grace for workshops equipment;
and up to 15 years including 2 years' grace for grain stores loans. Security
would be according to agreement between Bangladesh Bank and participating
Banks.
6.17      Concessionary terms by way of smaller contributions and longer
repayment periods are designed to attract large-scale participation by small
farmers and cooperative groups and assurances were obtained that at least
50% of lending would be to groups, small farmers 1/ or landless borrowers.
1/  Defined as owning not more than three acres of land.



- 33 -
Training
6.18      Training, particularly in methods of appraising, supervising and
recovering long-term loans would be one of the most important institution
building project components. About 1,000 management and field staff would
require such training over the project period. The training cell of the
Bangladesh Bank Project Division (para 6.03), supported by a consultant,
would plan and direct the training program outlined in para 4.14.
The Role of BADC
6.19      Field staff of BADC would assist TCCA/KSS in technical appraisal and
certification of satisfactory completion of STW and, if necessary, identifica-
tion of suitable STW drillers. BADC has the staff and ample experience for
this task.
Project Coordination
6.20      While Bangladesh Bank would be responsible for executing the project
and for coordinating activities of participating agencies, there would be a
project and district coordinating committees to help keep all participating
and supporting agencies informed; deal with problems that BB could not settle;
review work programs and progress; and deal with policy issues. The Project
Committee would include: The Secretary for Agriculture as Chairman, and Secre-
taries or senior representatives of the Ministry of Finance; Local Government,
Rural Development and Cooperatives; Director General of IRDP, Chairman BADC,
head of each participating bank and the head of BB Project Division. The
Project Director would be convener and secretary and would provide the Commit-
tee Secretariat.
6.21      Each District Coordination Committee would be chaired by the Deputy
Commissioner and would have representation from BB, IRDP, other participating
banks, BADC and Department of Agriculture. Meetings of both committees would
be held as frequently as necessary, but not less frequently than once every
three months. Establishment of the committees would be a condition of effec-
tiveness.
Tubewell Spacing and Groundwater Monitoring
6.22      Because of rich groundwater resources the aquifer would not be
exhausted in most areas, even if each farmer pumps enough water to irrigate
all his land, and there is little chance of interference between STW. Spacing
would therefore be more on economic than technical grounds. In general a
distance of about 500 ft between STW could be used as a rule of thumb but
closer spacing would also be acceptable, and STW siting would be responsibil-
ity of the Banks. To keep check of installed tubewells and to facilitate
monitoring, each well should be marked on the thana irrigation maps which have
been made under the Shallow Tubewell Project. BADC is maintaining these maps
at present, but GOB is considering whether they should not be maintained by a
local government body such as the Thana Council. GOB would ensure that the
maps would be maintained at all times by a competent agency; while Bangladesh
Bank would ensure that all facilities financed by the project would be marked
on the maps.



- 34 -
6.23      The greater part of the project area is suitable for STW, except for
a relatively small part, roughly indicated on Map IBRD 15591, in which only
use of DTW could provide large-scale irrigation. Because of high cost of DTW,
GOB finds it necessary to subsidize DTW sales or rentals to farmers heavily.
Consequently, to optimize results from scarce development resources, DTW
construction should be confined to areas unsuitable for STW. Furthermore, DTW
pumping causes considerable drawdown of water levels, which could interfere
with STW operations. The two types of tubewells should not, therefore, be
constructed in the same area. This reinforces arguments for limiting DTW to
areas unsuitable for STW, which need to be defined. Assurances were therefore
obtained that GOB, before December 31, 1981, would define localities in the
project area that, on geohydrological grounds, would not be suitable for STW
development and agree such areas with IDA, and would not allow any DTW con-
struction that would adversely affect STW irrigation. DTW construction would
virtually be confined to areas unsuitable for STW.
6.24      At present the Groundwater Circle of the Bangladesh Water Develop-
ment Board is responsible for groundwater survey and monitoring. It has a
competent technical staff and has benefitted from UNDP financed technical
assistance and training. BADC, the main tubewells construction agency is
also monitoring many of its existing wells and is responsible for supervising
groundwater computer modelling in the project area by consultants financed by
IDA. The model was made in 1978 and is now being updated and, if continually
updated, as intended by GOB, on the basis of accurate thana maps, should pro-
vide a good tool for groundwater resource management. It would be used for
annual planning of district and thana groundwater development programs.
At present there is no urgent reason for transferring the model to another
agency, but in time the groundwater survey and monitoring agency should take
over responsibility for it. Both the Groundwater Circle and the BADC monitor-
ing unit are part of a tubewells construction agency. Experience in other
countries has shown that the survey and monitoring agency functions best when
independent from construction agencies. GOB is therefore considering trans-
forming the Groundwater Circle into a directorate under the Irrigation Ministry
and giving it sole responsibility for groundwater survey and monitoring. IDA
would strongly support such development.
Reporting Requirements and Evaluation
6.25      The Bangladesh Bank would prepare quarterly progress reports cover-
ing all aspects of the project. The format would be mutually acceptable
to GOB and IDA and reports should reach IDA within two months after the end
of the reporting quarter. These reports would constitute a monitoring system
for GOB and IDA of the progress of the project. In addition, studies would
be required to measure the impact of the project on agricultural production,
rural incomes, employment and to identify different beneficiary groups. Such
studies would be conducted or commissioned by the evaluation cell of the
Bangladesh Bank Project Division. The studies would form part of the project
completion report covering all aspects of the project including performance
of all participating agencies, to be prepared within six months of the com-
pletion of the project. Assurances were obtained that the above reporting
procedure would be observed and that evaluation studies would commence by
September 30, 1982.



- 35 -
Accounts and Audits
6.26      Bangladesh Bank, and other participating credit institutions would
maintain separate records of project expenditure, which together with main
accounts of BB, BKB and CB would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to
IDA. Audited project accounts of BB and annual accounts of BKB and CB together
with auditors' comments would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of
each fiscal year. Because of large number of TCCA and KSS involved, BB would
be responsible for ensuring maintenance of adequate accounts and completion of
satisfactory audits. Assurances were obtained that the above accounting and
auditing procedures would be followed. Auditing procedures of participating
institutions are satisfactory, but auditing of cooperative credit institutions
in the project area is not up to date. Assurances were therefore obtained
that the GOB Registrar of Cooperatives would: (a) by December 31, 1981
prepare an inventory of TCCA/KSS cooperatives in the project area showing the
date of last audit for each and prepare a phased plan for bringing the audit
up to date by June 30, 1983, with the plan indicating the number of auditing
staff to be used and the number of cooperatives to be audited each year; and
(b) submit a quarterly report on progress of the audit program to reach BB not
later than one month after the end of each calendar quarter, for forwarding to
IDA.
VII. PRODUCTION MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Production
7.01      Project irrigation investments for tubewells are expected to be
confined to Barind and the other shallow flooded parts of the project areas.
In the deep water rice areas, where irrigation would allow only substitution
of the deep water or mixed deep water/aus paddy crop by boro, returns to
irrigation investments are low and may even be negative. The main effect
of irrigation in the Barind by contrast would be to add a boro crop to the
present t. aman dominated cropping pattern and in the other shallow flooded
areas to add t. aus (in partial replacement of B. aus) to an already fairly
diversified agricultural system. There would also be a small increase in
t. aman production mainly by enabling farmers to irrigate during drought
periods, which would give them confidence to put more land under HYV varieties
and use more inputs. In addition, small increases in wheat, jute and horti-
cultural crop production in most areas would be likely and in some localities
increased production of such crops as tobacco and sugarcane. However, the
relatively small production of pulses and oilseeds now grown on residual
moisture after the aman crop would most probably be replaced by more profit-
able crops, when irrigation water becomes available. Cropping intensities,
at present 115% in the Barind and 160% in the other shallow flooded areas
would be expected to increase to 190% and 210% respectively with irrigation.
Borrowers are projected to reach full benefits from increased production over
four years--O% in year 1, 50% in year 2, 75% in year 3 and 100% in year 4.
Cropping patterns, yield and production projections are shown in Annex 7,
Tables I through 3.



- 36 -
7.02      At project maturity, after about eight years from project start,
the 27,000 STW would irrigate about 270,000 acres, based on 10 acres per
STW. The shallow flooded areas outside the Barind are most suitable for STW,
while part of the Barind can only be irrigated by DTW. The appraisal mission
therefore estimates that only about 8,000 STW would be constructed in the
Barind and the remaining 19,000 STW in other shallow flooded areas. While an
STW with 0.5-0.75 cusec capacity would have enough water to irrigate 25 acres
of land with the cropping patterns likely to be adopted, an average command
area of only 10 acres per STW is projected because of difficulty of covering
more land, even by sale of water, due to small farm size and high land
fragmentation.
7.03      On the basis of assumptions in para 7.02, at project maturity,
incremental foodgrain production is estimated to reach about 210,000 tons per
annum consisting of about 180,000 tons clean rice (from 275,000 tons paddy)
and 30,000 tons wheat. Current yield levels are based on Bangladesh Bureau
of Statistics crop cutting data and cost and returns studies, and for deep
water rice on special crop cutting studies conducted by the Bangladesh Rice
Research Institute over the last four years. Future with project projections
are broadly consistent with those of the numerous IDA supported agricultural
projects in Bangladesh. Projected future paddy yield of 45 mds/ac (1.65
tons/ac) for 48,000 ac boro to be grown under the project and 40 mds/ac
(1.45 tons/ac) for 114,000 ac t. aus are considered to be reasonable. They
are slightly above officially recorded averages, which include partially or
manually irrigated crops with lower yields.
Marketing and Prices
7.04      The traditional marketing system is well developed, but only about
20-25% of national agricultural production is estimated to enter the commer-
cial market. There is a chain of primary markets usually within two miles of
any village, where traders purchase all types of produce. Traders may also
purchase at the farm gate. Small lots of produce are then aggregated and may
be resold at larger secondary markets for distribution to processing plants or
final markets. Because Bangladesh is far from food self-sufficiency, there is
no danger that incremental grain from the project could not be sold. However,
prices fluctuate from year to year, particularly in grain surplus areas.
Prices well below GOB officially announced floor prices in good crop years
discourage production in subsequent years. Partly to purchase more grain
locally, in place of imports for its food distribution program and partly to
stabilize prices, GOB through its Food Ministry has been stepping up grain
purchases and may now procure about 10-15% of grain entering the commercial
market. Its purchasing arrangements and storage facilities are not yet adequate
for effective price stabilization, particularly in peak production years such
as 1980/81. The ongoing Foodgrain Storage II Project (Credit 787-BD) and a
proposed follow up project, which is under preparation, are designed to
improve GOB's capacity to stabilize prices. The Agricultural Credit Project
would also help by financing storage construction for the private sector to
improve grain holding capacity in the project area. Horticultural produce is
also sold and aggregated through the markets for distribution to urban centers.
The market can be quickly glutted and that is why only a small part of the



- 37 -
farm is normally devoted to such crops. With the increase in the number of
cold stores in the project area the potato crop is expanding and cold store
operators often make purchasing arrangement with producers. No serious
marketing problems are anticipated.
7.05      Government provides guaranteed support prices for paddy and wheat.
The latest procurement price for 1980 for paddy is Tk 115 per maund and for
wheat Tk 110 per maund.  However, as already indicated, GOB is not yet able
to ensure that farmers receive the guaranteed price and for that reason a
five year average farmgate price of farm produce (1975/76-1979/80) has been
used, expressed in 1980 taka for financial projections in this report (Annex
7, Table 4). Ruling 1980 retail prices have been used for purchased inputs
as well as current rates for hired labor and working animals.
Financial Projections
7.06      Financial returns were calculated for four STW farm models (Annex 7,
Tables 5 through 10). In each STW case, one set of models for each agricul-
tural area (Barind and other shallow flooded areas) shows returns when the
farmer irrigates the entire command area (10 acres per STW) and the other,
when he irrigates five acres and sells water to neighbors for an additional
five acres. Water sale price was assumed at cost plus 50% which gives water
buyers satisfactory profits, increasing net returns per acre by about 70%,
equal to about Tk 1,000 per acre. Returns to STW owners are satisfactory in
both cases, ranging from 28% for the with water sales model to 40% for the
fully owner cultivated model. Returns to farmers' equity taken at 10% of
investment cost are very high--ranging from 85% to over 100%. Cash flow
projections show that with a moratorium on principal for one year, borrowers
can service their loans and complete repayment within 7 years, well within the
life period of the investment estimated as being about 9 years for pumps and
engines and possibly 15 for wells.
7.07      Sensitivity tests show that all models are highly sensitive to
changes in gross production values; a 10% drop would reduce returns by between
7-10 percentage points. Returns are less sensitive to changes in investment
cost or operating costs, for which a 10% increase would change returns by a
range of 3-4 percentage points. The sensitivities were confirmed by calculat-
ing switching values of main variables that would reduce the rate of return to
12%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Bangladesh. The calculations
showed these values to range between 20% and 27% for reduction in output value,
only between 64% and 155% for increase in capital investment costs and between
38% and 47% in operating costs. Analysis also shows that even with only 5
acres under irrigation and no water sales, the IRR would still be acceptable
at 17-19% but there would be little cushion in case of fall of revenue.
7.08      At present BB, on the behalf of GOB, draws up the annual, national
short-term credit program for each bank. When all STW and DTW have been
installed, total short-term credit to support full tubewells utilization is
estimated at Tk 120 M per year, based on 50% of incremental operating costs
of land irrigated by a tubewell. Adequacy of short-term credit for project
borrowers would be kept under constant review by BB and the Project Coordina-
tion Committee, to ensure that project borrowers would have adequate finance
for crop production, to allow optimum use of STW in the project area.



- 38 -
VIII. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Benefits
8.01      Principal benefits would come from grain production, employment
generation and effect on rural incomes (para 8.05). Annual incremental grain
production at project maturity is estimated at 210,000 tons resulting from
270,000 acres irrigated by the 27,000 STW to be financed by the project.
The increased grain production would make an important contribution towards
endeavors by the people of Bangladesh to attain food self-sufficiency. The
extra grain would represent a gross foreign exchange value of about US$80 M
per annum and taking account of additional imported inputs would still
represent US$60 M net foreign exchange value. Rapid realization of benefits
is a particularly important aspect of the project. STW installation takes
only two to three days and farmers obtain at least 50% of incremental benefits
during the first year of operation. Therefore, development by the project of
a long-term credit delivery system that can be replicated on a large scale,
together with improvement of equipment supplies to the rural areas, would
lay the foundations for greatly accelerated development of Bangladesh's rich
groundwater resources. Such development is the key element of GOB plans to
achieve and maintain food self-sufficiency. Benefits would also accrue from
the minor lending components of the project by way of improving irrigation
pumps maintenance, possibly with foreign exchange savings from local fabrica-
tion of simple diesel engine spares. The experimental storage component could
also become significant, if successful, as precursor to much larger lending
to improve storage to preserve produce and stabilize prices, particularly in
foodgrain surplus districts.
Economic Evaluation
8.02      The illustrative models used for financial analysis (para 7.06) have
been adjusted for calculation of economic rates of return. Costs were adjusted
to exclude subsidies and taxes. For internationally traded commodities, inputs
and outputs, border prices were taken as an average of 1982-1990 forecasts
derived from IBRD (November 1980) projections, expressed in 1980 constant terms,
and adjusted for freight, handling and quality differential (Annex 8, Table 1).
For non-internationally traded commodities or services, a standard conversion
factor of 0.75 was applied to reflect their economic opportunity cost on the
same basis as internationally traded goods. In view of seasonal unemployment
or underemployment, labor costs (for family and hired labor) were taken at Rs
6.8, the rates calculated for several recent IBRD schemes and adjusted by the
standard conversion factor. There is not as yet accurate information on the
cost of lending in Bangladesh. Best estimates put the cost at about 6% of
loan amount. To cover the expenses, 4% of total investment cost has been
added to operating costs, in each model, based on loans of 90% of total
investment cost and application of the standard conversion factor.
8.03      Economic rates of return (Annex 8, Tables 3 and 4) are higher than
financial rates ranging from 57% to 63%. A weighted average ERR for the
project is 60% based on 8,000 STW in the Barind and 19,000 STW in other shallow
flooded areas. Rates show similar sensitivities to those in financial analysis;



- 39 -
from 10 to 12 percentage points reduction with 10% drop in output value (or in
produce prices and yields), only about 2 percentage points reduction with 10%
increase in investment costs and about 7-8 percentage points reduction with
10% increase in total operating costs. In the unlikely event of a delay of
one year in attaining project benefits, accompanied by only 33% reduction
of incremental operating costs the ERR would still be 29% for STW in other
shallow flooded areas, and 31% for STW in the Barind. Such delay must be
considered as a highly conservative assumption, implying that the borrower
attempts to operate the equipment in the year following construction, but
fails to derive any benefits. In fact, delays in obtaining benefits from STW
are rare since many farmers manage to increase production within 3-4 months
of STW construction. The above sensitivities were confirmed by calculating
switching values that would reduce the rate of return to 12%. Such reduction
in returns would result from 38% drop in output values (or in produce prices
and yields); over 100% increase in investment costs and between 63% and 77%
increase in operating costs including crop production and tubewells operating
costs.
Beneficiaries
8.04      On the assumption that at least half of the STW would be sold to
groups of four to eight farmers and that even those sold to individuals would
on average be operated by two or three farmers, as seems the case with past
lending, about 100,000 farm families would benefit from the project. Of the
total rural population, about 50% are classified as landless or with less than
half acre of land and of this group, farmers with small plots could benefit
either as members of an STW group or even if they have no land, as water
sales entrepreneurs. However, participation of this group may not be too
large and it w-ld be better served by the Manually Operated Tubewells Project
which has recently been appraised. The profile of project beneficiaries
would, therefore, most probably resemble land ownership distribution in the
project area (para 3.09). The project would ensure that at least 50% of
investments would go to households with less than three acres. Evaluation
surveys (para 6.25) would monitor composition of beneficiaries.
8.05      Because of intensified cropping, the project would generate consider-
able employment. At maturity, 80,000 additional labor years would be needed
for farming operations, of which an estimated 40% would have to be hired labor.
Income of participating borrowers on the Barind is projected as increasing by
about Tk 1,250 per acre from Tk 1,550 to Tk 2,800 after loan service and by
about Tk 1,200 from Tk 2,000 to Tk 3,200 in other shallow flooded areas.
Consequently, on a three acre farm, income would rise from Tk 2,300 to 3,100
(US$145-190) or US$24-32 per capita assuming an average family size of six, to
between Tk 8,000 to Tk 9,000 (US$525 and US$600) per year or about US$90-100
per capita, just above the estimated average income in Bangladesh. Rural
incomes and employment would be further improved by complementary activities
arising from tubewells maintenance and handling of increased amount of inputs
and resultant crops. As elsewhere on the subcontinent, intensive minor
irrigation, for which the project area is particularly suitable, can transform
poverty stricken people into a lively and reasonably prosperous community and
there appears to be every likelihood of such tranformation in the project area.



- 40 -
Risks
8.06      Main risks are those facing any first project in a subsector.
Firstly, there could be doubts whether BB will manage the project successfully
and measures have been proposed (para 6.01 through 6.05) to establish a strong
project implementation unit. A second risk is related to switching from
traditional centralized public agency procurement for irrigation equipment
to supplies being provided by the private sector according to market demand.
Since the traditional method has been ineffective, there would be little-loss
from switch to any other procurement system, but measures have been included
for encouraging private sector participation and for constant monitoring of
supplies pipeline (para 4.04 through 4.08). Conceivably, flow of supplies
could be slower than anticipated, but is likely to develop in view of promis-
ing market opportunities for minor irrigation equipment. Finally, there is a
risk of inadequate fuel supplies and GOB has assured the Association of high
priority for diesel fuel imports to support food production. Credit for minor
irrigation development has been highly successful on the subcontinent for
achieving rapid increase in agricultural production with attendant increase
in rural incomes and employment. In view of exceptionally rich groundwater
resources in Bangladesh a similar program is very likely to succeed there too.
Therefore, and because of high potential benefits, the risks described above
are worth taking.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)  GOB would provide adequate open import licenses for STW
equipment only to participating firms which would have an
adequate distribution network in the project area and spares,
repairs and STW construction facilities satisfactory to the
BB (para 4.06);
(b)  the programs for local training and training abroad,
satisfactory to the Association would commence before
November 30, 1981 (paras 4.13 and 4.14);
(c)  consultants would be appointed on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association as detailed in para 4.15;
(d)  BB would complete a participation agreement satisfactory
to the Association with each participating credit
institution (para 6.06);
(e)  Bangladesh Bank would, before December 31, 1981, obtain
accurate information on loan recovery status of each parti-
cipating institution. If recovery of any outlet in the
project area is less than 60% of demand, the institution
concerned would develop a program satisfactory to BB and
the Association for improving loan recovery; if less than



- 41 -
40% and after December 31, 1981, 50%, the outlet would
not be eligible for project refinance for as long as
recoveries remain below those levels (para 6.09);
(f) GOB would develop, before December 31, 1983, performance
criteria, to be agreed by IDA, to determine eligibility of
any credit institute to receive GOB or BB refinance for
agricultural lending (para 6.09);
(g) reorganization of the cooperative credit system in the project
area, if undertaken, would take place on the basis of a detailed
plan, satisfactory to IDA (para 6.11);
(h) by December 31, 1982, a plan satisfactory to IDA, to implement
changes in TCCA/KSS cooperatives' loan eligibility criteria
and loan program planning procedures would be furnished to
IDA (para 6.13);
(i) lending terms and conditions detailed in Schedule "A" would
be applied (para 6.14);
(j) at least 50% of project lending would be for small farmers
(para 6.17);
(k) GOB, before December 31, 1981, would define localities in
the project area that, on geohydrological grounds would not
be suitable for STW development and agree such areas with
IDA and would ensure that new DTW would not be constructed
that would adversely affect STW (para 6.23); and
(1) reporting and auditing arrangements described in paras 6.25
and 6.26 respectively would be followed including strengthen-
ing of TCCA/KSS auditing arrangements in the project area to
bring audits up to date (paras 6.25 and 6.26).
9.02      The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) signing of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA
by GOB and BB (para 5.03);
(b) employment of the Senior Supplies Officer, the Training
Specialist, officers in charge of BB Project Department Wings
and at least nine other professional staff for the Project
Implementation Unit (para 6.04);
(c)  completion of the project banking plan satisfactory to IDA
(para 6.06); and
(d) establishment of the project and district coordination
committees (para 6.21).



- 42 -
Schedule A
Page 1
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Lending Terms and Conditions
1.   GOB to BB
(a) annual interest rate of 5% for BB refinancing participating
bank lending directly to ultimate borrower and 3% for onlend-
ing through TCCA-KSS;
(b) repayment periods up to 15 years inclusive of up to 2 years'
grace period; and
(c) GOB shall bear the foreign exchange risk.
2.   BB to Participating Banks
(a) interest rate to be not less than 6% per annum for direct
lending and 4% for onlending through TCCA-KSS;
(b) installment repayments to coincide approximately with agreed
collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) refinancing up to 90% of individual loans. 1/
3.   Participating Banks to TCCA
(a) interest rate to be not less than 6-1/2%;
(b) installment repayments to coincide approximately with agreed
collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) refinancing up to 100% of individual loans.
4.   Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) interest rate to be not less than 14% per annum to borrowers
through KSS and not less than 13% to other borrowers;
(b) borrowers' contribution (including obligatory purchase of
KSS shares, own labor and other contributions in cash or
kind):
1/   Inclusive of loans to TCCAs.



- 43 -
Schedule A
Page 2
(i)  STW, other diversified lending and tools and
equipment for village mechanics: a minimum of 5%
of investment cost by KSS groups and small farmers,
10% by other borrowers;
(ii) grain storage and tools and equipment for workshops:
a minimum of 10% of investment cost;
(c) repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrowers' repay-
ment capacity, but generally not to exceed:
(i) STW: 9 years inclusive of grace period of up to
18 months for lending to KSS groups and small
farmers and 7 years inclusive of grace period of
up to 18 months to others;
(ii) tools and equipment for workshops: 12 years inclusive
of grace period of up to 1 year;
(iii) tools and equipment for village mechanics: up to 7
years;
(iv) grain storage: up to 15 years inclusive of grace
period of up to 2 years;
(v) other purposes: 9 years for lending to KSS groups and
small farmers and 7 years to others;
(d) technical standards and appraisal norms, as laid down by BB
taking into consideration IDA guidelines where applicable, to
be observed.
4.   General
(a) BB, participating banks, TCCA-KSS to maintain separate accounts
for lending under the project;
(b) TCCA-KSS to have their accounts audited in a manner satisfactory
to BB; and to submit audited accounts to BB within six months
of the end of their financial year;
(c) security to be in accordance with arrangements between parti-
cipating banks and BB;
(d) for lending other than for STW, workshops equipment,
village mechanic tools and storage, schemes prepared by
participating banks must be acceptable to BB;



- 44 -
Schedule A
Page 3
(e) any participating credit institute shall be financially
sound, with staffing and organizational structure (including
appropriate number of branch offices) satisfactory to BB
and the Association;
(f) Agrani Bank would implement a loan recovery program satisfac-
tory to BB and the Association;
(g) Bangladesh Bank shall:
(i) cease lending, to be refinanced out of the proceeds
of the credit, to a participating credit institution,
in respect of any branch thereof, whenever loan
recovery by such branch over the preceding 12 month
period falls below (a) 40% of demand until December 31,
1983 and (b) 50% of demand thereafter, until a loan
recovery level of 40% or 50% of demand, respectively
is attained by such branch; and
(ii) cause any participating credit institution to implement
a loan recovery program satisfactory to BB and the
Association, in respect of any branch thereof in the
project area for which loan recovery drops below 60%
of demand.
For the purpose of the above condition, "demand" means principal
and interest falling due over the preceding 12 month period in
question plus overdues from previous years.
(h) BKB would not lend for STW under this project in thanas covered
by the Second Agricultural Credit Project agreed by GOB and BKB
with ADB;
(i) Borrowers would use designs satisfactory to BB for the
construction of grain storage; and
(j) BB would ensure that all STW financed under the project would be
marked on the thana irrigation maps which are maintained by GOB
or an appropriate GOB agency.



- 45 -
Schedule B
Agreed List of Diesel Engine Mlakes for Sale to Project Borrowers
Deutz
Kirloskar
Krishi
Kubota
Mayur
Mitsubishi
Usha
Yanmar



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Recovery Performance of Credit Institutions _/
(in percentage) 2/
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Nationalized Commercial Banks
Sonali Bank                           -       -     70      72     57      72
Janata Bank                           -       -     79      61      42     53
Agrani Bank                           -       -      80     53      42     37
Bangladesh Krishi Bank                     38     45      49     48      54      57
Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd                -     31      28      32     26      32
3'
TRDP KSS -                                  -      -       -     74      68      63
1/   The credit institutions do not have a uniform basis in computing over-
dues and the figures above may not provide an accurate basis for
comparison.
2/   Amount recovered during the year against loans overdue at the beginn-
ing of the year plus loans falling due during the year.
3/   Principal only.
SOURCES: Sonali, Janata and Agrani Banks, BKB, BSBL and IRDP.



-47-
ANNEX 1
Table 2
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bangladesh Krishi Bank
Balance Sheets for Fiscal Years 1975/76 - 1979/80
(Taka MillMon)_
Assets                                      1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80
Current Assets
Cash on Hand and in Banks                   12.3       49.1      92.5     181.1      221.8
Investments                                 36.5       52.5      22.5      50.0       58.0
A. Subtotal                                    48.8      101.6     115.0     231.1      279.8
Loans                                      713.8      864.7   1,147.0   1,510.6   2,419.0
Other Assets                                44.5       90.3     144A8     135.0      233.2
Fixed Assets                                 3.6        6.5      11.1      15.3       27.9
B. Total Assets                               810.7   1,063.1   1,417.9   1,892.0   2,959.9
Liabilities and Capital
C. Current Liabilities                         52.4       60.1      75.5     113.6      146.3
D. Deposits-Savings, Current                  155.8      257.9     332.0      467.0     751.6
E. Borrowings from GOB, BB, and others        405.7      466.7     729.0   1,020.5   1,742.4
F. Total Liabilities                       613.9      784.7   1,136.5   1,601.1   2,640.3
Paid up Capital                            150.0      200.0     200.0     200.0      220.0
Reserves and Surplus                        46.8       78.4      81.4      90.9       99.6
G. Total Capital                           196.8      278.4     281.4     290.9      319.6
Total Liabilities and Capital              810.7   1,063.1   1,417.9   1,892.0   2,959.9
Ratios
Liquidity Ratio
Current Ratio (A over C)               0.66:1    0.88:1    0.76:1    0.99:1
Liquidity/Deposits (A over D)          0.31:1    0.39:1    0.35:1    0.49:1    0.37:1
Debt/Equity Ratio
Long Term Debt/Equity (E over G)       2.06:1    1.68:1    2.59:1    3.50:1    5.45:1
Total Debt/Equity (F over G)           3.12:1    2.82:1    4.04:1    5.50:1    8.26:1
Average Assets                                 830.8     936.9   1,240.5   1,654.9   2,425.9
Average Equity                                 153.4     237.6     279.9      286.2     305.2
Average Loans                                  715.6     789.2   1,005.8   1,328.8   1,964.8
SOURCE: Bangladesh Xrishi Bank



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bangladesh Krishi Bank
Profit and Loss Statement--Fiscal Year 1975/76 - 1979/80
(Taka million)
1975/76     1976/77      1977/78       1978/79      1979/80
Income
Interest and Discounts                           80.7         77.0        107.9        149.8        228.4
Other Income                                      0.9          1.9          5.3          8.7         12.7
Total Income                                        81.6         78.9        113.2        158.5        241.1
Expenditure
Interest Paid on Deposits and Borrowings         33.1         35.7         53.2         72.0        119.3
Salaries and Allowances                          25.2         26.1         37.5         53.5         64.9
Other Aduinistrative Expenditure                  6.4          8.9         12.8         15.7         25.3
Total Expenditure                                   64.7         70.7        103.5        141.2        209.5
Net Income                                          16.9          8.2          9.7         17.3          31.6
Ratios
Net Income/Gross Income                          21%          10%           8%          11%          13%
Net Income/Average Equity                        11%           3%           3%           6%          10%
Administrative Expense/Average Loans             4.41         4.43          5.0         5.21         4.59     
Administrative Expense/Average Assets            3.80         3.74          4.05        4.18         3.72
SOURCE: Bangladesh Krishi Bank



ANNEX I
Table 4
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheet - Sonali, Janata and Agrani Banks
As of December 31, 1979
(Taka Million)
Sonali     Janata      Agrani       Total
Assets
Current Assets
Cash on Hand and in Banks                    885.0        995.8      724.7    2,605.5
Investment - ghort-term                      187.2        199.9      638.9    1,026.0
A.  Subtotal                                 1,072.2      1,195.7   1,363.6    3,631.5
Loans                                      5,754.0      6,268.9   2,710.5   14,733.4
Fixed Assets                                 100.2          55.9       37.3      193.4
Others                                    10,669.0      6,926.0   3,573.6   21,168.6
B.  Total Assets                            17,595.4    14,446.5   7,685.0   39,726.9
Liabilities and Capital
Current Liabilities
Current Liabilities                        1,222.0        794.6      310.8    2,327.4
Current Accounts                           5,514.3      2,108.8   2,003.6    9,626.7
C.  Subtotal                                 6,736.3      2,903.4   2,314.4   11,954.1
D.  Deposit Savings (excludes current)    2,873.6         4,519.7   1,797.9    9,191.2
E.  Borrowings from Bangladesh Bank          1,845.9      2,496.1       607.7    4,949.7
Others                                   6,049.6      4,425.4   2,889.0   13,364.0
F.  Total Liabilities                       17,505.4    14,344.6   7,609.0   39,459.0
Capital
Paid-up Capital                                30.0         30.0       30.0        90.0
Reserves                                       60.0         71.9      46.0       177.9
G.  Total Capital                                90.0        101.9       76.0       267.8
Total Liabilities and Capital           17,595.4    14,446.5   7,685.0   39,726.9
Ratios
Liquidity Ratios
Current Ratio (A over C)                0.16:1       0.41:1      0.59:1    0.30:1
Liquidity/Deposits (A over D)           0.37:1       0.26:1      0.76:1    0.40:1
Debt/Equity Ratios
Long Term Debt/Equity (E over G)    20.51:1         24.50:1      8.00:1       18:1
Total Debt/Equity (F over G) 1/          119:1      92.70:1        61:1   92.50:1
1/  Excludes contra accounts in liabilities - Sonali Tk 6,797.0; Janata - Tk 4,899.8
and Agrani Tk 2,963.0.
SOURCES: Sonali, Janata and Agrani Banks



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Profit and Loss Statement - Sonali, Janata and Agrani Banks
for the Year Ended December 31, 1979
(Taka million)
Sonali     Janata      Agrani      Total
Income
Interest and Discount                       511.1       603.8       279.5    1,394.4
Other Income                                 99.8       121.4        73.6      294.8
Total Income                            610.9       725.2      353.1    1,689.2
Expenses
Interest on Deposits and Borrowings         275.9       375.1       153.3      804.3
Salaries and Allowances                     168.1       148.6       112.1      428.8
Other Administrative Expenses                70.7       105.0        41.4      217.1
Total Expenses                          514.7       628.7      306.8    1,450.2
Net Income                                       96.2       96.5        46.3       239.0
Ratios
Net Income to Gross Income                   16%         13%         13%        14%
Net Income to Average Equity 1/             113%        100%         62%        93%
Admin. Expense to Average Loans 2/            5%          4%          6%         5%
Admin. Expense to Average Assets 3/           2%          3%          4%          3%
1/  Average equity for the 3 NCBs - Tk 85.4 million.
2/ Average loan for the 3 NCBs - Tk 4,360.6 million.
3/ Average assets for the 3 NCBs - Tk 7,348.5 million.
SOURCES: Sonali, Janata and Agrani Banks



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Operations of IRDP Croopea
As of June 30., 19-80
1 75       1976       1977        1978       1979        1980
Nutber cs<q- .t,ana3 c, -red by T1''As                        L631      162         2.00       250         2 6        2,6 7
NuAheat  e. Kt3zfis fat.ed                                   17<691    18,691,   2'2A7 4    27'445        3 3,11    39,610
Numtaer o       -ebere' t-nLrolleQ  ('000)                      4 8 0 0    526 6½      049,o      8460.B   I t1i 4  0   1.Y
M>12eat>CO.^,j 23 p.X-.:. mp ca4;ital (T'«lJcag inl)Lc-6^-<32    I I 3      13 n1       t 58       2, 4                   3? 7)
Arnwm  of aovinfs and depoCol,to
QC3 loo :f:^t.ed j ,>offiz   ynatte,tCiers (feJite m- ............      ................... Illion).   .  t  -t ' .2 ',  2
Nurterec cf 2sso     ',o i borrowecl Qir<                                       . dtij  2',r,,   th,7 t,i7ear    2J  I  £ ,t  4
N>eue  of Sa.,  rs -lnanoeddr ing the year ('000C)                        260.                                           12* Ja0 ? 0  t  ;  3
Loanp. Issued durinpg t-he year (1akT&  Ylillion)
Paddy
T. Aman                                                                1, 88      1900 im2    33,1       242 _7J     50.7
Boro                                                       2115.9      27L9       28.9        48.1       45.4,       8510
AUs B  Arian                                                 -i .5      5.        13.6        21.0       33(-I       543 
Potato                                                         0.3        0 .'        2.1 .1                5c7        5.8
Wheat                                                      _                 -        0.6        2.5   4_ 4.0           8.2
Total Loans                                                   26.5       45.1        64.2      108.8       122.4      20&.5
Recovery Performance                                                            -                  47%         68%        63%
Average number of KSS per Thana                                 110         115        114        110         126        148
Average number of metbers per KSS                                27          28         28          31         31          33
Percentage of KSS which borrowed
to total number of KSS                                        35%        52%        53%         57%        46%         42%
Average number of farmers financed
per KSS financed                                              21         26          26         26          26         18
Percentage of farmers financed to
total memership                                                28%        49%         48%        49%         38%        24%
SOURCE: IRDP



-52 -                           ANNEX 1
BANGLADESH                          Table 7
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd.
Balance Sheets 1975/76 - 1979/80 1/
(Taka Million)
Assets                                  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80
Current Assets
Cash on hand and in banks                 24.0      28.8      32.9     35.3      39.7
Investments                                6.4       6.2       5.7      6.2       5.0
A  Total Current Assets                       30.4     35.0      38.6      41.5     44.7
Loans and Advances                       335.9    343.9    382.6    464.6    566.3
Interest Receivable                       77.5      92.1    108.8    129.7    156.2
Fixed Assets                               2.1       2.0       2.0      2.1       2.1
Other Assets                              36.3      42.0      37.4     45.0      51.3
B  Total Assets                             482.2    515.0    569.4    682.9    820.6
Liabilities and Capital
C  Deposits                                   21.3     22.0      19.7      19.6     19.9
D  Borrowings from Government,              330.5    336.9    367.7    451.6    545.7
Bangladesh Bank and Others 2/
E  Other Liabilities 3/                      82.5    100.6    120.6    143.0    176.9
F  Total Liabilities                        434.3    459.5    508.0    614.2    742.5
Capital
Paid in 4/                              16.5      16.5     16.5      16.8      20.2
Reserve and other funds                 31.4      39.0     44.9      51.9      57.9
G  Total Capital                             47.9      55.5      61.4     68.7      78.1
Total Liabilities and Capital            482.2    515.0    569.4    682.9    820.6
Ratios:
Liquidity Ratio
Current (A over C+E)                0.79:1   0.28:1   0.28:1   0.26:1   0.23:1
Liquidity/Deposits (A over C)       1.43:1   1.59:1   1.96:1   2.12:1   2.25:1
Debt/Equity Ratio (F over G)          9.07:1   8.28:1   8.27:1   8.94:1   9.51:1
Recovery Performance:
On all loans (overdue & current)    30.7       27.6      32.3      26.2     31.8
On current loans                      60.6     54.8      70.0      59.7     68.1
Average Equity                            47.8      51.6     58.4      65.1      73.4
Average Loan                             335.9    340.0    363.2    423.6    515.4
Average Assets                           482.2    498.6    542.2    626.2    751.8
1/ Fiscal year July 1 to June 30.
2/ Includes Government Bangladesh Bank and commercial banks borrowing: after 1977
loans are obtained only from GOB and BB.
3/ Interest on borrowings and deposits of which about 98% are interest payable on
GOB and BB borrowing.
41 TK 4.5 million paid in by GOB.
SOURCE: Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd.



- 53 -                            ANNEX 1
Table 8
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd.
Profit and Loss Statement 1975/76 - 1979MO-R/
(Taka million)
1975-76  1976-77  1977-78  1978-79  1979-80
Income
Interest and Discount                            27.5     28.1      28.9     31.9      40.1
Other Income                                      7.5      6.9       7.5      7.4       8.7
Total Income                                       35.0     35.0      36.4      39.3     48.8
Expenditures
Interest paid on deposits and borrowings         26.9     25.5      27.0     29.3      38.4
Salaries and allowances                           0.6      1.0       1.3       1.8      1.7
Other administrative expenditures                 1.2      0.8       0.9      1.1       2.7
Total Expenditures                                 28.7     27.3      29.2      32.2     42.8
Net Income                                          6.3      7.7       7.2       7.1      6.0
Ratios
Net Income/Gross Income                          18%      22%       19.7%    18%       12.2%
Net Income/Average Equity                        13%      15%       12.3%    11%        8.1%
Administrative Expenses/Average Loans             0.5%     0.5%      0.6%      0.7%     0.8%
Administrative Expenses/Average Assets            0.3%     0.3%      0.4%      0.4%     0.5%
1/ Fiscal year July 1 to June 30.
SOURCE: Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Merit Criteria for KSS
Criteria                                                             Classification of KSS
A     B      C     D         E
Minimum coverage of farm families excluding
absentee landlords                                               60    50    40    30    up to 30
Minimum proportion of members on roll of
KSS who must make a weekly saving of at
least 50 paise                                                   80    60    50    40    up to 40
Minimum proportion of members who must
contribute at least one share annually                           80    60    50    40    up to 40
Minimum proportion of members who must
use credit facility of KSS                                       80    60    50    40    up tp 40
Minimum proportion of recovery of credit                         80    60    50    40    up to 40
Minimum proportion of attendance of KSS
chairman, manager and model farmer at
weekly classes conducted at thana training
and development center                                           80    60    50    40    up to 40                D X
Source: IRDP Directorate.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Land Utilization NW Region - 1978/79
(Area in '000 Acres)
1/                                               Irrigated                     1/             1/
Not-                Cultu             1/  Total    Area from   Irrigated    Net-            Total-/
Total       Culti-                able-    Current-   Area         Power      Area from  Cropped       Cropped
District           Area        vatable    Forest-V  Waste    Fallows  Irrigated    Pumps          Tubewells   Area          Area
Rajshahi           2,339          503         7        72         59        258          76          15        1,699        2,176
Dinajpur           1,670          296        24        62        167        125          25          36        1,156        1,681
Rangpur            2,371          521         5        84         84        174          14          25        1,689        3,124
Bogra                961          215         -         2         41        140          26          48          720        1,160
Pabna              1,201          233        _           1        47         60          38           9          922        1,449
Total         8,542       1,768        36        221        398        766         179         133       6,186         9,590
Net Cropped Area   = 72% Total Area (vs. 59% nationwide, or 67% excluding Chittagong Hill Tracts and the Sundarbans)
Cropping Intensity = 155 (vs. 153 nationwide) (Total Cropped Area * Net Cropped Area)
Irrigated Area      = 12% Net Cropped Area (vs. 18% nationwide)
Total Rice Area    = 75% Gross Cropped Area
1/ There is little variation from year to year: 1976/77 to 1978/79 3-year average figures are similar to 1978/79 figures.
SOURCE: Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, Monthly Statistical Bulletin of Bangladesh, Vol. IX, No. 8, August 1980.
Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, 1979 Statistical Yearbook of Bangladesh.
t 1



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Production of Major Crops - NW Region  1/
Raishahi          _            Dinajpur                      Rangpur                      Bogra                          Pabna                        Total
Crop                     Acreage Yield Production   Acreage Yield Production   Acreage Yield Production   Acreage Yield Production   Acreage Yield Production   Abreage Yield Production
Rice
B. Aus  (Local) 2/                458      0.34    154          452      0.35    158         967      0.31    295          265      0.29     78         358      0.30    106         2,500    0.32    791
I. Aus (HYV)   2/                   20     1.05      21          24      0.96      23         39      0.90      35          32      0.75     24            4     1.00       4           119    0.90    107
B. Aman (Local) 4/                356      0.37    131           11      0.45       5          71     0.44      31           5      0.40       2        348      0.28      98          791    0.34    267
T. Aman (Local)21                  661     0.45    300          743      0.50    382       1,121      0.50    561          524      0.51    268         137      0.48      66        3,186    0.49  1,577
T. Aman (HYV) 3/                    35     0.86      30          48      0.88     42          104     0.96    100           44      0.84     37           20     0.95      19          251    0.91    228
Boro (hYV) 5/                       64     1.09    7.0.        _11       1.00      11         42      0.81      34          42      1.00     42          27      1,07      29          186    1.00    186
Total Rice                 1,594      0.44    706       1,289      0.48    621        2,344      0.45  1,056         912      0.49    451          894       .38    322        7,033    0.45  3,156
Wheat HYV  5/ 6/                    29     0.79      23          32      0.78      25          27     0.74      20          25      0.84      21          33     0.80      26           l46    0.79     115
Jute 7/                             60     0.46      28          68      0.60     41         317      0.59    187           49      0.51     25           79     0.56      44          573    0.57    325
Potatoes                           21      2.45      52          21     2.56      55          25      3.51      87          24      2.89     69            6     2.21      13           97    2.85    276
Rape & Mustard 9/                   50     0.24      12          49      0.22     11          45      0.29      13          11     0.27       3          44      0.30      13          199    0.26       52
Khesari 2/                          21     0.33       7         1.5      0.27    0.4          10      0.30       3           4      0.25       1         49      0.35      17           85.5  0.33       28.4
Tobacco 2/                         1.7     0.35    0.6                   0.23    0.7          72      0.44      32         0.7      0.29    0.2            2     0.40    0.8             79.4  0.43      34.3
Total Other Crops Area       183                          174                           496                           114                          213                          1,180
1/ Acreage in '000 acres; yield in tons/acre (for rice as clean rice equivalent); production in '000 tons.
2/ 3-year average (1975/76-1977/78)
3/ 3-year average (1977/78-1979-80)
4/  Crop-cutting surveys by the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) show a national 3-year average B. Aman rice yield of
0.62 tons per acre, with N. Bengal close to the average.
5/  4-year average (1975/76-1978/79)
6/  HYV wheat acreage has increased rapidly each from the 1977/78 crop season.
7/  4-year average (1976/77-1979/80
8/  2-year average (1977/78-1978/79)
9/  3-year average (1974/75-1976/77).
SOURCE: Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, Monthly Statistical Bulletin of Bangladesh, Vol. IX, No. 8, August 1980.
Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, 1979 Statistical Yearbook of Bangladesh.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Cost
(Taka Million)
Foreign Exchange   Local
Unit Price    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Total    %   Amount            Cost
('000)
Shallow Tubewells                        24.8          49.6      124.0      272.8     223.2      669.6   55    368.3         301.3
(2,000)   (5,000)  (11,000)   (9,000)
Workshop, Tools and Equipment           742.5           2.4        4.7        9.5        7.1       23.7   75      17.8         5.9
(5)      (10)       (20)       (15)
Mechanics Kit                            11.0           0.6        1.1        2.2        1.6        5.5   60       3.3         2.2
(50)     (100)      (200)      (150)
Storage                                 840.0                      4.2        6.7        5.9      16.8   15        2.5        14.3
Other Diversified Lending                   -           5.0        5.0       12.0       10.0       32.0   45      14.4        17.6
Consultancy                        160,000/man mo.      4.5        4.5          -          -        9.0  100       9.0           -
Fellowship                                              1.6        1.6        1.6          -        4.8  100       4.8           -
Local Training Cost                                     2.0        3.5        3.5        2.2       11.2   20       2.2         9.0
Base Cost                                              65.7      148.6      308.3      250.0      772.6   55    422.3        350.3
Price Contingencies                                      7.7      30.0       91.6       96.9      226.2   55    124.4        101.8
Total Project Cost                                     73.4      178.6      399.9      346.9      998.8   55    546.7        452.1
D >4



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Shallow Tubewell Cost 1/
- ------Taka - ----             --------US$ ------
Locall'  Foreign    Total       Local3   Foreign    Total
Diesel Engine (5-6 HP)            1,459     6,080      7,539       91.2      380.0     471.2
Pump (3/4 cusec with
coupling etc.) 2/             1,124      1,686      2,810       70.2     105.4      175.6
GI Pipe (4") 60 rft.              1,498     2,248      3,746       93.6      140.5     234.1
Strainer (4") 40 rft.             2,240     3,360      5,600      140.0      210.0     350.0
Tubewell accessories              1,260          -     1,260       78.8          -      78.8
Drilling and Commissioning        1,450          -     1,450       90.6          -      90.6
Handling and Transport              300          -       300       18.8          -      18.8
Contractor's markup 4/            2,095          -     2,095      130.9          -     130.9
TOTAL                     11,426    13,374    24,800       714.1      835.9   1,550.0
1/ 100 rft STW, 60 rft blind pipe, 40 rft GI core brass strainer.
2/ BMTF (Bangladesh Mallines Tool Factory), Govt. owned company manufacturing pumps
whose prices are below privately owned pump factories. Local component about 40%.
3/ Local cost includes Govt. levies, import duty, drilling cost, handling, markups and
local costs in producing pumps.
4/ 10% on items 1 to 5 representing contractor's recommendation for sieves.
Source: BKB



- 59 -                           ANNEX 3
Table 3
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Workshop Tools and Equipment Cost
(Tk)
Quantity     Unit Cost      Total
Nozzle Tester                                  1            6,500        6,500
Electric Welding Set - 300 Amperes             1          19,000        19,000
Gas Welding Set with Accessories               1          16,000        16,000
Multi-Purpose Precision Lathe                  1          123,000      123,000
Electric Bench Drill                           1          12,500        12,500
Electric Bench Grinder                         1          23,000        23,000
Fitters Vices                                  4              600        2,400
Hydraulic Jacks                                2           2,300         4,600
Diesel Engine Compressor Tester                1            3,700        3,700
Tool Boxes                                    15           6,500        97,500
Hand Grease Gun                                3              800        2,400
Micrometer (2), Vernier Calipers (1)           1 Set      19,000        19,000
Tapes (2), and rules (2)
Lathe Tools                                   10              250        2,500
H.S.S. Drill Bit - set                         2              600        1,200
12 piece set of taps and dies                  1           4,300         4,300
Piston Ring Band Spanner                       2              300          600
Valve Spring Pliers                            2              200          400
Stud and Bolt Extracter set                    2              200          400
Hand Drill                                     2              600        1,200
Soldering Iron                                 2           1,500         3,000
Pipe Wrenches                                  4            1,500        6,000
Utility Knives                                 4              200           800
Total C.I.F. Cost                                                      350,000
Import Duty 15%                                                       52,500
Handling 20%                                                          70,000
Total                                                         472,500



-60 -                                   ANNEX 4
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
Disbursements
Fiscal Year/Quarter                 Quarterly          Cumulative
1981/82
First Quarter 1/
Second Quarter                        -                   -
Third Quarter                       0.1                 0.1
Fourth Quarter                      0.2                 0.3
1982/83
First Quarter                       0.2                 0.5
Second Quarter                      0.1                 0.6
Third Quarter                       2.0                 2.6
Fourth Quarter                      3.2                 5.8
1983/84
First Quarter                       2.7                 8.5
Second Quarter                      1.0                 9.5
Third Quarter                       4.4                13.9
Fourth Quarter                      5.2                19.1
1984/85
First Quarter                       2.7                21.8
Second Quarter                      1.0                22.8
Third Quarter                       5.0                27.8
Fourth Quarter                      6.0                33.8
1985/86
First Quarter                       4.0                37.8
Second Quarter                      2.2                40.0
1/ Signing date expected about July, 1981.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Functions of Project Implementation Unit
1.        The Project Implementation Unit would have three Wings each headed
by a senior officer which would be: a Planning Wing, an Operations Wing
and a Monitoring and Evaluation Wing. The Operations Wing would be mainly
involved in day-to-day management of the project with support from the other
Wings.
2.        The Planning Wing would have three cells--a Policy Cell staffed by
bankers; a Technical Cell with groundwater and farm management experts ini-
tially, with other technical experts to be added at later date; and a Training
Cell which would plan and supervise the project training program. The Policy
Cell would provide guidance on such matters as lending and refinancing criteria,
lending terms and conditions, staffing norms, allocation of areas to various
institutes, staffing norms and appraisal criteria and norms; and would also
draw up policy circulars and documentation to be used in the lending operations
such as loan application or loan appraisal forms. Together with the Technical
Cell, it would develop or appraise new lending schemes to be refinanced by
BB, ensuring technical, organizational and financial feasibility. The Tech-
nical Cell would also be needed to support project operations, particularly
on such matters as ensuring adequate groundwater monitoring arrangements and
groundwater development planning, provision, in consultation with Bangladesh
Water Development Board, BADC and BKB engineers, of STW designs suitable for
different conditions in the project area, delineation of areas suitable for
STW and suitability of irrigation equipment. BB should draw up a panel of
consultants that could be hired to augment the expertise of the Technical
Cell particularly for subjects for which employment of full time technical
staff would not be warranted.
3.        The Operations Wing would have a Supervision Cell staffed with bank-
ing staff that would be responsible for supervising project implementation;
a Supply Cell that would have the very important task of ensuring an adequate
supply of irrigation equipment in the project area and would also monitor
sales of each approved dealer in the project area, adequacy of construction
agencies, fuel supplies and other inputs supplies; and a Finance and Accounts
Cell headed by a Senior Accounting Officer that would keep the project accounts,
deal with claims for refinance from participating institutions, prepare claims
for IDA reimbursement and lay down project accounting and refinancing proce-
dures. The Operations Wing would also supervise sub-units that would be esta-
blished in regional offices in due course, to intensify project supervision.



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        The Monitoring and Evaluation Wing would design reporting systems
and would be responsible for obtaining management information, providing
regular reports to management, preparing quarterly progress reports for use
by the management and IDA and for preparing the Project Completion Report
after the conclusion of the project. Initially the Wing would establish
monitoring and reporting systems, but in the second project year, it would
start evaluating project benefits by means of field studies and for this
purpose would require suitably trained economists.
5.        The Project Director who would be in charge of the Project Imple-
mentation Unit should be appointed at a very early date. Apart from him the
most urgent appointment, which is needed equally early, would be the Senior
Supplies Officer, to organize early import, assembly and distribution of STW
equipment. His most important tasks would be to ensure adequate participa-
tion by private firms and to ensure that they obtain necessary import licenses,
foreign exchange and credit expeditiously. Other early appointments should
include: the officer in charge of each Wing; a banking officer, groundwater
engineer, farm management specialist and credit training specialist for the
Planning Wing; two banking officers, an assistant supplies officer (to work
with the Senior Supplies Officer) and the Senior Accounts Officer with appro-
priate supporting staff for the Operations Wing; and one officer to assist
the officer in charge of the Monitoring and Evaluation Wing.
6.        Important pre-project activities for Project Department Wings other
than organizing equipment supplies, would be for the Planning Wing to draw
up the project banking plan, establish project lending terms and conditions,
refinance policies, participation criteria, loan appraisal criteria, imple-
mentation programs and targets, and to draw up the project training program;
in particular to make early arrangements for short term study programs abroad
to train the trainers of participating banks. In addition, the Finance and
Accounts Cell of the Operations Wing needs to draw up accounting and financing
systems, procedures and forms.



- 63 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Guidelines for Loan Accounting for Recovery Reporting Systems
1.        At present, the systems used by CB, BKB, BSBL and TCCA/KSS for
recording loan transactions are not uniform. This results in varying methods
of presenting loan recoveries, making comparison of performance between insti-
tutions quite difficult. The objective of measuring recovery performance is
to observe: (a) loan repayment discipline practiced by the borrowers and
achieved by the banks; and (b) effect of overdues and doubtful loan accounts
on the financial viability of the banks. The former is mainly ascertainable
through overdue statistics, the latter partly by listing the overdues accord-
ing to their age and partly, by comparing overdues or doubtful loan accounts
with the amount of total loan portfolio and/or reserves. To achieve uniform
presentation of loan recovery performance, participating banks may need to
include the following features in their loan accounting systems:
(a) control accounts for short-term loans and medium and long-
term showing separately current loans, collections, (both
broken down into principal and interest) past dues and
balances; total lending during the reporting period, total
lending to date, and total loans outstanding;
(b) subsidiary ledgers for these control accounts which need to
be kept up-to-date and record the same information as in
(a) above;
(c) records of all loans accounts for short-term loans and
medium and long-term loans need to show the maturity dates
of all loans granted;
(d) "past due" accounts to which all loans unpaid at maturity
should be transferred. "Past due loans" control accounts
for both short-term and medium and long-term loans should
record collection broken down into principal and interest;
and should be supported by subsidiary ledgers for each
"past due loans" control account;
(e) application of all payments first to accrued interest, if
any, and only the balance to principal. (Interest income
should not be credited unless interest is actually col-
lected); and
(f) bad and doubtful loans accounts, to which an amount based
on the aging schedule (para 3) could be credited regularly.



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
2.        The following is information that needs to be included into the loan
recovery performance reporting format during a reporting period (quarter, six
months or one year):
Principal   Interest   Total
(a) Loan Portfolio:
1. Amount outstanding
(Principal)                       XXX           -        XXX
2.  Number of loans outstanding          -            -        XXX
(b) Amount Due for Collection:
1. Arrears: (overdues at the
beginning of the reporting
period which can be taken
from the past due control
account or from the previous
report)                             XXX          XXX       XXX
2. Current (amount due for reco-
very during the reporting
period, to be taken from the
short-term or medium and
long-term control accounts)         XXX          XXX       XXX
(c) Amount Recovered During the Period
1. On arrears (from past due
control account)                    XXX          XXX       XXX
2. On current (to be taken
from short-term and medium
and long-term control
accounts)                           XXX          XXX       XXX
(d) Arrears at end of Year (to be
Transferred to Next Report)             XXX          XXX       XXX
(e)  Recovery Percent                                       -       XXX
Recovery performance expressed as a percentage is the ratio of total collec-
tion to total amount due for collection. Advance collection should not be
included in computing recovery performance percentage, but should be included
among collections at the time the corresponding loan becomes due.
3.        Together with the above format, an aging schedule of loans is needed
for both short-term loans and medium/long-term laons. The format would be the
same for both types of loans except that long-term laons aging would cover a
longer period. For example, a typical short-term aging schedule would be:



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
Short-Term Loans
Amount
(a)  Overdue                         No.   Principal   Interest   Total
1-6 months
6-12 months
1-2 years
2-3 years
Short-term loans overdue for three years or more should either be written off
or transferred to a suspense account.
(b) A typical term loans' aging schedule could be:
Term Loans
Amount
Overdue                         No.   Principal   Interest   Total
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
3-4 years
Over 4 years
4.        Provisions for reserves against bad or doubtful loans should also
be reported; and the ratio, as percent, of overdues to bad and doubtful loans
reserves.



- 66 -
ANNEX 7
Table I
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cropping Patterns
I                     II
Other Shallow
Barind Tract - _         Flooded Areas
Paddy                                P       v       W        P           W
B. Aus (local)                     -       -       -       20     20        -
T. Aus (HYV)                       -       -       -        -      -      60
T. Aman (local)                   80      75      70       80     70      60
T. Aman (HYV)                     20      25      30       20     30      40
Boro (HYV)                         -       -      60        -       -      -
Sub-Total                      100    100    160       120    120    160
Other Crops
Wheat                              5      10      20       10      15     20
Jute                               -       -       -       20     20      20
Pulses and Oilseeds               10      10       -       10     10
Potatoes                           -       -      10        -      -      10
Sub-Total                       15     20      30       40      45      50
Total Cropping Intensity:          115    120    190        160    165    210
1/ P = Present; W = Future Without Project; W = Future With Project.



- 67 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Present Average Yields and Projected Future Yields
f_ Crops in tbe Project_ Area_1/ _l_
Future                   Future
Without                   With
Present (P)            Project (v)              Project(W)
Md/Acre   Ton/Acre   Md/Acre   Ton/Acre   Md/Acre   Ton/Acre
Paddy
B. Aus (Local)                  14          .51        14          .51        14           .51
T. Aus (HYV)                    36         1.32        36         1.32        40         1.47
B. Aman (local) 2/              25          .92        25          .92        25           .92
Aus/Aman Mixed                  33         1.21        36         1.32        36         1.32
T. Aman (local)                 20          .73        20          .73        22           .81
T. Aman (HYV)                   25          .92        30         1.10        35         1.29
Boro (HYV)                      40         1.47        45         1.65        45         1.65
Other Crops
Wheat (HYV)                     20          .73        20           .73       27         1.00
Jute                            16          .59        16          .59        22           .81
Pulses & Oilseeds                9          .33         9           .33       12           .44
Potatoes                        85         3.12        95         3.49       120         4.41
l/ Derived from: Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS)
Agro-Economic Research (AER), Ministry of Agriculture and Forests.
Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI)
2/  Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) Cropcut Surveys--1977, 1978 and 1979.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Present and Future Crop Yield, Acreage and Production
Yield                                      Production         Incremental Production
Crop                          (tonsLacre)        Area ('000 Acres)          ('000 tons)              ('000 tons)
__T  ~~~~~                   -f   ~~-   w                     ww
Pddy                         r-    w -   X        P T  --w _                   - w        w        w=P
B. Aus (local)              0.51  0.51  0.51    35.0    35.0         -    17.9   17.9       -   (17.9)  (17.9)
T. Aus (HYV)                1.32  1.32  1.47         -       -  114.0        -       -  167.6   167.6   167.6
T. Aman (local)             0.73  0.73  0.81   211.2   189.2  170.0   154.2  138.1  137.7   (16.5)   (0.4)
T. Aman (HYV)               0.92  1.10  1.29    52.8    74.8  100.0    48.6   82.3  129.0    80.4    46.7
Boro (HYV)                  1.47  1.65  1.65         -       -   48.0        -       -   79.2    79.2    79.2
Total Paddy               0.74  0.80  1.56   299.0   299.0  432.2   220.7  238.3  513.5   292.8   275.2
Other Crops                                                                                                                   00
Wheat                       0.73  0.73  1.00    22.3    35.3   54.0    16.3   25.8   54.0    37.7    28.2
Jute                        0.59  0.59  0.81    35.0    35.0   38.0    20.6   26.6   28.4          7.8      1.8
Pulses and Oilseeds         0.33  0.33  0.44    26.4    26.4         -     8.7    8.7       -    (8.7)   (8.7)
Potatoes                    3.12  3.49  4.41         -       -   19 0        -       -   83.8    83.8    83.8
Total other Crops                               83.7    96.7  111.0
Total Area Sown                               382.7   395.7  543..0
Overall cropping Intensity (270,000 acres          142%    147%   201%
farm land)
Total Food Grain Production
Rice (Paddy X2)        147    159    342       195     183
3
Wheat              16     26      54       38      28
Total          163    185    396      233      211                x
P - Present
W - Future without Project
W - Future with Project



- 69-                                  ANNEX 7
Table 4
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices
Financial Price           Economic Price
(Tk/md)                 (Tk/md)
CROPS 1/
Paddy: Aus                              105                      142
Am.an                           115                      153
Boro                            105                      142
Wheat                                   105                      158
Jute                                    160                      190
Pulses & Oilseeds                    * 170                       128 2/
Potatoes                                 60                       45 2/
INPUTS
Fertilizer: Urea                       110 11/                  163
TSP                         90 11/                  195
MP                          70 11/                 131
Manure                       2                        1.5 2/
Pesticides                           3,360                   10,080 3/
Seed: 4/ Paddy (HYV)                   160                      212
Wheat (HYV)                   170                      236
Potatoes                      120                       90
Animal Power (pair-day)                     22                       16.5 5/
Hired Labor (man-day)                       10                        5.1 6/
9/                                                                      10/
Tubewell O&M: -  STW                        16.4 ( 8.2/hour)         14.3 ( 7.1/hour)
(acre-inch)    DTW                        11.1 (22.2/hour)         9.7 (19.3/hour)
Sale of Water (per acre-inch) = Total Cost + 50%
Cropping Pattern  I-STW 7/   39    Costs include
I-DTW 8/   37.5  fuel, lubricants spares
II-STW 7/   45    repairs, amortization and
interest charges.
1/  Financial prices derived from 5-year average (1975/76-1979/80) valued in
1980 Taka.
2/  Non-traded commodities adjusted by SCF = .75.
3/ Pesticides used are subsidized at about 65%. Therefore, the price used in
the economic analysis is taken at the financial price.
4/  Local paddy varieties plus jute and pulses and oilseeds are valued at crop
prices.
5/  Adjusted by SCF = .75.
6/ Economic wage of farm labor in view of periodic under and unemployment in
agriculture computed by IBRD at Tk 6.8 and adjusted by SCF = 0.75.
7/  Assuming 10-acre command area.
8/  Assuming 70-acre command area.
9/  Fuel, lubricant, spares and repairs.
10/  Adjusted to take account of international prices. Local costs adjusted by SCF = 0.75.
_1/ Reflects price increase of October 1980.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Crop Production Costs per Acre at Financial Prices
(Takas)
Aus/Aman
B. Aus    T. Aus   B. Aman    Mixed          T. Aman            T. Aman           Boro          Wheat                                  Pulses &
(local)   (HYV)    (local)   (local)    (local)                  (HYV)            (HYV)         (HYV)                 Jute             Oilseeds         Potatoes
Pr 17      W 2/      PIP I/     5  1/       fff I      P 3/    W 4/   W 2/        W 2/    PC I/    W 2/    P'P 1/        W 2/    PT lj    W 2/             W 2/
Seed                                       100          60         98        141           43       60       60       48       92       234      255         24        24       43         43         120
Fertilizer: Urea                            83         179         28          83          55       83       83      110      206       165      220         41        55       28         55         165
TSP                           45          122         11         45           25       34       34      47      162         90      113        16        11        23         50         68
MP                            18           32          -         18           11       18       18       23       33        26       35         9          9        9         18         53
Manure                        80           76          _         80           42       50       50       56      242        50      100        40        80        40         60        200
Pesticides                                  42          84         42          42          42       42       42       84       84         -       42          -        42        -         42          84
Animal Power                               484         572        484         572         440      440      484      528      550       396      528        418       440      264        330         990
Labor:
Family                             350         570        570         720         570      540      570      600      520       350      450        550       650      300        390        1400
Hired                              170         380        280         330         430      410      430      450      500       150      250        350       450       40          60        400
Subtotal                          520          950        850       1050         1000      950    1000    1050    1020          500      700       900      1100       340        450       1800
Other                                      100         100        100         100         100      100      100      100      100       100      100        100       100      100        100         100
Subtotal 5/                      1122         1605       1043       1411         1188    1237    1301    1446    1969          1211    1643        998       1211      547        758       2180
Irrigation 0 & M: Shallow Tubewell           -         426          -           -           -        -                31      684         -      323          -        72        -        365         365
Deep Tubewell            -           -          -           -           -        -        -       21      463         -      219          -         -        -          -         247
Cost of Farm Inpute: S/ STW              1122         2031       1043       1411         1188    1237    1301    1477    2653          1211    1966        998       1283      547       1123        2545
DTW           1122            -       1043       1411         1188    1237    1301    1467    2432          1211     1862       998          -      547           -       2427
Gross Value of Production (GVP) 6/   1470             3780       2875       3665         2300    2875    3450    4025    4725          2100    2835       2560       3520    1530        2400        7200
Net Value of Production: STW               348        1749       1832       2254         1112    1638    2149    2548    2072           889      869      1562       2237      983       1277       4655
(NVP)                    DTW            348           -       1832        2254        1112    1638    2149    2558    2293           889       973      1562         -      983           -       4773
1/  P W = Present and future without project.
2/ W = Future with project.
3/P =Present
4/  H = Future without project.
5/ Excluding family labor.
6/ Yield (Table 2) X financial price (Table 4)



- 71 -
ANNEX 7
Table 6
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Five Acres Farm Model: Projected Income and Financial Returns
FARM DATA FOR CROPPING PATTERN NO. I - SHALLOW TUBEWELL                                Build-up Rate for net
Command area                         : 5 acres owned by tubewell owner(s)              incremental income:
5 acres not owned by tubewell owner(s)        Year 1           0%
Year 2          50%
Total               : 10 acres                                       Year 3        :  75%
Cropping Intensity                   :  120% without project                           Year 4         100%
190% with project
Investment Cost                      : Tk 24,800 Tubewell Set
Tubewell Operating Hours per Year  : 635
Project Period                       :  7 years
-----------------------(Takas 1,000) --_ -------------------
Without
Project                           With Project
1-7         1          2          3          4         5-6        7
CASH INFLOW
Gross Farm Income 1/              2/         14.8      14.8       24.8       29.7       34.7      34.7       34.7
Off-farm Income (Sale of Water) -               -          -       3.1        4.7        6.2        6.2       6.2
Total                                  14.8       14.8       27.9       34.4      40.9       40.9       40.9
CASH OUTFLOW
Tubewell investment costs                       -       24.8         -          -          -          -      (2.5) -/
Operating costs                               7.0        7.0      11.0       13.0       15.0       15.0      15.0
Tubewell 0 & M                3                 -          -       2.6        3.9        5.2        5.2        5.2
Incremental Working Capital -/                  -        3.3       1.7        1.7          -          -      (6.7)
Total                                    7.0      35.1       15.3       18.6      20.2       20.2       11.0
NET BENEFIT BEFORE FINANCING
Total                                         7.8      (20.3)      12.6      15.8       20.7       20.7       29.9
Incremental                                            C28.1)      4.8        8.0       12.9       12.9      22.1
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN = 29%
FINANCING
Long term loan -/                               -       22.3          -         -          -          -          -
Short term loan                                          3.3       1.7        1.7          -          -          -
Less: Debt Service
Long term loan                           -         -       (2.9)      (6.3)      (6.3)     (6.3)      (6.3)
Short term loan                          -         -       (3.5)      (1.8)      (1.8)        -          -
Net Financing                                   -       25.6       (4.7)     (6.4)      (8.1)      (6.3)      (6.3)
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANCING
Total                                         7.8        5.3        7.9       9.4       12.6       14.4       23.6
Incremental                                     -       (2.5) -    0.1        1.6        4.8        6.6       15.8
Cumulative Incremental                          -       (2.5)      (2.4)     (0.8)       4.0       17.2       33.0
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN TO FARMER'S EQUITY = 85%
1/  On five acres owned by tubewell owner(s).
2/ On five acres not owned by tubewell owners. Water sold at cost + 50%.
3/ 50% of the increase in operating cost in the following year, assuming a double-cropping system.
41 90% of tubewell investment costs at 13% p.a. interest, with 1-year grace period.
5/ 10% salvage value.
6/ Farmers contribution to investment.



- 72 -
ANNEX 7
Table 7
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Ten Acres Farm Model: Projected Income and Financial Returns
FARM DATA FOR CROPPING PATTERN NO. I - SHALLOW TUBEWELL                              Build-up Rate for net
incremental income:
Command Area                         . 10 acres owned by tubewell owner(s)
Year1        :   0%
Cropping Intensity                   . 120% without project                          Year 2        :  50%
190% with project                            Year 3        :  75%
Year 4       : 100%
Investment Cost                     : Tk 24,800 Tubewell Set
Tubewell Operating Hours per Year : 635
Project Period                       . 7 years
-------------------------(Takas 1,000)--------------------------
Without
Project                           With Project
1-7         1         2          3          4         5-6         7
CASH INFLOW
Gross Farm Income                         29.6       29.6      49.6       59.4       69.4       69.4       69.4
Off-farm Income (Sale of Water)              -          -          -          -          -         -          -
Total                                 29.6      29.6       49.6       59.4       69.4       69.4       69.4
CASH OUTFLOW
Tubewell Investment Costs                    -       24.8          -          -         -          -       (2.5) -/
Operating Costs                           14.0       14.0      22.0       26.0       30.0       30.0       30.0
Tubewell 0 & M                               -          -        2.6       3.9        5.2        5.2        5.2
Incremental Working Capital -/               -        5.3       2.7        2.7          -          -      (10.7)
Total                                14.0       44.1       27.3       32.6       35.2       35.2      22.0
NET BENEFIT BEFORE FINANCING
Total                                     15.6      (14.5)     22.3       26.8       34.2       34.2       47.4
Incremental                                         (30.1)      6.7       11.2       18.6       18.6       31.8
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN = 40%
FINANCING
Long term Loan                               -      22.3           -         -          -          -          -
Short term loan                                      5.3        2.7        2.7          -          -          -
Less: Debt Service
Long term loan                       -          -       (2.9)      (6.3)     (6.3)      (6.3)      (6.3)
Short term loan                      -          -       (5.6)      (2.9)     (2.9)         _          _
Net Financing                                -      27.6       (5.8)      (6.5)      (9.2)      (6.3)      (6.3)
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANCING
Total                                    15.6       13.1  4   16.5        20.3       25.0       27.9      41.1
Incremental                                  -      (2.5) -    0.9         4.7        9.4      12.3       25.5
Cumulative Incremental                       -      (2.5)      (1.6)       3.1       12.5       37.1      62.6
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN TO FARMER'S EQUITY = OVER 140%
1/ 50% of the increase in operating cost in the following year, assuming a double-cropping system.
21 90% of tubewell investment costs at 13% p.a. interest, with a 1-year grace period.
3/ 10% salvage value.
4/ Farmers contribution to investment.



- 73 -
ANNEX 7
Table 8
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Five Acres Farm Model:  Projected Income and Financial Returns
FARM DATA FOR CROPPING PATTERN NO. II - SHALLOW TUBEWELL                                 Build-up Rate for net
incremental income:
Command Area                          :  5 acres owned by tubewell owner(s)
5 acres not owned by tubewell owner(s)         Year 1        :   0%
Year 2       :  50%
Total                    :  10 acres                                        Year 3       :  75%
Year 4       : 100%
Cropping Intensity                    :  165% without project
210% with project
Investment Cost                       : Tk 24,800 Tubewell Set
Tubewell Operating Hours per Year  :  468
Project Period                        :  7 years
--------------------------(Takas 1,000)-----------------------
Without
Project                           With Project
1-7         1          2          3          4        5-6          7
CASH INFLOW
Gross Farm Income 1/               2/          19.6       19.6       27.9       32.1       36.2       36.2       36.2
Off-farm Income (Sale of Water) -                 -          -        2.7        4.0        5.3        5.3        5.3
TOTAL                                   19.6       19.6       30.6       36.1       41.5       41.5       41.5
CASH OUTFLOW
Tubewell Investment Costs                         -       24.8          -          -          -          -       (2.5) 5/
Operating Costs                                 9.4        9.4       12.3       13.8       15.2       15.2       15.2
Tubewell 0 & M                3                   -          -        1.9        2.9        3.8        3.8        3.8
Incremental Working Capital -                     -        2.4        1.3        1.2          -          -       (4.9)
TOTAL                                    9.4       36.6       15.5       17.9       19.0       19.0       11.6
NET BENEFIT BEFORE FINANCING
Total                                          10.2      (17.0)      15.1       18.2       22.5       22.5       29.9
Incremental                                              (27.2)       4.9        8.0       12.3       12.3       19.7
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN = 28%
FINANCING
Long term loan 4/                                 -       22.3          -          -          -          -          -
Short term loan                                   -        2.4        1.3        1.2          -          -          -
Less: Debt Service
Long term loan                            -          -       (2.9)      (6.3)      (6.3)      (6.3)      (6.3)
Short Term loan                           -          -       (2.6)      (1.4)      (1.3)         _          _
Net Financing                                     -       24.7       (4.2)      (6.5)      (7.6)      (6.3)      (6.3)
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANCING
Total                                          10.2        7.7  6/  10.9        11.7       14.9       16.2       23.6
Incremental                                       -       (2.5) -    0.7         1.5        4.7        6.0       13.4
Cumulative Incremental                            -       (2.5)      (1.8)      (0.3)       4.4       16.4       29.8
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN TO FARMER'S EQUITY = 89%
I/  On five acres owned by tubewell owner(s).
2/  On five acres not owned by tubewell owners.  Water sold at cost + 50%.
3/ 50% of the increase in operating cost in the following year, assuming a double-cropping system.
4/ 90% of tubewell investment costs at 13% p.a. interest, with 1-year grace period.
5/ 10% salvage value.
6/ Farmers contribution to investment.



- 74 -
ANNEX 7
Table 9
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Ten Acres Farm Model: Projected Income and Financial Returns
FARM DATA FOR CROPPING PATTERN NO. II - SHALLOW TUBEWELLS                            Build-up Rate for net
incremental income:
Command Area                        : 10 acres owned by tubewell owner(s)
Yearl1       :   0%
Cropping Intensity                     165% without project                          Year 2       :  50%
210% with project                            Year 3       :  75%
Investment Cost                     : Tk 24,800 Tubewell Set                        Year 4          100%
Tubewell Operating Hours per Year :  468
Project Period                      .  7 years
-------------------------(Takas 1,000)--------------------------
Without
Project                           With Project
1-7        1          2          3         4         5-6        7
CASH INFLOW
Gross Farm Income                        39.2       39.2       55.8      64.2       72.4       72.4      72.4
Off-farm Income (Sale of Water)              -         -          -          -         -          -         -
Total                                39.2       39.2       55.8      64.2       72.4       72.4     72.4
CASH OUTFLOW
Tubewell Investment Costs                   -       24.8          -          -         -          -      (2.5) 31
Operating Costs                          18.8       18.8       24.6      27.6       30.4       30.4     30.4
Tubewell 0 & M               l/             -          -        1.9       2.9        3.8        3.8      3.8
Incremental Working Capital -               -        3.9       2.0        1.9          -          -     (7.8)
Total                                18.8       47.5      28.5       32.4       34.2      34.2      23.9
NET BENEFIT BEFORE FINANCING
Total                                    20.4       (8.3)      27.3      31.8       38.2       38.2     48.5
Incremental                                        (28.7)       6.9      11.4       17.8      17.8      28.1
FINANCING                           INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN - 40%
Long term loan                              -       22.3          -          -         -          -        -
Short term loan                             -        3.9        2.0       1.9          -          -        -
Less: Debt Service
Long term loan                       -          -       (2.9)     (6.3)      (6.3)      (6.3)    (6.3)
Short term loan                      -          -      (4.2)      (2.1)      (2.0)        -         -
Net Financing                                -      26.2       (5.1)      (6.5)     (8.3)      (6.3)    (6.3)
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANCING
Total                                    20.4       17.9  4/  22.2       25.3       29.9       31.9     42.2
Incremental                                 -       (2.5) -    1.8        4.9        9.5       11.5     21.8
Cumulative Incremental                      -       (2.5)      (0.7)      4.2       13.7       36.7     58.5
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN TO FARMER'S EQUITY = OVER 150%
1/  50% of the increase in operating cost in the following year, assuming a double-cropping system.
2/  90% of tubewell investment costs at 13% p.a. interest, with a 1-year grace period.
3/ 10% salvage value.
4/ Farmers contribution to investment.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Rates of Return and Switching Values
Operating
Costs
Excluding                                 Output Value -
Output    Investment   Tubewells        Tubewells                   10% All Costs
Financial Rates of Return                              Value         Cost       0 & M Costs   0 & M Costs   All Costs           +10%
Estimate   -10%  -15%   +10%  +15%   +10%  +15%    +10%  15%              +10%
5 Acres Shallow Tubewells Farm             28       21    17       25    24      26    24       27   26            21           14
10 Acres Shallow Tubewells Farm            40       30    25       36    35      35    32       38   38            31           21
Operating                    Operating
Costs                        Costs
Excluding                    Including
Output   Investment   Tubewells        Tubewells    Tubewells
Switching Value at 12%                                  Value        Cost       0 & M Costs   0 & M Costs  0 & M Costs
5 Acres Shallow Tubewells Farm                           -20%        +78%          +60%           +102%         +38%                               & X
10 Acres Shallow Tubewells Farm                          -27%        +155%         +61%           +202%         +47%                               m s
10 Acres Shallow Tubewells Farm  -27%  +155%  +61%           +202%          +47



- 76 -
BANGLADESH                               ANNEX 8
Table 1
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Prices for Economic Analysis - Internationally
Traded Commodities, 1982-1990 Average
Item                             Paddy      Wheat   Jute   Urea   TSP   MP
1.  Projected Avg. 1982-90 World
Market Rice Price (US$/ton) 1/ 2/            555        241    495    257    217   109
2.  Adjustments for Quality Differentials         65-70 3/   90    100    100    100   100
(%)
3.  Projected Price Adjusted for Quality
(US$/ton)                                    361-389   217    495    257    217   109
4.  Shipping Costs to/from Chittagong
(US$/ton)                                    +37        +59       -    +15 4/ +59   +59
5.  FOB/CIF Chittagong Price (US$/ton)           398-426    276    495    272    276   168
6.  Handling and Transport Costs 5/              +50        +44    -63    -25    +25   +25
between the Port and the Wholesale
Market/Main Godowns (US$/ton)
7.  Market/Ex-Godown Price (US$/ton)            448-476    320    432    247    301   193
8.  Processing, Handling, and Transport           -76       -51    -51    +30    +30   +30
Costs 5/ Between the Wholesale
Market/Godown and the Farm Gate
(US$/ton)
9.  Farm Gate Price (US$/ton)                    372-400    269    381    277    331   223
10.  Processing Ratio (%)                           65        100     85    100    100   100
11.  Farm Gate Price Adjusted for Process-    242-260    269    324    277    331   223
ing Losses (US$/ton)
12.  (Tk/md) 6/                                  142-153    158    190    163    195   131
1/ Source: IBRD Price forecasts dated November 1980. The forecasts are in 1980 constant dollars.
2/ Pricing Basis: Rice: Thai, milled 5% broken, FOB Bangladesh.
Wheat: Canadian No. 1 Western Red Spring, ex-store Thunder Bay.
Jute   Bangladesh white D, FOB Chittagong/Chalna.
Urea : Bagged, FOB Europe.
TSP  : FOB US Gulf.
MP   : FOB Vancouver.
3/ For 25-35% broken. Larger discount for Boro and Aus crops which are of poorer quality than
that Aman crop.
4/ Assuming Bangladesh would be an exporter and because of proximity to markets in South Asia
would command a price advantage over European suppliers.
5/ Costs established by a GOB study of these costs. Adjusted by a SCF of 0.75 for the elements
having non-traded goods and services.
6/ Official exchange rate of Tk 16 = US$ 1. One ton equals 27.22 mds.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Crop Production Coats per Acre at Economic Prices
(Takas)
Aus /Aman
B. Aus  T. Aus  B. Amm         xed    .Amn               T. Aman              Boro        Wheat                            Pulses &
(local)     V   (local)   (local)  (local)                (HYV)              (jvj                          Jute            Oilseeds       Potatoes
PH  1/   W 2/   PW 1/       PH 1/   PW 1/       P 3/      W 4/      W 2/    W 2/   PW 1/   W  2/   PW 1/   W  2/   PW I/   W  2/            h  2
Seed                                       135      g0      130        189        57        so       80        64      122      325     354       29       29       32        32        90
Fertilizer:  Urea                          122     265       41        122        82       122      122       163      306      245     326       61       82       41        82       245
TSP                           98     263       24         98        54        73        73      102      351      195     244       34       24       49        98       146
MP                            33       59      -          33        20        33       33        43       62       49       66      16       16       16        33        98
Manure                        60       57      -          60        32        38        38       42      212       38       75      30       60       30        45       150
Pesticidis                                 126     252      126        126       126       126      126       252      252       -       126       -      126       -        126       252
Animal Power                               363     429      363        429       330       330      363       396      413      297     396      314      330      198       248       743
Family Labor                               179      291     241        367       291       275      291       306      265      179      230     381      332      153       199       714
Hired Labor                                 75       75      7                                        75        7       75       7        7        7       7
Others                                      87      194     143        166       219       209      219       229      255       76      128     178      229       20      - 31       204
SubLotal                           1,278   1,965   1,193       1,667    1,286    1,361    1,420    1,672   2,313   1,479   2,016   1,018   1,323             614       969    2,717
Irrigation 0 & M:  Shallow Tubewells        -      369       -          -         _         -        -         27      592       -      280       -        62       -        316       316
Deep Tubewells          -       -        -          -         -                  -         18     401       -       190       -        -        -         -       214
Cost of Farm Inputs:  STW                1,278   2,334   1,193       1,667    1,286    1,361    1,420    1,699   2,965   1,479   2,206   1,018   1,365             614    1,285    3,033
DTW              1,278       -    1,193      1,667    1,286    1,361    1,420    1,690   2,714   1,479   2,206   1,018              -      614        -      2,931
Gross Value of Production (GVP) 5/   1,988   5,112   3,825           4,906    3,060    3,825    4,590    5,355   6,390   3,160   4,266   3,040   4,180   1,152             1,536    5,400
Net Value of Production:  STW              710   2,788   2,632       3,239    1,774    2,464    3,170    3,656   3,485   1,681   1,976   2,022   3,815             538       351    2,367
(NVP)                      DTW            710       -    2,632      3,239    1,774    2,464    3,170    3,665   3,676   1,681   2,000   2,022              -       538       251    2,469
1/  P W = Present and future without project.
2/ W = Future with project.
3/  P = Present.
4/ H = Future without project.
5/  Yield (Annex 6 Table 2) X economic price (Annex 6 Table 4)



- 78 -
ANNEX 8
Table 3
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Analysis-Cost and Benefit Streams
(Takas Millions)
Year                                       1        2     3     4    5-6    7
- Cropping Pattern No. I
Shallow Tubewells (80,000 acres)
Gross Benefit                                     310      515   617   719   719   719
Operating Cost                                    172      244   292   319   319   230
Investment Cost/(Salvage)                         164        -     -      -     -   (16)
Net Benefit Without Project                       188      188   188   188   188   188
Net Incremental Benefit                           (214)     83   137   212   212   317
Estimated Economic Rate of Return   63%
- Cropping Pattern No. II
Shallow Tubewells (190,000 acres)
Gross Benefit                                    .972   1,361 1,563 1,762 1,762 1,762
Operating Cost -                                  485      619   706   752   752   596
Investment Cost/(Salvage)                         390        -     -      -     -   (39)
Net Benefit Without Project                       578      578   578   578   578   578
Net Incremental Benefit                           (481) . 164   279   432   432   627
Estimated Economic Rate of Return = 57%
Total Area 270,000 Acres
Net Incremental Benefit                           (695)    247   416   644   644   944
Estimated Economic Rate of Return = 60%
_/ Includes working capital and administrative costs calculated as 4%
of investment costs.



- 79 -                           ANNEX 8
Table 4
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return and Switching Values
Economic Rates of Return   Base   Output Value   Investment   Operating   Benefits I/
-10%         Costs         Costs        Delayed
+10%  +15%   +10% +15%   By One Year
Shallow Tubewells  I         63          51          59    57     55   52         31
Shallow Tubewells II         57          96          53    51     50   48         29
Switching Values at 12%
Shallow Tubewells  I                    -38            +340         +73
Shallow Tubewells II                    -38            +277         +77
1/ Net incremental operating costs reduced by 33% during the additional year
without benefits.



-80 -                              ANNEX 9
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports Relating to the Project
1. "Bangladesh Bank Agricultural Credit Study Project,"
Robert R. Nathan and Sons, August 1979.
2. "Review of Financing Arrangements for the IRDP-TCCA-KSS System,"
UNDP Technical Assistance Mission, November 1979.
3. "Performance of Institutional Agencies Providing Agricultural
Credit in Bangladesh," UNDP Technical Assistance Mission, January 1980.
4.  "Report of the Bangladesh Agricultural Credit Project Identification
Mission," FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, April 1980.
5. "Report of the Bangladesh Agricultural Credit Project Preparation
Mission," FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, August 1980, (Two
Volumes).
B. Selected Working Papers
1. "Credit and Banking in Bangladesh".
2. "Groundwater Resources and Development in Bangladesh".



- 81 -
BANG LADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CHART SHOWING PROPOSED PROJECT ORGANIZATION
AND CREDIT FLOW
GOB-    -  ---
SONALI BANK
JANATA BANK          BKB                                        |      SONALI
AGRANI BANK      HEAD OFFICE                        HEAD OFFICE         BANK               BADC
HEAD OFFICES                                                           B      BSBL
I il              I I1'                                I        I     1    
DISTRICT        REGIONAL          BANK ODP    |                     DSTRT               DISTRICT  |
{  OFFICES       OFFICES         REGIONAL       DISTRICT OFFICE     OFFICES  CCB        OFFICES
OFFICES
l        l          ~~~~~~DISTRICT       Ii
L............   ~COORDINATION               ~... 
COMMITTEES|
BRANCHES         BRANCHES                                                OR THANA        THANA
TCCA  BANKS         OFFICES
l   l                             L  ~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~ 1 ~~~ KSS   /
BORROWERS        BORROWERS                                                  RS
LINE OF CONTROL
CREDIT FLOW
- - -  LIAISON OR COODINATION
- - - - - SERVICES
BADC - BANGLADESH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BKB  - BANGLADESH KRISHI BANK
BSBL - BANGLADESH SAMABAYA BANK LTD.
CCB  - CENTRAL COOPERATIVE BANK
GOB  - GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH
IRDP - INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
KSS  - KRISHI SAMABAYA SAMITI (VILLAGE COOPERATIVE)
TCCA - THANA CENTRAL COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATiON
World Bank - 22503



- 82 -
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANGLADESH BANK PROJECT DEPARTMENT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
I   OFFICER ON
SPECIAL DUTY
PROJECT
DIRECTOR
I OFFICER                  OFFICER                    OFFCERER
IN                        IN                         IN        il       IN
CHARGE                     CHARGE                     CHARGE            CHARGE
.                      ,                          '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --T EL
S                                 . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
MONITORING     r             1
PLANNING                 OPERATIONS                     AND         I  SPECIAL   I
WING                      WING                     EVALUATION      I  SCHEMES
WING         L   WING
POLICY CELL      SUPERVISION
CELL          FINANCE AND
ACCOU NTS
TECHNICALCELL        SCPPLIES           CELL
TRAINING CELL
REGIONAL OFFICES
PROJECT DIVISION
SUB UNITS
World Bank - 22504



- 83 -
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
|    981                    1982                   1983                    1984                    1985
1    ?13' 1    2 3                 1    23                      4     _     2! 3    4  1  1   2  3 4  
A EARLY PROJECTACTIVITIES                                                                                            3
Staff Appoientmnts by 8angladesh Bank
Project Director
Supples Off icr_
Traninig Offic-r
Early Eqi,pnent Suppes-
Isnue Import Permits 
Organize Initial Imports/,Delierirs _-
Del very to Proirot Area
Project Banking Pan Preparation
Early Consultants Re-riutment                              A
Credit Specialist for Bangladesh Bank _
Training Specialist                                         A
Early Study Tours
Local Traieieg Plan Formuluti-n
Banglsdenh Back P-jtocr Division R-orgunniat-an
Staff Appointre-nts
Reorganizat-on
B PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION CREDIT COMPONENTS
Shallow Tubewellsi
Issue Import Licen-s                                      See Sectioe A
Equipment Delicary to Project Aa                                          Sea Section A 
Loan Prqcessing                                                                 P i
Consenaction                                                   [                             
Workshops Equipment
Loans Processing
Equipment Purcnase and Installation
Mechneice Toolsk-    
Storage
Loan Processang                                                   -    -    -  I                                       -    -  I -           
Costrutln                                                 I     I 
L.- P,.--g~ ~ ~ ~~~~-i1    --
Other Diversitifd Lending                                                         I                                              I f
C  PROJECT IMPLEM9ENTATION TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
Remaining Coesultants Recruirmant                    |           L    A        B               C
ManagEment Specialist far BSBL                                       I           I |
A        B  I    C
Cooper-ti-es Specialist far BSB L
A        B  I    C
Economist for Bangladesh Bank                            j          A      B      C                                                               I
Cooperative Ag,cc-lt,ral Credit Specialist-                        A    B         B   B  B
Remaining Study Tours                                              A B      3          8         m 
Local Training Prngrams
P-emises Ideerifi-ntion and Renting  BKB
Pntmises Id-ntificti-n and Renting  Other         |
Staff Appoinemeets               BKB
Staff App-niments                Other
Equipment, Fur-itirn, Vehicles   BKB
Pu.rchan-
Equipment, Futin.ure, Vehicles   Other
Purchases
Curriculum Preparation           BKB
Curriculum Preparation           Other
Traiing Co. sen                  BKB               |                                                                                                 - =
Training Courees                 Other                                                                                                               - .
KEY
A = Cons_ruc.io./Eq.ipment Tender Procedura,
Consultants S-let-on, Training Arrangements
= Constrsction Period, Equipment Delivery Period,
Consultants Mohilizat on Period, Training Course Perind
C    C        onsultants' Service Period                                                             WorId Bank -22505






IBRD 15591R
a°0                                                           89°                                                             90                                   MARCH 1981
a8                                                             890                                                    BANGLADESH
-270                                                                                                     AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                              270
TUBEWELL SUITABILITY AND BANKING SYSTEM
-    AREA SUITABLE FOR SHALLOW TUBEWELLS
I  N   D  IA                                                                                     AREA UNSUITABLE FOR SHALLOW TUBEWELLS
AREA WITH LIMITED POTENTIAL FOR SHALLOW TUBEWELLS
BANKING SYSTEM(Number of Bank Branches by District)
ft.                                                                    BANGLADESH KRISHI BANK   BKB   AGA   AGRANI BANK
/. \>,.SONALI BANK   SON                                  THANA CENTRAL COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION
JANATA BANK  JN    KSS   KRISHI SAMABAYA SAMITY
(ts   \                          ~                      =. =DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS    1           2      3
F                                                                        ~~~~~~~         ~~~        ~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~MILES  10--20 -3D
NOTE: Boundaries between areas with varing suitability
),  "~~~~~       for shallow tubewells are indicative only.
026°  <<            '   0 f  8t>                    *--; Sc_;v<,l;i (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~26
3560
V 
.                  .,   ,@   ,: ,,. ,-  ... ............. r' ' '"' " ""'."'  ° 8F ,PUFWi.< .......................................I-.S....... 
A"A
<   -ffi: \   ,                     t                      |             ~~~I N  D I A
f l <::: ) < % Z -4~~.1 §39-i 
I  N        D    I  A            /                                            N> -.  -   ..-w           
lNDiAi S .J A M A L P U R/
250                              ««,>...,,.,,G,,                                                                          JAMALPUR
0 ,j.0   0  7
so    og~~~~~3GRA                     I    ~~~    MYMENSINGH
World~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ Ban sEB staff 2xlseyfrt, -)                   ,      j,->                                          .rs                S     ,
INDIA
24°   do nor mply on th part of te   w ,-                                          .', ...-: .:  
4~   2f~    /     $TANGAIL 
This map has been prepared by the                                                                                                                  DuCCa
World Bank' sn tsaffiiiatses.ay for, \..?    
the convenience of the readers of
the report to erhich it is attached.?
The denominations used and the               ,                           KUSHTI A                                                 ID the
boundaries shown on this map                                          '   .       AN '.                                           INDIA
do not m-ply, on thepartf the                                                    
World Bank and its affiliates, any
jugeton the legal status of                                          o     
any territory or any endorsement                                         KUSHTIA
or acceptance sf such boundaries.
KUSHTIA
BEn                                                              50                                                         ,         ____






IBRD 1559CR
88°                                          890                                           90°                        MARCH 19811
BANGLADESH                      27°
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LAND USE
CROPPING PATTERN I (Mainly Broadcast A,nan, Fallow)
CROPPING PATTERN 11 I Mainly Transplant Aman, Fallow)
I   N  D IA                                                       . CROPPING PATTERN III (Mainly Transplant Aman, Aus)
OTHERS
Al                                            j                   MAJOR ROADS
/  ----s--RAILWAYS
THANA BOUNDARIES
r\    >         ,     t              _       _ -       DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
,                                              - ,   s,  _._ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
nchagar
f  -                                KILOMETERS    10  20  30  40  50
Th   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~KLMILERS
MILES 0    10      20     30
.f    .. /' d  \ t           Jt o J nsgamari
260                                                                                                                            260
Pirgan    U          Nilphamari  .           -
Pirgani                          - ~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sta 
Sidpur1
RANGPURAL UR
f~~~~~~~hlai                     I                                 N  D I.     A '-.Xi
I N   D  I A                   I        -           >               GaibanykA    i
(-r-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JMLU -<?                                                       250S        -,
250      ,S)        -,,,,,    , .>    ! l'~~~~~~~~~~aypqrfiat               AM          PUR'                      2
Y   SN A    U  
-250~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(ag4                                            90   0
ITI
XS  .   X                                      Ck.   W<''\t,S H
G;;5                                     PROJ \A>>ay=   ,,2  >   4 -  S a
AREA r-                
SANGAIL     <    Oo1sA 
Thi, -p  has   been prepared bythe ,t\, .AB&A:\.-SAe\E NI
World Bank   s stff  eclus;vely for H    \-.-6K#T_ AC  
th eport ntiho Whihit s attached.Rit  sul                                                   iNDIA|'\2 <J5ow4cMr+ & 
boundafie, Shown on th,s maP                            f- P.A           I \A                            INDIAg
24    Wonrld BannkYand its affiliates, anY   ),                                  l2                   K6tAA<9t 
judgment on the legal Status of   3    ta    \    _   KUSHTIA   k   I   N   l   KJ  §  12  )  t D- C
any territoroy orny endorsement                      KU_J8^1 :''f2;g( pSH
o,Roccrsa cof sLchboundanes         ft T  l>\.Wi/ttmKA; t
r BB° 4 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~192 N(                                                        -  U ~>XByo rna 
T I~~~~~~~~~~-
BI30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Eso', t



