Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3047-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 4, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket of refer-
ence currencies, with the Pound Sterling serving as intervention currency. On
February 26, 1981, the exchange rate was set at Tk 37.10 buying and Tk 37.20
selling per Pound Sterling. Depending on exchange rate movements between
Sterling and the US Dollar, the Taka/Dollar cross rate is subject to change.
For the past five months, this rate has fluctuated at levels slightly above
Tk 16/US$. Throughout this report the rates shown below have been used:
US$              =  Tk 16.0
Tk 1             =  US$0.025
Tk 1 million    =  US$62,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I square mile (sq mi)                  =        259 hectares
I acre (ac)                            =      0.405 hectares
1 foot (ft)                            =       30.5 centimeters
1 maund (md)                           =       37.3 kilograms
1 ton (ton)                            -       27.2 maunds
1 cubic foot per second (cusec)        =    0.0283 cubic meters per second
1 imperial gallon                      -      4.545 liters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
BADC    -   Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BB      -   Bangladesh Bank
BBPD    -   Bangladesh Bank Projects Department
BKB     -   Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BSBL    -   Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd
CB      -   Comnercial Bank(s)
DCC     -   District Coordinating Committee
DCCB    -   District Central Cooperative Bank(s)
DTW     -   Deep Tubewell(s)
GOB     -   Government of Bangladesh
HYV     -   High Yielding Varieties
IRDP    -   Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS     -   Krishi Samabaya Samiti (Village Credit Society)
PCC     -   Project Coordinating Committee
STW     -   Shallow Tubewells
TCCA    -   Thana Central Cooperative Association
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:            SDR 32.6 million (JUS$40.0 million equivalent).
Terms:             Standard.
Relending Terms:  GOB to BB:  annual interest rate of 5% for BB refinanc-
ing of participating bank lending directly to ultimate
borrowers and 3% for onlending through TCCA; repayment
period of up to 15 years inclusive of up to 2 years of
grace. GOB would bear the foreign exchange risk.
BB to Participating Banks: annual interest rate of not
less than 6% for direct lending and 4% for onlending
through TCCA/KSS; installment repayments to coincide
approximately with agreed collections from ultimate
borrowers; and, refinancing of up to 90% of individual
loans, including loans to TCCA.
Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers: annual
interest rate of not less than 14% to borrowers through
KSS and not less than 13% to other borrowers.
Participating Bank (Sonali) to TCCA: annual interest
rate of not less than 6 1/2%; installment repayments
to coincide approximately with agreed collections from
ultimate borrowers; and, refinancing of up to 90% of
individual loans.
Borrowers' contribution would be in cash or kind and
amount to inter alia, a minimum of 5% of investment
cost for KSS groups and small farmers and 10% for other
borrowers in respect of shallow tubewells (STWs) and other
diversified lending, including tools and equipment for
village mechanics, and a minimum of 1O of investment cost
in respect of grain storage and tools and equipment for
workshops. Repayment periods would be based on ability to
repay but would generally not exceed 9 years for STWs for
KSS groups and small farmers and 7 years for others with
18 months of grace, 12 years including one year of grace
for tools and equipment for workshops; 7 years for tools and
equipment for village mechanics; 15 years, including 2 yearg
of grace for grain storage and 9 years for KSS groups and
small farmers and 7 years for others in respect of lending
for other purposes.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project              The proposed project would seek to establish a replicable
Description:        long-term credit delivery system and increase agricultural
production, incomes and employment opportunities in the
rural areas. The main emphasis would be the provision of
credit to farmers' groups and farmers for the installation
of shallow tubewells (STWs). The proposed project would
also finance other diversified lending including grain
storage; credit for the equipment of workshops and village
mechanics to improve the maintenance facilities for
irrigation equipment; and funds for technical assistance
and training.
Risks:               The project faces few risks.  Groundwater is in abundance,
the equipment to be used has been thoroughly tried and
tested in Bangladesh and the financial benefits of irriga-
tion are well understood by farmers. Switching from the
traditional centralized public sector procurement system
to reliance on the private sector for the supply of
irrigation equipment would involve some risks. However,
because of the relatively high demand for irrigation
equipment, the availability of credit facilities for
equipment purchase and the measures to be taken to encour-
age active private sector participation in equipment
supply, major problems are not envisaged. There is a
risk that the proposed measures for improving the loan
recovery performance of the participating institutions
may result in some delay in project implementation. The
longer term benefits which would accrue from such measures,
however, are expected to far outweigh any risk of delay in
project implementation.
Estimated Costs: 1/
Local        F.E.      Total
--------US$ million--------
Shallow Tubewells             18.8        23.0        41.8
Tools and Equipment
for Workshops                0.4         1.1         1.5
Tools and Equipment
for Village Mechanics        0.1         0.2        0.3
Grain Storage                  0.9         0.2         1.1
Other Diversified
Lending                      1.1         0.9         2.0
Consultants                     -          0.6         0.6
Training                       0.6         0.4         1.0
Sub-total                   21.9        26.4       48.3
Price Contingencies            6.4         7.7        14.1
Total Estimated
Project Costs               28.3 2/    34.1         62.4 2/
1,'   Small discrepancies are due to rounding.
2/   Including 8.8 million in taxes and duties.



Financing Plan:                             Local      Foreign    Total
------- US$ millionn--------
IDA                    6.0        34.0        40.0
GOB                    0.1          -          0.1
BB                    12.7          -         12.7
Other Banks            6.0          -          6.0
Borrowers              3.6          -          3.6
Estimated
Disbursement:                         FY82      FY83    FY84       FY85      FY86
-------US$ million-------------
Annual          0.3       5.3      12.9      14.5       7.0
Cumulative      0.3       5.6      18.5      33.0      40.0
Economic Rate
of Return:            Over 60%
Appraisal Report:   Bangladesh:  Agricultural Credit Project, Report No.
3348c-BD, dated April 17, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the fo   owing report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 32.6 million
(the equivalent of US$40.0 million), on standard terms, to assist in the
financing of an Agricultural Credit Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic Situation
and Review of the Second Five-Year Plan" (Report No. 3309-BD, dated February
23, 1981) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged
by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor harvests
in FY72 and FY73 and by devastating floods in 1974. Foodgrain output fell
drastically and recovered to the pre-independence level only in FY76; foodgrain
imports averaging over two million tons per year were required between FY72
and FY75 to maintain foodgrain consumption near minimum requirements. Aggre-
gate output in manufacturing recovered to the pre-independence level only in
FY75, as the sector needed to overcome the destruction and disruption caused
by the struggle for independence and, in its aftermath, the departure of
skilled labor and managers and widespread shortages of spare parts and
crucial inputs. The production of jute, the predominant export commodity,
declined sharply, and the terms of trade deteriorated. Inflation, declining
real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and political instability
added to the difficulties. In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers
were by necessity almost entirely preoccupied with matters of relief and
rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out of a provincial
administration.
4.        Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the last decade provided planners and policy makers the opportunity to
turn their attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of
development. It was not until FY75 that GDP recovered to the pre-independence
level, but between FY75 and FY80, it has increased by about 30% in real terms
(or about 5.5% p.a.), despite serious setbacks in agricultural production in
FY77 and again in FY79 and FY80. Output in manufacturing (as measured by the
production index for large and medium-scale industries) rose by about 7.5%
annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking place outside the
jute industry. The late 1970s may be seen, therefore, as a period of economic
consolidation. The Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) was intended as an opportunity
to complete this economic consolidation and to reconsider development priori-
ties before the country embarked on its Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85).



- 2 -
5.        The last two years have also brought significant political change.
From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh had been governed under martial law.
In elections held in February 1979, 29 political parties and groups contested
300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly two thirds of the seats were won
by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed by President Ziaur Rahman, who
had won the presidential election in June 1978. Thirty additional seats,
reserved for women, were subsequently filled by the BNP. Following the con-
vening of the new Parliament in March 1979, martial law was lifted and a new
cabinet appointed.
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
6.        Economic growth slowed substantially in FY79 and FY80, but has risen
rapidly in the first half of this year (FY81). Mostly as the result of a
record grain crop (13.1 million tons) and a 10% increase in industrial output,
GDP had increased by nearly 8% (in real terms) in FY78. But the experience of
FY79 and FY80 again demonstrated the vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy
to unfavorable weather conditions. A severe and prolonged drought affected
adversely four successive rice crops as well as the size and quality of the
FY80 jute crop; this had significant repercussions throughout the economy.
The shortfall in foodgrain supplies led to a rapid rise in rice prices, and
inflation accelerated to an annual rate of about 18% in the first half of FY80.
The rate of growth of GDP fell considerably and inequity in income distribution
increased as lower income groups were affected more severely by the foodgrain
shortages and fast-rising prices than the middle and higher income groups.
The balance of payments, which still had been in overall surplus in FY79,
deteriorated markedly in FY80, mainly as a consequence of costly food and
petroleum purchases. GDP growth in FY79 and FY80 averaged no more than 4.5%
p.a.; with population growth still estimated at about 2.7% annually, average
incomes improved only moderately. In the current year, good weather and
expanded utilization of modern inputs are being reflected in a new record level
of foodgrain production (projected at 15.1 million tons), and GDP is expected
to rise by about 7%.
7.        The disappointing overall performance in FY79 and FY80 somewhat over-
shadowed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy steps during
this period. These included: (i) the successful mobilization and distribu-
tion of nearly 2 million tons of imported foodgrains in the first half of FY80;
(ii) continued rapid growth in wheat production and in fertilizer consumption;
(iii) a variety of policy measures taken to improve agricultural input avail-
abilities, to maintain incentive output prices for farmers, to strengthen the
administration of the family planning program, and to foster a more active
role by the private sector; (iv) increased capacity utilization in several
industries; (v) improved budgetary performance, reflecting a strengthened tax
administration, some reductions in subsidies and discipline in curtailing
current expenditures; (vi) substantial growth in non-traditional exports and
in workers' remittances; (vii) exchange rate adjustments and other measures
taken to encourage exports; and (viii) the conclusion of a Standby Arrangement
with the IMF. In December 1980, Bangladesh concluded a SDR 800 million EFF
with the IMF.



- 3 -
8.        The growth of foodgrain production has become a principal concern of
Bangladesh's political leadership and economic planners. The Second Five-Year
Plan (SFYP), which is still in draft form, gives top priority to the expansion
of foodgrain production, aiming at self-sufficiency in foodgrains by the end
of the Plan period. The experience of FY79 and early FY80, when the severe
drought (combined with a major slippage in expected foodgrain imports) caused
a dangerous erosion of food stocks in the country and required an all-out
effort by the administration to avert a major famine, served to highlight the
importance of reducing the threat of crop failures and widespread starvation.
FY80 as a whole was a year in which food production and procurement were low,
while food imports, offtake from the public distribution system, domestic
foodgrain market prices, the budgetary deficit on the food account, and the
Government's expenditure of its own foreign exchange for commercial purchases
of food were all extremely high. By the autumn of 1980, however, the food-
grain situation had changed to one of relative abundance, and public food-
grain stocks stood at an all-time record level on the eve of an aman harvest
which also promised to reach an all-time high. Already by that time, food-
grain prices had fallen considerably and a principal concern of the Government
was to expand its storage and handling capacities fast enough to permit a
correspondingly record procurement effort. The immediate problem is two-fold;
how to cope, physically and financially, with the unexpectedly abundant sup-
plies; and how to achieve a procurement level sufficient to prevent market
prices from falling so far that incentives to future production would be
diminished.
9.        Thus, in contrast to FY80, FY81 promises to be a year in which
production, procurement, and stock levels will be high while food imports
and offtake through the ration system will be relatively low.  To a large
extent, the increased production in FY81 has been attributable to favorable
weather, but the Government deserves credit for a large part of the improved
performance attributable to increased investment in irrigation and other
agricultural infrastructure, increased capacity utilization, and improved
input delivery. In the realm of food policy, moreover, significant progress
has been made in reducing the extent of statutory rationing, changing the
ration mix, raising the ration price,, expanding procurement facilities,
reducing input subsidies, and in privatizing the distribution of inputs.
The Balance of Payments
10.       The 1979 foodgrain shortage was reflected also in the balance of
payments. The need to finance commercial purchases of foodgrain imports led
the Government to be cautious in the implementation of other imports which
fell considerably below targets. In FY80 the current account deficit widened
considerably, primarily because of large increases in the volume and price of
foodgrain imports and price increases for imported crude oil and petroleum
products. At US$250 million, reserves at the end of FY80 were equivalent to
little more than one month's imports. In the current year, the balance of
payments is under severe pressure, notwithstanding the availability of EFF
resources, in large part because of declining jute goods prices, higher POL
prices, and a shortfall in commodity aid availabilities. A particularly
crucial determinant of the FY82 balance of payments as well as budgetary
outlook will be the extent of commodity aid availabilities. The pipeline
of commodity aid in particular has been very severely depleted over the past
two years.



- 4 -
11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive
structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earnings
in FY80 represented less than 6% of GDP and less than one-third of the import
bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's exports continue to be dominated by raw jute and
jute goods, which together account for approximately 70% of total export earn-
ings. Exceptionally large food imports in FY80 accounted for 26% of total
imports; this share is expected to fall to about 10% in FY81. Capital goods
imports have risen rapidly in recent years and currently account for over
one-fourth of total imports. Petroleum and petroleum product imports have
increased very slowly in volume since the early 1970's; but their import bill
currently accounts for about 20% of total imports, and is equivalent to about
two-thirds of export earnings.
12.       The current account deficit in recent years ($1.5 billion in FY80)
has been considerably smaller than the trade deficit, owing mainly to the
rapid growth of workers' remittances from the Middle East. These receipts are
now the second most important source of foreign exchange earnings, exceeded
only by jute goods exports. Significant developments in the capital account
were the US$100 million increase in project aid disbursements in FY79 and
again in FY80, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive capacity.
Total aid disbursements in FY80 were US$1.23 billion, equivalent to 52% of
total merchandise imports. Debt service payments were US$93 million in FY80.
Some debt relief measures undertaken by various donors contributed to a
decline in the debt service ratio from 15.8% in FY79 to about 13% in FY80.
13.       In early FY80, the IMF approved a Standby Arrangement for a period
of one year in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 million. Net of repayments,
and including disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund and new SDR allocations,
the IMF covered about US$60 million of Bangladesh's external financing require-
ments in FY80. In addition, Bangladesh has made extensive use of Fund resources
under the oil and compensatory financing facility. The financial program
agreed under the Standby Arrangement was designed to limit the expansion in
overall domestic credit. While the monetary targets embodied in the financial
program had to be revised upwards in midyear, the goals of the program were
largely met. The specific ceilings in the program on credit to the public
sector were exceeded, however, largely because of unanticipated deficit financ-
ing by the Government in the last month of FY80. Under the current EFF,
Bangladesh expects net IMF financing in the current fiscal year to exceed
US$200 million, inclusive of Trust Fund loans and SDR allocations.
14.       The terms of trade remained essentially unchanged in FY80 as rising
export prices for jute goods helped offset the impact of rising petroleum and
other import prices. Total FY80 merchandise exports increased by about 21%
and imports by over 55% in value; foodgrain and petroleum purchases alone
accounted for over three-quarters of the increase in imports. The FY80
current account deficit was largely covered by disbursements of approximately
US$375 million in food aid, US$400 million in commodity aid and US$470 million
in project aid--total aid disbursements roughly 20% more than in FY79. In
addition, however, reserves were drawn down by some US$150 million.



- 5 -
15.       The FY81 balance of payments situation, as noted above, is precarious.
The terms of trade are projected to deteriorate markedly, reflecting mainly
an expected fall in jute goods export prices and a continuing rise in import
prices. At present, the Government faces the difficult prospect of having to
choose between a further reduction in reserves and the containment of imports
to less-than-targeted levels.
Public Finance
16.        Government finances improved considerably in FY79.  In FY80, however,
the budget came under some stress, largely as a result of expenditures for
investments in food stocks and a shortfall in commodity aid receipts. The
budgetary situation will continue to remain tight in FY81 for the same reasons,
and the growth of development expenditures is likely to be restrained. Further
improvements in the mobilization of domestic resources are needed if the ratio
of public investment to GDP is to be raised above the level of recent years.
17.       The task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving a broadening of the tax base on domestic incomes and output, a
strengthening of public sector enterprises and utilities, and a reduction of
the major subsidies on food and fertilizer. The latter task has to be carried
out with due regard for both equity considerations and the impact on production.
The Government appointed a Tax Enquiry Commission in 1977 and the final report
of the Commission was submitted to the Government in April 1979. A start has
been made in implementing some of the recommendations of the Tax Enquiry Com-
mission, especially in regard to improvements in income tax administration.
In an effort to improve the administration of indirect taxes, the Government
is slowly progressing toward the integration of the sales tax and the excise
tax.
18.       The Government has also shown a growing awareness of the need to
improve the financial performance of the public sector enterprises and utili-
ties and to reduce the major subsidies. In the course of FY79 and FY80, the
Government raised foodgrain ration prices, several utility rates, and commodity
sales prices of public sector enterprises. Fertilizer prices, for example,
were increased by an average of 28% in August 1979 and a further 24% in November
1980; and petroleum product prices were raised by up to 45% in November 1979.
Issue prices for foodgrains from the public distribution system were increased
in May 1979 and again in May 1980 by a combined 40%, as the Government began
to move toward a gradual elimination of the foodgrain subsidy. In some cases,
these price adjustments only kept up with inflation, but in others--notably
the fertilizer subsidy--they served to reduce the subsidy per unit of product
in real terms. Petroleum product prices were raised by a further 45% in
mid-1980--an adjustment which should serve to eliminate the subsidy on this
account during FY81.
19.       The Government is expected to outline its longer term policies
regarding taxation, the reduction of subsidies and the rationalization of
the pricing policies of public sector enterprises and utilities in a com-
prehensive fiscal strategy paper for the SFYP period. This strategy paper,
now expected to be issued in September 1981, will set out a time-phased action
program for fiscal policy measures and other steps to improve the mobilization
of public sector financial resources for the financing of the development
program embodied in the SFYP.



20.       In FY80, Government revenues increased considerably more than cur-
rent expenditures, resulting in a substantial increase in the current surplus.
This favorable fiscal performance was accompanied, however, by a net erosion
in the financial position of the public enterprises and corporations, by a
very large increase in expenditures to build up food stocks, and by a large
shortfall (from the budgeted amount) in commodity aid receipts. The net
consequence was that a large (31%) increase in development expenditure was
able to be sustained only because the Government undertook unplanned deficit
financing amounting to Tk 3 billion, equivalent to 9% of total Government
expenditure. Although public savings are expected to increase markedly in
the current year, the budget is under severe stress. This is mainly because
of a projected further large increase in expenditures on food stocks, and
shortfalls (relative to budgeted levels) in food as well as commodity aid
receipts. The Government therefore faces the prospect that unless it effects
substantial cuts in targeted development expenditures (projected in the budget
to rise by a further 31% in current prices), it will have to resort to much
larger bank financing than is consistent with established credit ceilings
and monetary policy objectives.
21.       Inflationary pressures, which had re-emerged in FY78 (sparked pri-
marily by excessive liquidity creation by the banking system) continued into
FY79 and gained force in the latter part of the year when rice prices rose
very rapidly. The cost-of-living index for urban consumers rose by 19%
between June 1978 and June 1979, pushed by a 48% increase in average rice
prices; most of this rise occurred in the last months of the year. Rice prices
levelled off in the second half of 1979, and the inflationary pressure eased
considerably during FY80. As of June 1980, the cost-of-living index was about
12% above the June 1979 level, with overall liquidity (money supply plus time
and savings deposits) expanding by some 16% for the year ending June 1980.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
22.       FY79 and FY80 constituted the period of the Two-Year Plan, which
was meant to provide an opportunity for policy reappraisal and for prepara-
tion of the Second Five-Year Plan. In the process of preparing the Plan, its
authors addressed the factors underlying the slow development of the economy
over the past decade. These include poor land use, insufficient irrigation
and flood control, inadequate administrative capacity, low domestic resource
mobilization, social impediments to change, and an environment prone to
natural disasters. The planners also analyzed the problems posed by the basic
structural characteristics of the economy: poor physical capital stock; a
high rate of population growth; mass poverty; a highly skewed distribution of
income and land ownership; a high ratio of population to land; extreme frag-
mentation of landholdings and growing landlessness of the predominantly rural
population; high illiteracy; poor health and short life expectancy; high
unemployment and underemployment and scarce employment possibilities outside
agriculture; and a heavy dependence on foreign aid, not only for investment
financing, but also for food and other recurrent inputs.
23.       The Second Five-Year Plan (issued in draft form in May 1980) accords
top priority to three major efforts: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency in
foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase to



an annual amount of 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the population
growth rate with a view of bringing the net reproduction rate down to unity by
the year 1990; and (iii) progress towards mass literacy through the vehicle of
free, universal primary education. Enhanced priority is also to be given to
energy development, particularly through exploiting known reserves of natural
gas.
24.       The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Yields and cropping intensity are well below potential levels,
fertilizer application rates are modest, and surface and groundwater resources
are enormous and would permit a substantial expansion of irrigation. There is
large unsatisfied demand for irrigation; where irrigation is available, the
increase in fertilizer use and the shift to high-yielding varieties of rice
and from dry season rice to wheat have been widespread and rapid. The growth
of fertilizer consumption and of wheat acreage and production during the past
few years have been among the most notable positive developments in Bangladesh
agriculture and justify some optimism concerning the ability of the country to
achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains in the foreseeable future. The Govern-
ment has formulated, with assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Produc-
tion Plan which provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment
of the SFYP target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. 1/ While this target is
feasible, its achievement will be possible only if the Government demonstrates
the determination and capacity to allocate the resources required to provide
the inputs needed by the farmers, and to permit the private sector to play a
substantial role in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural imple-
ments and inputs. Other necessary requirements are adequate levels of foreign
aid to finance imported inputs, improved farmer extension and training, and
appropriate farm income and incentive levels. Without suitable attention to
these latter factors, farmers demand for inputs could soon start to level off.
25.       Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far. Recent projections 2/ indicate that, unless the net reproduction rate
is brought down more rapidly than present trends indicate, the population of
Bangladesh, estimated at almost 90 million in January 1980, could rise to 143
million by the year 2000. Birth control efforts have suffered thus far from
poor implementation and have had only limited success. Recently, however,
there has been some encouraging progress. The coordination of birth control
activities within the Government is improving, while training programs for
field staff have been revised and are now, for the first time, considered
adequate. GOB has decided to prepare a medium term implementation plan for
population and the Bank has agreed to provide technical assistance in prepar-
ing this plan.
1/   The MTFPP target is flexibly set at the 18-20 million tons range, allow-
ing for a 10% shortfall due to adverse weather or other factors beyond
the control of the implementing agencies.
2/   IBRD projections prepared for the World Development Report 1980.
a



-8-
26.       Vigorous pursuit of the measures that have been identified to improve
performance should enable GOB to come gradually to grips with the population
problem. It should make it possible to double approximately the number of
acceptors of family planning during the SFYP period (from 14% of couples of
reproductive age in FY79 to 28% by FY85). As noted above, the planners' offi-
cial aim is to reduce the net reproduction rate to the level of one by 1990,
although they are aware that, as yet, no other country has succeeded in reduc-
ing reproduction at such a rapid rate. This target is clearly not achievable,
but the Government means to use it to galvanize institutions at all levels as
well as the population itself into determined action to stabilize the size
of the population as early as possible.
27.       The third of the central objectives of the SFYP is the drive for
general literacy. The planners recognize that its attainment will take longer
than five years, but they have set themselves the target of introducing uni-
versal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of primary school
age by 1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national non-formal
mass education scheme for those already past primary school age.
28.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a signi-
ficant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn will
require sizeable increases in the mobilization of domestic and the inflow of
foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to which project
implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improvements
can be made in the ability of the administration to expedite project imple-
mentation, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would be
adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes
that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed on the
private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities
such as education and rural development should be carried out in a decen-
tralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots
participation. 1/
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
29.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan before
1971. In addition, as of March 31, 1981, 51 new credits have been approved,
totaling US$1,547.7 million; of these, US$665 million have been for program
credits (nine imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits).
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as
of March 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June
18, 1976 Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and two investments (for a
shipbuilding company and an investment .promotion company) have been approved.
1/   A full review of the (draft) Second Five-Year Plan is contained in the
Bank's 1981 economic report.



- 9 -
30.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 15.8% in FY79, 1/ but fell to
about 13% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors. The debt service ratio might exceed 20% by the mid-1980s unless care-
ful debt management policies are pursued and aid is provided on appropriately
concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and disbursed external
public debt amounted to just over US$3 billion as of June 30, 1980, with IDA
credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 25% of the total. In FY80,
the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total debt service payments;
because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA credits, debt service
to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
31.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(15 of the 40 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Govern-
ment's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects
that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage facilities.
In addition to agriculture projects, emphasis is also being placed upon com-
plementary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks interfering with the economy's overall
performance. In the power sector, for example, we expect to emphasize rural
electrification and elimination of shortages of generation capacity or distri-
bution facilities which have been a major impediment to utilization of existing
industrial capacity.
32.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the nine imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the economy,
program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA operations
in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two fertilizer
production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project and several DFC
and small-scale industry projects. IFC recently approved a US$2.1 million
loan and US$200,000 equity for producing finished leather for export, and
is currently in the process of identifying further suitable investment
opportunities.
33.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capa-
city. The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and
a second population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
34.       Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
1/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.  If workers' remittances
amounting to US$140 million are added to total merchandise export earn-
ings of US$602 million, the debt service ratio would drop to 12.9%.



- 10 -
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. Progress
has been made recently on these issues and the disbursement performance is
improving. IDA and GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring
and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is
providing assistance both under specific projects and under technical assis-
tance credits to assist in improving planning, project preparation and
implementation capabilities.
35.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order
to direct IDA lending to sectors where the percentage of foreign exchange
costs is relatively low, local currency expenditures also are being financed
in certain priority areas such as agriculture and rural development, includ-
ing small-scale and cottage industries.
36.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and
development strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of
external assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent
activities have concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy,
and increased domestic resource mobilization and have been undertaken in the
context of the recent detailed review of the Government's Second Five Year
Plan.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
37.       Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for 55% of
GDP, 70% of employment and, directly or indirectly, over 80% of the country's
exports. About 74% of the agricultural GDP (in FY80) is derived from crops
and the rest from forestry (6%), fisheries (8%) and livestock (12%). Bangladesh
has a gross cropped area of 32 M ac, of which about 22.5 M ac are under cultiva-
tion at a cropping intensity averaging 140% in recent years. Rice, by far the
most important crop, accounts for about 78% of the cropped area; jute, the
principal export, for 6%; and a variety of other crops such as wheat, pulses,
oilseeds, sugarcane and vegetables for the remainder. Agricultural produc-
tivity in Bangladesh is among the lowest in the world; paddy yields average
only about 0.5 tons per ac.
38.       The major objectives of the Government's agricultural development
efforts as outlined under its Second Five Year Plan (FY81-FY85) are to
achieve food self-sufficiency based on a targeted production of 18-20 million
tons of foodgrain per annum by the end of the plan period (compared to 13.3
million tons in FY80), to create employment for the rural poor in order to
improve incomes and nutritional standards, and to increase export earnings.
With the assistance of the Bank Group, the Government has prepared a Medium-
Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) detailing the development activities
that would be required in order to attain its stated production target.



Potential and Constraints
39.       There is high potential for increasing agricultural production in
Bangladesh because of fertile soils; the climate, which is suitable for year
round cropping; and abundant and as yet hardly exploited groundwater resources.
However, there are also serious constraints to agricultural development such
as scarcity of cultivable land, limited potential of part of the cultivated
land, climatic hazards, lack of irrigation facilities, and deficient trans-
portation for moving farm inputs and produce. The major constraint is the
heavy pressure of population on land. Most land holdings in Bangladesh are
small and fragmented--a typical holding being about 2 acres split into six
plots. This constitutes an obstacle to efficient farm management and makes
the organization of cooperative irrigation systems difficult. An additional
constraint is the agricultural tenancy arrangements, under which about 30%
of Bangladesh farmers operate. Because of the customary rental arrangements,
the tenant is normally expected to provide all of the inputs but receives only
about half of the crop and has no right of occupancy. Under such an arrange-
ment there is reduced incentive to develop land for irrigation or to adopt
improved farming practices. Generally, farmers in Bangladesh are receptive
to proven innovations. Their efforts, however, have been handicapped by
inadequate amounts of inputs such as seeds, fertilizers and pesticides on
the one hand and inadequate technical advice on the other.
40.       Given the constraints inhibiting a more rapid growth of the agri-
cultural sector, any effective policy to raise significantly the level of
production and assure long-term growth must provide for a more timely and
adequate supply of modern farm inputs and an effective input/output pricing
policy to provide suitable incentives to farmers. The Government is cognizant
of the need for such policy measures and, with the assistance of the Bank
Group and other external aid agencies, is taking steps to implement them. IDA
is currently assisting in the expansion of domestic seed production 1/ and
similar efforts are being made to improve the existing extension and research
services. 2/ Fertilizer distribution has been turned over to the private
sector at the wholesale level throughout the country; the wholesale and retail
distribution of pesticides is now being handled entirely by the private
sector; and pump repair and maintenance services have been opened up to the
private sector. In addition, the Government has taken a number of other
significant steps to improve the overall efficiency of the agricultural
sector. Over the past two years subsidies on fertilizers, irrigation equipment
and diesel fuel have been reduced through a series of price/rental charge
increases, thereby freeing scarce resources for other priority investments; a
start has been made in selling irrigation equipment to private owners rather
than renting them out at heavily subsidized rates; the procurement prices for
paddy, rice and wheat have been increased to levels close to international
prices for comparable grades of grain (for rice Tk 170 per maund or US$300 per
ton and for wheat Tk 110 per maund or about US$193 per ton); and the number
1/   Supported by Credit 410-BD and a second project under appraisal.
2/   Supported by Credit 729-BD.



- 12 -
of grain purchasing centers has been increased substantially in an effort to
ensure that farmers obtain prevailing incentive prices for their crops at
harvest time.
Irrigation
41.       Since increased production must come essentially from land already
under cultivation, the provision of irrigation facilities will be the principal
means of increasing land use intensity, particularly during the dry season
(November to March). Earlier government policies had emphasized the develop-
ment of large-scale gravity irrigation and flood control projects. However,
by the early 1960s, there was a change in emphasis with priority being given
to greater reliance on the use of low lift pumps (LLPs) and tubewells. This
strategy has proved economically attractive and is now yielding significant
results. LLPs are small capacity (1-2 cusec) diesel powered centrifugal pumps
used to raise irrigation water from perennial streams and ponds. LLPs were
introduced in the late 1950s; by FY80 about 38,000 LLPs were being fielded
annually, irrigating a total land area of around 1.4 M ac. Under the Low Lift
Pump Project (Credit 990-BD), the Association financed 8,500 (5,500 one-cusec
and 3,000 two-cusec) new LLPs with spares, to replace unserviceable LLPs and
to allow for additional LLP fieldings. It is estimated that existing surface
water resources could support additional fieldings of around 3,400 LLPs after
which further expansion of the program would have to be in conjunction with
the improvement of natural channels, including the provision of associated
control structures. Tubewells to exploit groundwater offer the best prospect
for quick-yielding high return expansion of irrigated areas where surface
water is not available. Three kinds of tubewells are used in Bangladesh--deep
tubewells (DTWs-typically using 20 hp diesel engines and yielding about two to
three cusec), shallow tubewells (STWs-typically equipped with 5 to 6 hp diesel
engines yielding less than one cusec) and hand tubewells (HTWs-capable of
irrigating 1/2 ac). About 120,000 of the latter were estimated to be in use
in FY81. An additional 180,000 HTWs would be financed over a three-year
period under a proposed IDA-assisted HTW project which is being submitted for
consideration separately.
42.       Until recently, much of the emphasis in groundwater development was
placed on DTWs. A total of about 11,000 DTWs have been installed of which
the Tubewells Project (Credit 341-BD) financed 3000. Given the small size of
farms in Bangladesh, the output of a DTW could only be effectively maximized
by a large group of farmers and the formation and management of such groups
are often difficult. However, STWs can be used by smaller groups of farmers
and are less expensive and simpler to install and maintain. As a result, the
Government has been encouraging greater utilization of STWs. Although so far
only about 20,000 STWs have been installed, proposals are under consideration
by the Association and other external aid agencies for installing an additional
35,000 STWs over the next 4-5 years under the MTFPP. The proposed project
would support this program and provide financing for additional STW fieldings
over the next four years.
Promotion of Private Sector Role in Equipment Supply
43.       In the past, responsibility for the procurement and distribution
of all irrigation equipment and other major farm inputs, including servicing,



- 13 -
was vested in the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC)
and, to a lesser extent, the Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB). However, recog-
nizing the weaknesses of an overly centralized procurement and distribution
system and the limited capacity of the public sector to deliver increasing
quantities of inputs and services, recent Government policies have sought to
encourage a greater private sector role in agriculture. Specifically, the
Government has embarked on a program for the gradual transfer of responsibility
for the supply and distribution of minor irrigation equipment, including
maintenance, to the private sector. Similar steps are also being taken to
encourage the private sector to invest in the domestic manufacture of irriga-
tion equipment. A start was made under the Shallow Tubewells Project (Credit
724-BD), during the implementation of which a system of procurement based on
"farmers' choice," limited to makes that had been found to be satisfactory in
Bangladesh, was adopted and proved successful. Further measures to promote
private sector participation in the supply of minor irrigation equipment were
taken under the Low Lift Pump Project (Credit 990-BD), which established
detailed procedures for the importation and sale of 5,500 LLPs by the private
sector; and also under the recently approved Ninth Imports Program (Credit
1071-BD), which included funds to encourage private sector importation/
manufacture of minor irrigation equipment. The proposed project would build
on these earlier achievements. To ensure the active participation of the
private sector, the Government has agreed under the Ninth Imports Program
Credit that the standard margin for the opening of letters of credit for STW
imports would be maintained at 20%, as against 25% for most other purposes.
BADC (which is likely to remain a major STW sales agency for some time) was
required to increase the sale price of engines by 15%, the equivalent of the
current import duty imposed on private traders. In addition, the Government
will introduce a duty draw back system on other components. These measures
should enable private dealers to be competitive with BADC.
44.       Project pumps would be procured either locally or through imports,
depending on availability and need. There are currently 12 local firms
engaged in the domestic manufacturing of irrigation pumps. The prices of
locally produced pumps are competitive despite the existing high tariffs
(60%-120%) on imported raw materials. A reduction in the tariffs on raw
materials, which is currently being considered by the Government, should
increase the competitiveness of locally made pumps. There are 8 engine makes
(identified through "farmers' choice" procedures under Credits 724-BD and
990-BD) that have been tested and found satisfactory to local conditions.
These makes offer an adequate choice to farmers and range from the more modern
and expensive to cheaper and older designs which are, nevertheless, functional.
The firms dealing in the identified makes have developed a satisfactory sales
and service network for their products and some have either set up in domestic
manufacturing or are actively discussing plans for doing so. Because the
introduction of additional makes, given the limited size of the Bangladesh
market, might discourage existing agencies from making further investments to
assure an adequate supply of equipment, including the provision of adequate
spares and maintenance facilities, participation under the proposed project
would be limited to firms dealing in engine makes identified under earlier



- 14 -
"farmers' choice" procedures or makes which are otherwise widely used. Com-
petition between dealers of different makes for attracting "farmers' choice"
orders through the public sector has been keen and is expected to continue.
The list of makes for participation under the proposed project was agreed
during credit negotiations. Other firms dealing in suitable equipment and
which have or could establish satisfactory repairs, spares and distribution
facilities in the project area would be considered for participation to replace
any firm that withdraws from the agreed list or proves unsatisfactory. GOB
would issue import licences to suppliers who qualify for participation under
the proposed project for the importation of STW equipment (see Section 3.04
of the draft DCA).
Credit Operations and Institutions
45.       Institutional lending for agriculture in Bangladesh is directed
and coordinated by the Bangladesh Bank (BB, the central bank), and channeled
through cooperatives, the Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB) and the six nationalized
commercial banks (CBs). Since independence in 1971, the amount of institu-
tional lending for agriculture has increased from an initial Tk 150 M per
annum to Tk 1,060 M in FY77 and Tk 2,684 M in FY80. This rapid growth in
agricultural lending resulted from an expansion in the activities of the Thana
Central Cooperative Association/Krishi Samabaya Samiti (Village Credit Society)
or TCCA/KSS system and of BKB, the involvement of CBs in rural lending, and
the introduction in 1977 of the Government's Tk 100 crore 1/ scheme for the
financing of crop production credit through BKB and the CBs. Under the Tk 100
crore scheme, BB is responsible for determining the agricultural lending
program of each of the participating institutions and for providing any
required refinancing. In FY80, BB provided refinancing for around two-thirds
of total rural credit disbursed.
46.       Bangladesh has a substantial network of credit outlets comprising
around 70,000 village cooperative societies, more than 3,400 CBs branches and
over 400 BKB branches. Over the last four years, BKB and CBs have more than
doubled the number of their branches. The proliferation of branches by these
institutions has placed a strain on their existing resources and resulted in
a shortage of skilled staff. Furthermore, lending achievements, particularly
under the Tk 100 crore scheme, have lagged behind targets. Specifically, the
demand for crop production credit has been limited because of the inadequate
supply of irrigation equipment without which investments in other inputs are
not profitable. Various improvements are also necessary in the performance
of the existing institutions, particularly in the area of loan recovery. A
number of the older institutions such as BKB and the traditional cooperatives
have a legacy of overdues. Some overdues date back to pre-independence days
and need to be addressed separately, since they cloud recent improved collec-
tion efforts. In the case of CBs, the record of loan recovery varies from
1/   One crore = 10 million.



- 15 -
37% to 72% of demand. 1/ However, this could partly be accounted for by
the adverse climatic conditions and resulting poor crop of FY79 and by early
lending under the Tk 100 crore scheme when CBs, because of inadequate staff,
had to rely on local government personnel for the selection of borrowers.
TCCA/KSS lending is limited to those KSSs that have a recovery of 80% of
repayments due in the preceding 12 months and have no overdues of a longer
duration. A yearly breakdown of the data on recoveries indicates that repay-
ment has been good and that overdues of three years and above are negligible.
In general, the recent loan recovery efforts of the above institutions have
been encouraging and overdues, excluding those requiring special treatment
referred to earlier, have been more in the nature of delayed payments than
potential bad debts. The proposed project would help correct these deficien-
cies (see paragraphs 52 and 63-64 below).
47.       BKB is the most important agricultural lending institution and has
some experience in long-term lending; its lending accounted for 53% of total
agricultural lending in FY80. BKB has been receiving technical assistance
from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and has developed a sound financial,
organizational and staffing structure. Of the three largest CBs (Sonali
Bank, Janata Bank and Agrani Bank), Sonali has the most experience with
agricultural credit through its own operations, the refinancing of TCCA/KSS
operations, and its role under the IDA-assisted Jute Project (Credit 765-BD)
and the Shallow Tubewells Project (Credit 724-BD). The main agricultural
lending operations of the three CBs have been the Taka 100 crore scheme (see
paragraph 45 above). The number of TCCA/KSS cooperatives has also increased
from about 5,700 in 1972 to around 40,000 in 1980, with a membership of about
1.3 million. KSSs provide group management of irrigation equipment, collect
thrift deposits and provide regular training, institutional credit and, in
some cases inputs and marketing services. KSSs are classified into grades A
to E. Only A and B class KSSs with high membership, good savings performance
and loan repayment, and high attendance at regular training sessions would
participate in the proposed project. The Government, through the Integrated
Rural Development Program (IRDP), supports the TCCA financially (about
Tk 850-Tk 1,000 per constituent KSS) to finance training and staff costs.
48.       The Bank Group has recently assisted the Government in carrying out
a joint review of the TCCA/KSS cooperative system. The review has identified
a number of constraints inhibiting a more rapid growth of the TCCA/KSS system.
These include: (a) the TCCA/KSS existing short-term lending rate (17.5%)
which is out of line with that charged by other credit institutions for
similar lending (12%); (b) the restrictiveness of present eligibility criteria
and procedures for lending necessitated by present statutory credit ceilings;
(c) the centralized planning of and procedures for seasonal lending which are
cumbersome and often result in delays in loan sanctioning; (d) the limited
1/   Repayments of capital and interest falling due during the year plus
capital and interest repayments due at the beginning of the year.



- 16 -
range of farming activities that can qualify for loans; and (e) the present
statutory regulations which prohibit TCCA/KSS from utilizing their own funds
for making loans to members. These issues were reviewed during credit nego-
tiations and technical assistance would be provided, as necessary, to assist
the Government in formulating and implementing a program of needed reforms
(see paragraph 64 below). GOB would, no later than December 31, 1982, prepare
and furnish for the Association's review, and thereafter implement, taking
into account the Association's comments thereon, proposals for improving the
TCCA/KSS loan eligibility criteria and lending program (see Section 3.11 of
the draft DCA).
49.       Operating in parallel with the TCCA/KSS cooperative system is the
traditional cooperative system comprising the Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd
(BSBL) as apex for the financing of 16 Land Mortgage Banks, 12 Central Sugar-
cane Growers Societies and 62 District Central Cooperative Banks (DCCB), to
which about 30,000 village and union multipurpose societies are affiliated.
The Government is currently considering proposals to unify both systems and
to make BSBL the apex institution for the financing of all cooperative credit.
BSBL has no branch offices and its supervision of constituent societies has
been weak.  BSBL lacks resources, and while its lending volume increased from
Tk 100 M in FY76 to Tk 270 M in FY80, its overall performance has been unsat-
isfactory. As of June 30, 1980, BSBL's loan recovery stood at only 32% of
demand and its overdues amounted to Tk 298 M, including about Tk 147 M from
loans granted between FY61 and FY75. Total overdues amounted to around
53% of outstanding loans and chronic overdues exceeded BSBL's total capital
of Tk 78 M. To qualify as a suitable apex institution for a unified coopera-
tive system, or for participation under the proposed project, BSBL would need
both financial rehabilitation and strengthening, including the establishment
of branch offices. Until such improvements are achieved, the Sonali Bank
would continue to refinance TCCA/KSS in the project area. Reorganization of
the cooperative credit system in the project area would be implemented only
on the basis of a phased and detailed plan, satisfactory to the Association,
and possible future participation of BSBL in the proposed project would be
conditional upon its meeting the criteria for participation set out in
Schedule I, paragraph 4(e) to the draft BB Project Agreement (see Section
3.08 of the draft DCA).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The proposed project was appraised by a mission that visited
Bangladesh in October/November 1980. A Staff Appraisal Report (Report No.
3348c-BD dated April 17, 1981) is being distributed separately. Supplemen-
tary project data are summarized in Annex III. Negotiations for the proposed
credit were held in Washington, D.C. in April 1981; the Bangladesh delegation
was led by Mr. A.Z.M. Obaidullah Khan, Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Project Description
51.       The proposed project would be the first IDA-assisted agricultural
credit project in Bangladesh. The participating credit institutions would
include the BKB; the three largest CBs (Sonali Bank, Janata Bank and Agrani



- 17 -
Bank); and the TCCA/KSS cooperatives. With the exception of BKB, the exist-
ing credit institutions lack experience in long-term lending for agriculture.
The proposed project would seek to establish a replicable system for delivery
of long-term credit in the agricultural sector and increase agricultural
production, rural incomes and employment opportunities.
52.       The proposed project would strengthen the participating credit
institutions and address the deficiencies discussed in paragraph 46 above.
To qualify for refinancing, each participating credit institution would enter
into a participation agreement with the BB, the terms and conditions of which
would be satisfactory to the Association and include those set out in Schedule
I to the draft BB Project Agreement (see Section 2.02(b) of the draft BB
Project Agreement); the BB would ensure that the lending terms and conditions
are in accordance with those agreed with the Association (see Section 2.04 of
the draft BB Project Agreement and paragraph 67 below). The capabilities of
the participating credit institutions would be improved through the development
and implementation of a comprehensive training program (see paragraph 63
below). Several actions would be taken to improve loan recovery performance.
GOB and BB would furnish for the Association's review, no later than December
31, 1981, and yearly thereafter, accurate information on the loan recovery
status in the project area of each participating credit institution (see
Section 2.11 of the draft BB Project Agreement). Where the recovery of
outstanding loans by any branch of a participating credit institution over
the preceding 12 months falls below 40% prior to December 31, 1983 and 50%
thereafter, the BB would suspend lending in respect of such branch until its
loan recovery performance has been improved to the above specified ceilings;
where loan recovery has been less than 60% of demand in the preceding twelve
months, the BB would cause the institution to develop a satisfactory loan
recovery program (see Section 2.12(a) and (b) of the draft BB Project Agree-
ment). The BB would prepare a banking plan, satisfactory to the Association,
as a condition of credit effectiveness (see Sections 5.01(d) of the draft DCA
and 2.09 of the draft BB Project Agreement) defining its own role in project
implementation; staffing requirements and training; loan processing, procure-
ment and construction procedures, coordination arrangements, and supervision
monitoring and reporting requirements (see Section 2.09 of the draft BB
Project Agreement). In addition, GOB would no later than December 31, 1983,
develop or cause to be developed performance criteria, satisfactory to the
Association, and based on experience, for institutions wishing to benefit
from future BB refinancing (see Section 3.07 of the draft DCA).
53.       The project would cover the five districts of the Rajshahi Division
of northwest Bangladesh. The Division includes the Rajshahi, Dinajpur,
Rangpur, Bogra and Pabna Districts, comprising 14 subdivisions and 111 thanas.
It encompasses a total area of 13,370 square miles and a population of around
21.6 million, over 90% of which live in the rural areas. The project area is
well suited for the proposed investments because of its existing network of
banking outlets, abundant groundwater resources, availability of supporting
services (extension, construction and maintenance facilities), 1/ and rela-
tively high farmers' demand for modern inputs and equipment.
1/   The Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD) and the Jute Project
(Credit 765-BD) are helping to improve extension and field research in
the project area, based on the "Training and Visit" concept.



- 18 -
54.       The proposed project would be implemented over a four-year develop-
ment period (FY82-FY85) and would include:
(a) the provision of credit to farmers and farmers' groups
for the construction and equipment of STWs;
(b) the provision of credit for the equipment of workshops
for the maintenance of irrigation facilities;
(c) the provision of credit to village mechanics for the
purchase of tool kits and bicycles;
(d) the provision of credit for the construction of grain
storage;
(e) the provision of funds to pioneer new lines of credit for
investments such as the construction of water distribution
channels and sundry items of farm equipment;
(f) the provision of funds for about 56 man-months of technical
assistance for the development of a training program and
to strengthen the participating credit institutions under
the project; and
(g) the provision of funds to finance local training and about
70 man-months overseas training of staff of the participating
credit institutions.
Project Execution
55.       Overall responsibility for the execution of the proposed project
would be vested in BB, as executing agency. The BB was established in 1972
with a wholly Government-owned paid-in capital of Tk 30 M. BB nas five main
departments: Banking Control; Exchange Control; Agricultural Credit; Research
and Statistics; and the recently created Projects Department. In addition to
its central banking functions, the BB through its Agricultural Credit Depart-
ment is responsible for preparing annual credit programs, devising new credit
schemes, advising credit institutions on rural credit matters, and inspecting
CBs and BKB branches as well as major cooperatives engaged in rural credit
operations. It channels refinancing for rural lending to the above credit
institutions and collects statistics on agricultural lending. In FY80, BB
made a net profit of Tk 1,010 M.
56.       Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the proposed project
would be vested in a specially created and staffed Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) to be established within the BB Projects Department (BBPD). The BBPD
would be responsible for planning and supervising all aspects of project
implementation, including the adequacy of equipment supplies and construction
agencies; the execution of the technical assistance and training programs;
and the refinancing of participating credit agencies for approved project
lending to borrowers. The PIU would be headed by a specially appointed
Project Director, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,



- 19 -
and who would report to the head of the BBPD. The Project Director would be
supported in the discharge of his functions by a team of suitably qualified
recruited or designated staff. GOB would establish the PIU and appoint the
key staff necessary for its operations as a condition of effectiveness (see
Sections 2.10(a) and (b) of the draft BB Project Agreement and 5.01(c) of the
draft DCA).
57.       Project activities would be coordinated at both the national and
district levels through specially constituted coordinating committees. At
the national level, the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) would comprise:
the Secretary for Agriculture, as Chairman; the Secretaries, or their
representatives, of the Ministries of Finance and Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives; the Director General of IRDP; the Chairman
of BADC; and the heads of each of the participating CBs, BKB and BBPD.
The Project Director of PIU would act as convenor and secretary and would
provide secretarial support for the PCC. Each District Coordinating Committee
(DCC) would be chaired by the Deputy Commissioner and would draw on the BB,
IRDP, local representatives of the CBs, BKB, BADC and the Department of
Agriculture as members. Meetings of both the PCC and DCCs would be held at
quarterly intervals. GOB would establish the PCC and DCCs as a condition of
credit effectiveness (see Sections 3.09 and 5.01(b) of the draft DCA).
58.       Irrigation Lending.  The main emphasis in lending would be for
minor irrigation equipment. Long-term loans would be provided to farmers
and farmers' groups for the purchase and installation of around 27,000 STWs.
Since individual holdings are small, and the pumps are easily portable,
one pump could service a number of well points, thereby reducing the cost to
a farmer to about one-third that of a completely installed STW. By sharing
the use of pumps this way, a larger number of small farmers who are unable
to afford a STW on their own could participate, as could the landless and
sharecroppers who would be able to borrow for purchase of a pump to service
wells.
59.       Tubewell Spacing.  The siting of STWs would be the responsibility
of the participating credit institutions. In view of the extensive ground-
water resources of the project area, there would be little risk of inadequate
water for pumping, and the spacing of STWs would be determined on economic
rather than technical grounds. However, to facilitate close monitoring, the
siting of each STW would be marked on the Thana Irrigation Map for the area.
These maps were initiated under the Shallow Tubewells Project (Credit 724-BD)
and are currently being maintained by BADC. The Thana Irrigation Maps would
be maintained and updated at all times by a competent agency, satisfactory to
the Association, and BB would ensure that all STWs refinanced under the pro-
posed project are recorded accurately in the above maps (see paragraph 4(h)
of Schedule I to the draft BB Project Agreement).
60.       The use of DTWs results in a greater drawdown of the groundwater
table and the construction of DTWs and STWs within the same area could render
the use of STWs ineffective. Thus, precautions would be taken to ensure that
any future construction of DTWs is limited to areas where the use of STWs is
unsuitable. GOB would, no later than September 30, 1981, demarcate in consul-
tation with the Association, the areas within the project area to be reserved



- 20 -
as suitable for STW development and those for which STWs could not be effec-
tively utilized and for which DTWs would need to be constructed. GOB would
also ensure that no new DTW development would be implemented in areas where,
on geo-hydrological grounds, such DTW construction would adversely affect
irrigation by means of shallow tubewells (see Section 3.05(a) and (b) of the
draft DCA).
61.       Workshop Equipment and Tools for Mechanics.  Currently, BADC pro-
vides workshop facilities and field mechanic services for the bulk of irriga-
tion equipment. However, there is fairly widespread interest in developing
privately operated repair and maintenance facilities. The proposed project
would provide credit to the private sector for the purchase of equipment and
tools required for the maintenance of minor irrigation facilities. Funds for
buildings have not been included as most workshop operators prefer to use
rented premises. Credit would also be provided for the purchase of tools for
use by village mechanics in STW repairs, including bicycles for their trans-
portation. These investments would augment funds already provided for such
purposes under Credit 724-BD and also the recently approved ADB-assisted
Second Agricultural Credit Project. There is an adequate supply of trained
mechanics in the project area who could benefit from the extension of the
additional credit facilities.
62.       Grain Storage.. Inadequate and poor quality storage facilities
have been a major constraint to GOB's foodgrain production and procurement
efforts. This problem is likely to be accentuated as the major planned
increases in domestic foodgrain production under the MTFPP get underway.
The proposed project would supplement the public procurement and storage
system by assist in the construction of additional foodgrain storage facilities
in the private sector (see paragraph 72 below). Participating credit institu-
tions, however, lack experience with this type of lending and, since it is
difficult to estimate the potential demand for such credit, a pilot component
has been proposed. The design of each storage unit would have to be satisfac-
tory to the BB and would provide storage capacity in the range of 100 to 500
tons. A small amount has also been included in the proposed credit to finance
miscellaneous items such as farm implements, irrigation water distribution
systems and other related items approved by the BB.
63.       Training Program.  Implementation of the proposed project would
involve the active participation of around 1,000 banking staff. While basic
training in commercial and cooperative banking is readily available and is
being provided by the CBs and cooperative training institutes, only BKB
operates an agricultural credit training program. The majority of the parti-
cipating institutions' staff lack experience in the appraisal, supervision
and loan recovery procedures for long-term credit. The proposed project
would strengthen the capabilities of participating institutions through the
development and implementation of a comprehensive local and short-term over-
seas training program. Local training would include: the training of BKB and
cooperative staff at the BKB Bogra Training Center; junior commercial bank
staff training at the various CBs training centers; and branch management
and other senior staff training at the Bangladesh Institute of Management,
which is already providing similar training for staff engaged in the ongoing
IDA-assisted small-scale industries projects. Local training would be under-
taken on rented premises and the proposed project would finance the equipment,



- 21 -
vehicles, furniture and recurrent expenditures required over the four-year
project development period. The overseas training program would cover 50
short-term fellowships,each of about 4-6 weeks duration, totaling 70 man-months,
and at an estimated cost of around US$4,300 per staff/month to cover travel,
subsistence, tuition and other expenses. GOB would prepare a training program,
satisfactory to the Association, and the overseas training program would
commence no later than November 30, 1981 (see Section 3.06(a) and (b) of the
draft DCA).
64.       Advisory Services.  The proposed project would finance about 56 man-
months of consultants' services. Of this amount, 18 man-months would be for
a credit specialist and an agricultural economist to assist in developing
programs for strengthening the BBPD. A training specialist would be recruited
for 12 man-months and attached to the BB to design and initiate the training
program. Two additional consultants would be recruited for a period of 20
man-months to help BSBL develop its capabilities in order to qualify, at a
later stage, as the apex institution for the refinancing of cooperatives (see
paragraph 49 above). An additional 6 man-months would be for a cooperative
agricultural credit specialist to assist TCCA/KSS cooperatives develop and
implement measures for improving their existing loan eligibility criteria
(see paragraph 48 above). GOB would appoint the credit specialist and train-
ing specialist no later than November 30, 1981, the cooperative agricultural
credit specialist, no later than December 31, 1981, and the agricultural
economist and two additional consultants to be attached to BSBL no later than
March 31, 1982. The qualifications, terms and conditions of service of these
advisors would be satisfactory to the Association (see Section 3.02(a) to (c)
of the draft DCA).
Cost Estimates
65.       Project costs are estimated at US$62.4 million equivalent, including
about US$8.8 million in import duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$34.1 million, or about 55% of total project costs. Cost
estimates are based on October 1980 prices. Price contingencies for foreign
exchange costs have been estimated at 9% for 1981, 8.5% for 1982 and 7.5% for
1983 onwards, and 7% compounded annually for local costs. Total contingencies
amount to US$14.1 million, or 23% of total costs. Cost of consultants have
been estimated at US$10,000 per man-month, which would include air fares,
living expenses and local travel.
Financing
66.       The proposed IDA credit of US$40 million would finance 64% of total
project costs (75% of total project costs, excluding taxes and duties) or 100%
of foreign exchange costs and 21% of local costs. The balance of project costs
would be met by farmers, other investors, GOB, BB and participating banks. GOB
would onlend US$38.1 million of the IDA credit to the BB to be used in refinanc-
ing participating credit institutions. The repayment periods would depend on
the refinancing requirements of each participating credit institution but would
not in any case exceed 15 years. GOB would bear the foreign exchange risk.
The balance of credit proceeds, US$1.9 million, would be retained by GOB and
used in financing the training and consultants' services costs under the
project. The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, detailing the onlending terms between GOB and the BB would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (see Sections 3.01(c) and
5.01(a) of the draft DCA).



- 22 -
Relending Operations and Terms
67.       Since the Asian Development Bank (ADB) is financing an agricultural
credit project for STW development in parts of the project area through BKB,
the BKB would be excluded from lending for STWs under the proposed project
in thanas that are already covered by the ADB project (see paragraph 4(g) of
Schedule I to the draft BB Project Agreement). Details of the lending terms
and conditions to participating credit institutions are outlined in the Dev-
elopment Credit and Project Summary to this report. The lending terms and
conditions to final borrowers would be in accordance with those set out in
paragraphs 1-3 of Schedule I to and Section 2.04 of the draft BB Project
Agreement. Interest charged to ultimate borrowers would be not less than 13%
on loans channeled directly through BKB and CBs, and not less than 14% in the
case of loans through the TCCA/KSS cooperative system. Projections of future
inflation rates indicate that the proposed rates would be positive in real
terms. The proposed spread of 7% for BKB and CBs, and 7-1/2% for TCCA for
direct lending, would cover lending costs and ensure reasonable returns to
them. In the case of the BB the spread would be in the range of 1% to 2%.
Sonali Bank would receive a spread of 2-1/2% for refinancing TCCAs. The
higher total spread in the cooperative credit chain (BB to Sonali to TCCA)
reflects both the number of intermediaries involved, and the costs of the
additional services provided by TCCA to their members. GOB would review
periodically with the Association the interest rate structure under the pro-
posed project to ensure that the interest rates to beneficiaries, in accordance
with its general interest rate policy, remain positive in real terms (see
Section 3.12 of the draft DCA).
68.       Borrowers' contribution would be in cash or kind and amount to 5% for
groups borrowing through cooperatives, small farmers and landless borrowers,
and 10% for other borrowers. Maturities would be determined on the basis of
borrowers' ability to repay but would not exceed the life of the asset and
would be concessionary for groups and small farmers. Concessionary terms
by way of smaller contributions and longer repayment periods are designed to
attract large scale participation by small farmers and cooperative groups. At
least 50% of project lending would be made to farmers' groups, small farmers
owning less than 3 acres of land and landless borrowers (see Section 2.03 of
the draft BB Project Agreement). The loans would be secured on the basis of
requirements agreed between BB and the participating banks (see paragraph 4(c)
of Schedule I to the draft BB Project Agreement).
Procurement
69.       Procurement involving relatively small investments by farmers and
other borrowers would be based on farmers' choice through local dealers and
contractors. Typical items would be STW engines and pumps, piping, screens
and installation, workshop equipment, tools, bicycles (for village mechanics),
and miscellaneous farm implements such as sprayers, carts and threshers. STW
equipment would be the major item of procurement; measures for building up
an adequate supply and choice for farmers from local suppliers or importers
are discussed in paragraphs 43 and 44 above. Construction of storage godowns
would be based on local procedures, satisfactory to the Association, for which
contracts would be approved by the BB. These procedures are satisfactory to
IDA. Furniture, equipment and vehicles for training establishments, totalling
US$0.2 M equivalent, would be procured over three years through local competi-
tive bidding. The remaining local training costs, amounting to US$0.5 M



- 23 -
equivalent, would be for staff pay, operating costs and trainee stipends and
would not be subject to tender procedures. Small off-the-shelf items, costing
less than US$10,000 and not more than US$0.1 M in aggregate, which are urgently
required for the project training component would be purchased by prudent
shopping through normal commercial channels.
Disbursements
70.       IDA disbursements of the credit would be against:
(a) 75% of amounts disbursed by Bangladesh Bank to refinance
loans made by participating credit institutions;
(b) 100% of consultants and training fellowships costs; and
(c) 90% of local training costs.
Disbursements for cost of consultancies and training fellowships would be made
against full documentation, to be supplied by GOB to IDA. Other disbursements
would be made against: (a) Bangladesh Bank's certified statements of loans
made by participating credit institutions and refinanced by Bangladesh Bank;
and (b) Bangladesh Bank's certified statements of expenditures for expenses
incurred for local training. Documents in support of the certified statements
of expenditures would not be submitted to IDA, but would be retained by the
Bangladesh Bank and made available for inspection to the accredited representa-
tives of IDA's supervision missions. Bangladesh Bank would verify each applica-
tion for refinance by participating banks to ensure that it conforms with
agreed lending terms and conditions. Each loan would be physically verified
by the lending bank, which would issue a completion certificate for each
completed loan, and Bangladesh Bank would carry out sample checks. Certifi-
cates of expenditure would be audited by independent auditors as part of the
annual audit of Bangladesh Bank.
Production, Marketing and Prices
71.       Investments in irrigation equipment under the proposed project would
make possible the cultivation of an additional paddy crop and lead to small
increases in other crops. Cropping intensities would increase from the present
level of 115% to 190% in the deep water rice area and from 160% to 210% in
other shallow flooded areas. At full development in FY88, the project-financed
STWs would irrigate around 270,000 acres, based on 10 acres per STW. While the
potential for irrigating much larger acreages exists (up to 25 acres per STW),
more conservative assumptions have been adopted because of the difficulty of
covering more land due to the small size of farms and land fragmentation.
On the basis of the above assumptions incremental foodgrain production is
estimated to reach about 210,000 tons per annum, consisting of around 180,000
tons of rice (from 275,000 tons of paddy) and 30,000 tons of wheat.
72.       The traditional marketing system would have no difficulty in handling
expected increase in production. Based on the recommendations of the recent
Food Policy Issues Report 1/ and the broad policy measures agreed under the
Ninth Imports Program (Credit 1071-BD), GOB's Food Ministry has been intensify-
ing its procurement of domestic foodgrain in an effort to help stabilize prices
1/   A Bank report entitled "Bangladesh:  Food Policy Issues," No. 2761-BD,
dated December 19, 1979.



- 24 -
and reduce foodgrain imports for its food distribution program.  The ongoing
IDA-assisted Foodgrain Storage II Project (Credit 787-BD) and a follow-up
project currently under preparation are designed to improve GOB's storage
facilities. The proposed project would support such efforts through the
financing of additional storage facilities in the private sector (see para-
graph 62 above).
Reporting Requirements, Evaluation and Audits
73.       BB would prepare and submit quarterly progress reports for the
Association's review (see Section 2.06 of the draft BB Project Agreement).
In addition, GOB would undertake or cause to be undertaken, no later than
September 30, 1982, studies to determine the impact of the project on agri-
cultural production, rural incomes and employment as well as to identify
the various categories of project beneficiaries (see Section 2.07 of the draft
BB Project Agreement). The studies would form part of the project completion
report covering all aspects of the project, including performance of all
participating agencies under the project. Auditing procedures of the parti-
cipating credit institutions are satisfactory, but the auditing of TCCA/KSS
cooperatives in the project area needs improvement. GOB would, no later
than December 31, 1982, submit for the Association's review and thereafter
implement a phased plan for auditing each TCCA/KSS by June 30, 1983 (see
Section 3.11 of the draft DCA).
Environmental Impact
74.       The project would have no adverse effect on the environment.  Minor
irrigation investments would do no harm to groundwater resources. On the
contrary, such investments should help improve the health of inhabitants in
the project area by providing more widely spread drinking water sources and
improved nutrition.
Financial and Economic Rate of Return and Benefits
75.       Financial projections indicate that the returns to STW owners are
attractive and that borrowers for STWs can service their loans and complete
repayments thereof well within the estimated life of each investment. The
economic rate of return from investment in the proposed project is estimated
at 57% to 63% for the STW components and, based on a weighted average, over
60% for the project as a whole. The project's principal benefits would be
the resulting increase in domestic foodgrain production and its impact on
employment opportunities and rural incomes. At full development in FY88, the
project would result in an estimated annual increment in domestic foodgrain
production of around 195,000 tons. This would make an impcrtant contribution
to GOB's efforts for food self-sufficiency and represent a net annual foreign
exchange saving of about US$55 million, after taking into account additional
imported inputs that would be required. The project's principal direct
beneficiaries would be the 100,000 farm families that would have access to
irrigation facilities financed under the project. At full development, the
project would generate about 80,000 man-years of additional employment of
which around 50% would be in the form of hired labor. Based on a typical 3
acre farm and assuming an average family size of six, incomes would rise from
Tk 2,300-Tk 3,100 (US$145-US$190) per year or US$24-US$32 per capita per annum
to Tk 8,000-Tk 9,000 (US$525-US$600) per year, or about US$90-100 per capita
per annum, slightly above the current estimated average income in Bangladesh.



- 25 -
Risks
76.       The project faces few risks.  Groundwater is in abundance, the
equipment to be used has been thoroughly tried and tested in Bangladesh
and the financial benefits of irrigation are well understood by farmers.
Switching from the traditional centralized public sector procurement system
to reliance on the private sector for the supply of irrigation equipment
would involve some risks. However, because of the relatively high demand for
irrigation equipment, the ready availability of credit facilities for equip-
ment purchase and the measures to be taken to encourage active private sector
participation in equipment supply, major problems are not envisaged. There
is a risk that the proposed measures for improving the loan recovery perform-
ance of the participating institutions may result in some delay in project
implementation. The longer term benefits which would accrue from such
measures, however, are expected to far outweigh any risk of delay in project
implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Bangladesh Bank and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
78.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the Credit would be:
(i) the execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Borrower and the Bangladesh Bank (paragraph 66); (ii) the appointment of key
BBPD staff for implementation of the project (paragraph 56); (iii) the comple-
tion of a project banking plan satisfactory to the Association (paragraph 52);
and (iv) the establishment of the project and district coordinating committees
(paragraph 57).
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 4, 1981



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                   REFEREENCE CROUPS (WEICRTD AYGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    -  MDST RECENT ESSIMAR
TOTAL            144.0                                MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                MIDDLE IlCQtF
AGRICULTURAL      97.3              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA * PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  40.0        50.0      100.0              212.4                   1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        ..        32.Ofe   43.0                166.0                    842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPL'LATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    53.2        68.1      84.7 7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  5. 1        7.6      10.4                20.8                     39.1
POPULATION PROJECT IONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      143.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       314.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      369.0       473.0     588.0               193.2                    376. 1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    540.0       683.0     871.0               409.6                   2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.3        46.4      42.9                42.0                     40.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        51.0      54.4               55.0                      56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.2         2.6       2.7                3.0                       3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PFRCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.5       2.7                 2. 2                     2. 4
URBAN                              3.9         6.5       6.9                 3.9                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTY RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.0        50.0      46.0                37.4                     28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     25.0        25.0      17.6                14.6                      7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5         3. 1      3.2                 2.6                      1.9
fAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       345.6     903.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..       8.9                15.6                     39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOO PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         106.0       101.0      89.0               101.4                    116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRE4ENTS)                   65.0        85.0      75.0                92.4                    108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        43.0      36.0               49.8                      60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        9.0         9.0       6.4                12.0                     18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     29.0        25.0      23.0               17.9                       5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 8IRTH (YEARS)   40.0         40.0      47.0               50.8                      63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       153.0     139.0                 ..                      52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        45.0      53.0                30.2                     42.4
URBAN                               *.        13. 0     15.0                66.0                     62.1
RURAL                               *         47.0      55.0                20.0                     29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0       5.0                17. 7                    52.8
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.0                71. 3                    71. 1
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 ..                      42. 4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              ..      8430. Oc  9260.0             6322. 7                   412G. 1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..     79850. 0/c 42080.0            9459.0                    2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               ..      6610.Ojd  5490.0              1758.4                    819.4
URBAN                               ..          ..
RJRAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                 ..                      28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
llRBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DW ELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..         3.0/
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 27 -                                                        Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANCLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVpRAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIYATE)
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME                 MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb    ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0        61.0      81.0                80.9                     98.6
MALE                 66.0         80.0     103.0                94.3                     99.2
FEMALE               26.0         42.0      58.0                66.7                     97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  8.0        19.0      23.0                26.6                     55.5
MALE                  14.0        30.0      33.0                34.8                     60.7
FE4ALE                1.0          8.0      11.0                18.2                     49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OP SECONDARY)   1.0          1.0        1.0                9.9                     13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              .,        49.0      55.0                41.1                     34.6
SECONDARY                            *         26.0      24.0                20.5                     28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        21. 6/f       .,       26.0               40.9                     85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.4       0.4                 1. 8                     9. 0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND                                                   25.8                    118.9
POPULATION                           ..         6.0      14.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          .,       0.4                 2.4                     39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..          .,       5.0                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..        ..                  ..                      4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18515.0      23666.8   31000.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15. 2       16.5      17.0                29.4                     36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              86.8        85.9      74.0                70.5                     51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.3         3.5      11.0                11.6                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TarAL                                36.0        34.6      34.4                37.9                     39.1
MALE                                 58.7        55.8      55.3                51.3                     48.5
PFMALE                               11.4        11.8      12.1                23.7                     29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1. 3        1. 4      1. 4                1. 2                     1. 1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18. 3/       16. 7/h     .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.51g       42.3/h    38.0/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 9         7. 9/h    8. 0/i.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9/        19.6        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     139.0               107.8
RURAL                               ..           ..     111.0                86.5                    192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                  ..                    182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      86.0                46. 2
RURAL                               ..           ..      86.0                51.7                     33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithnetic means.  Coverage of countries
anong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for llost Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Government hospital establishments only;  /e 1973;
/f 1962; /L 1963-64; /h 1966-67; /L Estimated percent of national income.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October. 1980



-2 8-
Annex I
Page 3
DEFINITIIfKS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Aotee   Althoughth   daaae      .rw   from  source  gnr yjudged the mor  Authotiirato  son reliable, it should also be  otd than they -y no  he tist.-
nat-ionly-     maa I betueo   h   ako   tnadsd"dIntin                        n  concPts used by diffe..rec  conre"rcl  cIg  the data.  The data are, tons
thnle..u.. ceful no d-sonbe orders of egninoda. indicate tr-nde. and chanac.a twcrao ajrdifferen.ceheen cutr r..
The. freo     .grup  are .(11 the saI      outr   grtf ifthe auh,I          cutyad(2) a  onr  group s111its  omeha ihdighra            eastm   tha  the iouot.. group
of one indicatoriate  ci-w asong the countrydand reference.group..
IditOAOlu(thouand   -An.    Iouftuc   ttPnecto-Anusi.ntittgbpdtas  n tunniF                                                                                         p
Toa      os   ufc   refopiigln.ta  aod iland   agersh.iciaf  qulifie  fro   a  a clscola   nioet    aw41l.    l.
twritulcurai - tnteate of agriounorel sreo usednumporerity or rrmaosnniy  Ponultian net NursingPereow- Populotoo dihid rhby.maer..t.poAotitie
forcros,  asure, mrkt ed dckt grdes  r r  li  filoo;  f)  daa.     ai  en  Psei  -grdthne nurses,t. prciad          ues   s   sietgos
T-I1 to T-1 dts."Ibinttnonee                                                                                           tsprl  ar.....i.sg              meaPmIpI staffby
dst.                                                                                        tiaitsd.caa..gek  of medical t..ec.t.iStifsa.  977  .or staisical.1b eapoe  usfisa fsei
YowlPrueoc.)hi-fer"  laillioh s .. - AsofJly1  INh            9 tAl, an  1978            -iteloos. ran posttl  Ned PlTotat ousber of  Pdmiestond to  r i,acadgEl-
dsLa.                                                                                     fromhoepinstAdivided'bll"s tambr of beds
1970g coutres 1      h97  199.so 1tida.                                                 hAverage tieso- oshl  (tPieons rn  ouasboidlh-1 coa.-urba.,sa  nesi
tonal  opulaion b  sue  nd sa  and  heir.  -jnait  no-d fsrthlfty  rates       th Phuehl  for dsta i :;Icf hputrpoese             ~h-th-d-
Projctonycttnrsfr   ane  ty cane  -Pcapts  of60 theelees0 se A                            ve98   ..rag  numbe of I'erson    d oa Iro-ttlhy unat., and orll -  Avogn-
d  t   ieepcec   tbrhinoaigsbcutysynioiatcm-e   fprosprrn  I,. all uchen,~ sodLPl   rurl,  ccupidt     -  pneeeidnAl
.eol,  od  emae  It  enectoc  snhilisig a  7 .1y555.   hopar-   det -og   . ree  dcios.1 f.eil togs        F  .. socudsnonps.e   struc. ture  end
fertiity  scord og to InorIsoe- en  pas fJoly    90  197ontr  pecdo1978e       ucoseeto   P"cti i1c. medto  ofI dsiioe  f toal, urba.               d,n Eunl 
teh  oonoistenasiua   neo  tas  in   omiatos  fmotaiy               roc.t. os h.,,Jdnelinds  o_beetrcm   n  iigqares5                ,prei
rand teotli-  creed  for pone.t..         0Oti55                                           o  totalturba, sodcurs   dollnsepciol.
esiae   ntheobsiso  h   rjce    hroeitn    fn pplto                            pyrimaryi fcHoo...egn populations  nomal  inclu.des 1 o lldee   gebl
man  teel.countriesh.1 fnlt  unine Jsa 1  -dptinarolan   o  ecadt.emta
bee stoloan  noulalo  isoxehe  -  he  ee  whn satonay ppuatin                      snc  somea puil  are  eo!       r  bv   h  oftitecb:ne
Ol(~'                                                                                  Voostionli  enrlltent loeyoe-  ofhsecondary          ...ocatI"e   --titaiam
Pootletit has nructurs   arret h) - Chilre   1-lAyeas,ori-g 1- d-nniudsd1"'                       'Phnce , odn ielg or othe  p-grmpwhchoarnsiesps
yea  -1rnyuleti  disfor 1850-At  INb-O,td P97-TN                                             orspndo lves
lotion   for. t90-L. th 61-7,i and  1970-79h . i.fAssprcnae  ftas.dutp.u.   onaed1   eased.0r
Crue tothten  (nt touend  -  onul lve   irts  er  houandof  nd-ea
population; lAhO. 1970, and 1978 date.               CTntlefPTtbc    ~      ~       ~     ~     ~     . ii~i
110ctoe;usal  f                Le-ea  e -e1e  ftdio  in 1i6i.  Ayi  and ....7 .      EDCTONaossngerlpulcerhumditouiiw;ntdsuj-
mol     atiaL eboecetP            t arid smw   -    Pre tag  of married            cono"thibhs    csel
loden of  ond yrndunboo oen antos (lAA~7ielll  - Inden  f pen cens s-ial.bow.0rd'daly senen- itnehceftpcospnpr, defin           ..se tponiaita..pub
iso   aed r year hasa  odtecvo   rmr   od s.    sgrtn                              o  e'diy       if1itrau:ib,e1 lest  ou   hima       1nsk
oat  q  kol. -vcg Mioduor prp.ice npihte  kgil-f, lhb  and1070 dater..                     and sobbis-i                                                      ol  "    P'
Pen  ant  srply..of calorIes  tnw1ceY.-of renuirep-do.... -.Computed fi-e
ceo dor.  uatlebte suplies cnaptse domestc ponduttin, teport  lee    Tnllao          n   (touans -....  .rhitntelp atv puen...ecitidit
qos ttitdiwsused in fo .dpoosig  and rnees i dp-  tthut nn.rfi-. rqure            tfiinn   ittl   oAr ionsc- -nlf  a.re  o   oprbe;19.17   e
ocr,  and helh  cotstde-...tsg        .t1 Arl. snio ea Sepranuts,t. bod  osgte-1f e(ocut     Ptl uo  force  s perennyg  ofdt tal                                 -1hn   fa L.
ficcothold  level; 19  1960t 70, 170 9ad197  oe,fihnga  percenagedo- tona  laoid                                             o;iN,191nd17   aa
PorPcut in Guroth  of orot     1   leamb..ay -1 Protei  content of -h.. cpita-            Industr lirtnre-y  --f    . - Labrfret  intg, cdnatucbl.tian      -detnAMtoieg
co   uyy  fro  per_,O da.   rd uplyoffod7e  efne  a  abv.t-                      and tiacrict..y,    wter sod gee asp.ercentsgc o  tota   abor.  foce ...   b
Cr.u iroeth Rtoc nil thounodnics         etbIshe   by-h USAProvide. fo  sfimt              190dnd1yd-s
ol incc;o h...   nmoftrs  pottopn  ayan  O   ras  f  nma  ad                          eri7otin  et tecen      onl..oe,ed  emlePetcistoma
ruescrceo  ofr which10nom  shud..be anma  protein.           mea  stand-.            actiity csnre ore, computed a   oa,ml,adfml  en oea
un,du ont oeh       hntoeo   5geao   oa   rrcted2   rs   f                                 pretgso   oa,ml  sod -female  pop ,st - ofr elsgeeepmctioe,l;
unnlycolnuaergEo  tenod  pooe  b   a   nth    id                                  160A90yed17   at.Tss  r    I'  pniiatogsa  efats
Wol   odbuIe;lk-O    90adt  1977 date..o  tihetppulaion  andlong ties  ...td. A.-te. nt-
~~r.. I  cdcci   b:l    d... t r.                                     .1licA~~~~~~~~e-sry en oticor
orte  at  deivd  romlit  abln;190.  NT  ad 177daa.              nctn lti :ttltdtc    .                 .,                 rl-l     -
U~~~P--c  f --i.d .-..  -icPsnaa ofProsn  Icom  (othincee  ad knd.-.aiinSbyriose
lfCccechicy   .t nith(yas)-  oras o              bdt  o   eas  flie tesibo           Tprcn,  icet-0  ecen.po(Pn2  prto,-ndpo-etA  prro
Al.                                                                                                                    :t.ti~~~~~~~~~~~o oueoie
Accssto  nf  Asarbceoet  f rcuatin)   tta. ube. td  unl -Abolue  ovrty .incom  leost te, that inoelvlhsio  obh                        t -.5 mii-1
fne   uh  nta   frmpoetdhrhlsYpig,adsstr   el)a                                    aise      teloto   Pccrnv ttom  l-P., (ltde fanids) - Pre   e   ,.
per-cctaendo  bh..lrrseps  c -nitre     cpulations          R...  iaubnrapulcRrlrlynin f pocrn ppoelve..cc-h                                     f  oog  prcpt
irleedn ed          onthcrssffeaiesofta  how    trrlres                                    lnd    ihulesirfr  ihrcoto  lno   i                       kraneae
dipoa  asu pecnagaso  nhai         - respective  c -uetonY i     .nctsta-. die-l                                       oth nuomicrl     en   oca   at  ineo
poseb ..-Iy incudeth   collctio  andt. diepo 6s,           197ith  or Etnh dtttat.eo                                fcoodcAalstbadPrjen-n  Ipates
Pfh,nnaoro fr-tesn      san-eehnt r-h...seyetes  oCiheoed ofrcnoetA
"Yptos  sod ebailarL losesi-latictABORFOR.



- 29
Annex I
Page 4
BANGL4DESII
ECONOtIC INDICATORS
Population:                     89.5 million (July 1980)
GNP  Per  Capita:               US$90  (FY80)
Amount             Average Annual Increase (Z)        Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(million US$           (in constant FY75 prices)                (in current prices)
Indicatcr                             in current prices)
Fn79              FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80   FY60         FY70       FY75       FY80 /a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product Lb                     9.512.5                4.0       -0.6        6.3    10.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculture Lb                              5,174.0                3.1       -1.3        4.3      59.9      56.9       63.6       51.9
Industry Lb                                1,170.2                 7.9       -3.2        8.9       7.7       9.6        8.6       12.5
Services lb                                3,168.3                 4.9        3.3        6.6     30.1       30.0       25.0       28.8
Consumption                                   9,187.5                4.4       -0.7        6.7      92.4      92.8      100.0      102.1
Gross investment                              1,330.0               10.9      -10.9       13.5       6.9       11.3       7.0       15.0
Exports of goods & ofa                          603.0                0.8      -11.7        4.3      10.0       8.3        3.1        7.1
Imports of goods & nfc                        1,603.0                8.8      -12.0       14.4       9.3      12.5       10.1       24.3
Gross national savings                          465.0               26.5      -17.7        ...       0.9       6.1        0.9       -0.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (7)
(in current prices)
FY73       FY75       FY79      FY80
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                             603.0                                              100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Primary                                       217.0                                              41.9        31.4       36.0      30.1
Manufactures                                  386.0                                               58.1       68.6       64.0      69.9
Merchandise imports                           1,603.0                                              100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Food                                          250.0                                              44.1        42.2       15.6      29.5
Petroleum                                     186.0                                               3.2        11.1       11.6      17.6
Machinery & equipment                         382.0                                              13.8         9.6       23.8      25.8
Other                                         785.0                                              38.9        37.1       49.0      27.1
FY74        FY75         FY76         FY77         FY78         FY79
PRICES AND TEMS OF TRADE (1972/73-100)
GDP deflator
Exchange rate (Tk/USt)                                 7.9661       8.8759      14.8521      15.4667      15.1215      15.2193
Export price index                                      104.6        132.9        108.7        117.7        136.7        168.9
Import price index                                      156.9        215.4        195.8        189.1        180.2        214.2
Terms of trade index                                     66.7         61.7         55.5         62.2         75.8         78.9
As X GDP
(at current prices)
FY73        FY75         FY77         FY79
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                       5.0           5.4         9.5         10.3
Current expenditure                                                   6.5           4.5         7.8          7.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                           -1.5         +0.9         +1.7         +2.6
Capital expeuditure                                                   8.8           3.1          9.8        11.4
Foreign financing                                                     7.1           2.4         7.8          8.5
1960-70       1970-75       1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GN? growth rate (7)                                                        4.2          -0.7            5.7
GNP per capita grovth rate (X)                                             1.5          -3.3            3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (X)
/a  At constant FY78 prices.
/b  At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
- not available
- not applicable
July 1. 1980
ASADD



30                                                Amex
Page 5
BANGLADESH
4A11CR OF PAYMENTS  EXtERNAL CAPITAL AMD DEBT
(illien US$ in current prices)
Actual                                                 Its jested
FY74      FY75       ry76       FY77      ir78       FY79       FY0o      F8         F82 cFY83
BALANCR OF PAYMtNTS
Net spocts of goods & sroics                               -565.7    -696.4    -847.4    -340.3    -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0   -1718.0   -2057.0   -2271.0
Exports of goods & services                               418.6     502.7      507.6      610.0     643.0      819.0       993.0    t123.0    1176.0    1276.0
Irports of goods & srvic                                  984.3    1199.1    1355.0      950.3    1429.0    1684.0        2603.0    2841.0    3233.0    3547.0
Net transfers                                                 -          -
Currant account bal-nce                                    -65.7    -69f.4    -847.4    -340.3    -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0   -1718.0   -2057.0   -2271.0
Direct private i-vstt                                         _          -         -          -        12.0       15.0        20.0       25.0      30.0       35.0
MLT le a    (nat)                                           274.4      508.2     502.9      246.0      399.0     465.4       861.5     950.0      995.0    1145.0
Grants & grant-like floe                                    347.0      395.6     244.5      229.7     386.1      495.2       504.5     810.0      950.0    1100.0
Other capital flon  (not)                                     2.0    -358.8      153.1    -216.1        14.0      13.4        88.0     -45.0      153.0       59.0
Change In rese nve (- - increase)                           -57.8      151.3     -53.1       80.7      -25.2    -124.0       136.0     -22.0      -71.0      -50.0
lntsrnetional rsrv  (ad of period)                          U5.0      266.3      213.2    293.9       268.7      393.0       257.0     279.0      350.0     400t 0
Resrves as mntth. of imports of nest Yar                     1.15       2.36      2.69       2.47       1.91      1.81        1.09      1.04       1.18       1.26
nY74      PY75         76      F77        F78        F79
GROSS DISBURSDEDNTS
Officiel grants                                              347.0      395.6     264.5      229.7     386.1      495.2
r..os  dsbursasnts of MLT lT    n                            285.1      529.1     569.3      276.1     434.4      520.8
CoceSisnAl                                                   201.5      468.0     538.9      244.7     399.8      500.3
sIleterl                                                     82.4     305.6      357.3      117.3     237.3      226.8
IDA                                                          51.0     112.5      128.2       86.1      88.2      152.5
Othsr lutllsteral                                            68.1      49.9       53.4       41.3      74.3      121.0
Non-conceesional                                              83.7       61.2      30.5       31.5      34.5       20.4
Official export credits                                      40.6      45.3       16.5        4.2       1.7        3.3
1810
Other altileteral                                             5.4       0.3        1.2        0.5       0.5        0.1
private                                                      37.7       15.6      12.8       26.8      32.3       17.0
EXTRNAL DEB?
Debt ottsnd4ing  nd disbursd (and of persiod)                490.6    1359.2    1806. 5    2066.1    2561.8    3005.1
Official                                                    383.3    1240.9    1701.8    1951.8    2662.3    2856.4 -
1rD                                                          -        54.9       54.9      54.9       54.9       54.9
IDA                                                        105.6     255.3      379.8     665.9      554.2    706.7
Other                                                      277.7     930.7    1267.1    1431.0    1833.3    2094.8
rivete                                                      107.3     118.3      104.7      116.3     139.4      148.7
Undisbrsed Debt                                              590.2    1033.2      952.7    1011.0    1316.2    1647.5
DEBT SCR ICE
Total debt serwice peyants                                    18.0       31.0      88.3       58.5      67.4       95.4
Int rest                                                      7.3      10.1       21.9       28.4      32.1       40.1
Pay ts as Z experts                                            4.3        6.2      17.4        9.6      10.5       11.6
Paemnts ea  . CGNP                                             0.2        0.3       1.3        0.9       0.9        1.2
Averge intrst rate on        loans (1)                         3.2        2.0       1.7        1.6        1.5       1.7
Official                                                      2.9        2.0       1.6        1.5        1.4       1.6
private                                                       4.6        2.3       7.8        6.4       6.2        6.1
Aerage aturity of new  ane (years)                            25.7       35.5      41.7       40.1      37.8       34.7
Official                                                     28.3       35.8      42.2       40.8      38.1       35.1
Privte                                                       13.4       15.2      11.3       11.0       9.5       14.8
AS U     POtip EXPOSURE (13
IBIID Don /total DOD                                          -         4.0        3.0         2.6      2.1         1.8
r8RD dihursinnts/teta1 gr... dlsbursamts-
ISOD debt srvti/total debt serveie                            -         .          1.8        5.6       5.0         4.0
IDA DD /total DOD                                             21.5      18.7      21.0        22.5     21.4        23.5
IDa dibursante/tetal gross diabursments                      17.8      21.2      22.5        31.1     20.3        29.2
IDA debt srvtce/tetal debt ea rvic                             1.1       3.2       2.4         5.2      5.6         4.6
As . of Debt (stet nding
at End of 1079
lTRM STRUCmRE
Haturity structure of debt outscanding (2)
Maturitie  due wtthin 5 yeers                                                        12.0
Mturities due withi  10 yers                                                         32.7
Interest structure of debt o-tetandiag (Y)
Interest due within first yar                                                         1.7
July 1, 1980
ASADD



ANNEX II
- 31 -                  Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMIENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA_CREDITS (as of Mlarch 31, 1981)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                              US$ Million /a
Credit
Nunber  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 17 credits fully disbursed                     54.9    557.25        -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.00      0.96
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.00      1.99
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                    25.00     2.97
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                7.50      3.04
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II                      20.00      7.27
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                        62.00      3.33
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                 15.00      4.62
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                         27.00    15.89
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.00    10.45
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.00      6.06
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                     7.50      0.43
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Dev,lopment                          16.00      8.30
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                     25.00      6.22
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                  -       16.00      6.87
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                  -       21.00    14.88
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research             -       10.00      6.38
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II          -        5.00      3.24
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                               -       21.00    15.37
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II               -       25.00    23.03
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                 Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                            US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower             Purpose                  Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II             -        7.00    5.26
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research               -        6.00    4.00
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control          -       19.00   16.48
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                 -       75.00    0.17
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III             -      10.00    8.54
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -        6.00    5.43
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                 -       25.00   24.40
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II -            32.00   31.76
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -       28.00   27.87
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                    -       22.00   16.68
944    1979   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                  -       25.00    3.11
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                  -       25.00   24.50
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                         -       10.00   10.00
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII                -       50.00   10.63
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                      -       37.00   32.33
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong WJater Supply II         -       20.00   20.00
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 -       29.00   29.00
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                 -       20.00   20.00
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation              -       11.00   11.00
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II               -       25.00   21.80
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                     -       40.00   39.37
1065   1980   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry III            -       35.00   35.00 /c
1071   1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX                  -       65.00   57.22 Ic
1091   1981   Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development                   85.00   85.00 /b /c
1096   1981   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport Project   -            25.00   25.00 /b /c
1117   1981   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II           -       50.00   50.00 /b /c
1124   1981   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV             -       16.00   16.00 /b /c
Total,                                                       54.9  1,727.25  771.85
of which has been repaid                                    0.0       0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               54.9  1,726.85
Total undisbursed                                             0.0    771.85  771.85
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   Not effective.
Ic   These Credits are in SDRs but included in US$ equivalent.



ANNEX II
- 33 -                Page3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding           Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                           1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                             DFC                -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -            -       -
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                            0.65    1.05    1.70
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date:  January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and all but 30 have
been commissioned, with the remainder awaiting arrival of engines. Approxi-
mately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7 million from the Extension and
Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be consolidated to fund the Command
Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in the Northwest of Bangladesh.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 M,lillion Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Improvements have been made in procurement and installation of
processing equipment, and in completion of civil works and land development,
with the exception of 8,000 tons of additional storage, for which bids
are being evaluated. Construction should be completed by December 1981.
Similar progress is being made in completing the Seed Certification Agency
(SCA) component. However, the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI)
component remains behind schedule due to inadequate funding. The contract
grower scheme continues to make good progress: wheat seed sales have exceeded
appraisal estimates. However, paddy seed sales remain well below appraisal
targets because of poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved
varieties for multiplication. Consultants have already submitted recommend-
ations for improvements in seed distribution and marketing. The Seed Certi-
fication Agency would be further strengthened through an intensive training
programme currently being prepared. GOB made full ADP allocations for SCA and
BRRI to permit completion of their FY81 work programs. A second extension of
the Closing Date beyond its current date of June 30, 1981 is likely.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project design has been modified and the Closing Date extended
to June 30, 1984, to permit the irrigation of a wider area while retaining the
number of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original proj-
ect. Civil works in the original project area are nearing completion. About
735 low lift pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season irrigating about 30,000
acres. However, extension and cooperatives staffing constraints continue to
inhibit full utilization of existing irrigation facilities.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Overall project implementation is about 2.5 years behind schedule
with less than 50 percent of works completed. Draft tender documents for
remaining structures are being finalized by WDB. Works on embankments, a
major project component have not started. The current project cost estimates
prepared by WDB are about 34 percent higher than the appraisal estimate. WDB
has been urged to adopt additional cost saving measures, with particular regard
to the optimum height of the embankments. The project is expected to be
completed in June 1983.



ANNEX II
- 35 -               Pae_
Page 5
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project; USS16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976:  Effective Date:  August 3, 1976;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
After initial difficulties, project implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily. The supply of irrigation equipment and inputs have been satis-
factory and field level staff have been performing well though headquarters
management needs further strengthening. The rural works program is making
good physical progress and is already having an impact on project area families.
Ilowever, contract supervision and maintenance of completed works need improve-
ment. The livestock, horticulture, extension and fisheries components have
also been making good progress. However, pond excavation has been slow and
improvements are needed in the registration of fisheries cooperatives, assign-
ment of pond leases, and identification of additional ponds suitable for
development.
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977;  Effective Date:  December 9, 1977;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. Around 2,050 pump-
sets have already been sold and further 8,450 pumpsets, based on farmers'
preference, have been procured. The construction of workshops is proceeding
with a modified program.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is about two         behind schedule.  Recent
delays were experienced because of equipment        < downs, lack of heavy equip-
ment for excavation, and heavy rains.  This has been resolved through the
purchase of new equipment and the renting of others. Construction works
of Feni Regulator considerably improved. Prequalification documents for the
closure dam and embankments, the only remaining major works, have been issued,
and tender documents are being finalized. A revised cost estimate shows a 10%
increase over the appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 60 to 100% in most areas. Main achievement
of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation throughout
Northwest. Some delays have been experienced due to late release of local
funds by the Government.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. However, project implementation has suffered due
to late release of local funds. GOB has also not carried out its agreement to
onlend IDA credit to the Sonali Bank. The Government has since 1979 promised
to resolve this problem.
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Phase I construction (56,000 tons) has been proceeding satisfactorily.
Of the 53,000 tons under Phase II, 8,000 tons sites have been tendered;  and
site selection for 36,000 tons of new construction is underway. The godown
rehabilitation and paddy drying components are about 12 months behind schedule.
Selection of sites for Phase III has also been delayed.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Implementation of the technical aspects of Project has been satis-
factory. BARC headquarters building is under construction and work has
commenced on the civil works component of the three regional research stations.
Consultants on farm development and potato research have been appointed but
not for research monitoring. The National Research Plan has been published
and 39 sub-projects have been selected for financing under the research grant
scheme. Arrangements have been completed for 20 students to take up overseas
Ph. D. courses and nine senior scientific staff have attended career develop-
ment courses. No progress has been made in the MSC training program. Pro-
vision of funds and management of project finances have been inadequate.
However, BARC and BARI have developed closer liaison and a consultancy
accounting firm will be employed to ensure proper planning and management of
future expenditures.
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Construction of five regulators have commenced in Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) and some embankment work has been completed.
Some delays have occurred due to difficulties in land acquisition. Some
components proposed within Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) have been
rejected on cost grounds and modified proposals are awaited.



- 37 -                 ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
A 45 ha. site has been acquired for the construction of the central
carp hatchery facility, the designs for which have already been prepared and
approved by IDA.
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project;  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects have been approved to date. Construction
has started on nine subprojects, and tendering is in progress on the remainder.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Orders placed for 3,000 two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs
(Phase I of the sales program) were delivered in October 1980. A detailed
project Action Plan has also been prepared.
Cr. No. 1042  Mangrove Afforestation Project:  USll.O Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. However, the
hiring of consultants for the preparation of programs for the Plantation Trial
Unit and the aerial-monitoring/remote-sensing has been delayed but this should
not affect the mangrove planting program.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the IDA
credit. The project is about three years behind schedule because of the
additional site works required to protect the proposed plant from earthquake
risks and initial delays in the placement of orders and construction planning.
Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency fluctuations,
supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained. Plant construc-
tion is over 95% completed. Despite continuing minor delays, production of
urea is expected to start around the middle of 1981, slightly later than
anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and total projects costs
are unlikely to exceed that approved at the time of IDA supplementary financing.



38 -                  ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of March 31, 1981, disbursements were about US$18.78 million and
Qualified Agreements to Reimburse (QAR) letters of credit were outstanding for
US$1.57 million.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.
Cr. No. 866   Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 Million Credit of December 22,
1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
As of March 31, 1981 disbursements were about US$74.83 million.
Cr. No. 944   Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit to June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979, Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Credit funds have been fully disbursed except for some US$0.4 M
savings which are planned to be drawn before the closing date of June 30, 1981.
In total, the Credit will have financed the imports of about 70,000 t urea and
40,000 t TSP.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of March 31, 1981, QAR were outstanding for US$3.92 million and
US$39.37 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been eAecuted. Negotiations with consultants are underway.



A14NEX II
_ 39 -                 Page  9
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Fertilizer prices were increased in November 1980 and tenders for
fertilizer and raw materials have been issued.
Cr. No. 1065 Small-Scale Industry III Project: US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit only became effective on November 11, 1980, but steps
have been taken by the Borrower to fully use the funds before the original
closing date of June 30, 1981. All major covenants under the credit have been
met.
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
As of March 31, 1981 disbursements were about US$7.78 million.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Closing Date: April 30, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407   Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project financed completion of the construction of the Bangladesh
Agricultural University (BAU), a fellowship program for BAU and building of
five new and equipping of eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics).
The credit was closed on December 31, 1980 and payments of commitments in the
pipeline will continue until March 31, 1981. Project costs (in dollar terms)
are close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation.



- 40                ANNEX II
Page  10
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of Mlarch 25, 1976;  Effective Date:  June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of the civil works associated with the training insti-
tutions is about 85% complete and about 95% of the equipment has been procured.
The physical aspects of the project are generally on schedule. However, the
recruitment of consultants, to assist in implementation of studies and in
developing training programs has been delayed by about two years, largely
because of the ineffectiveness of the National Committee on Rural Training
(NCRT). IDA has agreed to finance the cost of local consultants to assist the
NCRT in performing its functions. The appointment of these consultants is now
being finalized.
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The PIU manager and architect have been appointed and project
buildings sites have been acquired. Consulting architects have been appointed
and preparation of designs are in progress. The equipment and office furniture
lists are under preparation and master lists of Technical Training Center (TTC)
equipment are ready to be submitted for IDA approval. Curricula in ten trades
have been prepared at TTC. Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job
training have been concluded. Existing IL0/UNDP experts are assisting project
development.
Cr. No. 1054  Fourth Education (Primary) Project:  US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closir,g
Date: December 31, 1986
Key staff for overseas training have been selected. Most key staff
for the Project Implementation Unit and the Regional Project Units have been
appointed. Preparation for a detailed program for first year School construc-
tion has been started.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 1981
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent, in addition to IDA credit. Program performance
during the last year has improved, with better coordination between the Health
and Population Control and Family Planning Divisions. Training programs for
field workers were recently upgraded, but the programs are not yet being
implemented as designed. Implementation of civil works components, has deter-
iorated, and is now behind schedule. Due to the slow pace of construction,



ANNEX II
-.41 -                Page  11
disbursement of the credit has also been less than expected. The closing
date was recently extended to December 31,1981 to permit needed improvements
to complete the project and full disbursement of the credit.
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Mlillion
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Progress has been made on project staffing, site acquisition, and
completion of a master plan. Project architects have been appointed and
design development and tender document preparation are under way.
Transport Project
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  August 7, 1973;  Closing Date:  March 31, 1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims is in progress. The Closing Date of
the credit extended to March 31, 1981 has been extended to December 31, 1982
to enable the use of uncommitted credit balance to cover short term protective
Feni Bypass pavement work, and to meet the cost of eligible components of the
arbitration. Significant failures have appeared on Feni Bypass. GOB and IDA
are investigating causes of the failures and possible remedies.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978; Closing
Date June 30, 1981
Credit effectiveness was three and a half months behind original
schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydro-
graphic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessel have already been prepared and
most items agreed. Consultants have been appointed and the studies are nearly
completed. A further extension of the Closing Date may be necessary.
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Implementation of the project is being subjected to continuing delay
as a result of the Borrower's failure to make recommendations for award of
construction contracts tendered some eight months ago. Since these contracts
were scheduled to commence early October 1981, at the beginning of the con-
struction season, the project has been delayed by one year and completion by
the anticipated completion date of May 1983 is no longer possible. Completion
by the Credit Closing Date of June 30, 1984 is possible but is dependent on
much improved Borrower performance and elimination of further unnecessary
delays.



- 42 -             ~~~ANNEX II
- 42 -                    Page  12
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective. Contract for port dredging has
been awarded.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Delays have resulted from procurement actions, award of civil works
contracts, reduced output of the domestic telephone switching equipment factory,
and in completing local construction and installation. Similar delays have
been encountered in TTB's organizing finances and accounts and in managing
efficiently its operations and development. An action program agreed with
IDA is now being implemented to improve TTB's performance. Most of the out-
standing problems have been reduced or are being resolved. Covenants are
now being complied with and TTB is taking final procurement action to commit
the funds remaining under the project. Consultants, financed under Technical
Assistance Credit 872-BD, are assisting in training TTB accounting staff.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622   Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The credit is proceeding smoothly with 8 of the 24 subprojects
still in progress. As of March 31, 1981, disbursements exceeded US$7 mil-
lion or 94% of the credit amount. With the overcommitment of allocations
from Technical Assistance III, disbursements have rapidly accelerated and
the credit will be fully utilized by the closing date.
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
20 subprojects, totaling about $7.3 million have been approved and
a further 13 subprojects, totaling about $5 million have been approved in
principle. Those that are finalized first would be considered under this
credit (with the remainder being funded under the recently approved Fourth
Technical Assistance credit).
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance Project: US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Closing Date: April 30, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 13
- 43 -
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Consultants have been appointed as scheduled and have begun design
work.
Cr. No. 1091 Bakhrabad Gas Development Project: US$85.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Consultants have been engaged and have begun design work as
scheduled.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit has just become effective. Consultants for design and
supervision of construction and financial management have been appointed.



- 44 -                    ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
January 1980 - August 1980
(b) Agency which prepared project:
GOB/FAO/IDA
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
September 1980
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
October 1980
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission:
October 1980
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:
April 1981
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after loan signing
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower would provide import licences to parti-
cipating firms for the importation of STW equipment
for the project area (paragraph 44).
(b) The Borrower would delineate no later than September 30,
1981 areas within the project area that, on geohydro-
logical grounds, are suitable for STW development and
ensure that no new DTW development is undertaken in
such areas so as to adversely affect irrigation by STWs
(paragraph 60).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) The program for local and overseas training would be
developed and their implementation would commence no
later than November 30, 1981 (paragraph 63).
(d) The credit specialist and training specialist would
be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association no later than November 30, 1981. In
addition, an agricultural economist, farm management
specialist and a groundwater engineer would be appointed
no later than March 31, 1982 on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (paragraph 64).
(e) The BB would enter into participation agreements,
satisfactory to the Association, with participating
credit institutions (paragraph 52).
(f) Bangladesh Bank would no later than December 31, 1981
collate data on the loan recovery status of each par-
ticipating institution: BB would suspend lending to
a participating credit institution, in respect of any
branch thereof whose loan recovery over the preceding
twelve months falls below 40% up to December 31, 1983
and 50% thereafter; and, where loan recovery is less
than 60% of demand, cause the institution concerned
to develop a program satisfactory to BB for improving
its performance (paragraph 52).
(g) The Borrower would develop, in consultation with the
Association, no later than December 31, 1983, performance
criteria to determine the eligibility of credit institu-
tions wishing to qualify for agricultural lending refi-
nancing from the BB (paragraph 52).
(h) Reorganization of the cooperative credit system in the
project area would only be undertaken on the basis of a
detailed plan satisfactory to the Association and BSBL's
participation under the project would be conditional upon
meeting the criteria for participation under the project
(paragraph 49).
(i) The Borrower, BB and participating credit institutions
would ensure that, at least, 50% of project lending is
made to small farmers (paragraph 68).
(j) No later than September 30, 1982 the Borrower shall
commence or cause to be undertaken studies to determine
the impact of the project on agricultural production,
rural incomes and employment, and to identify the various
groups of project beneficiaries (paragraph 73).



- 46 -                   ANNEX III
Page 3
(k)  The Borrower would, no later than December 31, 1982,
submit for the Association's review and implement a
phased plan for auditing each TCCA/KSS in the project
area by June 30, 1983 (paragraph 73).
(1) Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement
between the Borrower and the BA, satisfactory
to the Association (paragraph 66);
(ii) the appointment of key BBPD staff for project
implementation (paragraph 56);
(iii) the completion by BB of a project banking plan,
satisfactory to the Association (paragraph 52);
and
(iv) the establishment of the project and district
coordinating committees (paragraph 57).



IBRD 15590R
8r                                                             890 9800                                                                                             MARCH 1981
BANGLADESH                                   270
-270                                                                                                           AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LAND USE
CROPPING PATTERN I (Mainly Broadcast Aman, Fallow)
CROPPING PATTERN 11 ( Mainly Transplant Aman, Fallow)
I     N       D      I    A                                                                      F     CROPPING PATTERN III (Mainly Transplant Aman, Aus)
~ |OT[   |OTHERS
A.                                                                                          MAJOR ROADS
-:f  j_                                                                          -.-,--,RAILWAYS
I =  \           -         THANA BOUNDARIES
-.  - >  _DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
---  ,_ _INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
t:0'i>chaq&ar~9.1          N    ' 
r                                                      KILOMETERS 0        10    20    30    40    50
3  -'       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                                       MILES'
==I-;    ;   X   \<   >Se  tX  2   MlLES0  10  20   30
26   t      <                  ,,    0   Jj~~~~~~~~Dornar                                                                                                        26
250
20I  N    D  I A
|     I N  D I A                                                                                     .,
<                     )       . .~w         ..... ...                          :                               ? (      
RA5   t .   . . . .   . ,  . . . . . . .
theconenenc f fhe5reatdaced1;         ait        )    /,*-*,,.:1    X w SSO                                       C     M/+    ...........................J4
This  enonhatossbeenpdandb the                                                                                                                                       SA.,:''''.' oINDg  <I A .
24  World r7anks sn tsaffdaexlsively for                                          "                        8     ;2                            AULAt'              n 
th,contn,ionceoftrheryeanderofrmn                      )      H,_                                   ,                   
oacpacoscboundaries shoX  _9lvwn o thi mAp
do not imly on the2 par of th                                                                                               \ 4 .                  ar o 






IBRD 15591R
I 683                                               890                                                  50                            MARCH 19B1
BANGLADESH
'270                                                                                     AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                  270
TUBEWELL SUITABILITY AND BANKING SYSTEM
1     Z ]AREA SUITABLE FOR SHALLOW TUBEWELLS
I N   DI A                                                                        AREA UNSUITABLE FOR SHALLOW TUBEWELLS
=    3  AREA WITH LIMITED POTENTIAL FOR SHALLOW TUBEWELLS
BANKING SYSTEM(Number of Bank Branches by District)
/1,                                                         BANGLADESH KRISHI BANK  BKB  AGA  AGRANI BANK
/ f                                                                      SONALI BANK  SO    CATHANA CENTRAL COOPFRATIVE
ASSOCIATION
"A _80. m.   4                            JANATA BANK              KRISHI SAMABAYA SAMITY
,,\<    -    -    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
?                              -     >)- 81 ts INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
5 <                                                                            ws s_ v       A      KILOMETERS 20    30 4p   50
1 \   (       u   j                          e    ,          MILES 0      10       20       30
24 AGA i 3 ,, \ \ 81                        0                                   NOTE: Boundaries between areas with varing suitability
for shallow tubewells are indicative only.
250   f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
-26        rt           .AN.SS                                                                     >  'XZI
'20  '1130' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0ftGVU
(D        N       J     U .-. -)  tr ,<<,                                                 3
<   zf    t        7                 ~~~~~~~~~ORAiBOPR   '   4:      *
OIAJR                      R A  N  G  P     R
/  ),\   \               \                      g          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N D I A
I N        D   I A          )                                            QSjTC:r.a
f   tX           /  \.                                                      INDIA
,..   /-R.v_.........-
......:... .....           -    X    
INDIA  :         ::I-  - f             \                   'J A M A LP U R
-265                     ,fr  .          X'. ,    7;;; .'I;\   -i  ! .  --   \;                                                                     25i
25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0GRA0                                                                 JAMALPUR~
; t'tx>22    L,t            I         g    14  BOGRA '                                    v    MYMENSiNGH
ei                                                                                                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA0JMLU  B
)MYMENSINGH
==: i; i90000000.  n                                      X 7              e v rr' 2 o~~~~~~~~~T AG A I I..
o: ::: :/9g. . . . . . . . . ........ 3f  > 
\   Iw0~-.I,                             f'     O4~   rINDIA
N7r~~~O.4 ~~PROJECY "
RiERI                                       K      j                        APEA2
2005 y   ;        TANGAIL             -       
Th,, map has been prepared by the                                                                                           DACCA          INDIA
World Banit's staff exclusively for    81z      4'                                                                           AC 
the conrenience of the readers of
the report to which it is attached.                      i                                                   INDIA
boundaries shown athit map t                                          ANA                               I4 DIA
-240  do not imply, on the part of the                                                                        242
World Bank and it. affiliates. any      t   .-.,
judgment on the legal status of                               o
any tenitnrj or any endorsement                               KUSHTIA
or acceptance of such boundaries.            K .,l I S                            .TIA
KLr     TIA                  I I9           --
BE0<  1                                               8990       /     ~s        



