                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank


                                                         Report No: ICR2359




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-73110)

                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

            IN THE AMOUNT OF JAPANESE YEN 6,592.00 MILLION
                     (US$64 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

          LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES WITH THE GUARANTEE

                    OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                     FOR THE

                     MANILA THIRD SEWERAGE PROJECT




                                 December 28, 2012




Philippines Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange Rate Effective November 2012)
                           Currency Unit = Peso
                             PHP42.05= US$1
                           PHP 1.00 = US$ 0.20


                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 - December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOD    Biochemical Oxygen Demand
BR     Board Resolution
BWC    Bureau of Working Conditions (of DOLE)
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CMR    Compliance Monitoring Report
CST    Communal Septic Tank
DAO    Departmental Administrative Order
DENR   Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOF    Department of Finance
DOH    Department of Health
DOLE   Department of Labor and Employment
DPWH   Department of Public Works and Highways
DP     Discharge Permit
ECC    Environmental Compliance Certificate
EGF    Environmental Guarantee Fund
EIA    Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS    Environmental Impact Statement
EMP    Environmental Management Plan
EMoP   Environmental Monitoring Plan
EMB    Environmental Management Bureau (of DENR)
ESAF   Environmental and Social Assessment Framework
ESC    Environmental Sanitation Certificate
EU     Environmental Unit
FGD    Focus Group Discussions
FPA    Fertilizer and Pesticides Authority
FTI    Food Terminal, Incorporated
GEF    Global Environment Facility
GOP    Government of the Republic of the Philippines
IEC    Information, Education and Communication
IFC    International Finance Corporation
JICA   Japan International Cooperation Agency
JPY    Japanese Yen
LBP    Land Bank of the Philippines
LGU    Local Government Unit (municipal or city government)
LLDA      Laguna Lake Development Authority
MM        Metro Manila
MMDA      Metro Manila Development Authority
MMT       Multi–partite Monitoring Team
MWCI      Manila Water Company Inc. (East concession area)
MWMP      Metro Manila Wastewater Management Project (World Bank)
MWSI      Maynilad Water Services Inc. (West concession area)
MWSS      Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
MTPDP     Medium Term Philippine Development Plan
MTSP      Manila Third Sewerage Project
MSSP      Manila Second Sewerage Project
MWSS-RO   Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System – Regulatory Office
NEDA      National Economic Development Authority
OPEX      Operating Expense
PCO       Pollution Control Officers
PERP      Preparedness and Emergency Response Plan
PHP       Philippine Peso
PTO       Permit to Operate
RA        Republic Act (a national law)
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
SIL       Specific Investment Loan
SMR       Self-Monitoring Report
STP       Wastewater Treatment Plant
SPTP      Septage Treatment Plant
PD        Presidential Decree
REA       Regional Environmental Assessment
USD       United States Dollar
US-EPA    United States Environmental Protection Agency




                     Vice President    :   Pamela Cox
                  Country Director     :   Motoo Konishi
                    Sector Director    :   John A. Roome
                   Sector Manager      :   Ousmane Dione
              Project Team Leader      :   Christopher C. Ancheta
               ICR Primary Author      :   Wilfrido C. Barreiro
                                    PHILIPPINES
                            Manila Third Sewerage Project


                                     CONTENTS


Data Sheet
A. Basic Information                                                           i
B. Key Dates                                                                   i
C. Ratings Summary                                                             i
D. Sector and Theme Codes                                                     ii
E. Bank Staff                                                                iii
F. Results Framework Analysis                                                iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                                   viii
H. Restructuring (if any)                                                    ix
I. Disbursement Profile                                                      ix


Main Report
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                         1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                          5
3. Assessment of Outcomes                                                     9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                                 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                               14
6. Lessons Learned                                                           16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners      17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                                         18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component                                                19
Annex 2A. Supplemental Table to F. Results Framework Analysis of the Data
            Sheet                                                            20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis                                     24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes       33
Annex 5. Environmental Safeguards Compliance Results                         35
Annex 6. Social Safeguards Compliance Results                                39
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR              43
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents                                        44
Annex 9. Background on Bank Involvement and Sector Reforms in Wastewater     45
          Development in Metro Manila
Annex 10. MWCI Master Plan with Project Achievments                          47
MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Manila Third Sewerage
Country:                Philippines              Project Name:
                                                                           Project
Project ID:             P079661                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-73110
ICR Date:               12/27/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           LAND BANK OF THE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           PHILIPPINES
Original Total
                        USD 64.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 40.56M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 64.00M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Land Bank of the Philippines
 Manila Water Company Inc
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:



B. Key Dates

                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)

Concept Review:       10/16/2003      Effectiveness:          03/06/2006          03/06/2006
                                                                                  06/25/2010
Appraisal:            03/16/2005      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  01/17/2011
Approval:             06/21/2005      Mid-term Review:        01/08/2008          03/10/2008
                                      Closing:                06/30/2010          06/30/2012



C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory




                                                 i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)

         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
                                Indicators                                     Rating
     Performance                                     (if any)

 Potential Problem Project                    Quality at Entry
                           No                                         None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                             Original              Actual

Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)

Sanitation                                                       50                  50
Sewerage                                                         50                  50




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)

Other human development                                          20                  20
Pollution management and environmental health                    40                  40
Urban services and housing for the poor                          40                  40



                                             ii
E. Bank Staff

        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval

Vice President:             Pamela Cox                          Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:           Motoo Konishi                       Joachim von Amsberg
Sector Manager:             Mark C. Woodward                    Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:        Christopher Casuga Ancheta          Luiz Claudio Martins Tavares
ICR Team Leader:            Christopher Casuga Ancheta
ICR Primary Author:         Wilfrido C. Barreiro



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives of the Manila Third Sewerage Project are to: (a) increase the
coverage and effectiveness of sewerage service delivery in participating areas of Metro
Manila through an integrated approach involving septage management, sewage
management, and heightened consumer awareness of water pollution problems and their
solutions; and, (b) establish the financial and technical viability of new approaches for
sewage management in MM.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDOs were not revised.


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years

                  Gradual increase in satisfaction of residents with sewerage/sanitation service
Indicator 1 :
                  delivery in participating areas

Value
quantitative or 0                            Yes                                Yes
Qualitative)



                                                   iii
Date achieved 05/02/2005                   03/06/2006                          06/30/2012

Comments        Yes indicates increase in satisfaction. Using the MWSS Public Assessment of
                Water Services (PAWS) of over 300 barangays in the MWCI's service area as
(incl. %
                proxy, MWCI has consistently received a 100% customer satisfaction rating from
achievement)    2008 to 2011

Indicator 2 :   BOD removed by septage and sewage treatment plants (cumulative tones/yr)

Value
quantitative or 5,600                      20,400                              133,060
Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/02/2005                   03/06/2006                          06/30/2012

Comments
                Target exceeded. Figures reported include those from existing facilities.
(incl. %        Excluding data from existing facilities, only 1,415 is the actual end figure
                attributed to MTSP.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Percent increase in take-up rate of desludging service (% take-up rate/yr)

Value
quantitative or 0                          Yes                                 Yes
Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/02/2005                   03/06/2006                          06/30/2012

Comments
                Yes indicates an increase. Using the figures from Results Indicator under
(incl. %        Component Two: Number of septic tanks desludged in MWCI service area, an
                average increase of 50,000 septic tanks per year from 2008 to 2012.
achievement)

                Number of sewage treatment plants treating combined flows that comply with
Indicator 4 :
                relevant discharge standards (cumulative #)

Value
quantitative or 0                          10                  8               6
Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/02/2005                   03/06/2006          01/17/2011      06/30/2012

Comments        Only 6 out of the 8 were completed at project close. The Taguig subprojects were
                terminated due to social and political issues. The Fort Bonifcaio STP was
(incl. %        canceled due to land issues.

                                                 iv
achievement)

Indicator 5 :     Cost of operation of the new treatment plants in an acceptable range ($/tons)

Value
quantitative or 0                            Around 20%                         Around 20%
Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/02/2005                     03/06/2006                         06/30/2012

Comments
                  Only a target range was given. Values are confidential. Overall performance of
(incl. %          MWCI facilities is around 20% in terms of OPEX. Comparing ave MTSP cost to
                  existing plants showed 69.78% reduction in OPEX in PHP per kg.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                 approval                          Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years

                  Sewage management: Number of water connections in MWCI service area with
Indicator 1 :
                  sewage treatment service (cumulative # by end of yr)

Value
(quantitative     46,350                     117,000             49,500         177,922
or Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/02/2005                     03/06/2006          01/17/2011     06/30/2012

Comments
                  Overachievement of revised target but figures include those from non-MTSP
(incl. %          facilities. Final figures attributed only to MTSP is 77,137, which is still 56%
                  higher than the revised final target.
achievement)

                  Sewage Management: Volume of sewage treated before disposal (cumulative
Indicator 2 :
                  1000m3/yr)

Value
(quantitative     7,026                      113,227                            117,817
or Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/02/2005                     03/06/2006                         06/30/2012

                                                  v
Comments
                  Target surpassed by 4% at project closing. This figure includes those from non-
(incl. %          MTSP facilities. Final figure attributed to MTSP is 11,499 since the start of
                  operations in 2010.
achievement)

                  Sewage Management: Length of drainage lines installed/rehabilitated
Indicator 3 :
                  (cumulative km by end of yr

Value
(quantitative     0                         120                20.9            0.80
or Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/02/2005                    03/06/2006         01/17/2011      06/30/2012

Comments          Previous assumption was to reline or replace drainage lines to improve the
                  quality of influent. MWCI did not continue the works due to issue on asset
(incl. %
                  ownership and maintenance. LGU is the owner of drainage lines and the one
achievement)      responsible for its maintenance

                  Septage management: Number of septic tanks desludged in MWCI service area
Indicator 4 :
                  (cumulative # by end of yr)

Value
(quantitative     17,000                    250,560                            518,158
or Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/02/2005                    03/06/2006                         06/30/2012

Comments
                  Overachievement of target but this includes non-MTSP facilities. The final
(incl. %
                  figure attributed only to MTSP is 262,012, which is 5% higher than the target.
achievement)

                  Septage Management: Volume of septage treated before disposal (cumulative
Indicator 5 :
                  m3 by end of yr)

Value
(quantitative     0                         982,800                            963,412
or Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/02/2005                    03/06/2006                         06/30/2012

Comments          Slight underachievement of 2%. This figure includes non-MTSP facilities.
                  Excluding non-MTSP facilities, the underachievement is 14% with an end figure
(incl. %          of 847,343.

                                                  vi
achievement)

                  Percent of BOD reduction in the septic tanks in a sample not smaller than
Indicator 6 :
                  0.5%/yr (% average reduction)

Value
(quantitative     Around 10%                Around 20%                         Around 20%
or Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/02/2005                    03/06/2006                         06/30/2012

Comments
                  Approximation only based on previous studies. Baseline 10% and the 20%
(incl. %
                  reduction came from MTSP Feasibility Studies. No actual sampling done.
achievement)

                  Institutional Strengthening: Number of people reached by public information
Indicator 7 :
                  campaign (#/yr)

Value
(quantitative     0                         957,000                            3,723,934
or Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/02/2005                    03/06/2006                         06/30/2012

Comments
                  Target surpassed. MWCI intensified its program for public information campaign
(incl. %
                  in view of the Supreme Court decision to clean up Manila Bay.
achievement)

                  Institutional Strengthening: Percent increase in take-up rate of desludging
Indicator 8 :
                  service (% take-up rate/yr)

Value
(quantitative     0                         Yes                                Yes
or Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/02/2005                    03/06/2006                         06/30/2012

Comments
                  Yes indicates an increase. Based on Results Indicator under Component Two:
(incl. %          Number of septic tanks desludged in MWCI service area, an average increase of
                  50,000 septic tanks per year from 2008 to 2012.
achievement)

Indicator 9 :     Institutional Strengthening: Prepared follow-up wastewater and sanitation


                                                  vii
                  program

Value
(quantitative     0                            Yes                                  Yes
or Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/04/2005                       03/06/2006                           06/30/2012

Comments          'Yes' indicates there were follow-up programs. MWCI has done (1) wastewater
                  reliability projects for existing facilities; (2) feasibility studies; (3) campaign to
(incl. %
                  promote public awareness on Sanitation & Sewerage and (4) follow-up lending
achievement)      such as MWMP


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs




                                                                                         Actual
           Date ISR
 No.                                DO                            IP                 Disbursements
           Archived
                                                                                     (USD millions)

  1        05/19/2006           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                         0.00

  2        12/06/2006           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                         3.31

  3        06/21/2007           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                         8.18

  4        05/20/2008           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                        12.42

  5        05/05/2009           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                  17.41

  6        06/18/2010           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                        30.23

  7        12/06/2010    Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                        31.40

  8        10/25/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                         36.57

                               Moderately
  9        08/07/2012                                   Moderately Satisfactory                  39.40
                              Unsatisfactory




                                                     viii
H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                               Key Changes Made
              PDO Change                   in USD
                           DO     IP
                                          millions

                                                      Extension of closing date from
  06/25/2010          N      S      S         30.23   June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2012
                                                      to complete all project activities

                                                      1) deletion of 3 subcomponents
                                                      (Ilaya, Manggahan and
                                                      Tapayan); 2) addition of Fort
                                                      Bonifacio STP; 3) revision of
  01/17/2011          N     MS      S         31.40   targets of outcome and results
                                                      indicators affected by the
                                                      deletion of STPs; 4)
                                                      reallocation of loan proceeds
                                                      among expenditure categories


I. Disbursement Profile




                                        ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
Context at Appraisal
1.      Country and Macro Context. The Manila Third Sewage Project (MTSP) was prepared
under the 2002-2005 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report No. 24042-PH). The CAS
supported the Medium Term Philippine Development Plan (MTPDP) for 2001-2004 which set an
overarching goal of reducing poverty, as modest economic growth and poor poverty reduction
had characterized the economic situation in the Philippines, with population growth and
urbanization being among the challenges to significantly reducing poverty and increasing access
to basic services including water and sanitation. The CAS included a focus on efficient provision
of services including water supply and sanitation. The subsequent CAS (Report 32141-PH)
covering 2006-2008 aimed to support recognized successes in delivering public services by
applying lessons from past engagement. MTSP (under preparation at the time) was noted in the
CAS for both the investment financing and the regulatory capacity strengthening it would
provide.
2.      The macro-economic environment at this time was mixed. While the GDP growth rate in
the Philippines between 2001 and 2006 was 4 to 5%, it was below both its regional neighbors
(over 8% in the same period) and its perceived potential. In addition, a deteriorating fiscal
environment resulted in increased government allocations to mandated expenditures crowding
out allocations to economic and social services and public investments. Finally, the economic
environment was impacted by the political environment of the period. The political and
economic reforms that the Government of the Republic of Philippines (GOP) had undertaken in
the 1990s were undermined by a series of scandals and allegations in the 2000s which created a
perception of political instability. Metro Manila was an important economic center, accounting
for 36% of GDP in 2003.
3.      Sector Context. Water and sanitation issues had long been a development challenge for
the Philippines, and Metro Manila in particular. To mitigate the environmental and health impact
of water pollution, the GOP enacted water-related laws and policies over time. Enforcement,
however, was weak due to inadequate resources, poor statistics, institutional fragmentation, and
weak coordination between the central and local government units (LGUs). Water quality had
been deteriorating in the Philippines and Metro Manila in particular due to population growth,
urbanization and industrialization. Water had become critically constrained by the pollution of
major rivers and surface water by untreated domestic and industrial wastewater. All waterways
in Metro Manila were heavily polluted, with two key water courses – Marikina River and Pasig
River – declared biologically dead. Residential sewage was the principal cause, followed by
industries and solid waste dumped in the rivers. The Philippine Clean Water Act of 2004
(Republic Act No. 9275) provided an integrated, holistic, decentralized and participatory
approach to abating and controlling water pollution. The Act required treatment of wastewater to
ensure clean drinking water.

                                               1
4.      Rationale for Bank Involvement. The World Bank Group had supported water and
sanitation sector investments and reforms for over two decades and was well-placed to continue
providing financing and implementation support through MTSP. Through its earlier projects 1,
the Bank had contributed to expanding water and sanitation services, supporting sector policy
reforms and building institutional capacity. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) had
been an investor over the same period, including loans and an equity investment in MWCI. The
results of the public-private partnership (PPP) efforts were considered to have both positive
effects and replication opportunities.
5.      The project also supported stated goals of the MTPDP, including pursuit of the Clean
Water Act aimed to “immediately address our worsening water quality situation ...in Metro
Manila? among other things. The MTPDP also noted the expected increase in sewerage and
sanitation services from the Manila Second Sewerage Project (MSSP).
Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
6.     The original PDOs, as approved, were to (a) increase the coverage and effectiveness of
sewerage service delivery in participating areas of Metro Manila through an integrated approach
involving septage management, sewage management, and heightened consumer awareness of
water pollution problems and solutions; and (b) establish the financial and technical viability of
new approaches for sewage management in Metro Manila.
7.        The PAD Results Framework indicators were as follows:

     PDO                                                      Indicators
     To increase the coverage and effectiveness of            •   Gradual increase in satisfaction of residents
     sewerage service delivery in participating areas             with sewerage/sanitation service delivery in
     of Metro Manila through an integrated approach               participating areas, including health incidences
     involving septage management, sewerage                       of diarrhea
     management, and heightened consumer                      •   Total Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD)
     awareness of water pollution problems and their              removed by the project (tons/yr)
     solutions                                                •   Percent increase in take-up rate of desludging
                                                                  services (% take-up rate/yr)
     To establish the financial and technical viability       •   Number of sewage treatment plants treating
     of new approaches for sewerage management in                 combined flows in a sustainable manner that
     Metro Manila                                                 comply with relevant discharge standards
                                                              •   Cost of operation in an acceptable range


1
  Manila Water Supply II, Ln 1615-PH (1978); Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project, Ln 1814-PH (1980);
Metropolitan Manila Water Distribution Project, Ln 2676-PH (1986); Angat Water Supply Optimization Project, Ln
3124-PH (1989); Water Supply and Sanitation Project, Ln 3242-PH (1990), Manila Second Sewerage Project, Ln
4019-PH (1996).




                                                          2
8.        The PDOs were not changed.
Main Beneficiaries
9.       The beneficiaries were identified as about 3.3 million Metro Manila residents and
stakeholders in the MWCI service area supported by the project. Benefits included increased
sewerage coverage from about 8% to 30%, increased sanitation services from around 1.5% to
100%, as well as reduced water pollution, improved public health and demonstration of the
viability of the new approach to affordable sewerage management. An additional identified
benefit was improved soil condition and crop yield expected from application of treated septage
as fertilizer in the volcanic lahar-affected areas.
Original Components (as approved)
10.       The MTSP had three components:
      •   Sewage Management (US$52.4 million at appraisal) component included the
          construction of ten (10) sewage treatment plants (STPs), upgrading of two communal
          septic tanks to secondary treatment plants, and rehabilitation and construction of
          collection networks;
      •   Septage Management (US$23.9 million at appraisal) component which included
          procurement of vehicles for pumping-out septage from septic tanks (fecal tankers) and
          two septage treatment plants (SPTPs);
      •   Institutional Strengthening (US$1.9 million at appraisal) component which included
          (a) the carrying out of a public information campaign on the benefits of sewerage and
          sanitation services, and on the best practices of proper disposal of sewage, and (b)
          assistance in preparation of follow-up programs for wastewater and sanitation
          improvements.
Revised Components and other significant changes
11.     No revisions were made in the project components. However, through project
restructuring, subcomponent changes were made, as well as revision to affected indicators and
reallocation. MTSP was restructured twice mainly due to delays with subcomponents of the
sewage management component. Both restructurings were approved at Management level.
12.    The first restructuring was approved on June 25, 2010 granting a request for a 2-year
extension of the MTSP closing date, from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2012 to enable the
completion of delayed Sewage Management Component sub-projects.
13.     A second restructuring was approved on January 17, 2011. It included changes to the
Sewage Management component which continued to experience implementation delays due to
land issues and greater-than-anticipated technical difficulties. The key changes were (a) deletion
of three STPs; (b) the addition of one STP identified as a replacement for those dropped; (c)



                                                3
revision of targets of outcome and results indicators affected; and (d) reallocation of loan
proceeds. See Table 1 for a summary of the subproject changes over the life of the project.

Table 1. Subproject Modifications
Sewage Management Components                   PAD       Restructured ICR
Riverbanks system
1. Pineda/ Capitolyo (underground)             Yes       No change      Completed
2. Ilaya (underground)                         Yes       Dropped        MWCI financing
3. Poblacion (above flood retention pond)      Yes       No change      Completed
Sanitation for low-income communities
4. Pinagsama (Signal Village)                  Yes       No change      Completed
5. Manggahan Floodway                          Yes       Dropped        MWCI financing
Quezon City-Marikina (underground) upgrade
6. East Ave                                Yes           No change      Completed
7. Road 5 (Project 6)                      Yes           No change      Completed
8. Olandes                                     No        Added          Completed
Taguig Systems
9. Tapayan                                     Yes       Dropped
10. Fort Bonifacio Taguig STP (Bay Breeze)     Yes       Added, then    MWCI financing
                                                         Redesigned


Technical Assistance through the GEF
14.     At the request of government, a grant of US$ 5.0 M was provided by the Global
Environmental Facility (GEF) Pollution Reduction Investment Fund for Large Marine
Ecosystems of East Asia in June 2007 to strengthen the policy environment in the provision of
sewerage and sanitation services in Metro Manila as a companion project to MTSP. This grant
sought to (a) identify impediments to cooperation among sector agencies, and to non-
conventional investments in sewerage and sanitation; (b) assist MWSS in pursuing higher
investments in sewerage and sanitation by its concessionaires, and in piloting suitable technology
in septage disposal; and (c) help with project management, monitoring, evaluation and
dissemination. The MTSP collaborated and benefited from the initial outputs of the grant
particularly in the restructuring of the sewerage and sanitation tariff, and the development of
consumer satisfaction survey instrument for sewerage and sanitation services.


                                                4
2    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
15.    Project Preparation: MTSP was the third project between the Bank and Philippines that
focused on improving the delivery of sewerage and sanitation services in Metro Manila. Its
preparation was supported by extensive background analysis gained through the MSSP under
supervision at the time and previous Bank involvement. It was highly relevant and responded to
MWSS priorities. It supported the CAS focus on efficient provision of basic services.
16.     It benefitted from the experience gained in the previous projects and made efforts to
identify and incorporate lessons learned. For example, its design approach to build and expand
small treatment facilities in Metro Manila as a least cost solution was justified on an economic
basis. In addition, this approach fit the land availability constraints and the lack of public support
for large scale construction-related disruptions in Metro Manila. The institutional strengthening
component was included because the importance of adequate public information was learned
from previous experience, including an Inspection Panel complaint during MSSP which related
to the disposal of septage in the ocean 2. MTSP was designed to implement alternatives based on
the ocean disposal experience. Further details on Bank involvement in Metro Manila wastewater
development is provided in Annex 9.
17.    Assessment of project design. Based on experience and available information at the time
of appraisal, MTSP can be considered as appropriately designed. The Project Development
Objectives, components, and organization were realistic and not overly complex. Although the
water and sanitation sector in the Philippines was comprised of multiple organizations, the
number involved in the project was limited and the proposed Borrower and Implementing
Agency were long-standing Bank partners with capacity to comply with Bank policies and
procedures. There were no co-financing agencies.
18.     The three components covered a clearly defined geographic area with high population
densities in need of services. It was designed to demonstrate innovative approaches that would
have significant implications on the future development of sewerage and sanitation improvement
projects in the entire country. The project design met Bank fiduciary, social and environmental
safeguard policies, including public disclosure of all required documents. Stakeholder
engagement took place and all consultations were documented by MWCI. The beneficiary
communities actively cooperated with and participated in the public consultations.
19.   Risk identification was adequate and a number of assessed risks affected project
implementation and contributed to restructuring. However, it is not clear whether the proposed


2
   The Inspection Panel subsequently concluded that the requester failed to meet eligibility criteria and did not
recommend to Executive Directors a full investigation. See ICR 35539-PH for detail.


                                                           5
risk mitigation measures were put in place. For example, to mitigate risk that land purchase
agreements were not signed, it was proposed that purchase agreements for key components were
signed before appraisal which did not seem to have happened. Natural disaster was not identified
as a risk. Given its vulnerability to natural disasters including tropical cyclones due to its
geographical location, identification of natural disaster risk may have been warranted. Typhoon
Ondoy and its aftermath in 2009 proved to be a factor in implementation delays and contributed
to the need for restructuring. At the same time, it proved the appropriateness of the design of
STPs constructed under the project.
20.    There was no formal Quality at Entry review for the project. This ICR review concludes
that Quality of Entry was Moderately Satisfactory.
Implementation
21.     Implementation Arrangements. LBP and MWCI had experience implementing Bank-
financed operations. LBP as the Borrower was responsible for ensuring that MWCI was in
compliance with the terms of the legal agreements and covenants. MWCI was responsible for
technical aspects of the project, from engineering studies and designs to public consultations and
disclosures. MWCI was also responsible for submission of project progress reports. Project
implementation progressed unevenly from the beginning, with the implementation of two
components ahead of schedule early on while the third (and largest) component experienced
delays, a dynamic that continued throughout the life of the project.
22.    Restructuring was useful in addressing risks to achievement of project objectives but the
length of time to finalize and process the restructuring negatively impacted its intended purpose
of ensuring PDO achievement.
23.      Mid-Term Review. The MTR was conducted in March 2008, slightly later than
originally planned (January 2008). The key issues discussed were use of restructuring to address
project delays and possible additional financing for newly identified activities. 3 The MTR rated
the project as Satisfactory and expected to address the causes of implementation delays through
the agreed restructuring. The restructuring was only approved in January 2011, less than 18
months before the project closing date. The result was that one STP could not be completed by
the closing date, and others were changed to MWCI internal financing. All STPs are expected to
be completed. At project closing, six of the revised target of seven STPs were completed. The
final ISR DO rating was Moderately Unsatisfactory due to the realization that one project PDO
would not be fully achieved and a significant loan amount would be cancelled.




3
 It was later agreed to begin preparations of a new project, the Manila Wastewater Management Project (MWMP)
approved in May 2012.


                                                      6
24.   Issues Affecting Implementation.          Some of the key issues that affected project
implementation were:
   •   Land Acquisition issues including delays or inability to sign land agreements in several
       planned sewage treatment project locations, and time needed to process resettlement of
       displaced persons in compliance with policy. Restructuring partially addressed this issue.
   •   Philippine Government Process which caused an effectiveness delay that got the project
       off to a later implementation start than planned and an extended length of time for
       finalization and submission to the Bank of the request for restructuring agreed during the
       MTR (March 2008) and not received by the Bank until November 2010. Approval by the
       Bank of the restructuring was subsequently delayed until January 2011 due to
       requirement for submission to Bank of latest audited financial statements of the LBP
       before processing the restructuring.
   •   Typhoon Ondoy, which struck the Philippines in September 2009, was a major
       unexpected event that factored into the slower-than-planned restructuring, but also
       illustrated the resilience of a well-designed septage treatment plant to a natural disaster of
       the scale of Ondoy. The aftermath of Typhoon Ondoy also contributed to the inability to
       complete the largest STP and consequently the loan cancellation processed at project
       closing.
   •   Political and social issues including cases of local opposition to proposed small scale
       sewerage treatment plants in their areas, political turn-over at the local level (mayors)
       and election-related decisions such as ban on excavations in the year prior to elections.
25.    There was no formal Quality of Supervision review for the project. This ICR review
concludes that Quality of Supervision was Moderately Satisfactory.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
26.     The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) arrangements assigned responsibility for data
collection to MWCI and required annual reporting updates.
27.     The M&E framework could have been better designed in terms of selecting appropriate
indicators and targets that were well-defined and measurable. Not all of the indicators had
effective collection methods, available baseline, or were able to monitor progress to achievement
of PDOs. Two out of the five outcome indicators did not have quantitative targets. Some
indicators were open to interpretation, others lacked clarity (i.e. scope of coverage whether
project or total MWCI concession area or how to assess “acceptable? cost of operation) or were
confidential MWCI figures.
28.     In terms of M&E implementation, the key performance indicators were collected from the
different MWCI departments and the MWCI Program Management Department collected,
analyzed and summarized the data in a report for submission to the World Bank and MWCI

                                                 7
management on an annual basis as required. There was frequent rotation of staff working on
M&E and some concern on the accuracy and appropriateness of data reported. To illustrate, it
was noted that some key indicators exceeded targets even though the indicators should have been
affected by project implementation delays. No changes to the M&E framework or process were
undertaken during implementation.
29.     The institutional impact of M&E on MWCI was positive. To meet the M&E requirements
of the project, MWCI obtained new equipment and technologies to evaluate the performance of
its treatment plants. MWCI has a keen interest in assessing better ways to monitor its own
performance and make decisions, including related to MTSP facility operations. For example, to
effectively monitor the efficiency of the septage treatment plants, MWCI adopted the use of new
technologies, such as Variable Frequency Drive (VFD). For BOD removal monitoring, MWCI
included the upgrade of an additional pumping station in East Avenue project to comply with
company reliability targets. In the case of Olandes STP, MWCI noted that the influent
characteristics were lower than expected and adjusted chlorine levels. Based on continued
MWCI motivation to monitor and manage using data, the expected future impact of M&E is
positive.
Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance
Fiduciary Safeguards Compliance
Overall rating on fiduciary safeguards compliance: Satisfactory
30.     Fiduciary (Financial Management and Procurement) policies and procedures were
generally complied with during the life of the project. The financial management shortcomings
noted during the project life such the delayed submission of audited financial reports to the Bank
as required by the loan agreement were addressed and resolved. The borrower addressed
identified issues and there was no indication of substantial weaknesses in the overall control
framework. The financial management system operated well with only moderate Bank
supervision. LBP and MWCI were able to provide substantive financial management
information. The overall procurement performance of the project was satisfactory although some
difficulties were encountered. Procurement plans were prepared and updated regularly during
implementation. MWCI enhance its capacity to handling procurement for large or complex
contracts, in addition to assigning and training new procurement staff. Capacity limitations
resulted in occasional delays and in one case retendering of a contract. Post review was
conducted on sample contracts. Procurement records were maintained but not always in a well-
organized and comprehensive manner.
Environmental and Social Safeguards Compliance during Project Implementation
Overall rating on environmental and social compliance: Satisfactory.
31.   Environmental and social policies and procedures were complied with. MTSP was a
Category A project, with OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment and OP/BP 4.12 Involuntary
                                                8
Resettlement triggered. All required EA assessments were done and disclosed. A Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP) was prepared and complied with. The project had positive environment and
social benefits by improving health and living conditions and the environment.
32.    Most of the lands acquired were owned by the government, either by the LGU or by a
government agency such as the DENR, MWSS, MMDA and FTI. These lands were provided by
the government free or by arrangement for the wastewater treatment project. Only one privately-
owned property – for the North Septage Treatment Plant in San Mateo, Rizal – was acquired
through a willing seller-willing buyer arrangement.
33.     Environmental compliance monitoring arrangements included both internal and external
audits. A third party auditor conducted regular monitoring of compliance to ECC conditions and
EMP commitments. In addition, all environmental permits were secured and appropriately upda-
ted as required. A detailed assessment of MTSP’s compliance with environmental requirements
is in Annex 5.
Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
34.      The transition to post-completion operation is expected to be seamless. MWCI will
operate and maintain the facilities and equipment constructed or procured under MTSP. As the
operator for the east zone, it is in their interest to sustain and even enhance the improvements.
MWCI has been an effective and reliable service provider. The risk that the improvements will
not be sustained is considered low. Mechanisms for regular review and adjustments of tariff are
in place. There are systems in place and a culture among MWCI staff and managers on the need
to cut costs which will ensure the viability of the improvements. Environmental monitoring and
planning, as well as regular consultation with customers and residents, have been
institutionalized within MWCI.
35.     The approval of the successor project, a US$275 million loan for the Metro Manila
Wastewater Management Project (MWMP) will ensure that the Bank can continue contributing
to sustaining the benefits of MTSP. The MWMP expands support to MWCI in the east zone and
MWSI in the west zone. The lessons learned from MTSP were incorporated in the MWMP
project design. To illustrate, the concessionaires are now very careful in the selection and
acquisition of project sites, and using the willing-seller- willing-buyer approach that proved most
effective under MTSP. At project launch, all project sites except one had been secured with
proper documentation under finalization.

3     Assessment of Outcomes
Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
36.    The project’s objectives, design and implementation remain highly relevant to the
Philippines and Metro Manila today. Addressing water and sanitation issues and the effects of
urbanization are included in the 2004-2010 MTPDP and aligned with the CAS objective of better

                                                9
public service delivery increasing access to safe drinking water and sanitation services inter alia.
The efforts that began with the passage of the 2004 Clean Water Act were reinforced by the 2008
the Supreme Court order to clean up Manila Bay. As the capital region, Metro Manila has
significant influence on the national agenda on water and environmental quality. MWMP
incorporated lessons from MTSP and is positioned as part of the Bank’s broader program of
support for Metro Manila urban renewal which includes work on flood management, disaster risk
management, and slum upgrading.
Achievement of Project Development Objectives
37.     The overall achievement of the Project Development Objectives is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.
38.     The achievement of the PDOs is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. Of the two PDOs, one
was fully achieved and one was partially achieved. Three of the five PDO indicators were
satisfactory while two were not as a direct result of the lower than targeted completion of STPs.
Achievement of the PDOs and the five indicators is discussed in the following paragraphs.
PDO - Increasing coverage and effectiveness of sewage services in Metro Manila. This PDO
was partially achieved. The sanitation investments (North and South Septage Treatment Plants)
were completed early and sanitation coverage increased from 1.5% to 100%, entirely attributable
to the project. The sewerage investments, however, did not achieve full coverage. Six of the
seven STPs agreed in the restructuring were completed. The sewerage coverage of MWCI
increase increased from 3 percent in 2003 to 24% in 2011 (target is 30% by 2012); MTSP
accounts for 3% of sewerage coverage in 2011.
       Indicator – Gradual increase in satisfaction of residents with sewerage/sanitation service
       delivery in participating areas. This indicator had no baseline and only a yes or no
       measurement. MWSS client surveys received 100% satisfaction rates. In addition, there is
       widespread affirmation of health and environmental benefits to beneficiaries.
       Indicator – BOD removed by sewage and septage treatment plants. The targets were not
       achieved. This is attributable to the lower than projected STPs completed (6 out of 7 of
       which 3 were operating and 3 were being commissioned at project closing).
       Indicator - Percent increase in take-up rate of desludging services. Desludging increased
       at a satisfactory pace.
PDO - Establishing the financial and technical viability of new approaches for sewage services
in Metro Manila. This PDO was achieved. The positive innovative approaches used have been
widely recognized, including a project innovation award from the International Water
Association (IWA) in 2010 for the Olandes STP. A highly significant value of the project was its
demonstration effect of alternate institutional and technical approaches to sewerage and
sanitation services delivery that comply with environmental standards. MTSP piloted the use of
combined sewer and drainage systems in the Philippines, and applied a decentralized approach to

                                                10
the delivery of sewerage services. It introduced innovative designs that addressed land
availability constraints. It expanded the practice of safe disposal of treated septage as soil
conditioner in lahar-laden areas in the north of Manila. These project aspects provided significant
insights that were incorporated in the design of the successor project, MWMP. The approach will
also have high relevance for improvement of the design and implementation of wastewater
projects outside of Manila and in Southeast Asia, in general.
       Indicator - Number of sewage treatment plants treating combined flows in a sustainable
       manner that complies with relevant discharge standards. The completion of six STPs out
       of eight targeted resulted in lack of achievement of this indicator. The STPs were
       operating at a lower than capacity levels.
       Indicator - Cost of operation in an acceptable range. This indicator had no baseline and
       only a target range. The target of about 20% was reached.
Efficiency
The Efficiency rating is Moderately Satisfactory.
39.     During project preparation, least cost analysis was applied to both the overall design
approach in the MWCI concession area and to the choice of project designs and priority
sewerage and sanitation investments for the individual subprojects. The initial designs of the
subprojects were to be refined further following comments made at appraisal that were directed
at increasing coverage and improving effectiveness. While it was clear that there were benefits
particularly relating to environmental and health improvements, they could not be reliably
quantified. No economic rate of return estimated for the project during appraisal. The project
supported the 2003 rate rebasing agreements, and therefore investments had to be within the
approved tariff levels.
40.     The economic rates of return of the subprojects funded under the sewage and sanitation
management components (98% of total project cost) were calculated. Project benefits consist of
environmental benefits attributed to a reduction in BOD loading in the receiving water bodies,
land appreciation particularly for the riverbanks subprojects, and health benefits from the septage
management subprojects. Costs included capital investment and operation and maintenance
costs, net of tax and contractors’ profits. Based on this analysis, five subprojects had positive
economic rates of return and three had negative rates of return. The negative rates of return were
due to higher actual investment costs with final designs reflecting more accurate cost estimates
and definite construction approaches, and lower benefits due to lower utilization rates than
projected. The overall economic rate of return calculated for the project is over 30%.
41.    Cost recovery. The Concession Agreement is designed to ensure full cost recovery
(excluding loan transaction costs), and allows cross subsidy between water and
sewerage/sanitation through the ‘rate rebasing’ exercise every five years. Part of the MTSP costs
were included in the 2003 rate rebasing, and the balance in the 2008 rate rebasing, to be repaid

                                                11
over the life of the Concession Agreement (2022). In 2008, the government approved a 15-year
extension of the concession period up to 2037 to mitigate the impact on the tariffs of increased
investments in water and wastewater improvement projects, and to allow the concessionaires to
pursue the mandate imposed by government to accelerate implementation of wastewater projects
to comply with the 2004 Clean Water Act and the 2008 Supreme Court Decision on the clean-up
of Manila Bay. This meant that the recovery of the MTSP costs likewise extended to 2037.
Economic and financial analysis are detailed in Annex 3.
Overall Outcome Rating
42.     Taking into consideration the relevance, PDO achievement and efficiency, the outcome is
rated Moderately Satisfactory. Highly relevant projects require well-designed PDOs and
indicators with a well-functioning M&E implementation. Efficiency of Bank investments
contributing to a broader effort is not always easily quantified.
43.     Other factors affecting the overall outcome rating include
• Low loan utilization (62%) despite a two-year loan extension primarily due restructuring
    delays and Typhoon Ondoy’s impact on government and MWCI which did not readily allow
    replacement of non-moving STPs, and resulted in the payment of commitment fees by
    MWCI.
• When accounting for only MTSP components, the achievement of outcome indicators was
    mixed, and tended to be below target. The project’s support for the overall MWCI program,
    and the innovative designs and approaches it introduced provided invaluable insights to
    MWCI and the successor project.
• Subprojects that were operating at less than full capacity based on a 2011 population and
    demand survey; however, five subprojects are projected to reach full capacity ahead of time
• Cost recovery being extended to 2037.
Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
44.     Combining the relevance, the achievement of PDOs, and efficiency, an overall outcome
rating of Moderately Satisfactory is given. The justifications are provided in the respective
sections above.
Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
Poverty Impact, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
45.     Poverty Impact. MTSP has direct poverty impact. Increased access to clean water and
sanitation reduces risk of disease and improves quality of life. The Pineda STP in Pasig is
located in a poor to low-income community along the Pasig River where residents have
attributed the following benefits and improvements to the project - cleaner environment, river
water has no foul smell and natural color; increased fish population. There is increased
awareness of the households to maintain this environment and also an appreciation of the free
septic tank cleaning service.


                                              12
46.     Gender Aspects. MTSP benefits all residents but women in particular. Health issues such
as diarrhea, cholera, skin diseases, urinary tract infection and other water-borne diseases are
caused by contaminated water sources, dirty canals, creeks and rivers; wastewater and rain
flooded streets; toilets that are difficult to flush or are overflowing are household problems
which, in, have to generally taken care of by women. The reduction in such issues from
improved sanitation increases time for income-generating activities and/or for doing other
household chores.
47.     Social Development. The contributions of the project to social development include the
following:
• Increased awareness and consciousness of individuals, households and communities on
    household and community sanitation practices and associated health benefits.
• Successful cooperation and close interaction among households, communities and local
    authorities (LGUs) in environmental sanitation involved.
• Better integration of services such as wastewater management, solid waste management,
    clean drinking water and others focused on the need for clean and healthy communities.
• Reduction in local government spending for health services and disease control, freeing
    funds for other meaningful development projects.
• Provision of recreational and social facilities increased social acceptability of the project and
    heightened the awareness of the community about wastewater treatment and the need to keep
    their environment clean.
Institutional Change/Strengthening
48.     The MTSP had impact on internal institutional arrangements at MWCI. A Stakeholder
Affairs Office was established within MWCI to handle all activities which involve the
participation and feedback from community stakeholders throughout the life of the project.
Before MTSP, communities and residents were only involved at the start (public consultations)
and end (inauguration) of the project. Secondly, all matters related to investment projects used to
be handled only by the Program Management Department. During MTSP, other MWCI
departments were harnessed to support various aspects of investment projects (e.g., Land,
Stakeholder Affairs, and Strategy).
Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
49.     There were several unintended outcomes noted observed, including:
• MWCI received the 2010 Project Innovation Honors Award (Small Projects Category) for
    the Olandes Sewage Treatment Plant. This award was given by the International Water
    Association (IWA) to recognize excellence and innovation in water engineering projects
    worldwide. Amongst other criteria, award selection was based on “social, economic and
    sustainable design and the future value to the water engineering profession?. The
    introduction of the MTSP facilities in the communities sparked a revival of urban renewal
    activities, particularly in Olandes and Pineda. Riverbanks were cleaned. Although there were
    added costs involved in redesigning and constructing the facilities, the improvements in other

                                                13
    community facilities (multi-purpose covered courts, parks, barangay office renovations, etc.)
    promoted even more social activities and interactions.
•   Awareness and demand for sanitation and improved environmental conditions in the
    beneficiary communities increased. Additional improvements at the household-level
    sanitation facilities were noted within the community.
Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and Stakeholder Workshops
50.      Three focus group discussions (FGDs) were conducted in Pineda STP, Pasig; in
Poblacion STP in Makati; and in North Septage Treatment Plant, San Mateo, and Rizal in June
2012. Overall, the findings and conclusions from the FGDs were positive. See Annex 6 for
details.

4   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
51.      This ICR rates risks to the sustainability of the development outcomes as moderate.
Under the current institutional arrangements, MWCI has been operating effectively under the
strict regulatory arrangements. Tariffs have regularly been adjusted following the provisions of
the concession contract. MWCI is a well-managed, technically competent and financially stable
institution that has demonstrated risk management capability.
52.     There are some nonetheless risks to sustainability. First, increased unpredictability in
weather patterns and accompanying floods are a cause of natural disaster risk. Flood control
infrastructure in Manila in general is still undergoing massive rehabilitation and is not expected
to be completed in the next 20 years. Second, land issues may continue to pose risk for
expansion of sewage and sanitation services given the population density, difficulty in finalizing
land transactions, and local resistance to some projects. Thirdly, low utilization rates for
completed projects may be an indication of sustainability risk.

5   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance
53.     Bank performance during the preparation is rated Moderately Satisfactory. MTSP was
prepared by the task team supervising MSSW. This contributed to project design based on latest
lessons from experience. There was adequate due diligence in the proposed implementation
arrangements reflected in the shift of borrower from MWSS to LBP in view of the concession.
The preparation aspects which could have been done better were a) the M&E framework; b) the
asset ownership issue with respect to the drainage pipes was not identified during preparation;
and c) greater focus on preparing needed land acquisition agreements.
Quality of Supervision
54.   Bank performance during implementation is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Fiduciary
and safeguards policies were carefully assessed during the supervision missions. The

                                               14
inadequacies in the M&E framework were noted during the various supervision missions; but
minimal actions were taken to clarify the vague and unclear indicators and absence of baselines
and targets. Task leader turn-over was high but does not seem to have negatively impacted
implementation.
Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
55.     Throughout the project, the task team followed the overall project status, with attention
to the status of the subprojects. It worked closely with MWCI to address lagging projects. In
addition to regular technical support, the project had good fiduciary, environment and social
safeguards monitoring and compliance reporting. The Bank provided immediate support to GOP
and the project after Typhoon Ondoy and worked to reflect needed changes into the affected
subprojects.
Borrower Performance
56.    The performance of Government, represented specifically by the Department of Finance
(DOF) and the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA) is considered Moderately
Satisfactory. Government provided a generally supportive enabling environment for the project
to succeed, including institutional, regulatory and pricing reforms. At the same time, bureaucratic
delays between agencies caused delays in project implementation and restructuring as
summarized earlier.
57.     The Implementing Agencies (LDB, MSSW and MWCI) are rated Moderately
Satisfactory. MWCI demonstrated commitment to achieving PDOs as they were aligned with
their obligations under their concession agreement which they were motivated to achieve. The
implementation      arrangements     (financial  management,    governance,     procurement,
reimbursements, compliance with covenants) and appointment of key staff was done in a timely
manner. There was a distinct focus and effort placed on beneficiary and stakeholder
consultations and involvement. Some implementation issues, however, could have been
addressed in a more timely manner. More realism about the ability to resolve land acquisition
issues would also have been beneficial.
Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
58.     The counterpart institutions and agencies had adequate capacity to implement the project
as well as sufficient familiarity with Bank policies and procedures. There were, nonetheless,
delays in aspects of project implementation and restructuring due to slow internal processing on
the side of the Borrower. The Borrower recognized subprojects that were lagging and worked
with the Bank to address them. Some issues expected to be resolved, such as land agreements for
some important subprojects, were unable to be resolved by project closing, resulting in under-
achievement of PDO and partial loan cancellation. Overall, the performance of the borrower and
implementing agencies is rated Moderately Satisfactory.


                                                15
Lessons Learned
59.    This section discusses some of the key lessons learned based on MTSP project
experience.
60.     On Use of Private Land vs. Public Land. MTSP experience is that purchase acquisition of
private land, if available, for the project is more transparent, easier and less troublesome, in the
long run. There were two types of land acquired during this project – public land and private
land. Most of the land for the treatment plants was provided by the local LGU for “free?.
However, the “free use? of the land had a cost to the sub-project because additional
structures/facilities were requested in exchange of the “free use? of the land such as a covered
sports/multi-purpose court; improvements to the barangay office, etc.

Table 2. Key Characteristics of Land Acquisition Options
                                Public Land                                        Private Land
Ownership      MMDA and various LGUs                              Manila Water, private individuals, etc.
Land Acqui-    MOA or Usufruct Agreement between LGU              Purchase Contract between a willing buyer and
sition Mode    and MWCI                                           willing seller
Ease of        •   Easy if LGU is interested and committed.       •   Easy as long as land has no issues (for
Acquisition                                                           example, illegal settlers) and legal docu-
               •   There is also a possibility of uncertainties       ments are available.
                   and/or slackening of commitments. The
                   original list of subprojects was changed
                   because some LGUs were not able to de-
                   liver the land they committed for the
                   subproject.
               •   Delayed subproject implementation be-
                   cause of delayed availability of land.
Cost           •   Land is “free?, but conditions are set by      •   Based on market prices and negotiations.
                   some of the LGUs may make the in-
                   vestment cost higher, e.g. Olandes Park;
                   covered basketball courts in Pineda and
                   Pinagsama plus and renovations to the ba-
                   rangay office.
Social         •   GOP safeguard laws and policies on land        •   Bank’s Environmental and Social Safe-
Safeguards         acquisition and resettlement are used.             guards Framework (ESSF) are followed.



61.     On Technology Choice. The MTSP experience indicates that an assessment of the
optimization of the design of the facilities and choice of technology is recommended.
Conventional Activated Sludge process might not be the best technology option if the utilization
rate remains low for an extended period of time (5-10 years after construction). Other technology
options that may be phased or that are modular in design may be more energy efficient in the
long run. Six Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) and two Septage Treatment Plants (SPTPs) were
financed under MTSP. All the facilities use the Conventional Activated Sludge process which

                                                        16
provides continuous flow aerobic treatment. As of August 2012, both SPTPs were operational
while three out of six STPs are now operational. Civil works for the remaining three STP’s have
been completed and are in varying stages of commissioning.
62.      The option to use Conventional Activated Sludge process is a safe choice since it is
proven technology and is robust in performance i.e. it can absorb shock loads. It is a
conventional treatment process which provides stable treatment efficiency when operated
properly. MWCI also has a long experience in operating Conventional Activated Sludge process
facilities. However, the influent flows of the STPs come from combined sewage flows (4) and
separate sewage flows (2). Total hydraulic capacity of the STPs is 54 MLD. Treatment efficiency
reported by MWCI is between 96-97% efficient. This means that the STP achieves its designed
effluent compliance targets 96-97% of the time. This is related to the relatively low utilization
rates of the facilities, between 35 – 79%. The SPTPs also have low utilization rates of between
17-37%. Given these low rates of utilization, treatment efficiencies are expected to be high. The
technology choice was based on expectation of high population density.

6   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
63.    Draft copies of this ICR were discussed and comments from the Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners were received and included in this Report. The Borrower’s ICR is still under
preparation.




                                               17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                Actual/Latest
                                        Appraisal Estimate                               Percentage of
            Components                                         Estimate (USD
                                         (USD millions)                                    Appraisal
                                                                  millions)
Sewage Management                             46.10                   33.80                  73.31
Septage Management                            20.90                   17.00                  81.33
Institutional Strengthening                   1.90                    0.80                   42.10
Land Acquisition                              0.60
Total Baseline Cost                           69.50                   51.00                  73.38
Physical Contingencies                        5.60                    0.00                   0.00
Price Contingencies                           3.10                    0.00                   0.00
Total Project Costs                           78.20                   51.00                  65.21
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.30                    0.00                   0.00
Total Financing Required                      84.40                   51.00                  60.42


(b) Financing

                                                             Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                            Type of Co-      Estimate           Estimate    Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                             financing        (USD               (USD         Appraisal
                                                             millions)         millions)
Borrower                                                      20.40              10.48          51.37
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                              64.00              40.56          63.31
and Development




                                                     18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component
  Project Component 1.The Sewage Management Component included the construction of
  sewage treatment plants, interceptor sewers, and pumping stations, repair of existing drainage,
  and upgrading of communal septic tanks to provide secondary treatment.

Name of Subproject                          PAD            Restructuring         ICR
Riverbanks system
Capitolyo/Pineda                            Yes            No change             Completed
Ilaya                                       Yes            Replaced with         MWCI financing
                                                           Fort Bonifacio
Poblacion (Makati)                          Yes            No change             Completed
Sanitation for low-income communities
Pinagsama (Signal Village)                  Yes            No change             Completed
Manggahan Floodway                          Yes            Dropped               MWCI financing
Marikina System
Olandes (originally Quezon City Marikina    No             Added                 Completed
system)
Quezon City systems upgrade
East Ave                                    Yes            No change             Completed
Road 5 (Project 6)                          Yes            No change             Completed
Taguig Systems
Hagonoy                                     Yes            Dropped               MWCI financing
Labasan Taguig                              Yes            Merged/expanded       MWCI financing
Fort Bonifacio/(Taguig Central STP          Yes            Merged/expanded       MWCI financing
Baybreeze)
  Project Component 2. The Septage Management Component provided vehicles for
  pumping out septage from septic tanks (fecal tankers) and support construction of septage
  treatment plants.

                Subproject                       Revised                     Status
  1. North SPTP (San Mateo)                        n/a                      Completed
  2. South SPTP (FTI)                              n/a                      Completed
  3. Purchase of Vacuum trucks                     n/a                      Completed
  Project Component 3. The Institutional Strengthening Component would enhance the
  proposed project investments through (a) a public information campaign on the environmental
  benefits of sewage and sanitation services and best practices for the proper disposal of
  sewage, and (b) support for preparation of follow-up programs for sewage and sanitation
  improvements. MWCI has done (1) wastewater reliability projects for existing facilities to
  prevent downtime; (2) feasibility studies including the Master plan of Marikina, Quezon City
  and San Juan; (3) potluck campaigns (to promote public awareness on sewerage and sanitation
  services) and (4) the follow-up lending project is Metro Manila Wastewater Project (MWMP).

                                                  19
 Annex 2a: Supplemental Table to F. Results Framework Analysis of the Data Sheet (MTSP)

            Results Indicators                                                         Actual Values
Component One: Sewage Management
                                    Baseline    2005        2006      2007       2008        2009         2010         2011         2012       Target
Number of water connections in      46,350     46,251      46,631    46,523     50,623      50,800       74,030      119,021      177,922      49,500
MWCI service area with sewage
treatment service (in #/year).
(Total; attributable to MTSP and
non-MTSP facilities)
           % increase (decrease)                           0.82%     -0.23%      8.8%       0.35%         46%          61%          49%
                      MTSP only        0                                                                 5,120        19,761       77,137      49,500
           % increase (decrease)                                                                                      286%         290%
Comments. Target surpassed, based on revised target, but figures include those from non-MTSP facilities. Final figure attributed only to MTSP is
77,137, 56% higher than the revised final target.
                                    Baseline    2005        2006      2007       2008        2009         2010         2011         2012       Target
Volume of sewage treated before      7,026     15,512      32,576    53,413     73,499      92,081      111,345      117,817      117,817     113,227
disposal (m3/year); (total;
attributable to MTSP and non-
MTSP facilities)
           % increase (decrease)                           110%        64%       38%         25%          21%           6%           -0-
                      MTSP only                                                              1,827       7,318        9,206        11,499     113,227
           % increase (decrease)                                                                         301%          26%          25%
Comments. Target slightly surpassed by 4% at project end. However, this figure includes those from non-MTSP facilities. Final figures attributed to
MTSP only are 11,499 as the STPs started operations in 2010.


                                                                        20
             Results Indicators                                                         Actual Values


                                     Baseline    2005       2006       2007       2008        2009         2010         2011         2012       Target
Length of drainage lines installed      0                                                                                            0.80        120
or rehabilitated
Comments. This was not achieved since the indicator was not applicable after restructuring. Previous assumption was to reline or replace drainage lines
to improve the quality of influent. MWCI did not continue the works due to issue on asset ownership and maintenance. LGU is the owner of the
drainage lines and the one responsible for the maintenance.
Component Two: Septage Management
                                     Baseline    2005       2006       2007       2008        2009         2010         2011         2012       Target
Number of septic tanks de-           17,000     106,015   151,037    256,146    314,529     379,884      436,350      488,497      518,158     250,560
sludged in MWCI service area
(#/year); (total; attributable to
MTSP and non-MTSP facilities)
            % increase (decrease)                           42%        70%        23%         21%          15%          12%           6%
                       MTSP only                                                 58,383     123,738      180,204      232,351      262,012     250,560
            % increase (decrease)                                                            112%          46%          29%          13%
Comment. Target surpassed, but the figures previously reported included non-MTSP facilities. The final figure attributed only to MTSP is 262,012,
which is 5% still higher than the target.
                                     Baseline    2005       2006       2007       2008        2009         2010         2011         2012       Target
Volume of septage treated before        0                            116,069    324,127     533,437      709,187      870,077      963,412     982,800
disposal (m3/year); (total;
attributable to MTSP and non-
MTSP facilities)
            % increase (decrease)                                                179%         65%          33%          23%          11%


                                                                         21
              Results Indicators                                                    Actual Values
                         MTSP only         0                                208,058     417,368     593,118     754,008      847,343    982,800
             % increase (decrease)                                                       100%         42%         27%         12%
Comment. Slight underachievement of 2%. This figure includes non-MTSP facilities. Excluding non-MTSP facilities, the underachievement is 14%
with an end figure of 847,343.
                                        Baseline   2005   2006     2007      2008         2009        2010        2011        2012       Target
Percentage of BOD reduction in          Around                              baseline                                                    Around
the septic tanks in a sample not         10%                                 studies                                                     20%
smaller than 0.5%/year; (% aver                                               done
reduction)
Comment. The 10% baseline and 20% reduction target are assumptions from a previous MTSP Feasibility Study done in 2004. No actual
sampling/measurements have been done to establish the baseline; to establish the target; and to determine the final result.
Component Three: Institutional Strengthening
                                        Baseline   2005   2006     2007      2008         2009        2010        2011        2012       Target
Number of people reached by
public information campaign                0                                987,980     1,023,225   1,281,181   1,508,097   3,723,934   957,090
(#/year)
             % increase (decrease)                                                         4%         25%         18%
Comment.
                                        Baseline   2005   2006     2007      2008         2009        2010        2011        2012       Target
Percent increase in take-up rate of
desludging service (% take-up
                                                          42%       70%       23%         21%         15%         12%          6%
rate /year) ; (total; attributable to
MTSP and non-MTSP facilities)
                         MTSP only                                                       112%         46%         29%         13%


                                                                     22
            Results Indicators                                                      Actual Values
Comment. No quantitative value in the PAD. We compute the increase using the figures from Results Indicator under Component Two: No. of septic
tanks desludged in MWCI service area. A 6% increase was achieved from 2011 to 2012 (total -MTSP and non-MTSP) and 13% for MTSP facilities only.
                                   Baseline    2005       2006       2007      2008       2009         2010         2011        2012       Target
Prepared follow-up wastewater        Yes                                                                                         Yes        Yes
and sanitation programs
Comment. Yes indicates that there were follow-up programs. MWCI has done (1) wastewater reliability projects for existing facilities to prevent
downtime; (2) feasibility studies including the Master Plan of Marikina, Quezon City and San Juan; (3) sharing (TOKA TOKA) campaign to promote
public awareness on sewerage and sanitation services and (4) the follow-up lending project is MWMP.




                                                                      23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Approach followed by the economic analysis at appraisal
The economic analysis applied at appraisal was least cost analysis which also guided the
overall design approach of MWCI in providing sewerage and sanitation services in the
east concession area. While the project clearly had benefits particularly relating to envi-
ronmental and public health improvements, they could not be reliably quantified. Least
cost analysis was applied in the context of ‘rate rebasing’ which is a five-yearly exercise
during the concession period. The ‘rate rebasing’ exercise allows the concessionaires to
reset the tariff based on agreements reached with government on actual performance in
the previous five-year period, performance targets set for the next period, and an agreed
Appropriate Discount Rate (ADR). The proposed tariff is then subjected to public hearing
and political acceptability, and once a final tariff is agreed, coverage targets and service
levels are adjusted as necessary. At the time of appraisal, MTSP was supporting service
coverage targets and tariffs approved in the 2003 rate rebasing exercise.
The agreements reached on sewerage and sanitation services in the 2003 rate rebasing
exercise were an attempt to address institutional and implementation issues encountered
in the past of trying to implement a centralized, separate sewerage system in Metro
Manila. The issues included (a) the need to acquire significant land to host large sewage
treatment plants and to install separate sewer systems, which would have resulted in
additional cost to the tariff of P10 per cum. (2000 prices) deemed to be politically
unacceptable, (b) a low willingness to pay for sewerage services, (c) a lack of available
land and the high cost of acquisition where land was available, (d) low tolerance of local
governments for traffic and community disruptions in the installation of sewer networks,
(e) unclear enforcement of sewerage connections, and (f) other factors such as
termination of ocean disposal of septage. The revised approach adopted in 2003 reversed
the trend of service coverage targets in the 1997 Concession Agreement with the targets
for sewerage services substantially decreasing, and compensated with an increase in
sanitation services. The government also allowed the use of combined sewage-drainage
systems and the application of a decentralized approach involving regional/sub
catchments and small capacity treatment plants spread out across the municipalities, as
service coverage targets were area-based. This revised approach was estimated to cost
P4.00 per m3 (2004 prices), a more politically-acceptable level at that time.
Given that service coverage targets would have to be met within the approved tariffs, de-
sign and implementation of subprojects had to be the least cost possible. The
identification of sites for sewage management projects and determination of project scope
were based on land availability with priority given on land owned by local governments
and other government agencies (i.e., MWSS, MMDA, and DENR). Design of sewage
treatment plants (STPs) considered the topography and lay out of existing drainage

                                            24
systems, DENR standards of effluent discharge, and cost-efficient technologies. Efforts
were made during appraisal to maximize catchment areas, increase concentration of
influents to maximize treatment efficiency, and introduce innovative designs that
addressed the constraints posed by limitations on land availability through building on
synergies with ongoing and planned projects on flood control, housing developments and
urban renewal. Septage management subprojects were based on meeting the sanitation
targets set for 2011 and standards for safe disposal of treated septage. Treated septage
would be applied in lahar-affected areas in the north of Manila as soil conditioner;
building on the practice adopted by MWCI after ocean disposal was discontinued under
MSSP. Septage was to be treated to mitigate any possible health impacts on the
population of the disposal sites, and according to standards aligned with local
environmental practices and reflecting global standards (i.e., US-EPA standards).
The benefits identified at appraisal were reduction in BOD load in the surrounding rivers
and creeks, public health benefits and improvement in well-being, improvement in land
condition in lahar-affected areas, and institutional benefits through approaches on sewage
management.
Assessment of efficiency at completion
Efficiency in the use of the loan
58% of the loan was disbursed as of loan closing date despite a two-year extension. The
undisbursed portion of the loan was related to the sewage management component. This
amount would have been used for the development of Taguig Central Sewage Project
(Baybreeze) involving the construction of a 40 MLD STP, the largest STP that would
have been funded under this project, and its corresponding sewer network, and Taguig
Northeast Sewerage Project (Fort Bonifacio STP) with a treatment capacity of 10 MLD.
However, these subprojects encountered political and land acquisition issues that delayed
project completion beyond the loan closing date. The economic benefits from the Taguig
subprojects not reached under MTSP are planned for MWCI funding. Full utilization of
the loan and realization of economic and financial benefits might have been possible had
the project been implemented under a programmatic approach rather than through a SIL
which requires a priori identification of specific investments to be funded. The SIL was
less flexible for replacement of non-moving STPs with non-problematic ones without
going through formal government approval processes which normally take time. Also, a
consequence of the underutilization of funds was the payment of commitment fees 4 by
MWCI. Commitment charges are real costs absorbed by MWCI.


4
  The commitment fee is an annual fee paid by the Borrower. For this project, it was estimated at 0.85% of
the undisbursed portion of the loan for the first four years of the loan, and at 0.75%, thereafter.


                                                    25
Achievement of outcome indicators
The performance of project outcome indicators is mixed when accounting only for MTSP
and not the global performance of MWCI. In terms of BOD removed by sewage and
septage treatment plants, MTSP added to installed capacity of 88%; current installed
capacity is 10,523 tons per year including 5,600 tons per year at project start. The target
was 20,400 tons per year, indicating only 52% achievement. Accounting for MTSP only,
the achievement of the target was 33%. In terms of increase in take-up rate of desludging
services, MTSP contributed significantly to overall performance. MTSP contributed to an
annual increase of 50%, on the average, for the period covering 2009 to 2012. The annual
targets on the number of STPs were not achieved throughout the project period due to
delays in land acquisition. Operating costs of new plants were 70% lower than those of
the existing plants, achieving the target of 20% reduction.
On the outcome indicators by component, with the exception of the component on
institutional strengthening where all targets were achieved, the performance of the
components on sewage and septage management is weak when accounting for MTSP
facilities only. For sewage management, the number of water connections with sewage
treatment service in the east concession was achieved for the most part of the project
period, of which MTSP contributed about 22% on the average. With regard to volume of
sewage treated before disposal, MTSP contributed 7%, on the average, of the overall
annual performance. For septage management, the annual targets on number of septic
tanks desludged in the MWCI area were surpassed throughout the project period, and
MTSP contributed to 38%, on the average, to MWCI’s overall annual performance. In
contrast, the annual targets on volume of septage treated before disposal were not reached
at all, although MTSP contributed to 80%, on the average, of MWCI’s overall annual
performance.
MTSP’s contribution to the overall improvement in the water quality was not expected to
be significant even at appraisal given its relatively low financing proportion to MWCI.
The higher value of the project was to be on the demonstration effect of alternative
institutional and technical approaches to delivery of sewerage and sanitation services
while complying with environmental standards, which it did by providing invaluable
insights to MWCI and the successor project, MWMP.
Design and cost variances in the subprojects
There were 14 subprojects identified for funding at appraisal for sewage and septage
management. At restructuring, four STPs in Taguig were consolidated into one STP, and
two other STPs were dropped due to lack of land as well as political and land acquisition
issues that could not be resolved within the project implementation period. Thus, eight
were implemented under the project, of which six were STPs and two SPTPs. Those
funded underwent design and substantial cost changes during project implementation.

                                            26
  The increase in cost from the time of appraisal to implementation was mainly due to final
  designs reflecting more accurate cost estimates and definite construction approaches;
  project costs at appraisal were based on project concepts and feasibility studies. There
  was also an increase in treatment capacity in some of the treatment plants from the
  original designs (see Table A3-1 below).
                     TABLE A3-1 - DESIGN AND COST VARIANCES OF THE SUBPROJECTS
                               Cost variance                   Design capacity of plants                    Treatment process
   Sub-                         Estimated
                    Cost @
  projects                       cost of
                   2008 rate                   Remarks        Proposed       Actual      Remarks      Proposed     Actual        Remarks
                                  com-
                   rebasing
                                 pletion
Riverbanks Se-     P235 M       P278 M       Cost increased   Average      Average       Total        Sequen-    Conventio-    Based on
werage Project                  for only 2   by 18%           dry wea-     dry wea-      treatment    cing       nal activa-   least cost op-
(Poblacion, Ila-                STPs         funding 2        ther flow    ther flow –   capacity     batch      ted sludge    tion that re-
ya, Pineda/                                  STPs rather      – 7,815      15,000        doubled      reactor    (CAS)         sulted from
Capitolyo)                                   than planned 3   m3/d for 3   m3/d for 2    based on     (SBR)                    bidding
                                             STPs; Pineda     STPs         STPs          updated
                                             STP – P90 M;                                projec-
                                                                                         tions.
                                             Poblacion
                                             STP – P188
                                             M; Ilaya STP
                                             was dropped
                                             from the
                                             project.
Sanitation for     P403 M       P211 M       Updated cost     13.9 MLD     8 MLD for                  SBR        Modified      Based on
Low-income                      for only 1   covers only      for 2        Pinagsama                             CAS due       least cost
Communities                     STP          Pinagsama        STPs         only                                  to space      option that
(Pinagsama,                                  STP;                                                                limitations   resulted from
east of                                      Manggahan                                                                         bidding
Manggahan)                                   STP was
                                             dropped from
                                             the project.
QC – Marikina      P161 M       P231 M       Cost increased   10 MLD       10 MLD        No           SBR        CAS           Based on
Sewerage                                     by 43%.                                     change                                least cost op-
System                                                                                                                         tion that re-
(Olandes)                                                                                                                      sulted from
                                                                                                                               bidding
Upgrading of       P 440 M      P504 M       Cost increased   East         East          Treatmen     SBR        CAS           Based on
Existing Sani-                               by 15%;          Avenue –     Avenue –      t capacity                            least cost
tation Systems                                                15 MLD;      17 MLD;       slightly                              option that
(East Avenue,                                East Avenue –                               increased.                            resulted from
Road 5)                                      P379 M; Road     Road 5 –     Road 5 – 4                                          bidding
                                             5 – P126 M       3.5 MLD      MLD
Septage            P190 M       P668 M       Cost increased   North        North         No           SBR        CAS           Based on
Treatment                                    by 252%.         SPTP –       SPTP –        change                                least cost
Plants (North                                                 586 m3/d;    586 m3/d;                                           option that
SPTP, South                                                   South        South                                               resulted from
SPTP)                                                         SPTP –       SPTP –                                              bidding
                                                              815 m3/d     815 m3/d
                                                              + 2,000      + 2,000
                                                              m3/d STP     m3/d STP

  Source: MWCI




                                                                 27
Utilization rates
In terms of actual and projected utilization rates, five plants are estimated to reach full
capacity ahead of the design year of 2022, advancing benefits from the investments.
Three others ( Olandes STP, Road 5 STP, and South SpTP) may be operating at less than
full capacity throughout the concession period based on UP-NEC’s recent survey on
population and water demand conducted in 2011 (see Table A3-2 below). For the South
SpTP, negotiations are underway with MWSI, the west zone concessionaire, and small-
scale private septic tank cleaning contractors to use the plant on a fee basis. This will
take up the slack in the utilization of the plant. For Olandes and Road 5 STPs, MWCI
intends to monitor population growth in the coverage areas, and in time, make the
necessary investments to maximize utilization of the plants.
                    TABLE A3-2: UTILIZATION RATES, MTSP SUBPROJECTS
                  Subprojects                  2012      2013      2014      2015      2037
Riverbanks Sewerage System
Pineda/Capitolyo (Pasig city) STP                  79%   100%     100%       100%      100%
Poblacion (Makati city) STP                        0%    100%     100%       100%      100%
Sanitation for Low income Communities
Pinagsama (Taguig city) STP                        0%    100%     100%       100%      100%
Quezon City – Marikina City Sewerage System
Olandes STP                                        35%   39%       40%       40%       39%
Upgrading of Existing Sanitation Systems
East Avenue (Quezon city) STP                      55%   97%      100%       100%      100%
Road 5 (Quezon city) STP                           0%    77%       79%       80%       87%
Septage Management
North (San Mateo) SPTP                             37%   84%       91%       100%      100%
South (FTI Complex) SPTP                           17%   38%       40%       42%       52%
Source: MWCI
Economic rates of return (ERR) of subprojects
The project will potentially benefit close to 4 million people in the east concession area
as against 3.3 million estimated at appraisal once all plants are made operational. The
project contributed to increasing sewerage coverage of MWCI from 3% in 2003 to 24%
in 2011 (target is 30% by 2012); MTSP accounts for 3% of sewerage coverage in 2011.
Sanitation coverage increased from 1.5% to 100%, with the increase entirely attributable
to the project.
Economic rates of return of the sewage and sanitation management subprojects (98%
total project cost) were estimated. Project benefits consist of environmental benefits

                                              28
attributed to a reduction in BOD loading in the receiving water bodies, land appreciation
particularly for the riverbanks subprojects, and health benefits for the septage
management subprojects. Costs included investment and operation and maintenance
costs, net of tax and contractors’ profits. On a per subproject basis, five garnered positive
economic rates of return and three, negative rates of return (see Table A3-3). The
negative rates of return were due to higher actual investment costs arising from final
designs reflecting more accurate cost estimates and definite construction approaches, and
lower benefits due to lower utilization rates than projected. The economic rate of return
for the entire project is over 30% (see Table A3-4).
Table A3-3: Economic rates of return by subproject
                                        Design        Population           Pop. Equiv.           Economic            ERR
                                        Capacity      Served by 2037       based on plant        Investment
Sub-projects                            (m3/d)                             design capacity 5     Cost
                                                      (projected)
                                                                                                 (PHP m) 6
Riverbanks Sewerage System
Pineda/Capitolyo (Pasig city) STP       4,000                   38,462                38,462              66.7        48%
Poblacion (Makati city) STP            11,000                  105,770               105,770             139.8        39%
Sanitation for Low income Communities
Pinagsama (Taguig city) STP             8,000                    76,924                76,924            150.5        -13%
Quezon city – Marikina city Sewerage System
Olandes STP                            10,000                   37,744 7               96,154            171.9        28%
Upgrading of Existing Sanitation Systems
East Avenue (Quezon city) STP          16,700                  160,056               160,056             281.6         -1%
Road 5 (Quezon city) STP                4,000                  33,535 8               38,462              93.7        -10%
Septage Management
North (San Mateo) SPTP                    586                1,010,037             1,010,037             204.5        38%
                            SPTP          814
South (FTI Complex)                                          2,526,126 9           4,850,242             292.3        41%
                            STP    2,000
                                                                                       10
Total                              56,800             3,988,654            6,376,107                                 33%
Source of raw data: MWCI




5
 Population Equivalent (PE) is defined by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) as 1 PE=34
g BOD5 per capita per day; 1 PE=130 litres per day.
6
 The economic investment cost is the financial investment net of 12% VAT and 20% contractor’s profit.
7
 Plant utilization is estimated to reach only 39% by 2037 based on UP-NEC population and demand survey of 2011.
Estimated population served could change if the assumption of per capita water consumption is changed based on new
surveys or updated population projections.
8
 Plant utilization is estimated to reach only 87% by 2037 based on UP-NEC population and demand survey of 2011.
9
 Plant utilization is estimated to reach only 52% by 2037 based on UP-NEC population and demand survey of 2011.
10
  This is number of population that would benefit if Olandes and Road 5 STPs, and South SPTP would operate at full
capacity.

                                                        29
Environmental benefits. Environmental benefits are difficult to measure. Benefits were
estimated based on willingness to pay for improved water quality, and using as proxy, the
environmental fee of 20% of basic water bill. In the calculations, per capita water
consumption was assumed at 130 liters per day, a return rate for wastewater of 80%, and
a tariff of P25 per m3 (the average for 2011). Only consumers in the catchment area of the
STP were included in the calculations, although benefits are expected to accrue to a
larger population.
Increase in value of land. Land appreciation was included among the benefits of the
riverbanks subprojects, as the clean-up of the surrounding environment and the
waterways had turned the adjacent areas of the riverbanks into potential commercial
properties including the development of parks and promenades. The area of influence
was calculated by multiplying the length of the riverbank that would benefit from the
project by 15 meters moving inland from the edge of the river. A land value of about P4,
000/m2 (US$100) was assumed, a conservative estimate given the price paid by the
concessionaires for land for the STPs in the successor project. An annual increase in land
values of 1% for the next 10 years was assumed. 11 Again, while the calculations are
limited, benefits are expected to accrue to the entire catchment area of the subprojects.
Health benefits. Health benefits were estimated for the septage treatment plants. Benefits
would come from reduced risk of people coming in contact with raw wastewater from
overflowing septic tanks. The impacts of poor sanitation on health, water, tourism, and
other welfare impacts were estimated for the Philippines to be in the order of US$1.4
billion per year, equivalent to 1.5% of gross domestic product in 2005.12 Health impacts
represented 72% of total economic costs, and these include health care costs, productivity
costs due to adult and child sickness and premature mortality, and 23% accounted for the
impact on water resources. For purposes of these calculations, a per capita sanitation
benefit of US$44 was assumed which include only health impacts. 13 Benefits were
assumed to grow by 2% a year to represent the increase in the level of incomes. BOD
elimination from septage treatment plants was assumed to be 10% of sanitation benefits.




11
  This is based on global empirical evidence cited in the Project Appraisal Document of the successor
project, Manila Wastewater Management Project.
12
  Source: Economic Impacts of Sanitation in the Philippines, Water and Sanitation Program – East Asia
and the Pacific, World Bank, 2008
13
  Calculated using Gross Domestic Product purchasing power parity (PPP) of US$392.7 billion (estimate
for 2011), population of 95 million (estimate for 2011), and a peso-dollar exchange rate of P42.50. The
source of data for GDP at PPP values and population is the World Bank.
                                                    30
       TABLE A3-4: ECONOMIC COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS (IN REAL PHP)
                                      EXTERNALITIES
       Capital   O&M      Environ-
                                     Health     Land Ap-                           Net
       Expen-    Expen-    mental
                                     Benefits   preciation   Costs   Benefits   Economic
         ses       ses    Benefits
                                        Avoided Losses                           Benefits

         A         B         C          D          E1
2006     98        -         -          -           -         98        -         (98)
2007    351        -         -          -           -        351        -         (351)
2008    143        -         -          -           -        143        -         (143)
2009    263        17        -         264          -        280       264        (16)
2010    359        25        -         223          -        384       223        (160)
2011    128        37       39         168         62        164       268        104
2012     61        66       37         230         223       126       490        364
2013      -       186       106        528         226       186       859        673
2014      -       190       107        569         228       190       904        713
2015              196       108        623         230       196       962        766
2016              197       109        643         232       197       984        787
2017              200       110        682         235       200      1,027       827
2018              201       110        705         237       201      1,052       851
2019              203       110        730         239       203      1,079       876
2020              204       109        754         242       204      1,105       901
2021              205       109        775         244       205      1,128       923
2022              206       109        803         246       206      1,158       952
2023              206       109        820         246       206      1,175       969
2024              207       109        849         246       207      1,203       997
2025              208       110        872         246       208      1,228       1,019
2026              208       110        886         246       208      1,242       1,034
2027              207       110        905         246       207      1,261       1,054
2028              207       110        925         246       207      1,281       1,073
2029              207       110        945         246       207      1,301       1,093
2030              209       111        967         246       209      1,324       1,115
2031              208       111        982         246       208      1,340       1,131
2032              207       111       1,004        246       207      1,361       1,153
2033              207       111       1,026        246       207      1,383       1,175
2034              208       111       1,048        246       208      1,405       1,196


                                      31
 2035                     208          112         1,068          246         208        1,426        1,217
 2036                     208          112         1,091          246         208        1,449        1,241
 2037                     208          112         1,115          246         208        1,473        1,264
TOTAL        1,401       5,249        2,821       22,198         6,334       6,651      31,354       24,703
                                                               Economic Internal Rate of Return         33 %
Assumptions:
Cost figures based on actual costs where available; otherwise, the figures are projected. Actual investment
costs based on the average peso to dollar conversion at the time of disbursement which is P45.10.
Tariff rate of P25.11 per m3 is the average for 2011 for MWCI concession area.
Projected operations and maintenance (O&M) costs are based on 2011 prices.
Capital costs are net of value added tax of 12% and contractors’ profit of 20%. O&M costs are net of VAT



Cost Recovery. The Concession Agreement is designed to ensure full cost recovery
(excluding loan transaction costs such as interest and commitment charges), with an
allowable (and necessary) cross subsidy between water and sewerage/sanitation. This is
done through the ‘rate rebasing’ exercise every five years, as discussed above. The 2003
rate rebasing approved a tariff of P9.31 per cubic meter based on a weighted average
calculation. Of this amount, net of VAT, P0.59 was attributed to the recovery of part of
the MTSP costs out of a total cost of P1.79 per cum. estimated at appraisal. The
approved ADR in 2003 rate rebasing was 10.4%, equivalent to the financial rate of return
of MWCI investments for the period reviewed and projected. The remaining balance of
the actual MTSP costs was to be included in the 2008 rate rebasing, and repaid over the
period extending to 2022, the end of the concession period. The approved ADR in 2008
was 9.3%. In 2008, the government approved a 15-year extension of the concession
period up to 2037 to mitigate the impact on the tariffs of increased investments in water
and wastewater improvement projects, and to allow the concessionaires to pursue the
mandate imposed by government to accelerate implementation of wastewater projects to
comply with the 2004 Clean Water Act and the 2008 Supreme Court Decision on the
clean-up of Manila Bay. This meant that the recovery of the MTSP costs would likewise
extend to 2037.




                                                   32
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members

                                                                           Responsibility/
            Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
                                                                          Task Leader
Luiz Claudio Martins Tavares Sr Water and Sanitation Specialist EAP
                                                                         (approval)
Mei Wang                     Sr. Counsel                       LEG       Legal Aspects
                                                                         FM and
Preselyn Abella              Senior Finance Officer            CTRLN
                                                                         Disbursement
Minerva S. Espinosa-Apurada Program Assistant                  SASDO Support
Rene SD. Manuel              Senior Procurement Specialist     EAPPR Procurement
Jitendra J. Shah             Lead Environmental Specialist     ECSS3     Safeguards
Maya Gabriela Q. Villaluz    Senior Operations Officer         EASPS


Supervision
Mara K. Warwick              Sr. Urban Environment Specialist EAP        Task Leader
Mario Alejandro Suardi       Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist EAP     Task Leader
Christopher Ancheta          Sr. Sanitary Engineer             EASPS     Task Leader
Preselyn Abella              Senior Finance Officer            CTRLN
Aldo Baietti                 Lead Infrastructure Specialist    EASIN
Aisha Lanette N. De Guzman Financial Management Specialist EAPFM
Mingyuan Fan                 Sr Sanitary Engineer              EASCS
Samuel Haile Selassie        Senior Procurement Specialist     EAPPR
Demilour Reyes Ignacio       Program Assistant                 EACPF
Isabel Duarte A. Junior      Program Assistant                 EASIN
Victoria Florian S. Lazaro   Operations Officer                EASPS
Gia Mendoza                  Program Assistant
Cecilia D. Vales             Lead Procurement Specialist       EAPPR
Maya Gabriela Q. Villaluz    Senior Operations Officer         EASPS

                                             33
ICR
Wilfrido C. Barreiro              Consultant – Team Leader
Rossana Manuel                    Monitoring & Evaluation
                                  Specialist
Mariles Navarro                   Independent Consultant                        Economics
Karen Jacob                       Independent Consultant                        Social
                                                                                Development
Jose Ma. Lim                      Independent Consultant                        Environmental


(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
         Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD 000 (including travel
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                           and consultant costs)
Lending                                                          56.80                   250,477.64
Supervision/ICR                                              153.96                      394,089.96
Total:                                                       210.76                      644,567.60




                                                34
Annex 5. Environmental Safeguards Compliance Results
Following Bank guidelines, the MTSP was classified as Category A project because of
potential environmental and social issues associated with infrastructure works and the
operation of the wastewater treatment facilities. Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP
4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) were triggered. An environmental
impact statement (EIS) was prepared by MWCI along with an environmental and social
assessment framework. In addition, a regional environmental assessment (REA) with a
strategic recommendation to strengthen overall wastewater management in Metro Manila
was made a complimenting strategy document to the MTSP.
MWCI also prepared a Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy out of
which several project-specific resettlement action plans were developed.
An extensive monitoring program was included in the EMP to address the long-term
impact of sludge/septage disposal to lahar areas 14. Prior to entry, MWCI studies indicated
that the disposal of septage and sludge in lahar areas as soil conditioners improved the
nutrient content of the soil and has brought benefits to farmers through increase
agricultural yield. No adverse impacts have been reported with the strict application of
proper selection criteria for disposal site selection and application methods based on US-
EPA standards.
Potential adverse environmental impacts during project construction and operation were
identified and addressed by the EMP and EMoP. Monitoring, auditing and reporting pro-
cedures related to EA implementation, covering biophysical and socio-economic parame-
ters, were described in the EMP.
The Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) was secured by MWCI from the
DENR on April 12, 2005, a few months prior to the project implementation.
Environmental compliance monitoring arrangements included both internal and external
audits. A third party auditor conducts regular monitoring of compliance to ECC
conditions and EMP commitments. In addition, all environmental permits are secured and
appropriately updated as required. The overall environmental compliance rating is
satisfactory. The Tables below present the assessment of MTSP’s compliance to
Philippine environmental requirements.




14
   “Lahar areas? refer to some areas north of Metro Manila where thick ashes from the1991 eruption of Mt.
Pinatubo settled and which have since been rendered marginally-productive.
                                                   35
Table A5-1:    MTSP Status of Compliance with ECC Conditions
                                                                                        Compliance
          ECC Conditions                            Actions Taken/Remarks
                                                                                          Rating
1   Project components include cons-       Two septage treatment plants were            Satisfactory
    truction of 2 septage treatment        constructed according to the original plan
    plants in Taguig and San Mateo         in the EIS.
    (septage management) and the
                                           Six (6) STP’s were constructed under the
    upgrading and construction of se-
                                           MTSP. There were some modifications in
    veral sewerage systems and STPs
                                           the sewage management component but a
    (sewage management).
                                           request for amendment on the coverage of
                                           the ECC was already submitted to EMB.
2   Project must comply with the           All operational SPTP’s and STP’s are         Satisfactory
    commitments stated in the Envi-        regularly monitored for effluent dis-
    ronmental Management and Mo-           charges.
    nitoring Plans of the EIS. Among
                                           MWCI has prepared and has been
    specific requirements are:
                                           implementing a PERP.
    •   Preparedness and Emergency  Social development framework was
        Response Plan (PERP)        developed out of which 2 RAPs were
    •   DOLE-BWC and DOH health prepared.
        and safety plans            There are no complaints recorded with
    •   Social development plan in- regards to the operation of the treatment
        cluding RAP and continuing  facilities.
        IEC
3   An environmental unit (EU) must        The Environment Department of MWCI             Highly
    be established to monitor              acts as the EU performing functions on       Satisfactory
    implementation of the EMP.             wastewater technical support,
                                           environmental compliance, EMS, as well
                                           as watershed management.
4   Transfer of ownership of the           Operations of all facilities will be under      N/A
    project must be reported to the        MWCI until 2036.
    EMB.
5   The proponent must set up an           An EGF amounting to PHP 1.0 million          Satisfactory
    Environmental Guarantee Fund           has been established.
    (EGF). In addition, if an MMT
                                           In lieu of an MMT, MWCI conducts
    will be constituted, an Environ-
                                           environmental compliance review and
    mental Monitoring Fund (EMF)
                                           monitoring through a 3rd party auditor on
    will be established to support the
                                           an annual basis. This practice is
    monitoring operations.
                                           compliant with the DAO 2003-30.
6   Any expansion and/or modifica-         Modifications from the original project      Satisfactory
    tion of the project shall be subject   description included in the EIS were
    to new EIA requirement.                already submitted to EMB.
                                           However, EMB is yet to issue official

                                               36
Table A5-1:     MTSP Status of Compliance with ECC Conditions
                                                                                         Compliance
           ECC Conditions                           Actions Taken/Remarks
                                                                                           Rating
                                           letter amendment to the ECC.

7    Sludge generated by the project       Sludge from most operational STPs is           Satisfactory
     shall be disposed properly and a      transferred to the SPTPs for further pro-
     detailed disposal plan shall be       cessing prior to disposal to lahar areas.
     submitted to EMB.                     This method is approved both by EMB
                                           (through the ECC) and DOH (through an
                                           ESC).
                                           For some STPs, the sludge contractors
                                           have their own dewatering facilities. In
                                           this case, the sludge is directly processed
                                           in the contractors’ facility. The sludge
                                           and bio-solids from SPTPs are registered
                                           with FPA as soil conditioners.
8    An agreement between MMDA             The use of the retardation ponds was not          N/A
     and MWCI must be formalized           pursued under the MTSP. This was
     for the use of the flood regulation   already communicated to EMB as part of
     ponds in Taguig and Taytay            the component modifications.
     areas.
9    An abandonment plan must be     No project facility is scheduled for                    N/A
     formulated and submitted to EMB decommissioning or abandonment.
     prior to any STP de-commissio-
     ning.
10   The ECC will be revoked if the        The project has been implemented within        Satisfactory
     project has not started within 5      the prescribed timeframe.
     years from the date of the ECC
     issuance.
Overall Rating on Compliance to ECC commitments                                          Satisfactory




                                               37
    TABLE A5-2: MTSP COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING PHILIPPINE ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
                     Permit                                                              Compliance
Applicable Laws                               Actions Taken by MWCI
                    Required                                                             Assessment
RA 9275 (Clean    Discharge        San Mateo SPTP and all operational STPs have         Satisfactory
Water Act)        Permit           secured discharge permits indicating compliance
                                   with effluent standards.
                                   During the DP renewal of the SPTP in Taguig,
                                   arrears from the previous operator of the STP
                                   (which was upgraded under the MTSP) were
                                   discovered by LLDA.
                                   The renewal of the DP is still being withheld by
                                   LLDA pending the settlement of these arrears.
                                   Aside from this issue, the effluent coming from
                                   this SPTP is meeting the prescribed standards.
PD 1586(EIA       ECC              The project has a valid ECC and MWCI submits         Satisfactory
Law)                               regular compliance reports (CMR & SMR) to
                                   EMB.
RA 6969(Toxic     Hazardous        All operational sites have secured required          Highly
Wastes Law)       Waste (HW)       permits and HW IDs from EMB.
                                                                                        Satisfactory
                  Generator ID
                                   MWCI is compliant to all the registration re-
                                   quirements on chemical and chemical wastes
                                   use, handling and disposal.
LLDA BR 1996-     LLDA Clea-       All facilities within the jurisdiction of LLDA       Satisfactory
033 on Develop-   rance            have secured their LLDA development clea-
ment Clearance)                    rances.
RA 8749(Clean     Permit to        All operational facilities have secured permit to    Satisfactory
Air Act)          Operate          operate (PTO) for air pollution source installa-
                                   tion.
DAO 1992-         PCO accre-       MWCI has designated accredited PCOs to all its       Satisfactory
26(PCO require-   ditation         facilities (both operational and under cons-
ment)                              truction).
PD                Environmen-      All facilities, which store, handle, transport, treat Satisfactory
856(Sanitation    tal Sanitation   and dispose sludge and bio-solids have secured
Code)             Clearance        their ESC from DOH.
Overall Rating on Environmental Compliance                                              Satisfactory




                                             38
Annex 6. Social Safeguards Compliance Results
A. Land Acquisition
Two of the eight sub-project sites had occupants who were requested to relocate prior to
land negotiations and project implementation.
•   There were eleven (11) households (46 persons) at the site of the North Septage
    Treatment in San Mateo who were allowed by the former owner to reside in the
    property. When the owner informed the occupants that he was selling the property,
    the occupants were requested to relocate. MWCI prepared an ARAP and provided
    relocation assistance to all the displaced households.
•   The site of the 4,000 m3 capacity Road 5 Sewage Treatment Plant was formerly a
    communal septic tank owned and operated by MWSS. In 1975, a resident adjacent
    the property leased an unused section of the land from MWSS. On April 2008,
    MWSS officially terminated the lease contract for non-payment of the lease rentals
    and the need of the project for land. In addition, another occupant of the MWSS
    property was a former MWSS employee. He built a house on top of the communal
    septic tanks. And through the years, the occupant and his relatives relocated to the
    property and built houses. By the time the sub-project was identified to be
    implemented in 2005, there were 12 households illegally occupying the land. These
    12 households were considered non-poor. They were issued notifications to vacate
    the property. MWSS with assistance from an Inter-Agency Committee composed of
    Urban Poor Affairs, Presidential Commission on Urban Poor, Commission on Human
    Rights and the Housing and Urban Development Coordinating Council initiated the
    relocation activities following government policies and standards for resettlement and
    relocation. Consultation meetings and relocation financial assistance were provided
    using the standard financial assistance package per displaced household of PHP
    22,500 (based on daily minimum wage of 60 days) and free transport/hauling of
    movable properties from origin to place of relocation.
Below is a summary of the land acquisition activities under MTSP.
                    TABLE A6-1: SUMMARY OF LAND ACQUISITION FOR MTSP
                                Land Type(Public /     Land Acquisition      Social Safeguards
           Sub-project
                                     Private)            Arrangement           Compliant?
1   Pineda Sewage Treatment     Public Land owned    Memo of Agreement             Yes
    Plant, Pasig                by Pasig City        with Pasig LGU
2   Olandes Sewage Treatment    Public Land owned    Memo of Agreement             Yes
    Plant, Marikina             by Marikina City     with Marikina LGU
3   Pinagsama Sewage Treat-     Public Land owned    Memo of Agreement             Yes

                                           39
    ment Plant, Taguig           by Taguig City       with Taguig LGU
4   Poblacion Sewage Treat-      Public Land owned    Memo of Agreement               Yes
    ment Plant, Makati           by MMDA              with MMDA
5   East Avenue Sewage Treat-    Public Land owned    Memo of Agreement               Yes
    ment Plant, Quezon City      by DENR              with DENR
6   Road 5 Sewage Treatment      Public Land owned    MWSS turned-over the            Yes
    Plant, Quezon City           by MWSS              property to MWCI

7   North Septage Treatment      Privately-owned      Willing Settler-Willing         Yes
    Plant, San Mateo, Rizal      Land                 Buyer Arrangement
8   FTI Septage Treatment,       Public Land owned    Usufruct arrangement            Yes
    Taguig                       by FTI               with FTI
The LGU of Pasig granted MWCI free use of a parcel of land owned by the LGU located
along the River Pasig at Barangay Pineda for the Pineda STP. In exchange for the free
use of the land, the LGU and the community requested that the top floor of the treatment
plant be re-designed and made available to the community for social and recreational
activities, such as community meetings or sports events. This request was an added cost
of the facility. However, it also increased awareness and appreciation among the residents
of Barangay Pineda about the sewage treatment plant within their community and what it
is doing in keeping the water flowing in the drainage canals around their surroundings
cleaner. Residents have, in addition, become more conscious of their solid waste disposal
practices which complement the wastewater treatment to keep their community and Pasig
River clean.
As in the Pineda STP, the site for the Pinagsama STP was granted free by the LGU of
Tausig. The property was being used by the community for various social activities in
Barangay Signal. The land is located beside the Barangay Office. The LGU also re-
quested that the top floor be developed into a covered court for social and sports activities
of the community. The sewage treatment plant is located underground and is hidden from
the view of the public. Improvements to the Barangay Signal Office were also undertaken
as part of the cost for building the sewage treatment plant.
For the Poblacion STP in Makati, MWCI was able to get/share a space from MMDA’s
land property. MMDA has a pumping station along the Pasig River at the back of the
Makati City Hall. The land, however, is used by MMDA as a flood retention basin.
Because of this, MWCI changed the design into an elevated sewage treatment plant (on
concrete and steel stilts). The area is securely-fenced and adjacent households are not
fully aware of the sewage treatment plant beside their houses.




                                             40
B. Post-Project Consultation Meetings Results
Three Focus Group Discussions (FGDs) were conducted in Pineda STP, Pasig; in Pob-
lacion STP in Makati; and in North Septage Treatment Plant, San Mateo, and Rizal in
June 2012.Findings from the FGDs follow:
a) Pineda STP, Pasig
Around 14 persons from Barangay Pineda representing the households and a Barangay
official attended the FGD which was conducted in the morning of June 19, 2012. The
venue of the FGD was at the 2nd floor of the Pineda STP which was made into a
basketball court which the local residents particularly the youth are using for their social
and sports activities.
The following are the feedback gathered about their experiences with the project:
•   Cleaner environment. The Pasig River looks cleaner and does not emit foul smell any
    longer. They enjoy sitting along the riverbank boardwalk during early evenings be-
    cause the bad smell of the River is gone.
•   Fishes are coming back because the River is clean and alive again. One of the
    fishermen caught 10 kilos of tilapia (St. Peter’s fish) the other day within 4-5 hours.
    The fishes were sold to the market. On some days, shrimps are also caught from the
    River. The group attributes this to the project.
•   Households are more conscious of their solid waste disposal, by not throwing these to
    the canals, creek and river.
•   They are happy with the ‘free desludging’ of household septic tanks. It is easier to
    flush their toilets. No more overflowing toilets.
b) Poblacion STP, Makati
Around 25 persons, representing the barangays of Poblacion, Valenzuela and Olympia,
covered by the Poblacion STP attended the consultation meeting on June 19, 2012. Also
in attendance was a representative from the Makati Business Sector. The venue of the
consultation meeting was at the office of the Poblacion STP, MMDA pumping station
compound, Makati City.
A briefing about the wastewater treatment was presented by the Plant Manager. She
mentioned that around 20,000 persons are currently being served by the STP but the
intention is to expand its coverage to include parts of Bel-Air Village and Barangay Sta.
Cruz.
After the discussion, attendees of the consultation meeting went around the treatment
plant to observe the wastewater treatment process – from raw sewage to the effluent
being drained to the Pasig River.




                                            41
The following were the reactions and feedbacks gathered during the consultation
meeting:
•   They were not aware of the wastewater management project or of the STP that was
    built. They thought that the construction activities were related to MMDA’s flood
    control and since the land is fenced they don’t see what is happening on the other side
    of the fence.
•   Neighboring households said that they have not noticed it because they do not smell
    anything bad coming from the treatment plant.
•   Some households whose houses are along the Pasig River commented that they have
    noticed that the Pasig River’s color is improving, i.e. not as black as before. Even the
    bad smell from the river has reduced.
•   Customers were not even aware of the 20% wastewater charge included in their water
    bill. They commented that there was an increase in the water bill but they are not
    really complaining. When they realized that the 20% increase was for wastewater
    treatment, they said that this is acceptable because this amount is much lesser
    compared to the cost of septic tank dislodging which is around PHP 3,000-5,000.
•   The representative from the Makati Business Sector expressed support for the project
    because it also supports the interests of the commercial sector, which is, keeping
    Makati clean and attractive for businesses.
c) North Septage Plant, San Mateo, Rizal
Around 10 persons attended the consultation meeting held at the North Septage Plant in
San Mateo, Rizal. Most of the attendees came from the neighboring newly-developed
low-cost housing villages.
A short briefing about the North Septage Plant was presented by the Plant Manager.
According to the presentation, the septage plant is serving around 1 million residents in
Balara, Cubao, Marikina and Rizal. However, its services have yet to reach the
population of San Mateo where the SPTP is located.
The following are the reactions and feedback during the consultation meeting:
•   They are not aware of the septage treatment plant. They said that they thought it is a
    water supply plant of “NAWASA? (they are not even aware of Manila Water).
•   Some of the attendees were present to apply for service connections because their
    current water supply (provided by the village) costs around 10 times higher compared
    to the water supply of “NAWASA? (Manila Water).
•   They do not smell; no bad odors emanate from the STP.
•   At the end of the discussions, the attendees expressed and requested MWCI to pro-
    vide both water and sewerage services because most of them are dismayed with the
    water and sanitation services poorly and expensively provided by the private land
    developers.
                                            42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


(The Borrower’s ICR is still under preparation.)




                                           43
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents
1. Philippines: Country Assistance Strategy Fiscal Year 2003-05
2. GEF- Manila Third Sewerage Project, Project Appraisal Document, 2007
3. GEF- Manila Third Sewerage Project, Implementation Status and Results Report No. 4,
   March 12, 2011
4. GEF- Manila Third Sewerage Project, Implementation Status and Results Report No. 5,
   January 20, 2012
5. Manila Third Sewerage Project Appraisal Document, 2005
6. Manila Third Sewerage Project Aide Memoire, Pre Appraisal Mission, January 24- February
   05, 2004
7. Manila Third Sewerage Project Aide Memoire, Preparation Mission, November 2004
8. Manila Third Sewerage Project Aide Memoire, Pre-Appraisal Mission, 2005
9. Manila Third Sewerage Project Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, November 20-24, 2006
10. Manila Third Sewerage Project Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, May 22-24, 2007
11. Manila Third Sewerage Project Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, November 2007
12. Manila Third Sewerage Project Aide Memoire, Mid-Term Review Mission, March 10-17,
    2008
13. Manila Third Sewerage Project Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, March 10-23, 2009
14. Manila Third Sewerage Project Aide Memoire, Discussions on a New Project, Sept 23 – Nov
    24, 2012
15. Manila Third Sewerage Project Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission April 26- May 06, 2010
16. Manila Third Sewerage Project Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission Sept 15-Nov 09, 2010
17. Manila Third Sewerage Project Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, May 23- August 24,
    2011
18. Manila Third Sewerage Project Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, April 20-May 24, 2012
19. Third Party Environmental Compliance Audit for the Manila Third Sewerage Project
    covering July 2010 to December 2010
20. Third Party Environmental Compliance Audit for the Manila Third Sewerage Project
    covering July 2011 to December 2011
21. Third Party Environmental Compliance Audit for the Manila Third Sewerage Project
    covering January to June 2012




                                             44
Annex 9 Background on Bank Involvement and Sector Reforms in Wastewater
        Development in Metro Manila
 MTSP was the third in a series of Bank involvement in the development of sanitation
and sewerage for Metro Manila. It is interesting to see the shifts and progression in the
approaches used. It is useful to gain a fuller perspective of the value MTSP brought to
the sector and the role the Bank has played in this transformation and learning.
Bank involvement in wastewater management in Metro Manila
The First Sewerage and Sanitation Management Project (FSSMP) for Metro Manila in
the mid-1980s was the first major activity of the Bank. The technical approach adopted
for this project involved the development on a large centralized wastewater management
facility. This project experienced major issues with respect to high capital and operating
costs, right-of-way and land availability. Because of sustainability issues, it had minimal
impact on improved wastewater services.
Following this experience, the Bank and MWSS then developed in the mid-1990s the
Manila Sanitation and Sewerage Management Project (MSSMP) which focused on
septage management. This approach assumed that significant improvements can be
achieved by making sure that septic tanks were optimally functioning.
This Manila Third Sewerage Project (MTSP), developed in the mid 2000s shifted focus
on smaller decentralized treatment systems with a heavy dose of community involvement
in the development of the process.
Finally, the follow-on project, the Metro Manila Wastewater Management Project,
continues the emphasis on community consultation and involvement, but with larger
capacity (but still decentralized) treatment plants and expansion of the “catchment? areas.
The evolution and transformation of these series of projects clearly demonstrate the
significance of lessons learned and adapting innovative strategies and approaches for
future projects and sector reform. A closer study of this evolution and lessons learned
can have a significant impact on the approaches to be used in developing sewerage and
sanitation in other urban areas in the country, and even in South East Asia.
Wastewater Management Strategy and the Concession Contracts
The early years of the Manila concessions were also marked by significant shifts in
wastewater strategy for MM. The performance targets for sewerage and sanitation ser-
vices in the original concession agreements signed in 1997 were based on an overall mas-
ter plan prepared by JICA for MWSS in 1996 (i.e., before privatization). This plan inclu-
ded the provision of large, highly-centralized sewerage collection and treatment systems
in MM. This may have been suitable if the provision of these services had remained in

                                            45
the public sector. After privatization, however, it became clear that implementation of
this “centralized? approach and the concessionaires’ compliance with the concession
agreement coverage and performance targets would be extremely difficult to implement
and achieve.
The main challenges of the “centralized? plan included a lack of available land for the
proposed centralized treatment plants, the large capital investment required for such sys-
tems, un-willingness of the public to pay for the proposed extensive new system, and the
unwillingness of local government units to accept disruptions from major construction.
The concession agreements allow renegotiation of performance targets and tariffs every
five years during rate rebasing. In 2002, while preparing its submission for the first rate
rebasing in 2003, MWCI proposed to adjust its service targets and master plan to respond
to the sewerage and sanitation implementation constraints. MWCI’s new approach
proposed maximizing the use of existing or upgraded sewage treatment facilities and
provision of new, small-scale systems serving clearly defined densely populated areas.
This was coupled with an expansion of maintenance services for individual septic tanks.
During the 2003 rate rebasing discussions, the Government agreed that the 1997
performance targets for sewerage should be reduced in order to ensure affordable tariffs
and overcome implementation constraints. As a result, the 2003 rate rebasing agreements
decreased sewerage targets and as some compensation, increased sanitation targets. At
the same time, the Government agreed that sewerage alternatives (e.g., combined
systems 15) could be considered for MM.
The GOP and the private operators-concessionaires have since gained a fuller and
practical understanding of the impact of privatization and the public’s willingness to
accept and pay for water, sewerage, and sanitation services. As a result, there has been
an evolution in planning since the start of the concessions in 1997. This has resulted in
major changes in the performance targets on which the concessionaires’ earlier
investment programs are based.




15
  Combined sewers provide one pipe for both surface water drainage and for sewage, which is required to
first pass through septic tank to remove solids. Hygienically superior separate systems provide separate
pipes for each service.
                                                   46
             Annex 10




Road 5 STP




East Avenue STP




Pineda STP




Pinagsama STP




Olandes STP




                        47



 Poblacion STP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33862
                                                                120°E                                                                                                                                                                                                                      121°00'                           Santo                                                            121°10'
                                                                                                               Batan                                                                                                        PHILIPPINES                                                                                      Cristo
                                                                                                              Islands
                                                                                                                                                                                   MANILA THIRD SEWERAGE PROJECT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SAN JOSE DEL MONTE
                                                                                                                                                                20°N                                           CONCESSION AREAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ta n og
                                                                                               Luzon Strait
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          er
                                                                                                                                                                          125°E                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Riv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BULACAN PROVINCE                                                    CALOOCAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P ur
                                                                                                 Babuyan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CITY
                                                                                                  Islands                                                                                                                                                                                                        (NORTH)
                               PHILIPPINES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RODRIGUEZ
                                                                                                Babuyan Channel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Wawa River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Noyaliches
                                                                                                                                                                                REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                Montalban
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OBANDO                                                              Nova
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Liches




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Riv er
                                                                                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Obando                                                           Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RIZAL
                                                                                                            Tuguegarao                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UPPER
                                                                                Cordillera                                                                                                                                                                                          VALENZUELA                                            QUEZON
                                                                                                                                                                                REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                           CITY
                                                                                 Admin.                    Cagayan
                                                                          Ilocos Region                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROVINCE
                                                                                                           Valley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t eo
                                                                                                                         Luzon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SAN MATEO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MALABON
                                                    San Fernando
                                                              Baguio                                                                                                                                                                                        NAVOTAS                                                         LOWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14°40'                                                                            QUEZON                                                                       14°40'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CALOOCAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (SOUTH)                                METRO                                        MARIKINA
                                                                          Central Luzon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EAST SERVICE
                                                                                         San Fernando                Polillo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MANILA
15°N                                                                                                                Islands                                                                                                   15°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AREA OF    ANTIPOLO
                                                                          MANILA               Quezon
                                 National Capital Region                                                                                                                                                                                           WEST SERVICE      MANILA                                                           MANILA WATER
                                           Area of Map                                         Calabarzon
                                               at right.                                                                                                                                                                                              AREA OF     MANILA                                        SAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JUAN                   COMPANY, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Antipolo
                                                           Lubang
                                                            Islands
                                                                                                                                                                  Catanduanes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MANILA WATER                                                    MANDA-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CAINTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pa LUYONG
                                                                                                          Marinduque                                 Legaspi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SERVICES, INC.                                              sig
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R i v er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PASIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cainta
                                                                      Mindoro                         Sibuyan
                                                                                                                                       Bicol                                                         Philippine                                                                                                                                                           Taytay
                                                                M
                                                                                                                 Sea
                                                                                                                                Burias

                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Manila                                                                                                        TAYTAY
                                                                    ind                                                                      Ticao                                                                                                                                                      MAKATI
                                                                       or                                  Tablas
                                                                           o
                                                                               Str
                                                                                                                          Sibuyan
                                                                                                                                                                                      Samar
                                                     Busuanga
                                                                                  ai

                                                           Culion
                                                                                     t
                                                                                               Semirara
                                                                                                Islands
                                                                                                                                           Masbate
                                                                                                                                         Visayan                  Eastern Visayas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bay                                                                             PATEROS

                                                            Linapacah       Mimaropa                                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PASAY                                                                                 Angono
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TAGUIG
                                                                                                      Panay                                                                                                                                                                                           CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                Tacloban
                                                                                      Cuyo
                                                                                     Islands                                                                                    Leyte
                                                                                                                    Iloilo                           Cebu              Leyte     Gulf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      For detail,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14°30'                                                                                                                                                         14°30'
                                                                    Dumaran                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        see IBRD 33863
                                                                                                          Western Visayas                                Cebu                              Dinagat
                                                                                                                               Negros                                                                                                                                                           PARAÑAQUE
                                                                                                                                             Central
10°N
                                                                                                                                                                Bohol                                Siargao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10°N                CAVITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Cavite City                                                                    Laguna Bay
                                                                                                                                             Visayas
                                                                                                                                                         Mindanao
                                            Palawan                                                                                                         Sea
                                                                                                                                                                        Camiguin                                                                                     Bacoor                                                                      CONCESSION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                     Siquijor
                                                                                                                                                                 Northern                      Caraga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LAS                                                  SERVICE AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                     Butuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PIÑAS
                                                           Sulu Sea                                                                                              Mindanao                                                                                                                                                                        SELECTED CITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KAWIT       Imus
                        Bugsuk                                                                                          Western                      Iligan         Cagayan                                                                                                 BACOOR                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                    de Oro
                     Balabac
                                                                                                                        Mindanao                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                         Mindanao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IMUS                                                                            METRO MANILA BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                Southern                                      NOVELETA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ROSARIO                                                       MUNTINGLUPA                               NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION BOUNDARY
                                 Cagayan                                                                                                       Cotabato                            Davao        Mindanao
                                   Sulu                                                        Zamboanga                            Moro Gulf                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    General Trias

                                                                                                       Basilan                                                                           Davao
  MALAYS I A                                                                                                                                 Central                                      Gulf
                                                                                                                                                                                                        This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                        the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                     LAGUNA
                                                                                               Sulu                                        Mindanao                                                     World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                Autonomous Region                                                                                                       colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                        any other information shown                                                                                          San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROVINCE
                                                                                in Muslim Mindanao                                                                                                      on this map do not imply, on

       0   50    100    150 Kilometers                       Tawi-Tawi
                                                                                                                                                                                                        the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CAVITE PROVINCE                                                                Pedro           Biñan                    0       2               4            6

                                                                                                                                                                                   Sarangani
                                                                                                                                         Celebes Sea                                                    legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        or any endorsement or                                                                                                               San Vicente
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KILOMETERS
5°N                                                                                                                                                                                                     acceptance of such
       0        50        100 Miles                                                                                                                                       125°E                         boundaries.                                    Dasmarinas                          121°00'                                                                                            121°10'
                                                                120°E                                                                                                                                                                    14°20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       APRIL 2005
