coopr           ~     ~~~Document of
The World ]Bank1
FOIZ OIC]IAL USE ONLY
Repor" No. P-1988a-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK. FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
PETROBRAS FERTILIZANTES S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
SERGIPE NITROGEN FERTILIZER PROJECT
April 6, 1977
Thfis  nimentl bn$ a eiClee    006neo Qnd bma3y be unsI by redpkUea onMiy &M aee pIfoinmcme of|
dhefir ofBkAaf drteo. ls conneonngs mnay oca osBemelse be disesd waiboann WonlHd 1nnfs auneboezlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 9, 1977)
Currency Unit         =             Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                                Cr$12.98
Cr$1                                US$.0770
Cr$1,000                            US$77.04
Cr$1,000,000                        US$77,042
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDE             Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico
COFEN            Construcao de Fertilizantes Nitrogenados
DAP              Diammonium Phosphate
FAFER            Fabrica de Fertilizantes S.A.
FERTILIZANTES    Petrobras Fertilizantes S.A., the Company
K                Potassium
K20              Potassium Oxide equivalent in fertilizers
MAP              Monoammonium Phosphate   -
MSCF             1000 Standard cubic feet
NFP              National Fertilizer Program
NM3              Normal cubic meter
P                Phosphorous
PETROBRAS        Petroleo Brasileiro S.A.
PETROFERTIL      Petrobras Quimica Fertilizantes S.A.
PETROQUISA       Petrobras Quimica S.A.
P205             Phosphorous Pentoxide equivalenteontent in fertilizers
RFFSA            Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A.
TPD              Tons (Metric) Per Day
TPY              Tons (Metric) Per Year
ULTRAFERTIL      Industria e Comercio de Fertilizantes S.A.
FINANCIAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO PETROBRAS FERTILIZANTES S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE SERGIPE NITROGEN FERTILIZER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to PETROBRAS Fertilizantes S.A. (FERTILIZANTES) with the guarantee of
the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$64 million to
help finance the Sergipe nitrogen fertilizer project. The loan would be for
15 years, including 4 years of grace with interest at 8.2% per annum. The
Government of Brazil would charge FERTILIZANTES a guarantee fee of 1.8% per
annum on the outstanding amount of the Bank loan bringing the cost of the loan
to FERTILIZANTES to 10% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1267a-BR), dated
January 26, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 8,
1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.        The late 60s and early 70s were years of remarkable economic growth
and development for Brazil. The 10% average annual rate of growth in GDP
during this period was accompanied by a strong balance of payments perfor-
mance. The dollar value of exports rose by 300% from 1967-73 and a process
of export diversification significantly reduced Brazil's dependence upon
coffee as the single primary source of foreign exchange earnings. At the same
time, inflation was brought progressively under control. During the early 70s
prices rose at less than 20% per annum on average -- a considerable improve-
ment upon the inflation of a decade earlier. The crawling peg exchange
rate combined with widespread monetary correction and indexation minimized the
distortions which often accompany inflation (while,the indexing also tends to
perpetuate inflation).
4.        The world economic crisis of 1974 marked a turning point in the
recent economic performance of Brazil. Although growth continued at a strong
9.5% in that year, it proved impossible to maintain the good balance-of-
payments performance that had accompanied growth in previous years. The
continuation of expansionary policies during 1974 in the context of a sharp
deterioration in the terms of trade resulted in a trade deficit amounting to
US$4.7 billion. The elimination of that deficit, and the reestablishment
of the previous near equilibrium in merchandise trade has been a major
objective of economic policy since that time and continues to be a major
policy objective today.
This documnt has a trlcted disUibution nd may be ued by recipents only in the performance
of theif ofcal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        Growth since 1974 has been deeply affected by balance-of-payments
constraints. In 1975 GDP increased by only 4% and the trade deficit was
reduced to US$3.5 billion. Unaccustomed to such a relatively low growth rate,
however, the Government feared that Brazil might be heading for a recession
and once again adopted more expansionary policies towards the end of 1975. As
a result of these policies, and notwithstanding subsequent measures introduced
during the course of 1976 to control the situation, growth last year reached
8.8%. It is remarkable that despite such a high rate of GDP growth, the trade
deficit was reduced further to US$2 billion. This was due to a rapid 17 per-
cent growth in export earnings while imports were practically unchanged from
the previous year. The exceptionally high level of imports in previous years
and the increasing effectiveness of the Government's import-substitution pro-
gram made possible a high level of growth in 1976 without any further expansion
in imports over the level of the previous year.
6.        The acceleration of growth in 1976 was not without its cost, however.
The high level of aggregate demand associated with the Government's expan-
sionary policies in late 1975 contributed significantly to higher inflation.
Domestic prices rose by 46% in 1976 compared with 28% in the previous year.
This was a disturbing departure from the much lower levels of inflation that
had characterized the early 1970s. The Government is concerned that prices
do not get out of hand and control of inflation has now been adopted as a
major policy objective alongside control of the balance of payments.
7.        During the course of 1976, measures were introduced on a number of
fronts to curb inflationary pressures. Half way through the year the official
wage guidelines were modified in such a way as to reduce wage increases below
the current rate of inflation. In the field of monetary policy, commercial
bank reserve requirements were progressively raised from 27% to the legal
maximum of 35%, and the Central Bank's rediscount rate was raised from 22% to
28%. Stiffer terms were decreed for installment credit and for real estate
credit, and there was an upward shift in the overall interest rate structure.
In response to these quite stringent measures inflation abated in the final
quarter of the year to a rate equivalent to some 30% on an annual basis.
Whether or not the Government will continue to make headway against inflation
during 1977 will depend in large measure upon its success in controlling the
expansion of money and credit.
8.        Fiscal policy is yet another area in which the Government has
announced measures designed to curb inflation. Plans have been drawn up to
reduce the gap between public sector investment and public sector savings
by some Cr$44 billion (in 1977 prices) -- equivalent to about 2.2% of GDP.
Measures to achieve this goal include the limitation of wage increases in 1977
to 30% for federal government employees. Strict controls are also being
imposed on the hiring of additional personnel. A number of subsidies have
been eliminated or reduced. In addition, the investment programs of state
enterprises are to be closely controlled, and the savings of such enterprises
will be increased by raising tariffs.
9.        The Government recognizes the need for growth to be moderated in
the next two or three years if inflation is to be kept under control, the
balance of payments is to be further improved and a sound basis for longer



-3-
term growth is to be established. In keeping with this view, it is projected
that growth may be in the order of 5% in 1977 and may average no more than 6%
during the remaining years of the decade. Beyond that, however, there is
every indication that Brazil has the potential to sustain high levels of growth
similar to those in the past provided that the present difficulties can be
overcome and provided that sound economic policies are consistently pursued.
In this respect the Government's development strategy provides a sound frame-
work for future development.
10.       The second National Development Plan (1975-79) was published in the
wake of the world petroleum crisis and incorporates a sectoral development
strategy which focuses sharply upon relieving Brazil's balance-of-payment's
constraints in the longer term. The export potential of agriculture has
received explicit recognition in the development plan and the results achieved
during the last several years (particularly in soya production) justify the
priority given to this sector. Agriculture constitutes a vehicle for raising
the living standards of the rural poor and for developing the vast frontier
lands of Brazil's interior. In the case of industry, sophisticated incentive
schemes have been introduced to encourage exports. The major thrust of
Brazil's industrial development strategy, however, concentrates upon massive
import-substitution programs in steel, non-ferrous metals, petrochemicals,
fertilizers and capital goods. Brazil aims at self-sufficiency in many of
these products by the early 1980s. Beyond that point these same industries
may develop a good export potential.
11.       Despite its previous impressive growth performance and vast future
potential, Brazil is still a country wih a very unequal distribution of income
and extensive absolute poverty. The present Government acknowledges the coun-
try's income distribution problem and accepts responsibility for its allevi-
ation. While, like the previous Government, it believes that a high rate of
growth is necessary to increase the incomes of the poor, it does not believe
that the "trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and has formulated
a new policy which could be labeled as "redistribution along with growth." To
implement this policy in addition to pursuing some of the social programs ini-
tiated by its predecessor, the Government is taking new measures in three
broad areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social services; and
(c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a
favorable, albeit marginal, impact on income distribution.
12.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program envisages investment expenditures of
about US$2.5 billion during 1975-79 and is designed to raise the productivity
and incomes of small farmers through, inter alia, formulation and execution of
integrated rural development projects, which are likely in some cases to
include changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based on the assumption that
the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous whole and, therefore,
standardized programs are inadequate. The Government identified 28 sub-
regions covering large portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds
would be used initially. The Rio Grande do Norte project (Ln. 1195-BR approved
in December 1975) was one of the first under POLONORDESTE.



13.       Active consideration is being given to a major modification in the
state value-added tax system to redistribute fiscal resources from the richer
to the poorer states, in order to give the latter the fiscal resources which
they badly need to accelerate social programs, particularly in education.    In
the area of social services, the Government has created a new Ministry of
Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs and to
extend these programs to a larger share of the population. The Government is
also strengthening the nutrition program which, under the previous Government,
got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is being given by the National
Housing Bank to low-income housing, the beneficiaries of which will enjoy
better financial terms than in the past. The Housing Bank is also developing
a site and services program to encourage construction of self-help housing
by families that cannot afford builder-constructed units. In agriculture,
the recently reorganized rural extension agency will expand and strengthen
its activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer; and the
new federal agriculture research institution is defining its program to
include a selection of crops and farming systems which will ensure that
small-scale farms benefit from research efforts. Overall, the Government's
public investment program for 1975-77 gives high priority to education,
health, agriculture and regional development, which together account for about
30% of total public investment. Finally, the Government intends to pursue a
more liberal wage policy to maintain the real value of the minimum wage and
improve personal income distribution. For this purpose it revised the formula
governing the adjustment of the union wage scale so that the real minimum wage
was increased by 6.5% in 1975 and by 3% in 1976. While in 1977 the Government
may be obliged to restrict wage increases as part of a policy package designed
to control overall demand and to combat inflation, this does not signify any
basic change in the Government's longer term goal of improving income distri-
bution.
14.       In order to achieve the twin goals of high growth and an improved
distribution of income, Brazil will continue to require large inflows of
capital in the medium-term future. These inflows should be less than in the
recent past, however. Compared with a US$6 billion three-year average for
1974-76, it is estimated that the annual net inflow of medium- and long-term
capital (that is, direct foreign investment and net disbursements from offi-
cial and private sources) may be in the order of US$4.5 billion for 1977-80.
15.       At June 30, 1976, Brazil's public external debt amounted to US$13
billion; the public debt service ratio for 1976 is estimated at 18%. Out of
the total (public and private) external debt of US$23.4 billion at mid-1976,
about two-thirds, or US$16 billion, was in the form of financial credits. The
debt service ratio during 1976 on this total external debt was about 44% (c.f.
an average of 42% in the previous three years). However, net foreign exchange
reserves at the end of 1976 were about US$6.0 billion, equivalent to some six
months of the 1976 imports of goods and non-factor services. The service
ratio on total debt is estimated to rise slightly further in the next two or
three years. However, if an export growth rate of around 17% per year in
dollar terms can be maintained over the 1975-80 period and if average maturi-
ties of new financial credits gradually improve from six to eight years, the
debt service ratio in 1980 can be expected to return to the 44% level and to



- 5 -
continue falling in subsequent years to somewhat less than 30% in 1985.
Despite Brazil's heavy debt service burden, the large foreign exchange
reserves ensure that the country will have the liquidity to meet its debt
service obligations in the short term, while the country's record of financial
management provides grounds for confidence in the maintenance of creditworthi-
ness over the longer run. There can be no doubt, however, that very careful
management of the external accounts will be necessary in the coming two to
three years.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
16.       By February 28, 1977 the Bank had approved 68 loans for Brazil,
amounting to US$3,009.5 million, of which 37 were not fully disbursed. During
FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing to an
average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225 million in
FY74, US$248 million in FY75 and US$202 million in FY76. In the first half of
FY77 US$97.1 million was disbursed. The decline in disbursements in FY76
and FY77 is due primarily to the reduced level of lending in FY73-74. Dis-
bursements are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of February 28, 1977 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans totalling
US$192 million for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73-74
nine loans were approved amounting to US$429.7 million; in FY75, five loans
totalling US$426.5 million; and in FY76 ten loans totalling US$498 million
were approved. So far in FY77 four loans have been approved: US$40 million
for a second Minas Gerais water supply and sewerage project, US$83 million
for a second agro-industries credit project, US$82 million for power trans-
mission in the south of Brazil, and US$42 million for an integrated rural
development project in the State of Minas Gerais. Documents for a proposed
loan of US$82 million for a phosphate fertilizer project in the state of Minas
Gerais are expected to be circulated to the Executive Directors shortly.
We are working actively with the Brazilians on a project in support of a
non-flat steel plant, a pollution control project for the metropolitan area of
Sao Paulo, several rural development projects, a vocational education project
and a highways maintenance and rehabilitation project.
18.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1975, amounting to US$11 billion, the Bank held about 10%. The Bank's
share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends continue
as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt outstanding would
increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service would rise
in 1980 to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and private)
external debt service would remain at the present level of 2.7%.
19.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of February 28, 1977, IFC had made 30 commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$287.3 million of which US$32.6 million has been cancelled, US$23.3



- 6 -
million repaid and US$136.9 million sold. Of the balance of US$94.5 million,
US$70.0 million represents loans and US$24.5 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments up to February 28, 1977 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
20.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. An important lending objective in Brazil is to support the
effort of the Government to identify and develop projects designed to increase
productivity and incomes of the lowest income segment of the population,
to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to alleviate
poverty. The recently approved loans for nutrition research and development,
agricultural research, Rio Grande do Norte and Minas Gerais integrated rural
development, and Lower Sao Francisco polders projects were all designed to
assist low-income groups in rural areas. Government authorities, with the
collaboration of Bank staff, are making a particular effort to help Brazil
develop additional integrated rural development projects of this type. The
recently approved water supply and sewerage project for the State of Minas
Gerais was designed particularly to help reach low-income groups in towns and
cities as would proposed sites and services and water supply and pollution
control projects. We are also actively working with the Government on the
preparation of vocational and rural education projects.
21.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institu-
tional development and policy reform, designed inter alia to help maximize
public savings and ensure that they are used economically. The proposed
project will contribute towards further strengthening of FERTILIZANTES which
is already benefitting froii the implementation of the Bank-financed Araucaria
project. The institution-building objective has also been important in Bank
assistance to the transportation sector where emphasis has been given to the
rational selection of investment, the strengthening of railway operations, and
trwe improvemenit of the railways' financial performance.  Loans for electric
power, industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and extension and
urban development also have important institution-building objectives.
22.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments in the past two years, this objective has been placed in
the forefront of the Government's economic policy. Bank support of fertilizer
projects such as the proposed project is assisting Brazil to substitute imports
with large-scale efficient domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments
position. Bank lending for agro-industries in the Center and South of Brazil
has also supported this objective and much of the Bank assisted investment in
the transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facili-
tate the smooth and economical flow of exports. Also, support of the steel
expansion program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional
import commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the coun-
try's ample supply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets.



-7 -
23.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence
in Brazil and encourages them to continue their own activities there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and steel, the Bank's participation has
helped Brazil obtain additional bilateral resources in greater amounts and on
more favorable terms. In the fertilizer sector Bank participation is also
expected to help Brazil obtain additional bilateral resources on favorable
terms. FERTILIZANTES is negotiating with a group of private banks a loan of
US$25 million for the Araucaria project which the Bank helped finance with a
US$50 million loan in 1976 (Ln. 1256-BR) and plans to do the same for the
proposed Sergipe project.
PART III - INDUSTRY, AGRICULTURE, AND THE FERTILIZER SUBSECTOR IN BRAZIL
Industry and Agriculture
24.       Industry has played a central role in the rapid growth of the
Brazilian economy in the last few years. During 1967 to 1974 real industrial
output increased at an average annual rate of 12.2%. Industrial growth
decreased to 4% in 1975 as a result of balance-of-payment constraints and is
expected to be about 10% in 1976. The most dynamic element of Brazil's
industrial expansion has been the production of consumer durables and capital
goods, which increased at an annual average rate of 18% during 1967 to 1974,
and now accounts for about 28% of total manufacturing production. On the
other hand, the slowest growing subsector has been the traditional consumer
goods industries (textiles, clothing, food products) whose share in manufac-
turing output declined from 36% in 1967 to 28% in 1974. Production of inter-
mediate goods (chemicals, fertilizers, paper, rubber, semi-finished metals),
which account for 42% of manufacturing output, has increased at a good pace,
averaging 12% since 1967. Increased production of these intermediate goods,
however, has not been sufficient to cope with growth in domestic demand, and
imports are still significant, reaching US$4.1 billion in 1975 (excluding
petroleum) or 34% of total imports. There is, therefore, substantial oppor-
tunity for import substitution in this subsector of industry. The proposed
project is part of the Government's program to achieve self-sufficiency in
fertilizers in the next five to ten years.
25.       While the rapid expansion of the Brazilian economy during 1967-74
was spearheaded by accelerated industrial production, the agricultural sector
also performed well, providing an increasing share of Brazil's growing domes-
tic requirements for food and fibers as well as a rising export volume.
Agricultural output grew at a rate of about 6% per annum during 1967-74, and
at 3.4% in 1975, despite adverse climatic conditions in four out of seven



- 8 -
years. Part of this growth was due to substantial increases in the production
of new crops, such as soybeans and wheat in the south and southeast regions of
Brazil. Brazil has now become the world's largest producer of sugar, and it is
the second largest supplier of soybeans, while remaining the world's leading
coffee producer. While the sector's contribution to gross domestic product
has declined from about 20% in 1967 to about 15% at present, it still accounts
for over 60% of the value of exports. Three commodities -- coffee, soybeans
and sugar -- generate 40% of total export earnings. While coffee continues to
play an important role in the sector, accounting for about 12% of output, its
share in total exports has declined from 44% in 1967 to about 11% in 1975.
26.       In the past, Brazil's increasing agricultural output has resulted
mainly from expansion of the cultivated area. Although it is expected that
the area under cultivation will continue to expand, agricultural growth will
have to depend to an increasing extent on raising the productivity of pres-
ently cultivated areas. The Government has established a goal of 40% (7%
annually) of real increase in agricultural output for the 1975-79 period, with
the aim of making Brazil one of the world's foremost producers and exporters
of foodstuffs. The Government's strategy to achieve this objective has two
components. First, it has allocated substantial public resources to incor-
porate additional new areas to agricultural production through programs such
as the National Integration Program and the POLAMAZONIA and POLOCENTRO
programs which provide agricultural credit and financing of transport and
rural infrastructure and the like in the North and Center-West, respectively.
The goal of these programs is to expand agricultural area by 4% to 5% annually
and to encourage settlement to bring these areas into production as quickly as
possible. A second component of the Government strategy is to increase pro-
ductivity through modernization of agriculture and increased use of fertil-
izers and improved seeds. A substantial expansion in the supply of credit
and complementary technical asssistance for the purchase of modern agricul-
tural inputs is included in the Government program. These inputs should bring
about a 2% to 3% annual increase in productivity necessary to achieve the
overall growth target of 7% for the agriculture sector. The proposed fertil-
izer project is an important component of the Government's program to achieve
this increase in agricultural productivity.
27.       Increased agricultural productivity is particularly important to
improve the income of small farmers as they are normally unable to increase
their income by expanding their areas under cultivation. To this effect, the
Government has introduced special regional programs such as POLONORDESTE.
It has also reorganized federal research and extension services to serve a
broader segment of the rural population. In addition, it operates a crop-
credit insurance scheme to insure farmers against a large portion of losses
resulting from natural disasters.
28.       The overall package of new programs reflects a shift in agricul-
tural policy in Brazil to place more emphasis on raising the productivity
of small farmers. The past orientation of the Government's agricultural
policies was predominantly toward the promotion and establishment of large
commercially oriented agricultural enterprises as the main vehicle for



- 9 -
developing the agricultural sector. It was feared that small-farmer programs
would absorb considerable public expenditure without a commensurate increase
in production. It was also assumed that large-scale agricultural, agro-
industrial and industrial development would generate more employment oppor-
tunities to absorb redundant or low productivity agricultural labor than any
program to assist small farmers directly. Previous efforts to help the rural
poor were often restricted to social services, whereas the Government's new
approach represents an attempt to achieve both distribution and production
ends. To be sure, no overnight eradication of rural poverty, which has been
endemic in some regions of Brazil, especially in the Northeast, for decades,
is likely to be forthcoming from these programs. Nevertheless, responsible
efforts to improve the productivity of Northeast agriculture together with
programs to increase industrial activity in the region already have resulted
in a more rapid growth of per capita income in the Northeast than in Brazil
as a whole; with the initiation of new programs this process is expected to
continue.
The Fertilizer Industry and Government Policies in the Fertilizer Sector
29.       Brazil's fertilizer industry consists of about 50 relatively small
private sector and 3 larger government-owned companies with a total produc-
tion capacity in 1976 of 270,000 tons of nitrogen and 690,000 tons of phos-
phate. The industry, especially the private sector, has concentrated on
importing, mixing, blending and distribution rather than on establishing
large-scale efficient production facilities. Most companies compete at the
retail level largely with imported materials while only a few have their own,
generally small, production facilities which have to be protected when world
fertilizer prices are low. The low level of domestic production has been due
to Brazil's lack of easily exploitable natural resources, the rapidly rising
capital requirements for the manufacture of chemical fertilizers, and
inadequate government policies during the 1960s for the petrochemical sector
in general and the fertilizer sector in particular.
30.       Large amounts of raw, intermediate and finished fertilizer materials,
therefore, have been imported, and in 1975 total imports amounted to 507,000
tons (two-thirds of total consumption), valued at about US$500 million. To
overcome this dependency on imports, the Government has embarked on a National
Fertilizer Program, whose objective is to attempt to assure self-sufficiency
in fertilizers by 1980. An interministerial fertilizer commission is charged
with ensuring the rational development of the sector and has developed a
program for large, basic production facilities of which the Araucaria and
Sergipe projects form a part.
31.       Production costs of local fertilizers have in the past generally
been higher than the cost of imports. To ensure that domestic production
facilities are fully employed, the Government established a quota system that
required retailers to purchase a given proportion of domestic fertilizer. The
Government has changed this ratio periodically aepending on consumption fore-
casts and local availability. As the new, large-scale efficient fertilizer



- 10 -
plants enter into production, costs of domestic fertilizers are expected
to move, in the longer run, in line with long-term international prices,
thereby obviating the need for the import quota system.
32.       International fertilizer prices were at a very high level in 1973-
75 causing a decline in the purchasing power of agricultural products in
relation to fertilizers and inducing a leveling off of fertilizer consumption
in Brazil as in many other import dependent countries. Concerned about the
impact of lower fertilizer consumption on its plans for expanding agricultural
production, the Government introduced a price subsidy in April, 1975 which
effectively reduced the cost of fertilizers to the farmers by 15-30%. However,
since international prices have been decreasing and as domestic ex-factory
costs have also declined in response to more efficient local production, the
Government eliminated the subsidy in December 1976. Prospects for continued
significant growth of fertilizer demand are good, since the relationship
between the prices of agricultural products and fertilizer prices is favor-
able, and the Government has provided assurances that this will remain so in
the future.
Historical Consumption and Supply of Fertilizer
33.       Growth of fertilizer consumption in Brazil has been rapid but also
erratic. Up to 1966 there was little growth, reflecting the Government's
neglect of the agricultural and fertilizer sectors. Stimulating measures
introduced in the mid-1960s brought six years of very rapid growth with
annual increments averaging 35% through 1972. Over the past three years,
fertilizer consumption increased only modestly, primarily as a result of the
sharp rise in international prices and the scarcity of fertilizer in the world
market. A significant recovery in consumption occurred in 1976 due to the
Government's subsidy and low international prices. Phosphate consumption is
high relative to that of other nutrients. This is agronomically justifiable
on account of soil characteristics in Brazil. Although detailed statistics of
fertilizer application rates per crop are not yet available, it is estimated
that four crops, namely, sugar, coffee, soybeans and wheat account for 50% to
60% of total consumption.
34.       On the supply side, domestic fertilizer production has grown at an
average rate of 22% since 1965, but in 1975 supply from national sources still
represented only about 35%. On a nutrient basis, 37% of nitrogen, 51% of
soluble phosphates and none of the potash comes from the domestic fertlizer
industry. Most of the domestic phosphate productiop uses imported phosphate
rock, since Brazilian phosphate rock production accounts for only 10% of the
country's requirements. It is however expected that Brazilian production of
phosphate rock would increase to 60% by 1982.
35.       Given the erratic nature of past growth of fertilizer consumption
in Brazil and the lack of detailed and consistent fertilizer statistics, demand
projections carry a considerable amount of uncertainty. Of all the factors



- 11 -
influencing fertilizer consumption, the most important is the presence or
absence of strong government policies to promote the increased use of fertil-
izers. In view of (i) the Government's interest in higher agricultural
production for which fertilizers are an essential input; (ii) its willingness
to stabilize the ratio of agricultural product to fertilizer prices; and
finally (iii) its declared goal of assuring a stable supply of fertilizers
by sharply increasing the share of domestic production, the conditions for
significant further growth in fertilizer consumption are favorable. The
limiting factors appear to be bottlenecks in transportation, deficiencies
in the extension services and lack of foreign exchange for the import of
fertilizer and materials.
36.       The upper limit for future demand can be estimated by normative
analysis from necessary nutrient replacement and by projections of land suit-
able for cultivation and cropping patterns. Estimates of this nature result
in a potential demand of about 12 million nutrient tons (NPK) in 1985, com-
pared to the consumption of 2.3 million nutrient tons estimated for 1976. The
average annual growth between 1976 and 1985 would, therefore, be around 23%.
Actual growth rates through 1985 are expected to be much lower, however,
ranging from 10-12% annually, considering the constraints mentioned in the
preceding paragraph. While higher levels of agricultural productivity imply
an increasing proportion of nitrogen relative to phosphate application, the
evolving cropping pattern and the opening of new cultivated areas, which
require relatively more phosphate than nitrogen, are expected to result in
only a minor change in the country's overall NPK ratio. The regional distri-
bution of fertilizer consumption is assumed to follow the pattern of the last
few years with about 10% of total consumption occurring in the Northeast, 60%
in the Center and 30% in the South.
37.       On the other hand, the pattern of future fertilizer supply is
expected to differ dramatically from the present one. Although self-
sufficiency by 1980 does not appear to be achievable, during the early 1980s
domestic fertilizer supply should provide 60-70% of total consumption as
compared to about 35% at present. Self-sufficiency for nitrogen, however,
can be reached by 1982 as a result of the three new ammonia/urea plants,
Araucaria, Sergipe and Norte Fluminense, going into production. A fourth plant
proposed to be built in Rio Grande do Sul in cooperation with the State
Government is presently being evaluated by FERTILIZANTES. The most appropri-
ate start of production for this fourth project would be in 1982-83. An
earlier start-up might lead to a temporary excess production of nitrogen. To
keep abreast of the investment plans in the fertilizer sector and to ensure
that new plants are built in accordance with as realistic demand projections
as possible, the.Government has agreed to exchange views with the Bank from
time to time regarding the expansion and development of the fertilizer sector,
including investment plans and import and pricing policies (see Section 3.04
of the draft Guarantee Agreement).



- 12 -
Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution
38.       About 90% of total fertilizer distribution is effected through
blenders which are either owned by fertilizer manufacturers (25% of total),
independent companies (65%) or cooperatives (10%). The Government intends
private firms to continue handling the marketing and distribution functions
in the sector. However, the rapid expansion of consumption expected in the
next few years, and changing pattern of supply, might create a severe strain
on the existing fertilizer marketing and distribution network. To analyze
potential bottlenecks, and their effect on future fertilizer consumption,
the Government agreed, in connection with the Bank's loan for the Araucaria
project, to undertake a marketing and distribution study under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank. The study began in October 1976, and
its results are expected to be available by late 1977.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Concept
39.       The project involves the construction of a 907 metric tons per day
(TPD) (1,000 short tons per day) ammonia plant and an 1,100 TPD urea plant on
a 100 hectare site at Laranjeiras, about 20 km northwest of Aracaju in the
State of Sergipe. The project will produce about 270,000 metric tons per year
(TPY) of ammonia and 327,000 TPY of urea. Of the ammonia production, 190,000
TPY will be used in the plant for the production of urea and the balance of
about 80,000 TPY will be sold. The project includes specialized rail cars for
the transportation of products and will contain facilities for bagging the
entire urea output, but it is expected that a significant proportion will be
shipped in bulk.
Project Implementation
40.       FERTILIZANTES is a wholly owned subsidiary of PETROBRAS, which
created it to own and operate the Bank-financed Araucaria project, the pro-
posed Sergipe project and the Norte Fluminense ammonia/urea project to be
implemented in the near future. At the beginning of 1977, FERTILIZANTES took
over ownersbip of Brazil's three existing ammonia-based public sector fertil-
izer plants (FAFER, PETROFERTIL and ULTRAFERTIL). FERTILIZANTES also has a
20% minority investment in FOSFATADOS FERTILIZANTES -- a recently established
public sector company for the exploitation of the phosphate rock deposit at
Patos de Minas in Minas Gerais. For the next three to four years,
FERTILIZAN4TES' financial strength will reflect the three existing operations
(FAFER, ULTRAFERTIL, PETROFERTIL) of which only ULTRAFERTIL will need to be
significantly strengthened, the other two being financially sound. In the
longer term, after completion of the three ammonia/urea projects and assuming
that the position of ULTRAFERTIL, is strengthened (see paragraph 42 below and
Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement), FERTILIZANTES will be in a strong



- 13 -
financial position. The financial forecasts for the project assume a dividend
payment beginning in 1982 equivalent to 10% of the equity, which is comparable
to the dividend payments made by successful Brazilian enterprises. Even with
this dividend rate, the project is expected to accumulate substantial funds
for reinvestment. The debt-equity ratio would improve rapidly from 55:45 in
1980 to 36:64 by 1983. FERTILIZANTES would maintain, at all times after
project completion, a debt-equity ratio of 60:40 or better and a current ratio
of at least 1.2 to 1.0, would not incur any debt if the projected debt service
coverage ratio would thereby fall below 1.5 to 1.0, nor would it pay dividends
(other than dividends on preferred shares), prepay debt or make financial
commitments to any of its subsidiaries or make any cash distribution if the
current ratio would thereby fall below 1.5 to 1.0 (see Section 5.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
41.       PETROBRAS is a government-owned corporation established in 1953
with a legal monopoly for the exploration and exploitation of Brazil's hydro-
carbon resources. At present PETROBRAS has eight refineries in operation with
a total capacity of about one million barrels per day (BPD) of crude and owns
and operates a large retail system. It is currently building two new refin-
eries, one at Araucaria (Parana) and the other at Sao Jose dos Campos (Sao
Paulo), which would add by 1979 an additional 310,000 BPD of crude capacity.
Brazil currently imports about 80% of its 900,000 BPD petroleum consumption.
In order to reduce this import dependence, PETROBRAS has sharply increased
its exploration program, and has started to enter into service contracts with
foreign companies. As a result, its total investment program increased from
US$600 million in 1973 to US$1.4 billion in 1975 and is expected to continue
at this level for the next four years. In the latter period, internal funds
would provide about 54% of all funds required by PETROBRAS, with new equity
provided by the Government supplying 15%, and loans 31%. On this basis, the
financing program of PETROBRAS is sound, as is PETROBRAS' current financial
position. As of December 31, 1975, its net worth was US$3.6 billion. Its
current ratio stood at 1.6:1 and its long-term debt to equity ratio at 25:75.
During the year ending December 31, 1975, net income reached US$679 million
equivalent.
42.       PETROBRAS has been substantially involved in the nitrogen fer-
tilizer industry through its wholly owned subsidiary PETROQUISA, which owned
two fertilizer companies, ULTRAFERTIL in Sao Paulo, and PETROFERTIL in Bahia
and had one operating division (FAFER) which is the oldest fertilizer produc-
tion facility in Brazil. ULTRAFERTIL was established in 1966 with majority
ownership in the hands of Phillips Petroleum Company, a U.S. petroleum and
fertilizer company. IFC participated in the financing of this company pro-
viding US$11.2 million in equity and loans. Financial problems, related to
technical difficulties that led to low capacity utilization, caused Phillips
to withdraw in 1974 and PETROQUISA acquired all of Phillips' interest in
ULTRAFERTIL. Following an improvement in the production of all ULTRAFERTIL
units, and with the substantial fertilizer price increases in 1974, ULTRAFERTIL



- 14 -
was able to earn a large net income in that year; however, the company earned
only a small return on operations in 1975, and suffered a net loss in 1976.
ULTRAFERTIL and PETROFERTIL, with an installed nutrient capacity of about
150,000 TPY, account for about 55% of the present nitrogen production capacity
of Brazil. PETROFERTIL is undergoing a substantial expansion program which
would add another 225,000 TPY of nitrogen capacity in 1977.
43.       PETROBRAS' fertilizer project implementation unit, Construcao de
Fertilizantes Nitrogenados (COFEN), supported by PETROBRAS' engineering
department, will supervise project execution on behalf of FERTILIZANTES,
coordinate the work of the foreign and local engineering firms, and contract
with local firms (yet to be selected) for civil works and erection. Procure-
ment of all but technically specialized items will be undertaken by
FERTILIZANTES' own purchasing department. PETROBRAS has already signed
contracts with Pullman Kellogg (USA) for provision of process license, basic
engineering design, procurement assistance, and technical advisory services
relating to the ammonia unit and general site facilities, and with the Toyo
Engineering Company (Japan) for provision of similar services and process
license relating to the urea unit. Detailed engineering of the ammonia unit
and general plant facilities will be undertaken by a Brazilian firm, Promon
Engenharia S.A., acting as a nominated subcontractor and under the supervision
of Kellogg. Another local engineering firm, Montreal Engenharia S.A., will
undertake detailed engineering of the urea unit as nominated subcontractor and
under the supervision of Toyo.
Production and Market
44.       The ammonia plant will be based on the Kellogg high pressure steam
reforming process using natural gas feed originating from PETROBRAS' on- and
off-shore deposits in Sergipe and Alagoas states. The urea plant will be based
on the Mitsui Toatsu total recycle C process using ammonia and carbon dioxide
produced in the ammonia proc5ss as raw materials. The ammonia plant will con-
sume annually 215 million NM of natural gas, 109,000 tons of vacuum gas and
50,000 tons of Bunker C fuel oil. The t 3tal reserves of natural gas available
are currently estimated at 19 billion NM proven.
45.       PETROBRAS currently operates a gas transmission pipeline supplying
the State of Bahia with gas from its gas compression and distribution center
near Aracaju. It plans to construct a new gas liquid separation plant adja-
cent to this center and a new dry gas supply pipeline to the project site.
PETROBRAS is also constructing a gas gathering and conservation scheme in the
States of Sergipe and Alagoas to reduce gas losses and boost supplies to the
Aracaju terminal. In order to ensure that a sufficient continuous supply of
natural gas would be available for carrying out the project, PETROBRAS has
agreed to dedicate a minimum of 3.1 billion NM   of gas (a supply sufficient
for 15 years operation at full capacity) from its reserves for the exclusive
use of the project (see Section 4(a) of the PETROBRAS draft Shareholders
Agreement). Vacuum gas and Bunker C fuel oil requirements of the project will



- 15 -
be met from PETROBRAS' Mataripe refinery near Salvador, Bahia and shipped in
rail tank cars to a storage terminal adjacent to the project site. Satisfac-
tory arrangements for the supply of natural gas and other raw materials (vacuum
gas and Bunker C fuel oil) and for the construction of water and electricity
supply facilities would be conditions of loan effectiveness. (See Section
7.01 of draft Loan Agreement.)
46.       The Sergipe plant will be located just south of the main ferti-
lizer consumption center of the Northeast and will supply that region's
nitrogen requirements. Growth of fertilizer consumption in that region has
averaged about 22% per year over the last decade, compared to rates of 34%
and 20% for the South and Center, respectively. Because of the poor soils
and the arid and semi-arid climate of the Northeast, fertilizer consumption
is primarily restricted to those areas where rainfalls are high or where
irrigation schemes provide the required water for efficient use of fertil-
izers. This is the case in the narrow, humid belt along the coast (the
Zona da Mata) and to a more limited extent in the transition zone (the
Agreste) between the humid coast and the arid interior.
47.       Up to the late 1960s, the Northeast used fertilizers nearly exclu-
sively for sugarcane, the predominant crop in the coastal belt. A detailed
farm survey, however, which was done by a joint effort of Stperintendencia
do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste and the Bank in 1973, revealed that use of
fertilizers has become much more diversified. According to the survey,
fertilizer was used in 1973 as follows: 50% for sugarcane, 15% for cacao,
15% for beans, 10% for manioc and 10% for other crops.
48.       Also in 1973, the Government contracted Associacao Nacional para
Diffusao Adubos for a three-year program to determine the bottlenecks pre-
venting increased use of fertilizer and to conduct a large number of tests of
fertilizer use in the various states and for all the major crops cultivated in
the Northeast. The results of this program, which was actively supported by
FAO, are now available and are very encouraging; they clearly show that more
fertilizer can significantly increase agricultural yields as well as gross
revenues and net profits to the farmer at benefit-cost ratios which indicate
no undue increase in the risk to him.
49.       Against this background, the prospects for continued growth of
fertilizer consumption in the Northeast are good. A normative analysis,
similar to the one for the whole of Brazil, indicates a potential fertilizer
demand of about one million nutrient tons by 1985 (See para. 35). This would
imply an average annual growth rate of about 19% for the period 1977-85,
against one of 22% for the last ten years. Because of the constraints men-
tioned for the whole of Brazil it is more likely that the actual growth rate
will be lower and 12% per year is assumed here.
50.       On the supply side, given the reserves of natural gas, the ideal
raw material for production of nitrogen, and its concentration in the North-
east, this region is particularly well suited for the production of ammonia
and urea. The PETROFERTIL plant at Camacari in the State of Bahia which is



- 16 -
presently being expanded, and the proposed Sergipe project, will together
produce considerably more nitrogen than required by the Northeast. Until 1981,
the region's demand for nitrogen will be satisfied by the increasing produc-
tion from the Camacari plant which will provide an important stimulus to
fertilizer consumption. From 1981 onward, the Sergipe plant, because it is
closer to the main markets, will supply the Northeast with nitrogen. On the
other hand all of the ouput of the Camacari plant, located near the new
chemical port of Aratu (near Salvador), which will have facilities for loading
some of the output of the Sergipe plant, will have to be shipped to other
regions in Brazil, primarily the Center, where it will substitute for imports.
By 1986 demand in the Northeast is expected to exceed the production from the
project, and in the following years the Camacari plant will again increasingly
supply the Northeastern market.
51.       Of the total nitrogen consumption in the Northeast, it is estimated
that in 1976, 65% was consumed in the form of urea and 35% as ammonium sulfate.
The completion of the Camacari expansion, the Sergipe project and the planned
MAP/DAP plants will bring the share of urea consumption to about 70% with the
remaining nitrogen requirements being satisfied by MAP, DAP and ammonimum
sulfate. This is not a significant change from the current composition of
nitrogen consumption. Urea has been accepted in the market as an efficient
fertilizer, and from tests done by the extension services, the universities
and the fertilizer companies, it can be concluded that urea is a fully suitable
fertilizer.
52.       The project's urea output will be sold to bulkblenders and mixers
who have plants close to the ports of Recife and Maceio. Transportation of
urea to Recife and Maceio is planned to be mostly by railway in bags, although
FERTILIZANTES intends to increase bulk shipments to large customers for which
bulk unloading facilities would be economic. Exploitation of the potash
deposit at Carmopolis, about 30 km to the northwest of the project site and
expected to start by the mid-1980s, will make the area attractive for the
location of new mixing and blending installations.
53.       Of the project's saleable ammonia output of 80,000 TPY of ammonia,
48,000 TPY are expected to be consumed by ammonium phosphate plants planned
for Recife and Maceio, and the remaining 32,000 TPY would be shipped to other
regions in Brazil via the port of Aratu. PETROBRAS will be responsible for
the coastal shipping of ammonia and will either buy or charter boats for that
purpose. The ports of Santos (Center) and Rio Grande (South) to which ammonia
will be shipped have adequate special storage and handling facilities for
ammonia.
54.       As a result of the Camacari expansion and the proposed project, the
railway transportation requirements in the Northeast will significantly in-
crease. While the capacity of the lines is sufficient to handle the expected
traffic up to about 1995, certain track and station improvements are needed, and
so is an improvement in track maintenance if the traffic to be generated by
the project is to be carried efficiently. The Federal Railways (RFFSA) is pre-
pared to take the necessary measures. Execution will be supervised by Bank



- 17 -
staff as part of the follow-up of the two existing loans to RFFSA.   Special
rail cars for the transport of liquid ammonia and bulk urea will be purchased
by FERTILIZANTES as part of the project. Box cars for bagged urea, tank cars
for gas and Bunker C oil and locomotives will be supplied by RFFSA.
55.       The projected continued growth in fertilizer demand will require
significant additional investments in the marketing and distribution system
in the Northeast and the private sector is expected to continue to make such
investments. For FERTILIZANTES it is most important to keep in close contact
with the developments in the fertilizer sector in the Northeast and all of
Brazil. For that purpose FERTILIZANTES will set up its own market analysis
and marketing group. The main tasks of this group will be (i) to analyze the
market in order to gain an understanding of the forces affecting demand
(including Government policies); (ii) to make regional and overall fertilizer
demand projections; and (iii) to closely monitor the development of the
marketing and distribution system which is largely in the hands of the private
sector. FERTILIZANTES is establishing such a group and has prepared a work
program which has been presented to the Bank and which would enable it to
monitor the development in the fertilizer sector.
Project Cost and Financing
56.       The project requires financing of US$283.4 million equivalent,
including working capital and interest during construction, of which US$101.9
million is in foreign exchange. The cost estimates, which are summarized
below, are based on year-end 1976 prices and include provisions for physical
contingencies and price escalation. All imported equipment and materials for
the project will be exempt from import duty.



- 18 -
Summary of Capital Cost Estimate
--------US$ Million---------
Foreign     Local
Exchange   Currency    Total   %
Land & Civil Works                         2.6       20.2       22.8   12
Equipment & Materials                     54.5       55.2      109.7   56
Engineering & Licenses                     9.1       10.9      20.0    10
Erection                                   4.2       23.7      27.9    14
Pre-Operating Expenses                       -       16.4       16.4    8
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)                  70.4      126.4      196.8  100
Physical Contingency
(8.5% of BCE)                            6.1       11.0      17.1
Price Escalation (13.6%
of BCE + Phys. Cont.)                    7.8       21.4      29.2
Installed Cost                            84.3      158.8      243.1
Working Capital                              -        15.0      15.0
Interest During
Construction                              17.6        7.7      25.3
Total Financing Req'd                    101.9      181.5      283.4
57.       The financing plan for the project envisages that 41% of the financing
required (or US$116 million) will be provided as equity by PETROBRAS, with the
balance provided as loans from the World Bank (US$64 million) foreign private
lenders (US$25 million), the Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico
(BNDE) (US$71 million), and PETROBRAS (US$7 million). The latter could also
be provided in the form of equity or through other local or foreign loans
jointly to be determined by PETROBRAS and FERTILIZANTES.
58.       FERTILIZANTES proposes to obtain a loan of at least US$25 million
through one or more foreign private lenders. If FERTILIZANTES is able thereby
to obtain more favorable terms, this loan would be associated with the proposed
Bank loan in a co-financing arrangement similar to that entered into in
connection with the Bank's 1975 loan to Companhia Siderurgica Nacional
(Ln. 1151-BR). The private loan would take the form either of a private
placement with institutional investors, or a loan from foreign commercial
banks.
59.       The principal amount of the BNDE loan would be subject to monetary
correction, in accordance with the domestic inflation rate, with an interest
rate of 4% per annum. FERTILIZANTES has applied to BNDE for a loan of US$71
million equivalent in current terms with a maturity of 15 years including
4 years of grace.



- 19 -
60.       The World Bank loan of US$64 million equivalent is proposed for
15 years, including 4 years of grace, at the Bank's current interest plus a
guarantee fee to the Government sufficient to bring the total cost to the
borrower up to 10% per annum. The Bank loan, the BNDE loan and possibly
the foreign private loans as well, would be made to FERTILIZANTES. The
company would bear the foreign exchange risk for all the foreign loans.
Should any shortfall occur in the financing plan, or should the project
require additional funds, PETROBRAS would provide the necessary funds in the
form of equity and/or loans to complete the project. The funds would be
provided in a form that would ensure that the project's debt to equity ratio
at project completion would not exceed 60:40, and that the project entity's
current ratio would not be lower than 1.2 to 1.0 (see Section 2(a) of the
draft Shareholders Agreement). The expected cash generation and borrowing
program of PETROBRAS will be adequate to finance its investment programs
including the equity contribution for this project.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would finance 100% of foreign expendi-
tures or 100% of the ex-factory price for products manufactured in Brazil for
(a) equipment and materials procured through international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement (US$30 million); (b)
imported technically specialized items with bidders restricted to proven suppliers
(US$13 million); (c) imported items and packages costing less than US$100,000
each procured through international shopping (US$12 million); and (d) foreign
engineering and advisory services (US$9 million). Local suppliers would be
granted a margin of preference of 15% (or the import duty rate, if lower) for
the purposes of evaluating bids on (a) above and it is expected that they will
be able to compete with foreign suppliers for items totalling about US$20
million, and to win perhaps US$12 million of those orders. Expenditures of up
to US$1.5 million fQr foreign engineering services would be financed retro-
actively. It is estimated that the Bank loan will be fully disbursed by 1980
(see page 2 of Annex III).
62.       A separate list of goods, jointly prepared by FERTILIZANTES and the
Ministry of Finance in consultation with domestic manufacturing associations
and representing 60% of the equipment to be procured, would be reserved for
local procurement as a measure of support for the domestic capital goods
industry. The cost of this reserved procurement is estimated to total about
US$73 million equivalent (including contingencies and price escalation) and
FERTILIZANTES estimates that some of this local equipment will cost up to
40% more than the CIF price of imports. This percentage is lower than the
average customs duty for the equipment concerned. The-reserved procurement is
expected to increase the total cost of the project by about 5% and the total
cost of equipment and materials by about 11% above what it would be if all
equipment suitable for it were procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding. None of the reserved procurement would be eligible for financing
under the Bank loan.



- 20 -
Financial and Economic Benefits
63.       Over the life of the project the international FOB price of urea is
expected to average about US$171 per ton (bagged) in constant 1976 US dollars.
This price is higher than prevailing prices in 1976. After the increases in
1973-74, international prices fell in 1975 and reached a low point in the
first half of 1976 due to supply surpluses. They are expected to move up
slowly reaching US$171 per ton by 1985. Since the project's output will
substitute temporarily for imports into the Sao Paulo area, freight and han-
dling charges are added to arrive at a delivered price of US$185 per ton bulk
urea which is used for the economic analysis. For ammonia the same price of
US$185 per ton is used, assuming an ammonia/urea price relationship of 1:1
which reflects the production cost relationship of the nitrogen in ammonia to
the nitrogen in urea.
64.       The financial analysis (in constant 1976 dollars) assumes an
ex-factory urea price of US$205 per ton destined for the Northeast market
and US$175 per ton destined for the Center. The same price assumptions are
made for ammonia. The production cost, at 90% capacity utilization, is about
US$105/ton for ammonia and US$115/ton for bagged urea. These cost figures
are based on natural gas, vacuum gas and Bunker C oil prices of US$0.84 per
I4SCF, US$58.4 per ton and US$49.2 per ton, respectively. On this basis the
project would earn a financial rate of return of 19% before and 15% after
income taxes.
65.       The project's economic rate of return is calculated at 17% and would
remain satisfactory even under the most adverse foreseeable circumstances.
A shadow exchange rate, 25% higher than the official rate, has been used in
this calculation to reflect foreign trade distortions caused by import tariffs,
export taxes and subsidies, as well as other forms of import restrictions and
export incentives. The project's net annual foreign exchange savings at 90%
capacity utilization are estimated at US$65 million, before provision for
principal and interest payments on foreign loans.
Conclusions
66.       The project has a good economic return and would contribute towards
the growth of the agricultural sector by reliably providing fertilizers
to the farmers at stable prices. In addition, the positive secondary effects
from the required infrastructure will benefit the Northeast region which is
one of Brazil's poorest and least industrialized. The project also supports
the Government's policy of industrial decentralization while building up
the economy of the poverty-ridden Northeast.
67.       PETROBRAS and the engineering firms have the management and technical
capabilities to minimize project risks in these areas. Since the project's
financial performance is largely dependent on government controls, the Govern-
ment has agreed not to take any action with regard to the price of ammonia,
urea and feedstock, that may prevent FERTILIZANTES, operating efficiently,
from covering its costs, servicing its debts, and earning a reasonable return
on its invested capital (see Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).



- 21 -
Since FERIILIZANTES would depend on private companies, which are already
active in distribution, to market its products in the Nort'ieast, FERTILIZANTES
has decided to establish its own market analysis and marketing group to monitor
the development in the sector thus minimizing the marketing risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Banik and FERTILIZANTES  the
draft PETROBRAS Shareholder Agreement between the Bank and PETROBRAS, the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the Federative Republic of
Brazil, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed loans are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
69.       Additional condition of effectiveness requires FERTILIZANTES to
enter into arrangements with various agencies to ensure the supply of the
raw materials and utilities needed for the successful operation of the
project (paragraph 45). Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III cf Annex IV.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
April 6, 1977






Piget 1
BRAZIL                * SOCIA. INDICATOR$ DATA SHEET
LANMO ARt  (THOU KAW)                   ..-.              .     .        .      .       .
._ _ _ ...... *firAZIL                                                                    REERENCCE COu.TRIEs (1970)
TOTAL      8512.0                                         MOST RCCENT
ha0C.           *-                       tS90        1970    ESTIMATE           MEIXICO         URUGUAY         JAPAN 4*
GNP PER CAPITA (USS1                        300.0       SIjo,O      1010.0               780.0        960.0      2650.0
........ ............. 
POPULATION AND VlTh6 STAISTICS
PtlOPULAtION4 (MtID.YR, NILLION9 .8                   92.8        107.0                50.4          2.7       104.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE NM. 5,.0                                  11.0         13.0                26.0        15.0        202.0
Pn aQm A. iA[C. wb                       51.0        66.0           .-                52.0         18.0      1575.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUOE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND            40.8        38.24        87.1                43.8        22.1         17,
CRUDt DEATH RATE PCR THOUSAND            11.?         9.9          8.8                 0.2          9.2         7.;
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (,TWOU)          180.0        110.0           *,                68.5          *-
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH tYRS)           56.0        59.7         66..C                           6S.3          r,.1
ROSS REPROoIJCTItON RATE                  2.s         2.8          2.5                  ..1        Ito          1.0
9OPULATION GROwYN RATE tI)
TOTAL                                     3.0         2.9         2.9                  3a4         0.7          1.0
URBAN                                     5.5         5.0         4.3                  4.8         '.z          4.0
JOSAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)              40.0        58.0         S9.1                58.'         '9.;        8.
ACC STRUCTURE (PERCINT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                          43.0         02.0        41.7                 46.2         21.1        24.0
15 TO 80 YEARS                          58.0         55.0        55.1                 50.1         3             *B 9
85 YEARS AND OVER                         3.0         3.0          3.2                 3.7                      7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        0.9         0.6          0.8                 1.0         f .          0.5
ECtoNOMIt  EPENOENCY RATIO                  1.8         1.5           *.                 2.0          1.0         D.b
FtMILY PLANNING.
ACCEPTORS CCU"ULATIVE. THOU)               .        250.0                             55-S
USERS (I nrF 4ARRIC   WOMEN) *t.                      I.t                               ...
EW`2LnY ME 4T
TOTAL LABOR rFORCE (THOUSAND)          22700.0      29800.0          1.13000.0                     1020.0    s3300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE CXI             52.0        44.0                             40.0        17.0         19'0
UNEMPLOYED C% OF LABOR FORCE)                 .           .                                -         8 . /A       1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
s or PRIvATE IN.OME REC'D SY-
Kamm        5% ssor   l 000=10           5 28.0 4f   352.  4        *                 37.8         19.  h      10.2
C0tL S  20l OF IIO D                     54.0 L       62.0                            83.2         47.5 sb     37.8
,SIt 2l0% OF MU      s                    4  .        3'- o.                          4.2           4          S65
s10qrn5   12.0 S  l0          l1.2         10.2         22.3
DISTRIBUTION OF LANi OWNERSHIP
..............................
s OWNED BY TOP IOt of OWNERS                 ..        5.0                               37.1         ..
x OWNED BY SMALLEST lOX nWNeRS               ..         1.5           ..                 0.3          ..
HEALTN A'D NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHY3SCIAN                2170.0       19SO.0       1660.0              140.0         880.0 o      50.0
POPULATION PER 4URSIPIG PERSON               ..      3300.0      a 2B20.0a            1S70.0       3340.0 2o4.0
OPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED               275.0        2b0.0           ..               930.0        150.0         o.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I Of REQUIREMENTS)            102.0 o      09.0 le0.0 Ic 10.0                          107.0        10S.0
PROTElI   GRAM0S PER DAY)               bl O         84.0        AS 0   -             *5.0        9.0         7t.0
.OF WHICH ATNIAL AND PULSE            38.0         39.0          ..                 21.oa       80.0         85.0
DEATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1-4                  ..          ..           ..                 9.8          1.3         1.0
EDVCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT PAY10
PRIMARY SCNOOL                         200.0a        87.0         71 01.0            106.0        110.0       101.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL             11 .                    28.04j      7h.0 EZ              23.0        59.0         91.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECONO LEVEL)                I3.0         13.0        13.0                 12.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(I OP SECONDARY)                        t9.o         17.0        le.o l               26.0        21.0         20.0
*DULT LITERACY RATE C%)                    81.0       86.0            ..                78.0        91.0         99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER. ROOS (AVERAGE)                  .-         1.0          1.1 /a              2.2           ..         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLI4GS WITMOUT
PIPED HATER C1)                            ..        73.0 /a     87.0 &L              81.0  .        ..         5.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I OF ALL DWELLINGS)                       *-        46,0        5S3.0                .9.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY CI)                         *          S.0         21.0.               26.0*
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RtECEIVERS (PER TWOU POP)            8S.0        80.0         tl.0k              2at,0        348.0       551.0
PASSENCER CARS (PER TROU POP)               7.0        25.0         31.0 ko 205.0                               84.0
ELECTRICITY CRWN,YR PER CAP)              325.0       4s91.o       684.0                567.0       782.0      3391.0
4NESPRINT (G/YoR PER CAP)                   3,3         2.7          2.8                 3.          7.0        t.
..................................                                                        4 - .. .
SE' NDTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSC



page2
NOTES
Unle.. otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between, 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970 and for Most Recant Estimate between
1973 -W 1975.
00  Japan, ha. beams eeictedasn objectiva country since the Br-ilian Goverreent h.. show      parti-ula  interest In   apnsdeve.lopmental    xein;
Ce.o the rtn gove-ont,. have conducted joint studies to Identify possible ftutur   econusic problome of Br..il on the h.oLe of the   xeinei
BRAZIL      1960    1..  Ecxnoaeic.lly antic. population;   lb  7-10 and 11-17 year. of *ge respectively.
1970    /.  tconomicaiiy entice Population;    .Lb  Hospital paeronnel;    Li Inside only;    L/d   12-19 years Of age.
74ST RLECENT ESTIMSATE:  /a  1972;   Lb   1971;    /.  1969-71 ..verage;   Id~ 7-14 and 15-17 years of age respectively;    .L.. I.eid. only.
.i1XICO     1970    ..  1964-66;    /b  Inside only.
UP1t2UAy    1970        M. 5.t-iden only;   lb  1967.
R10, D..enber 27, 1976
DPFlNrrIO5S OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lend Area, (thou he2)                                                          P,:uIstion perL ..uIsin   person - Popuistiox divided by nonber of practicing
Total- Total surface area comprising land area end inland weters.                maeen     mel SraduKas lin.rse, "trained" or 'certified' nuse,ed
Airic.- Most recent estimate of agricu1turel area used temporarily o.            auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
Pernanently for crepe, pastoree, narket & kitchan gardens or to lie          Population Par hospital bad - Popolstion divided by oumber of hos pital bads
fallom.                                                                        available in public end private general end ap.ciali.ed hospital and
rehabilitatim centers ;7 eald.e .nuing homs ee nd establis' toet   for
GPpar capita (US$) - GNP Per capita estimates, at correnet markct pricex, custodial end preven,tive care.
calculated by   -  conversion method as World Rook Atlas (1973-75            Per capita supply of calories (7. of repuiroemaxte) - Computed (ron energy
basia), 1960, 1970 end 1975 data,                                              equivalent of net food suppli.s available in country por capita par day,
available supplies comprise domestic production, import lese exports,
Pvuainad vitsl eatitics                                                    end c hnge  in stock; oat supplies exclude animal feed, seeda, quanti-
Populatio (md-yr. nillion) - A. of July first:     if not available,tisseinfoprcalgnd1c.in                                    itibtn;euins
aeaeof two end-year esctint.e; 1960, 1970 aod 1975 data.                  "ere ectiacted by FAO based on physiological needa for orroal activit
and health cOnsidering environmenstal tompe-tura, body waighte, age and
sex distributions of population, and allowring 107. for wota. at bouaehold
Populartion densit  - per aquuar hkm - Mid-year population per eqwars kilo-       level.
iee 410  atree) of total area.                                         Per capita supply of protein (germa, pe  day') - Protein content of pot
.Poplation dexor    _m or eouare ke of aeric. lend - Computed -n shove for        capita net supply of food par day; nt eupyof food is defined as
.gricultur.1 land only.                                                         above; requirotmats for all countrie  etbliehad by UJSDA Economic
"it.1 st.tisti.8                                             lo~~~~~~~~~~~Rsearch Services provide for a itoa  allowance of 60 grome of total
Vitel statietice                                             pro~~~~~~~~j.tein per day,, and 20 er  of animal and pulse protein. of which
Crud birh rte pr tousad -Annual livs births per thousan  of sId.          10 grams should be animal protein; th.ee standarda are Ioser thean those
,-rye  populstion; ten-y.er arithoti. averagea ending in 1960 end I970k          of 75 grsn   of total Protein and 23 gracu of sninal protein as an
acd fire-year averWagending in 1"5T for most resent eastineta.                  aver.ge for the  -Ird, propea.d by FAO in the Third World Food Su-vy.
C-,de death rote ocr thousad - Annual deatha per thoucand of mid-year           Bar capita Protein supply from animal end Pulse - Protein supply of food
PopulatiOn; ten-yea  aritheetic ecstagesa ending in 1960 and 1570u, amd         derived from aninal., end pulses in grnam pot day.
five-year average esnling in 1975 for newt recert eatimatee                   Death rate f/hou   ace" 1-4 - Annual deatha per thousaand io Aga group
infoot .ortality rate (/thou) - Annual destho of infanta under ona year of        14yas      to children in this age group, auggeeted as an Indicator of
agepe   thouxan  lice births.                                                   melnutrition.
Lif opctancy atbrth (yre) - Aver.ag nuber of yesre of lILfe resaini.g
at birth, usually five-year average. o.ding in 1960, 1970 end 1975 for        Education
developing countriex.                                                         Adiusted enrollmnt ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as
Crrse re2rodution rate - Averege   .. ber of live daughters a woman will          percentag   o primary school-ege population. includes children aged
ber inhr normal reProductive period if seb experiences present age-            6-11 yeare hut adjusted for different lengths of primary education.
uPecifi. fertilicy reree; usually fie-yeasr averagee ending in 1960,            for coutries, with universal adutation, enrollant ay e..cesd 1007.
1970 end 1975 for developing countries.                                         since some pupil. are halow or shov   the official school sge.
Peoul.tion, orcth rata7.) -totail - Compoud a--I growth rotee of mid.           Adjusted enrolment ratio - seconders school - Computed as shov;
year population forI1950-6,190-70 and 1970-75.                                  secondary education requires at lesot four years of approved primary
Population growth rate ('1  - urban  Computed libe grosth rate of total           instruction; provides geosrel, vocational or teachebr training
P-Pulo.tbon; different definition  of urban aeas ma'y affect cmpare-            lua tructiona for pupils of 12 to 17 yerar of age, correspondence
bility of data among countries.                                                 coursee, are generally excludsd.
Urban poulton (7 of .tota) - Ratio of urban, to total population;               Yfere of fichoolina provided (first end econd levls)     'IotalI years of
difrn  eiition. Of urban areas say affect comparability of data          echooling; at secondary level, vocatoa         instuto  ma. be par-
anong countries.                                                                 tielly or complatsly excluded.
Age trutur (pecen) -Children (0-14 years) . wnr.king-age (15-64 y.are),   Vocationa enrollmet (C. of sacondars) - Vocational inatitutiona
and retired (65 years and over) aa percentagee, of54nid-yetr population.         include technical, industrial or other progranae which operate
Asdox epedency retio  - Ratio Of POPulstion under 15 and 65 end over to           independently or asa departmnts of secondary institutions.
thceof age1 through 64.                                                       Adult literacyr rate C%.) - Literate adults (abls to red snd write) 
tconomic dependency ratio - Ratio of Ppoplation under 15 and 65 end over            percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
to the labor force in age group of 15-h64 prare.
F-tly pi.ento: - cetosc,uitv.thou) - Cuom.1ctlve nmashr of                       Hu n
accetorsof irthcontro  dsvica undr auspinca of national family             Persona por room (average) - Average osaber of person per room in
Planning programn since inception.                                               ocrpiad conventional dweliings in urban areae; dwellingo exclude
Family planning - users (7. of married wome) - Percentages of married              mbpeuanaruuee             x  uocpi6d partso.
women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) w~ho us. birth-control d.vica         Ocuid ull      c wthou pied water (C%) - Occupied covn-tionai
to .11 erned win   insane age group.                                       dwellinga in urban ed rural areas without inside or outs ide piped
Ebpl,y=.t                                                      w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mter facilitines as percentage of ail occupied dsellings.
twOlossoent                                                  Ac~~~~~~~~~~~~cese to electricity C%. of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings
Total labor force (th-.nad) - EconomicIly attive p.rsones, Including               with electricity in living quarters as percent of ttatl dwellings in
armed forces end Unenployed but soduding houswives, tudauta, etc.;               urban and rural arease.I
definitinn  ix various countries are not comparable.                           RLural deellinas connected to electricity C7.) - Computed as above for
Labor force in agriculture (.     Agricultural lbabr forts (in farming,             raa wlig        Only.
forestry, bunting end fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Onom.pIoyd b('I of.dlabor force) - Osomployed are musully defined as persons     4fcunption
wh Ir bl  n   illing to take a jab, out of a job on a give  day,          Radio receivers (per thou Pop) - All types of -ecivere for radio broad-
remained out of a job, and aeeking verb for a specified mininmum period          coats to gsmaral public per thouand of population; e..clodea
not exceding One weak; ma not he comparable between cauntre      due to          unlicensed recsivers in countries ad in years whsn registration of
dIffe rent definitions of uxomPloyed end asourc  of data, e.g., aploy-           redio sets "ae in affect; deta for recant years mey not be coparable
met Office statiatice, ea-Ple aurveys, compulsory usomploymant insurance,        since, omtn contries abolished Ii.se,ang.S
Peaenor crs perthou pop) - Passenger care cprise motor cars
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in co,h and kind)        sHeatn   leas then eight persona; excludea aehulance., herarse and
received by riche.t 57., richest 207., poorest 201, and poores t 407. of         military vehicles .
houaeholds.                                                                      lLectriicit (heb/yr per cap) - Aunuail comeomptivo of industrial, con-
nscil,public end private electric ity in kilosatt hours per capita.
Sistrbutin oflandosn-rhip - Percentages, of Sand osn.d by sealthtsst          generally based on poductio    data, without allowence folm   eei
107.andpooeat107. Of land owners.                                            grids but allowing for imports and exporta of electricity.
IZIL111h  ,d Nrtr!                                           Im~~~~~~~~~~ewprint (ba/yr par cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograen
health ssd lotrition                                          ~~~~~~~~~estimated from doos tic Production plus met imports of oeweprint.
Populaion p r p'ician - FPoulation divided by numsber of practicing
physiciana qualified from a nedica1 school at uvnIvrity level.



_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  I
n, a
it~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~zE 39 z                 t   , }
oo o Z  -<o ln:o!@*oo  tSMoylzz- 
' '-f _-^..."">'a2t -=|S_a



nr 4i   -  --  -  _
x  $3ga2ffisSs-3W :a  .
~~~~~~~~~~~-ttg 2e PI..  E  .SP   pn ^ s 
Izi  z a  3IRS  *  -,
V82~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ iR4 S   3 iglzt 1iaa  t  i iii-at g2  i i 
*#pp!    I         .
I;|* _s n_  _ O  0_^ g,o * 53 a a  53 ^  -s  S .
.^   ^w * C --                      CC A^SkgES en2n  -.3-@ -
3  3  a:~-e S                        II A~tEl^s  ts-  ;
4~   ~   ; itt-           f
I   iX        0          8        1!~~~~~~~I 
{   il iil   i 3   3|1llgt  ii  t  !ii 



BE ST4TUS (OF BANK OMIJP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A.   SVWARY 3TATEMNT OF LOANS
(AS OF F8-ARY 25, 1977)
Aunt le" 
Loan#     Year              borrower                                               bured
Thirty-One Loans Fully Disbured                                      89D.9
677     1970     Furna  - Ceatrais ILetricas    Po}r                80.0            4.2
llbriiondo
728     1971     Centrais getrioca  do Sul do   Pawer               70.0            6o.7
Brasil - Salto Oaorio
755     1971     Brazil                          Education           8.1c           2.9
756     1971     Brazil                         Ports               45.0           24.4
757     1971     Superintendencia de Agua       Wkter Supply        22.0            0.5
a Esgotos da Capital
758     1971     Conmpanhia Mbtropolitana de    Control             12.0            2.2
Saneamento de Sao Paulo
786     1971     Reds Ferroviaria Federal       Railwqys             46.o           5.2
797     1972     Coupanhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry           64.5            3.6
812     1972     Usinas Siderurgicas de         Industry            63.o            7.3
Minas OGerais
813     1972     Brazil                         Roads               89.0            2.8
828     1972     Companhia Siderurgica          Industry            64.5            3.7
Paul is ta
829     1972     Centrais Eletricas de Minas    Power               60.0            7.9
Oerais - Sao Simao
853     1972     Brazil                         Land Setl.           6.7            5.7
887     1973     LIGHT-Servicos de !Letri.      Power               20.0           13.6
923     1973     Furnas Ccntrais Eletricas -    Power              125.0           79.2
Itunbiara
924     1973     Brazil                         Agro-Indust.        54.0           32.5
1008     1974     Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao     Power               81.0           78.0
Francisco-Paulo Afonao IV
1009     1974     Banco Nacional do Habitacao    Water Supply        36.0           23.5
1067     1974     Brazil                         Thlucation          23.5           23.3
1074     1975     Redo Forroviaria Federal       Railways           175.0          168.2
1075     1975     Brazil                         Roadas             10.0            84.5
1151     1975     Coupanhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry           95.0           95.0
1152     1975     Coqpanhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry           60.0           59.3
1153     1975     Brazil                         Agriculture         23.0           21.Ii
1171     1975     FEPASA-Forrovia Paulista       Railvwas            75.0           75.0
1195     1976     Brazil                         Rural Develop.      12.0          12.0



THE STATUJS OF BANK GROUP 0PZTIONS IN BRAZIL
A.   SUHMARY STiTEMJNT OP LOANS
(AS 0F FKBMUARY 28, 977)
Amount lose      Undis-
Loan #    Year              Borrower                 Purpose      Cancellations    bureed
1206     1976     Brazil                          Develop. Bank       85.0           85.0
1207     1976     Brazil                          Feeder Roads       55.0           55.0
1249     1976     Brazil                          Agriculture         40.0           39.7
1256     1976     Petrobraa Fertilizantes         Fertilizer          50.0          44.7
1257     1976     Companhia Paraense de           Power               52.0           52.0
Energia Iletrica-COPIL
1300     1976     Eletrobras                      Power               50.0          50.0
1302     1976     Brazil                          Nutrition           19.0          19.0
1309     1976     Banco Nacional de Habitacao     Water Supply        40.0           40.0
1317 /2 1976      Brazil                          Agro. Industry      83.0           83.0
1343 7f 1977      ELETROSUL                       Power               82.0           82.0
1362 7;  1977     State of Minas Gorais           Rural Develop.      42.0           2.0
Total                                            3,009.5 h      1,1433.6
Of hdich has been repaid to the Bank               354.2
Total now outstanding                            2,655.3
Amount Sold                      45.5
of which has been paid         19.9               25.6
TotaL now hold by Bank                           2,629.7
Total Undisbursed                                               1,433..6
A    No IDA credits have been umde to Brazil.
/2   Not yet effective.



ANNEX5 11
fage 3
B. STATR917PT op lye INVESThNIs    (As of Pab-aa7 28. 19TT)
FiP-I Year                             Obilgor                                       Type of Boalo...                                           A-oont it USS aillion
Loan.     fqultsC    Total
1957            St000-0 do B-tall Co, d. EOl-totldade                            El.e-tntOl Eqotpo..                                        2 00      _        2 00
1958            Olink,.ft, S.A. Cluloan e Papol                                 Pi1p *nd Poper                                             1 20       -       1 20
1958             DL. R  Pl.t.o"-  do B...il, S.A.                                A-itotaotoe Part.                                          0.45       -       0 45
1958            Wtlly0-OvOOl-  d do Bail, S.A.
Indottita 0 Coro-cto                  Hotor V0.1...                                                                      2.45      _       2 45
1959             Co-p.ohia Mt-i-ot   do Ci..-to Portl-nd, S.A.                   Cent                                                       1 20       -       1.20
1959             Choopton COloloan, S.A.                                          Pup                                                       4.00       -       4.00
1966/1968/
1972             A... Vill-0, S.A,                                             Ste-l                                                      8 00      1 93     9 93
1966/1969        Papl . C      -lulone Ct.ri...n., S.A.                         PNp sod Poper                                               3.T1     3.48      7.19
1967/1972       Ultr-fertil, S.A.  - I.do-tla a C-rclo
do PFr-ilsoote.--                                              F-rtliter-                                                8.22      3.03    11 25
1969             P-troqol.iot   UoL.o, SA.                                       P.t1o-hW-l1.                                               5 50      2 80     8 38
1970             Poliol.fi-00, S0A.  ld..trlO e Co.er-to                          P.tro-hemi-ll                                             5 50      2 88     8 38
1971             Oniteno, S.A. I.d.-ira e    Co.e.tot                             Petro.h-atil.                                             4 60      1 44     6 04
1971            Iduat..i  do Collon 8-orrogo-rd, S.A                            PNip                                                       4 90       -       4 90
1972/1975        Coop.ohbt  de Ci-Mnto 100i0001 do M1.0,                         Crrent                                                    29 14      3 20    32 34
1973/1974/1977   Coap-ohio Stder-rg-c- d- G...abrb   - COSIGUA                   Steal                                                     T6.96      7.50    84.46
1973             Capitol Herket D-velop.n-t Fond - FUNCAP                        Capitl Hark.o  D-volootn-nt                               5 00       -       S 00
1973             I,pr,aa do -es.ovolvt=entO do 800--00.
itooto   - CODEIN. S A.                                        Nickel 8100g -nd RefIning                               26 00      4 h0    30.40
1974             Induatrlot ViIlal-., SA.                                        Elovator- *nd Induttri.l Eq1p .ent                         6 00               6.00
1974             Fabrtca do T-nldna TatO-pO, S.A.                                T-nhil.a                                                  31 00       -      31 00
1975             Cap-avo Carbo.oa  Indoatnlala Ltd,                              Co-bon Black                                               6 18      1 08     7 26
1975            Oot'tooo Nords.te.  .A.                                          PotrochKicalt                                             10 00       _      1o o0
1976             S-nt ota lnd.-trt- - Totil do Norde-tt, S.A.                     Te-tile                                                   6 45      1 00     7 45
1976             Tec-nor SA.  - Totil Cotor..ena. do Nordeate                    Tnotil.                                                    6 00       -       6 00
Total Gross Co-it..0ntS                                                                                                  254.46     32.82   287.28
L.a. Coooell-t.oo, Tornl-lt-oia, Rpoy.e.nto .nd Sole.                                                                    184.70     0834    193.04
Totol Coo.nit-oote Non Held by IFC                                                                                        69.76     24.40    94.24
Total UVdib-roed                                                                                                         18.61      0.53    19.14



ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of February 28, 1977)
There are now 32 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:   US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: May 31,
1977. Construction work is proceeding on schedule. The cost of
the project has increased by US$42 million, or 15% over the
original estimate, because of increased excavation and concrete
work, resulting from poor rock foundation, and increased equipment
prices. This has not significantly affected the economic justi-
fication of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:    US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977.
The construction of the Salto Osorio hydroelectric plant is pro-
gressing satisfactorily and the first two of the planned four
generating units are now in commercial operation. A cost overrun
of about US$127 million, due to increased equipment and construction
costs, is foreseen, but this does not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The cost overrun is being
financed by loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The
construction of the transmission system, delayed to allow required
modifications, is proceeding satisfactorily. The project is
expected to be completed shortly.
755       Education Project:   US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 28, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977. Prog-
ress on the construction and equipping of the project schools is
now proceeding satisfactorily. However, the project implementation
is behind the original schedule due to initial delays in establish-
ing and staffing the project unit and because of subsequent changes
in project content. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1975.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:   US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of
the project is now proceeding satisfactorily, although there have
been further delays and cost overruns which will be financed by the
Borrower. The Government has approved legislation which converted
DNPVN from a government agency to a public corporation, PORTOBRAS.
PORTOBRAS, with the assistance of management consultants, has been
improving port operations in Santos. The National Port Development
Study financed under the project is now completed.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:   US$22 million loan of June 21,1971;
Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project suffered initial delays caused by the State of Sao Paulo
not furnishing the required counterpart funds, which are now in-
cluded in the state budget. The Gcvernment has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the state into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company, SABESP,
was concluded on December 18, 1974. Because of the reorganization
of the sector and of management problems which are now resolved, the
Closing Date, originally June 30, 1975 has been postponed to June 30,
1977. Progress of the project has improved with new management
of the company which took office in March 1975.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:    US$15 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
A review of the original design resulted in its modification to ex-
clude the discharge of raw sewage and a related treatment facility.
As a result of the modifications in the project, the loan amount was
reduced to US$12 million. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the state into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company was
concluded December 18, 1974. The Description of the Project has
been slightly modified again because of changes in the Investment
Plan. Because of the reorganization of the sector and of management
problems which are now resolved, the Closing Date, originally June
30, 1975, has been postponed to June 30, 1977. Progress of the
project has improved with new management which took office in March
1975.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the



AlINEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda. To allow additional time required for the purchase
of this equipment, the Closing Date, originally September 30, 1975,
was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:   US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977. The latest cost estimate, is US$736 million, an
increase of about 72% over the appraisal estimate due to design
evolution, unforeseen site works and increases in local construc-
tion costs. This cost increase will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now 90%
complete and is about one year behind the appraisal schedule.
The original Closing Date was July 1, 1976.
812       USIIINAS Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$63 million loan
of April 11, 1972; Effective Date: July 28, 1972; Closing Date:
June 1, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$975 million, an
increase of about 70% over the appraisal estimate, due primarily
to design evolution and increases in local construction costs.
This cost increase will not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The project is 90% complete and is
about twelve months behind the original schedule. Implementation
of Stage III, which is not being financed by the Bank, is well
underway. The original Closing Date was June 1, 1976.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:   US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December 4, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.   Construction works are more than 98% completed
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost is about 2% above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost
substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
have improved during the past year, but are still lagging behind
the appraisal forecast. The Closing Date originally June 30,
1976, has been postponed to June 30, 1977.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: January 15, 1978. The latest cost estimate is US$784
million, an increase of about 60% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 75% complete and is about sixteen months behind
the original schedule. The original Closing Date was January 15,
1976.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:   US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. COLONE has prepared revised farm development plans whose
credit component, to be financed by public financial institutions,
will be significantly higher than originally estimated, although
still low in comparison to other settlement projects. Administra-
tive delays in the release of public funds for farm credit and
COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting
project staff delayed the start of project execution. Settlement,
however, has now begun and the project should be completed in 1978
as envisaged.
887       Power Distribution Project:   US$20 million loan of April 16, 1973;
Effective Date: July 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977. Prin-
cipally due to difficulties encountered in preparing bidding docu-
ments and delays in deliveries of equipment and materials, the
project is about two years behind schedule. Complete delivery and
installation of equipment and materials to be financed by the loan
will probably take until July 1977 and a postponement of the Closing
Date will be required.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:   US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Contracts for penstocks, turbines, and concrete and earth
works have been awarded. Commissioning of the first generating
unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months behind original
schedule due to delay in awarding the civil works contracts.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:   US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:    US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. A Bank mission recently reviewed the progress
of the preparation and implementation of plans for resettlement of
the 9,700 families to be displaced by the Sobradinho reservoir.
Executinn of these plans is underway, and construction of new
towns to house the urban portion of the population has begun. The



ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses will be resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:   US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1977. Thirty-nine subprojects have been approved, and the loan is
almost fully committed. All subprojects approved are in various
stages of construction. Disbursements reached 35% (US$12.5 million)
as of December 31, 1976, and are expected to be completed by June
1979.
1067      Second Education Project:   US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution has started reasonably well, and is ex-
pected to be completed by the target date. Project implementation
units have been established in all eight project states and these,
together with the main proj'ect unit, PREMEN, are working well.   The
pre-investment studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan,
have been completed and are expected to yield useful information for
future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:   US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. The financial situation
of the Borrower deteriorated seriously in 1975 and 1976 because of
increased costs of materials and higher social charges which were
not matched by adequate tariff increases. Procurement is progres-
sing reasonably well, although slower than expected.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date:  May 15, 1975; Closing Date:   December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts for
civil works for all 21 lots have now been awarded and construction
works are proceeding according to schedule. Implementation of the
road maintenance component of the project is slightly delayed due
to protracted negotiations for the hiring of consultants.



ANiNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:   US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. As a result of these difficulties CSN has contracted
special consultancy services to review the project scope with a view
to trimming capital costs and to helping improve project management.
The project is about nine months behind the original schedule.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:   US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. Procurement for equipment is
underway.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:   US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. CODEVASF is making good progress
in defining the details of the project and should be in a position
to let several major contracts during 1977. Cost estimates remain
at the same level as reported by the last supervision report
because, until new bids are received, there is no meaningful basis
for revising them. Procurement problems experienced in the past
have been carefully reviewed with CODEVASF staff and it is antici-
pated that with a better understanding of what is required there
will be fewer problems in the future. The Technical Department
of CODEVASF has improved over the last six months, and, for the
first time, CODEVASF appears to be fully in control of the project,
leading and supervising the various consulting firms under contract.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA): US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: Mfarch 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Implementation of the Project is progressing slower than expected,
mainly because of lack of State Government funds to finance FEPASA's
Investment Plan, and a revision of that plan will be necessary.
FEPASA is in a serious financial situation, and tariffs for most of
the commodities are too low to cover increasing costs; however,
FEPASA has taken positive steps in order to correct this situation.
As of December 5, 1976 FEPASA increased its published freight tariff
by 25% and its intercity passeger tariffs by 20% and is planning
further increases. Cuts in operational costs are also being pre-
pared, and if all the measures included in FEPASA's Plan of Action
are implemented, FEPASA will come close to meeting the financial
targets set at appraisal for 1977.



AINEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:    US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date:   July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Initial disbursements have now been made. Operational
plans for 1977 were prepared and are satisfactory, and the project
unit has made progress in resolving problems related to project start-
up. Recent delays in the transfer of funds from the Federal Government
to state level executing agencies, which interfered with performance,
have now been corrected.
1206      Development Banking Project:   US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: Mlarch 31, 1979.
Because of the Government's introduction of a 20% ceiling on annual
monetary correction on loans contracted in 1976 from federal lending
institutions by industrial enterprises, only investment subprojects
contracted after January 1, 1977 will be eligible for financing under
the loan. Project implementation is expected to be completed as
originally anticipated by March 31, 1979.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:   US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. The project is proceeding according to
schedule.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:   US$40.0 million loan of April 27,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.   The project is proceeding according to
schedule. Civil engineering for 21 experiment stations is well
advanced.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:   US$52 million loan of Mfarch 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:   US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1309      Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project Project II:    US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. Eighty-four sub-projects have
been approved for this loan. The majority of them are in small
communities under 5,000 inhabitants. Bank disbursements should
begin in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
SERGIPE NITROGEN FERTILIZER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Petrobras Fertilizantes, S.A.
Guarantor:              Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:                 US$64 million equivalent
Terms:                  15 years, including 4 years of grace, at
82% interest per annum. Fee of 1.8% payable to
Guarantor.
Project
Description:            The project consists of the construction of an ammonia/
urea plant at Laranjeiras, Sergipe, with a manufacturing
capacity of 907 metric tons per day; an adjacent plant to
manufacture urea, with a capacity of 1,100 metric tons
per day; provision for bagging the entire urea output
and facilities for storage and transportation of ammonia
and urea.
Estimated
Cost:                                                 (US$ Million)
Foreign     Local      Total      %
Land and Civil Works                        2.6        20.2      22.8      12
Equipment and Materials                   54.5         55.2     109.7     56
Engineering and Licenses                   9.1         10.9      20.0      10
Erection                                   4.2         23.7      27.9      14
Pre-Operating Expenses                      -          16.4      16.4      8
Base Cost Estimates                    70.4        126.4     196.8    100
Physical Contingencies (10.5%)          6.1         11.0      17.1
Price Escalation (14%)                  7.8         21.4      29.2
Installed Cost                         84.3        158.8     243.1
Working Capital                          -          15.0      15.0
Interest During Construction           17.6          7.7      25.3
Financing Required                     101.9       181.5     283.4



ANNEX III
Page 2
(US$ Million)
Financing
Plan:                   Equity contribution from PETROBRAS         116
BNDE                                        71
Foreign Private Lenders                     25
IBRD                                        64
Loan from PETROBRAS                          7
283
Estimated
Disbursements:                   US$ Million by Calendar Year
1977    1978    1979     1980
Annually                     3.7    25.3    26.0      9.0
Cumulative                   3.7    29.0    55.0     64.0
Procurement
Arrangements:           For goods to be financed under the proposed loan,
procurement would follow Bank guidelines.   The
proceeds of the Bank loan would finance expenditures
for: (a) equipment and materials procured through
international competitive bidding (US$30 million),
(b) imported technically specialized items with
restricted bidders lists (US$13 million), (c) im-
ported items and packages costing less than
US$100,000 each procured through international shop-
ping (US$12 million), and (d) foreign engineering
and advisory services (US$9 million).
Technical
Assistance:             PETROBRAS has engaged Pullman Kellogg (USA) for
provision of process license, basic engineering
design, procurement assistance, and technical
advisory services relating to the ammonia unit and
general site facilities, and Toyo Engineering Company
(Japan) for provision of similar services and process
license relating to the urea unit. Detailed engi-
neering of the ammonia unit and general plant facil-
ities will be done by Promon Engenharia S.A., a
Brazilian firm under the supervision of Kellogg.
Montreal Engenharia S.A., another Brazilian firm, will
do the detailed engineering of the urea unit under the
supervision of Toyo.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Rate of Return:         The estimated economic rate of return is 17%.
Completion Date:        Project completion expected January 1, 1981.
Appraisal
Report:                 Report No. 1414-BR, dated January 31, 1977.



AtNNEX IV
BRAZIL
SERGIPE NITROGEN FERTILIZER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: approximately 8
months (from October 1975 to June 1976).
(b) Project prepared by: Petroleo Brasiliero S.A. (PETROBRAS)
(c) First presentation to the Bank: May 1975
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: June 22, 1976
(e) Completion of Negotiations: March 11, 1977
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: August 15, 1977
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) As a condition for loan effectiveness, FERTILIZANTES would
contract with various appropriate agencies, including PETROBRAS,
agreements which would guarantee the supply of the raw materials
and utilities required for successful operation of the project
(paragraph 45);
(b)  The Government will exchange views with the Bank on the
expansion and development of the fertilizer sector, including
investment plans and import and pricing policies
(paragraph 37);
(c) FERTILIZATES will furnish a report on the financial condition
of its newly acquired subsidiary ULTRAFERTIL, and on its plans
for improving its financial situation (see paragraphs 40 and 42)
(d) PETROBRAS will dedicate for the exclusive use of the project
a sufficient supply of gas from its reserves to ensure its
operation at full capacity for 15 years (see paragraph 45);
(e)  the Government will not take any action with regard to the
price of ammonia, urea and feedstock, that may prevent
FERTILIZANTES from meeting its financial obligations (see
paragraph 67).



I_BR D-12055RI
CA,bLo'p,,,                          5U                       gv, S<O       L                           APRIL 1977
5 0 : _o                                   40'
B E R A Z I L                                                          J   o   MRcurzs
AER I C A                                                 TFRES NA PoMr
NRZL
O   g Av5elA OP hAAP              ~~B R A Z I L                         ro~/               A   L
t t g  s/o.^.lon t c               MAJOR     FERTILIZER   PLANTS                                      PEgrlccoriXESScOA
,   Ocean                                                                                         RECIFE
S UTH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PO OI
W                                  ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~PLANTS  MINES  ELANTS   erlnAc^le _
_         ~~~~~~~~PROPOSED             0               UZio       dsInis/ orio
mlply  -4-olmen  or . ....p-s   bv Mhe  UNDER CONSTRUCTION    -                . C   rho,   oel^ 
R4lrlflB:nAanJIrlatpl=res  ~~~~~~~OPERATING          0         - ormos  0>t0b-mf-tPop
- AMERICAX                                                                          HsERR8ICPEAJpURR
RAI LROADS                       6 rncsopj
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES      l= /   rCl
{/    {Y~~SALVADOR
0  5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
BRAS(LIA           pMnrAu
>                                       d IRoi  Eprnc     p          tloo, 
A    i                      MAJOR     FERTILIZER VAlEFERAl PRoJEcr  NTS D  PLANTS AND MINES
\  =  g +\~~7  |PLAnTS  M NES  PLANTS? AMMONIA PLANTS
)   |           Ponoromo<~~~~~~~~~~~,,Fl  \  2e  reo\  Pon:Nov ,^VITORIA A  ULTRAFERTIL
g s<Aq20L'op- 1 8 PETROFERTIL I
T,Z R..Ponto Pora  oC  nhoyooe5_o  Polme  Bo r ARAUCARIA20
PROPOSEDC    lu      zr               ^ SERG p
A---          r    n]~ S.-.tb.  \ JnT Z]P10j, p NORTE EFLUMINENSE
PR  A A G  U  A  Y  G e   Hjg ,ri  UNDER C SRUTO  S                            S o Q CRN
P-       OA dn G-  d                                      PHOSPHATE MINES
!       I*.SSA   EngGotirrre2~~~                                          IM   G O O O*   UIMB3RASIL/SERRANA (JACUPIRANGAI
PAf  '   M   +4  ECTl  Jl lCAMIG/ARAFERTIL LARAXAD
Polio Ur'.-      -  NTRNTONL IONDRESIo                 A*R AFRT,ILAAA
/ ~~~~f ff Porto Umoof DO SUL l | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VALEP (TAP] RA/
(~~ ~s   r  >  f  Romosi S        |                                        tR.  MINERACAO CATALAO (CATALAO)
L  il Ros               f LRAAOI                                   i  METAGO (CATALAO)
BRASILIA forSe AF mdo  oImb          OUIMBRASILUSERRANA IIPANEMAI
VALEFERTIL PROJECT  Uborob  Oespoclo o 3PATOS DE MINAS
'oou' Al.g,et            d.                                                  A PHOSPHORIC  ACID  PLANTS
RT  ALEGRE                               OUIMBR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A P TP  PEASILI
20 9  / Ponlo  co Eon s  food                                               PESul  ULTRAFERTIL
AR A AFNIAT
j   1^-is5 S    Aeucozono      Sooooi                                     Ap NOPEBFRMANNS
)~~~~~'                      IlorordmR  SAond  O                                C
CALEFARAERTILAAA
( RU UA                   KALOMETEB3  ROCT 'M                         ADLIERANA 2AC0NlA0 200  3s0  LUCHSINGER
/       50  M t ^ .. xOD~5 ,                             40



