CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1406 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Sergipe Fertilizer Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PETROBRAS FERTILIZANTES S.A.
Dated April 29, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 29, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and PETROBRAS FERTILIZANTES S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "PETROBRAS means Petr6leo Brasileiro S.A.
(b) "PETROBRAS Shareholder Agreement" means the agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and PETROBRAS whereby
PETROBRAS agrees, inter alia, to undertake certain obligations
in respect of the provisions of funds to the Borrower for the
Project.


﻿-3 -
(c) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
(d) "Estatutos" means the estatutos set forth in the
escritura de constituiggo da Sociedade Petrobrds Fertilizantes
S.A. dated March 24, 1976, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-four
million dollars ($64,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.


﻿Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
engineering, financial and administrative practices.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures
to ensure that the execution and operation of the Project are
carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors, and, to that end, the Borrower shall monitor and treat
effectively the ecologically harmful discharge from the Project
facilities.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon request, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records
adequate to reflect the progress and cost of the Project and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall,
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to visit all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower, and shall furnish to the
Bank all such information relating thereto as the Bank shall
reasonably request.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, carry out its operations, plan the development of its
business and undertaking and maintain its financial position, all
in accordance with sound industrial, financial and administrative
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) operate and maintain its plants,
equipment, properties and facilities and shall, from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering practices; and (ii) not
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties
or assets required for the efficient carrying out of its business
and undertaking, including the carrying out of the Project, except
in the normal course of its business or with the prior agreeme.nt
of the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times take all steps
necessary: (i) to maintain its right to carry on its operations,
including the Project; and (ii) to acquire and retain such land
and properties, and to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses,
consents, franchises and other rights, as may be necessary or
useful for the construction and operation of the Project and the
conduct of its business and undertaking.


﻿Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound industrial insurance
practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall inform the Bank before
establishing or acquiring any Subsidiary or making any substantial
financial commitment in or with regard to any Subsidiary.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1978,
furnish to the Bank a detailed plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
to recruit and train the staff required to operate the facilities
included in the Project, and shall thereafter carry out such plan.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, by August 31, 1977, cause
to be furnished to the Bank a report on the financial condition of
Industria e Comercio de Fertilizantes, S.A. and on its plans for
improving the latter's financial results.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition, and, separately,
the operations and financial condition of the Project. For the
latter purpose, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree,
the Borrower shall maintain records reflecting separately the
income, cash flow, and pro-forma balance sheet accounts for such
facilities, as if they were separate profit centers.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements), including the accounts required
by Section 5.01 in respect of the Project, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, beginning
with the fiscal year ending December 31, 1976, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the


﻿- 11 -
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, as soon as
available but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, consolidated financial
statements, prepared as in paragraph (a) of this Section provided,
covering the Borrower's operations and the operations of its
Subsidiaries during that fiscal year.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if the Borrower shall create any lien, or if any
statutory lien shall be created, on any assets of the Borrower as
security for any debt, the Borrower shall forthwith create, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien, satisfactory to the Bank,
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿- 12 -
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower:
(a) shall not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for
value any shares in the Borrower's capital;
(b) (i) shall at all times after the completion of the
Project, maintain, in respect of the operations of the Borrower
and separately in respect of the operations of the Project, a
ratio of current assets to 'current liabilities of not less than
1.2:1, and (ii) shall not pay dividends (other than dividends
payable in shares in the Borrower's capital or dividends on the
preferred shares of the Borrower issued in accordance with the
Estatutos), or prepay any loans other than the Loan, or prepay
part of the outstanding amount of the Loan or make any other cash
distribution, or make any financial commitment in or with regard
to any Subsidiary,if after any such payment or commitment such
ratio would be smaller than 1.5:1;
(c) shall at all times after the completion of the Project,
maintain, in respect of the operations of the Borrower and
separately in respect of the operations of the Project, a
debt/equity ratio not greater than 60:40; and
(d) shall not incur any debt if after the incurrence thereof
its projected debt service coverage ratio, in respect of the
operations of the Borrower and separately in respect of the


﻿- 13 -
operations of the Project, would fall below 1.5 for any fiscal
year after the completion of the Project, including the debt to be
incurred.
For purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower
and maturing more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (1) under
a loan contract or agreement, on the date it is
drawn down but only to the extent that it is
outstanding, and (2) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date such agreement is entered into;
(iii)  "debt service coverage ratio" means the ratio
between the reasonably estimated net revenues
for any fiscal year and the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any) of, and interest and other charges on,
debt payable in the same fiscal year;
(iv)  "equity" means the sum of the Borrower's
unimpaired paid-in share capital, surplus and free
reserves; provided, however, that there shall be
excluded therefrom such items as shall represent
equity interests of the Borrower in any Subsidiary
or of any Subsidiary in the Borrower or in any
other Subsidiary;


﻿L
- 14 -
(v) "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources less all operating and administrative
expenses, and amounts paid or to be paid within
the year on account of taxes; provided that the
operating and administrative expenses shall not
include interest and other charges on debt, and
provision for depreciation of assets;
(vi)  "current assets" includes cash, accounts receivable
due within twelve months, less an appropriate
reserve for bad debts, prepaid expenses, and
inventories and all other assets (excluding spare
parts), which could in the ordinary course of
business, be converted within twelve months into
cash;
(vii)  "current liabilities" includes accounts payable
within twelve months, customer advances, amounts due
for income taxes, dividends, bonuses and all other
liabilities due and payable, or which could be
called for payment, within twelve months; and
(viii) whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms
of the currency of the Guarantor obligations
denominated in another currency, such valuation
shall be made using the rates of exchange
provided by the Banco Central do Brasil.


﻿- 15 -
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, every
year starting on July 1, 1977, its financial projections for the
following five years, for all of the Borrower and, separately,
for each of its industrial units.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall punctually pay to the
Guarantor the fee referred to in the Preamble to the Guarantee
Agreement.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall take all measures required
on its part to obtain: (i) a loan in the currency of the Guarantor,
from Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Econ8mico or any other
source, in an amount equivalent to not less than $71,000,000, to
be repaid in about 15 years, with a grace period of about 4-1/2
years, for purposes of the Project; and (ii) within six months
after the date of this Agreement, such untied credit in foreign
exchange in such aggregate amount, currently estimated to be
$25,000,000 equivalent, as shall be required for purposes
of the Project.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a change shall have been made in the Estatutos which
shall materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project or the operations or financial condition of the Borrower;
(b) PETROBRAS shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the PETROBRAS Shareholder Agreement; and
(c) the right of the Borrower to utilize the funds provided
under the PETROBRAS Shareholder Agreement shall have been
suspended or cancelled, in whole or in part.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and


﻿- 17 -
(b) any debt for money borrowed by the Borrower with an
original maturity of one year or more shall have become due and
payable before its agreed maturity in accordance with the terms
thereof.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) this Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central
do Brasil;
(b) the execution and delivery of the PETROBRAS Shareholder
Agreement on behalf of PETROBRAS have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c) the Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank with appropriate enterprises for the supply of natural
gas, vacuum gas oil, Bunker C fuel oil, electricity and water to
ensure the timely availability of such supplies in sufficient
quantity and of appropriate quality for the full utilization
of the facilities included in the Project.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that this Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil;


﻿- 19 -
(b) on behalf of PETROBRAS, that the PETROBRAS Shareholder
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by all corporate
and governmental action, and is legally binding upon PETROBRAS in
accordance with its term; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions
or agencies, or otherwise to be performed or given in order to
authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the
Borrower to perform all of the obligations of the Borrower in this
Agreement contained (including the obligations thereof relating to
procurement of goods for the Project) together with all necessary
powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and
validly performed or given and that no other such acts, consents
or approval are required in order to authorize the carrying out
of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all of the
obligations of the Borrower in this Agreement contained.
Section 7.03. The date August 1, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Petrobrfs Fertilizantes S.A.
Praqa Pio X, 119
Rio de Janeiro, RJ 20000
Brazil
Cable address:
PETROBRAS
Rio de Janeiro


﻿- 21 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
PETROBRAS FERTILIZANTES S.A.
By /s/ P.V. Belotti
Authorized Representative


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The tAble below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment,                 50,000,000         100% of foreign
railcars,                                    expenditures or
spare parts,                                 100% of the ex-
and materials                                factory cost of
goods manufac-
tured in Brazil
(2) Foreign engi-               9,100,000         100% of foreign
neering ser-                                 expenditures
vices
(3) Unallocated                 4,900,000
TOTAL      64,000,000


﻿- 23 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,500,000 may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1977.


﻿- 24 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists in the construction of an ammonia plant
at Laranjeiras, Sergipe, with a manufacturing capacity of about
907 metric tons per day, a urea plant with a capacity of about
1,100 metric tons per day, and all related ancillary facilities.
The Project includes facilities for the storage and
transportation of ammonia and for the bagging, storage and
transportation of urea.
The Project is expected to be completed by January 1, 1981,
and will be deemed to have been completed only when the facilities
included in it shall have been in satisfactory operation for not
less than sixty consecutive days at an average production rate of
not less than 80% of their respective designed capacities.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1981
through   December 1, 1991                 2,910,000
On June 1, 1992                                 2,890,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable
in a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                        Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                       1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years                   3.30%
before maturity
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                       6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                       7.10%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                       8.20%


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures; Critical and Small Items
1.   The Borrower may procure:
(i) such critical and highly specialized equipment
required for the timely execution of the project
as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, after
obtaining bids from a reasonable number of suppliers
acceptable to the Bank; provided that the aggregate
cost of the items so procured does not exceed the
equivalent of $13,000,000.
(ii) imported equipment and materials estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, after
obtaining quotations from a reasonable number of


﻿- 29 -
suppliers from different member countries of the
Bank (including Switzerland); provided that
the aggregate cost of items so procured does not
exceed the equivalent of $12,000,000.
2.   The manufacturer of the ammonia converter and urea reactor
for the Project shall be acceptable to the Bank and the arrangements
for the manufacture thereof shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the f.o.b. (port of shipment) and the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically
manufactured goods; and (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes on imported goods, including merchant fleet renewal and port
improvement taxes, and sales and similar taxes on domestically
supplied goods, shall be excluded.
2.   Goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for


﻿- 30 -
such preference and the following methods and stEges that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
such goods contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the
complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes (including merchant fleet renewal. and port improvement
taxes) on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each
group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result
of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group


﻿- 31 -
A after adding: (1) to the c.i.f. bid price of goods in each group
B bid, an amount equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group
B bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (2)
to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied domestically offered
in each group B bid, an amount equal to the smaller of (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be
levied on the goods offered in such group B bid if they originated
from the same foreign country as the goods included in the group B
bid which is subject to the lowest customs duties and other import
taxes, or (ii) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If,
as a result of this comparison, the bid from group A is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the purpose of award; if not,
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph
(c) above, shall be selected for purposes of award.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   The Borrower shall, before initiating procurement of equipment,
including the preparation of the list of suppliers, inform the
Bank in detail of the procedures (including advertising procedures)
to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and


﻿- 32 -
of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for comments before the
applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, and shall make
such modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the


﻿- 33 -
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to delivering to the Bank the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   For bid comparison purposes there shall be used the rates of
exchange provided by the Banco Central do Brasil.


