CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1406 BR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Sergipe Fertilizer Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 29, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 29, 1977, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and PetrobrAs Fertilizantes S.A. (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to sixty-four million dollars
($64,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and of the Borrower's
agreement to pay to the Guarantor a fee of 1.8% per annum of the
equivalent in the currency of the Guarantor on the disbursed and
outstanding balance of the Loan, has agreed so to guarantee such
obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the
Borrower, including those provided pursuant to the Petrobrgs
Shareholder Agreement, will be inadequate to meet the estimated
expenditures required for the timely carrying out of the Project,
to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide
the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds
as are needed to meet such expenditures.


﻿ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
all reasonable action required for the prompt issuance of such
import and other permits and licenses as shall be necessary
for the acquisition and importation of the goods and services
required for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall cause PETROBRAS punctually
to perform all its obligations under the PETROBRAS Shareholder
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall not take or permit to be
taken any action with regard to the price of either raw materials
used by the productive facilities included in the Project or of
ammonia and urea that may prevent the Borrower, operating
efficiently, from covering all its costs, servicing its debt, and
earning a reasonable return on its invested capital.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall maintain the Bank informed
regarding the expansion and development of the fertilizer sector,
including investment plans and pricing policies, and shall afford
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views on these
matters.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 6 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
sub-division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministgrio da Fazenda
Edificio Minist6rio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministgrios
Brasilia, D.F. Brazil
Cable address:
Minifaz
Brasilia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 8 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ M.H. Simonsen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


