Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2836-ME
REPORT AND RECOMM4ENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AMD DEV.ETE1PMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
June 9, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since September 1, 1976 the Mexican peso has been floating; it has
fluctuated around Mex$ 22.60 to the US dollar since mid-1977. On May 21,
1980, the peso traded at 22.80 per US dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ACF       -  Average cost per annum of borrowed funds to multi-purpose
banks (excluding checking and savings accounts) which
has averaged 17.4 percent for the 12 months ending
April, 1980
BANRURAL  -  National Rural Credit Bank (BNCR)
FEFA      -  Special Agricultural Credit Trust Fund
FEGA      -  Technical Assistance and Loan Guarantee Trust Fund
FINASA    -  National Sugar Finance Agency
FIRA      -  Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico
FONDO     -  Trust Fund for Crop, Livestock and Poultry Credit
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
NAFINSA   -  Nacional Financiera S.A.
PIDER     -  Integrated Program for Rural Development
SARH      -  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:         United Mexican States
Beneficiary:       Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico (FIRA)
Amount:            US$325 million equivalent
Terms:             Payable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 8.25 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:   About US$319 million of the proposed loan would be relent
through the Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico
(FIRA) for on-farm investments, agroindustries, and
fisheries development. Terms and conditions of the sub-
loans would vary with income level of the beneficiaries
and purpose of the subloans. Repayment periods would range
from 3 to 15 years, including grace periods of 1 to 3
years, and interest rates would range from 14.0 to 21.5
percent per annum. The lowest rate would be applied to
low-income borrowers whose annual family income is less
than 1,000 times the regional daily minimum rural wage.
Project            The project, which would be committed over about two- and
Description:     one-half years, seeks to increase the production of agri-
cultural commodities as well as income and employment in
rural areas. It would provide medium- and long-term credit
for investment in crop development, livestock production,
fisheries and agroindustries. It would include a low-income
producer's component, comprising approximately one-half of
the total investment program. A program of applied research,
training and monitoring would provide support to credit
operations. The project would also strengthen FIRA's
programming and planning operations. About 140,000 families
would benefit from the project. The project has no special
risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:      The estimated total cost of the project is US$1,179.0
million of which US$325.0 million would be in foreign
exchange:
US$ millions
Local  Foreign  Total
I.   Investment Program                       616.0   269.0   885.0
Crop Investments                         395.0   158.0   553.0
Livestock Investments                    195.0    89.0   284.0
Agroindustrial Investments                22.0    18.0    40.0
Fisheries Investments                      4.0      4.0     8.0
II.   Training, Demonstration,
Technical Assistance, Monitoring,
and Planning and Programming              10.0      5.0    15.0
III.   Project Cost                             626.0   274.0   900.0
IV.   Price Contingency                        228.0    51.0   279.0
V.   TOTAL PROJECT COST                       854.0   325.0 1,179.0
Financing Plan:                                    US$ millions
FIRA                             501.6          42
Beneficiaries                    181.3          15
Participating Banks              171.1          15
Bank                             325.0          28
TOTAL                        1,179.0         100
Estimated
Disbursements:                         Bank FY 1981  1982  1983  1984
---- US$ millions ----
Annual                       70    115   105    35
Cumulative                   70    185   290   325
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 2944-ME dated May 28, 1980.
Economic Rate
of Return:         Not applicable.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. with the Guarantee of United Mexican States for
the equivalent of US$325 million to help finance a Seventh Agricultural Credit
Project. The loan would be repaid over 17 years, including 4 years of grace,
with interest at 8.25 percent per annum. About US$319 million of the proposed
loan would be onlent through the Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico
(FIRA) for on-farm investments, fisheries development, and agroindustries.
Terms and conditions of sub-loans would vary with loan purpose and income
level of the beneficiaries. Repayment periods would range from 3 to 15
years, including grace periods of 1 to 3 years, and interest rates would range
from 14.0 to 21.5 percent per annum. The' Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Special Study of the Mexican Economy: Major Policy Issues
and Prospects" (2307-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1979. The most recent economic mission visited Mexico in February 1980 and
is now preparing its report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was very
successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also maintaining stability
in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970, GDP growth exceeded
6 percent per year in real terms, inflation averaged less than 5 percent per
year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the dollar value of the peso, fixed in
1954, was maintained until 1976. The Government's economic role in this
achievement was to carry out direct investments in infrastructure and in key
industries such as power, steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regula-
tory and institutional framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce
private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced considerable progress and better living
standards for many Mexicans. The incomes of poor farmers and marginal urban
dwellers, whose productivity was low and has not been increasing, have been
lagging behind. There was therefore little reduction in contrasts within
the Mexican economy. While land redistribution has continued, most of the
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Project
(Report P-2842-ME of June 4, 1980).



- 2 -
peasants who received land could not significantly improve their economic
status as they received only limited benefits from infrastructure, credit and
technical assistance. Rapid population growth, which reached a peak of almost
3.5 percent per year by the mid-1970s, made social equity even more difficult
to achieve. Even Mexico's sustained economic growth was not sufficient to
absorb the rapidly growing labor force in productive employment and by the early
1970s some 50 percent of the labor force was either relatively unproductive
and poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
5.        During the 1970s Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight and
a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped to less
than 2 percent in 1976--the lowest rate experienced since the mid-thirties.
On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the fixed exchange rate of
12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged since 1954 and let the
peso float; since then it has remained rather stable at rates fluctuating
around 22.60 pesos per dollar. Following the devaluation, Mexico obtained
major support from the IMF. The new Government ratified a three-year extended
facility agreement with the Fund shortly after taking office on December 1,
1976, and was generally successful in adhering to it.
Recent and Current Situation
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation.  High
inflation, large public sector deficits, increasing foreign indebtedness
and lack of confidence in economic management indicated a need for economic
stabilization. However, the situation also called for more expansionary
policies; economic activity had slowed down, net private investment was
virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and growth of the labor
force was increasing. Rich new petroleum discoveries and high world prices
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the only way
to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the coming
years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities adopted a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority public
expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with petroleum
and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Government's
program included control of inflation to be followed by a return to high
rates of economic growth. Better management of public sector expenditures,
tax reform, more rational pricing and cost control in public sector enter-
prises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage increases to justifiable
levels, and more effective cooperation with the private sector were important
parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        This approach succeeded in bringing inflation down to 18 and 20 percent
in 1978 and 1979, respectively, as against an annual rate of almost 30 percent
in 1977. The deficit in the current account of the balance of payments peaked
at $4.2 billion (or 6 percent of GDP) in 1975 and declined to $1.9 billion
(equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP) in 1977. Favorable oil prospects and
increasing capital inflows brought about a rapid increase in imports reflecting
both the resolve to reduce protectionism and the growing demand for capital



- 3 -
and intermediate goods upon which the expansion of the economy depends.
The current account deficit increased to US$2.9 billion (or 3.1 percent of
GDP) in 1978 and further to an estimated US$3.8 billion (under 3.5 percent
of GDP) in 1979. The public sector deficit peaked at about 9 percent of GDP
in 1975 and declined to about 6 percent in 1979. Mobilization of savings by
the banking system has recovered at a strong pace. GDP growth is estimated
at about 7 percent in 1978 and 8 percent in 1979 as compared to less than
1 percent in 1977.
9.        The growth outlook for 1980 continues to be favorable and the
economy should increase at about 8 percent, but inflation will remain a
problem, essentially as a result of investments which are increasing at a
rate of more than 15 percent a year in real terms. These investments call
for continued increase in imports of capital and intermediate goods. The
import program will put a severe strain on the existing infrastructure
capacity, especially ports and rail transport in which bottlenecks already
exist. Additional strain on the transport system is likely to come from
the large imports of grains as a result of a bad crop this year.
10.       Another threat to the efforts of the Government in reducing inflation
below 20 percent may come from the wage area. The recently agreed increase in
the minimum wage of about 21 percent, after three consecutive years of decline
in real wages, while not automatically reflected in the total wage bill, is
likely to establish a floor in union bargaining within the modern sector and
contribute to a cost push which might be passed on to consumers.
11.       The Government will not have an easy task in maintaining price
increases within acceptable limits. The cumulative increase in the consumer
price index in 1980, through March 31, of about 9.5 percent, resulting in
part from seasonal factors and in part from the newly introduced value-added
tax, may adversely affect expectations about inflation. At the same time,
the need to expand public investment in the key infrastructure sectors and
to maintain in real terms the current programs in the energy sectors, leaves
relatively little scope for significant adjustments in the level of public
expenditure.
Economic Problems and Prospects
12.       Mexico has the institutional and natural resources necessary to
attain her ambitious goals of rapid growth and alleviation of poverty. The
acute short-run disequilibria that affected the country during the mid-70s
have been brought under control; the new petroleum riches will greatly relax
the financial constraints on growth. The proven oil and gas reserves are
estimated at about 50 billion barrels. Exploitation of these reserves should
allow Mexico to substantially increase production of crude oil and natural gas
from the equivalent of about 1.2 million bbl/day in 1976; the stated goal
of the Government is to reach a production level of about 2.5 million bbl/day
by end of 1980, and more or less maintain it at a level that will enable
exports of 1.1 million bbl/day. This is a limit the Mexican Government is
unwilling to exceed for fear of becoming increasingly a classical "oil producer
country" with the economic and social tensions that would ensue. But even at
this production level, the challenge is how Mexico can mobilize its resources--
its human skills, its institutions, and its experience--to help resolve its
long term development problems. The most serious of these relate to poverty,
unemployment, stagnation in agriculture, and urban-regional imbalances.



- 4 -
13.       Poverty:  Mexicans have unevenly participated in the remarkable
economic growth of the last several decades. According to preliminary esti-
mates for 1977, at least 2.4 million households (22 percent of the total)
lived in absolute poverty, while at least 2.8 million (25 percent of the total)
had incomes less than one-third the national average. The root causes of
this persistent problem are three: rapid population growth, past neglect
of agriculture (where some two-thirds of the poor are principally employed),
and slow absorption of labor in high-productivity jobs (mostly in industry).
14.       The Government is acting on all three fronts.  A family planning
program, started in 1972, has already helped reduce population growth from
3.5 percent per year to an estimated 2.9 percent at the present time. The
program is being further strengthened by the present administration, with the
ambitious goal of reducing population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982
and to 1 percent by the year 2000. New approaches are also taking hold in
regard to rainfed agriculture (see para. 17). On the employment front, new
tax incentives have reduced the anti-employment bias and efforts to stimulate
employment will have to be continued. The expected rapid growth of output
should also create jobs more rapidly. In spite of this progress, however,
the still rapid growth of population and the staggering increase of the labor
force (at 3.7 percent p.a.) made unavoidable by the high percentage of children
in today's population, renders the eradication of absolute poverty a difficult
goal to attain in the near future. The Government has under its consideration
several types of subsidies for the poor. These could prove to be short-term
palliatives and preempt resources which would otherwise be available for more
investment in employment creating activities or for improving educational or
health standards of the poor on a more permanent basis.
15.       Open and hidden unemployment, which are now respectively at 8-9
percent and 40 percent of a labor force, will remain major problems in the
years to come. With the expected GDP growth rate of 8 percent p.a., the
economy should be able to absorb the additional labor force, assuming no
significant change in the participation rate (now at about 29 percent) and
taking into account an increase in labor productivity. In absolute terms,
the present levels of underemployment and unemployment are therefore likely
to remain.
16.       An Employment Development Plan was published early this year.  It
calls for a number of measures to strengthen the so-called informal sector
both in the urban and the rural areas. To increase the productivity of those
employed outside the modern sector, and their employment opportunities, a
major effort will be required in the area of vocational training. Technical
assistance programs are also needed to stimulate more organized and structured
forms of activities, especially in the services sector. While there is no
doubt that the authorities are concerned about unemployment, and underemployment,
and while the institutional structure to carry out some important programs
already exist, a concentrated effort will be required to take effective action
and make better use of human resources by substantially reducing the level of
hidden and open unemployment.
17.       In agriculture, crop and livestock production has shown little
growth since the mid-1960s. Faced with diminishing returns to expensive
new large-scale irrigation works, as well as the continuing low productivity
(and income per capita) in the non-irrigated ("rainfed") sector, the present



administration has re-organized the parts of the Government that deal with
agriculture in order to design and implement a new strategy. This strategy
emphasizes production increases through a balanced development program.
Greater emphasis is being placed on technical assistance, demonstration,
and credit to develop the underutilized rainfed agricuiturcl potential.
Programs to rehabilitate existing irrigation serving nearly one million
ha are underway. Small-scale irrigation development is being promoted.
Construction of new large-scale irrigation units continues, but with
a smaller portion of budget resources than in the past. The banking
system is being encouraged to provide greater support to agricultural
production and processing programs. These initiatives should lead to an
acceleration of production growth, more equal development opportunities
for Mexico's farmers, and an improvement in the living conditions of the
rural poor.
18.       The main urban-regional problems are two-fold:  (a) growing conges-
tion, pollution, high-cost services (especially water) and other manage-
ment problems that stem from continued rapid growth of Mexico City (already
the third most populous metropolitan area in the world) and other areas in
the dry, densely populated central plateau, and (b) retarded development,
poverty and great difficulty in providing either better jobs or adequate
public services for the one-third of all Mexicans who live in towns of less
than 2,500 inhabitants. The present Government has taken many positive steps
to confront these problems, including an administrative re-organization,
elaboration of a comprehensive plan, and introduction of a strong package of
incentives to promote growth in a few well-selected growth poles.
19.       The expected high growth rate of the economy in the years to come
is the country's strongest weapon to reduce poverty and unemployment. Industry
will be a leading sector in expanding domestic production and exports. A
National Industrial Development Plan was published last year and it reflects
the serious effort of the present administration in identifying the long-term
prospects of the industrial sector and its implications for the employment
picture. Industry has the potential for considerable expansion in many areas,
including efficient import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and
capital goods as well as exports of many different manufactured products. The
Mexican Petroleum Company (PEMEX) has already started an ambitious investment
program to produce a variety of primary petrochemicals on a large scale for
both domestic consumption and exports and an equally vigorous expansion is
expected in investment for the production of secondary petrochemicals.
Tourism export earnings are also expected to increase substantially.
20.       A National Development Plan has just been published.  This Plan
marks the final step in the planning activities which the current administra-
tion has undertaken in order to obtain a more structured picture of the
economic and social problems facing the country. In the past two years,
a National Urban Development Plan and the already mentioned Industrial
Development and Employment Plans have appeared; the National Development
Plan aims at formulating a national development program reconciling the
sectoral targets and making them consistent with the general economic and
social strategy of the Government and with the availability of domestic and
foreign financial resources.
21.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has been
increasing over the recent past and peaked above 60 percent in 1978-79.
This high ratio reflects the low level of exports relative to GNP and the



high proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks; the ratio of
external public debt to GNP is average for middle-income countries. The
public debt service ratio is expected to decline to around 40 percent in the
early 1980s, not only as a result of rapid increases of petroleum exports but
also as a function of repayment of a part of debt contracted at the least
favorable terms. Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 2.8 percent of
public debt service in 1978; this ratio is projected to remain about the same
during the early and mid-1980s. The Bank currently holds about 5.5 percent of
Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely
to change significantly over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO I/
Bank Operations
22.       As of April 30, 1980, Mexico had received 62 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$3,635.9 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 36 loans totalling US$1,710.4 million were fully disbursed. The
Bank presently holds US$3,020.3 million of which US$1,209.6 million have not
yet been disbursed. A loan of US$160 million for the Apatzingan Irrigation
Project was approved by the Executive Directors on May 29. Some 38 percent
of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development (20 loans for
US$1,356.4 million), 20 percent for power (12 loans for US$704.8 million)
19 percent for transportation (13 loans for US$666.7 million), and 17 percent
for industry (9 loans for US$647.5 million); the remaining 6 percent has been
for water supply (US$130 million), tourism (US$114 million), and urban develop-
ment (US$16.5 million) projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans as of April 30, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
IFC Operations
23.       As of April 30, 1980, IFC had made investment commitments in
20 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$366.8 million, of which US$269.5
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments as of April 30, 1980, is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make directly
or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; and
(iii) help reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances. Therefore, the Bank
is preferentially supporting projects of high social priority that help the
rural or urban poor, projects that promote higher levels of employment and
production and those that help to decentralize economic activity.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Project (Report No.
P-2842-ME of June 4, 1980).



25.       Because of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank's
agricultural lending program for Mexico has four goals: first, to increase
productivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs of irri-
gation rehabilitation and on-farm improvements; second, to improve the pro-
ductivity of small farmers through programs for (a) rural development,
(b) rainfed agricultural development, and (c) bringing new areas in the humid
tropics under cultivation; third, to complement infrastructure investments
with general support services including agricultural extension and marketing
programs and provision of medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote employment
opportunities in rural areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries.
The Bank has made eleven loans in FY74-79 totalling US$1,012 million for
irrigation, rural development and agriculture, agro-industries and livestock
credit programs. Several projects for water control and irrigation, rainfed
agriculture, rural development, and support services are in preparation; a
rainfed agricultural development project and an integrated rural development
project are expected to be ready for presentation to the Executive Directors
in the coming months.
26.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at (a) assisting
the Government's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit, (b)
decentralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly
congested urban areas and (c) promoting greater employment in the sector by
supporting medium- and small-scale industry. A steel project which the
Bank helped structure and finance is now operating in a previously under-
developed area on the west coast of Mexico. The fertilizer sector has been
strengthened by two Bank assisted projects which the state-owned fertilizer
company (FERTIMEX) is carrying out. Loans for projects to promote the develop-
ment of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises and to support an
industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors in
FYs78-79; they offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid expansion.
The Executive Directors recently approved a project for the mining sector which
up to now has received insufficient resources from the financial system. A
small and medium scale industries project has been submitted to the Executive
Directors. A capital goods industry project is under discussion for possible
Bank support.
27.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing. The airports
development project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the third railway project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City (FY73) and medium cities (FY76) water supply projects have been
instrumental in the establishment of specialized institutions for efficient
provision of drinking water and in the pricing of water at levels more closely
related to costs. A highway sector project was approved by the Executive
Directors in FY79. A medium-size cities water supply project has been
appraised and a railways project is currently under discussion for possible
Bank support.



-8-
28.        The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico.  In June 1976 the Government
adopted the Law of Human Settlements to provide a new institutional frame-
work to deal with the pressing problems of over-concentration of economic
activities in the larger metropolitan areas.  The Government has recently
adopted a National Urban Development Plan that spells out its regional develop-
ment priorities in operational terms, and several projects are now being
prepared to meet the needs for basic urban services for poor families and to
provide key regional infrastructure in selected priority cities. One such
project, to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area
on the West Coast, was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and
another project for the southeast part of the country has been appraised.
29.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans totaling
US$2,148 million to December 31, 1979. Over sixty percent of this lending
has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance
for transportation, industry, and tourism infrastructure. In 1979, the IDB
approved five loans totaling US$251 million for industrial credit, irrigation,
human resources, highways and export promotion projects. The IDB and the
Bank have worked in parallel on several projects; most recently the IDB and
the Bank have each made loans for the National Program for Small-Scale
Agricultural Infrastructure, the Integrated Program for Rural Development
(PIDER), agricultural and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale indus-
tries, and hotel development. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) is processing a rural development project in the state
of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
30.       Mexico's agricultural sector accounts for about 10 percent of gross
domestic product and represents more than 15 percent of the country's exports.
Over the last 15 years, growth in agricultural production has been sluggish
and has not kept pace with domestic demand. The sector's rate of growth
declined from an average of 6 percent per annum between 1945 and 1955 to 4.4
percent annually between 1955 and 1965 and less than 2 percent per annum since
1965.
31.       Mexico has traditionally been a net exporter of agricultural products.
However, agricultural imports have been increasing in recent years as demand
from a rapidly industrializing and urbanizing economy has increased faster
than domestic production of corn, wheat, sorghum, and oilseeds. In 1979,
agricultural exports reached about US$1.8 billion, or 20 percent of total
merchandise exports, and agricultural imports totaled US$0.8 billion, about
7 percent of merchandise imports.



- 9 -
32.       Agriculture employs about 34 percent of the labor force in the
country, despite increasing migration to urban areas. The sector generates
economic opportunities for about 4 million families, of which 1.3 million are
landless. The number of landless families is increasing rapidly because of
the limited availability of farm land. The majority of the primary sector
labor force is engaged in activities with very low productivity; about two-
thirds of agricultural workers earn incomes below the minimum wage.
33.       Between 1945 and the late 1950s, public investment in large-scale
irrigation programs fostered rapid increases in agricultural production.
Between then and the mid-1960s, growth came mostly from more intensive use of
irrigated land as Mexico developed and utilized new seed varieties, promoted
mechanization and fertilizer application, and improved the efficiency of
irrigation water usage. In the mid-1960s, a decline in the rate of expansion
of irrigated area accompanied by a decrease in the development of new tech-
nologies affected the traditional sources of increased production. In addi-
tion, productivity in some irrigation districts started declining due to
problems of salinity, drainage, and the poor state of irrigation infrastruc-
ture. At the same time, development of agriculture on non-irrigated land
received little attention either in terms of investment or in application
of new technologies.
34.       Mexico has, however, a considerable potential for further agricul-
tural development. The decline in productivity of irrigation districts is
reversible, and the irrigated area could eventually be doubled to 10 million ha.
Large areas of unused or underused land could be brought under intensive agri-
culture; most of these areas are in the humid tropics and are sparsely settled.
With proper technology and programs to promote land improvement and reclamation
and soil and water conservation, perhaps another 10 million ha could be brought
under rainfed cultivation. The potential of rainfed lands now under cultiva-
tion has not been fully utilized; in most cases, farmers in rainfed zones do
not have access to fertilizer, improved seed or credit. Considerable produc-
tivity gains would be possible with extension of improved technology and
applied research to the rainfed areas.
Government's Policies and Programs
35.       The present administration has perceived the dimensions of the
problems of the sector and its strategy is based on obtaining higher produc-
tivity in lands now under cultivation and expanding the cropped area, both
irrigated and rainfed.
36.       To increase agricultural production in the short term, the admin-
istration is emphasizing programs to: (i) rehabilitate those irrigation
districts where infrastructure is inadequate or where the land is in poor
condition; (ii) develop small-scale irrigation works; and (iii) introduce
better technology in rainfed zones through expanded technical assistance
programs. In the medium-term, the administration is placing greater emphasis
than in the past on rainfed agriculture. The recently created national
rainfed districts program would expand and strengthen extension services and



- 10 -
integrate extension with demonstration, applied research, marketing, and
production credit programs. The Government is also contemplating large-scale
water development projects in the Panuco and Papaloapan basins that would
promote intensive cultivation of lands now suitable only for extensive live-
stock grazing.
37.       The Government has expressed a strong commitment to reduce rural
poverty and improve the well-being of the indigenous population and of the
people in marginal areas. The program of the Commission for Marginal Areas
(COPLAMAR) is being expanded to provide infrastructure support and public
services (such as health, water, schools, and food distribution) to these
groups. Through the national Integrated Program for Rural Development (PIDER),
the Government complements production-oriented agricultural and agro-industrial
development programs with a basic needs-oriented package of services and with
a program of rural infrastructure. The Bank has made two loans in support
of PIDER and a third is under appraisal. The Bank has also appraised a project
to support rainfed agriculture. Both projects will benefit some of the poorest
land-holders in Mexico.
38.       Off-farm employment opportunities are being provided through agro-
industries and several programs that encourage industrial development in the
less-congested zones.
Agricultural Credit
39.       The Administration, in implementing the programs referred to above,
has increased public expenditures devoted to agriculture by more than 10 per-
cent per annum in real terms since 1977. However, to be effective, public
investment must be complemented by private investment in on-farm development,
mechanization, and industrialization. The Government is: (i) increasing the
supply of agricultural investment and production credit; (ii) taking measures
to ensure that credit is provided as part of a technically and economically
sound investment program; and (iii) providing credit to a wider range of
farmers than in the past. Simultaneously, the Government has stimulated
private agricultural investment by adjusting guarantee prices of grains and
beans to ensure profitability of production, and has increased security of
land tenure to reduce the risks associated with private investment in farm
improvements.
40.       The Government's policies have stimulated and increased demand
for agricultural credit. Total institutional credit has increased drama-
tically. At the end of 1970, Mexican banks had US$1.4 billion in agricul-
tural loans outstanding; this had increased to US$3.7 billion at the end
of 1978 and is projected to reach about US$6.3 billion by the end of 1980.
The Government has promoted the establishment of an effective credit delivery
system (paras 41-52). However, the funds available for lending are inadequate
to meet the demand, and fewer than one-third of Mexico's farmers have access
to institutional credit.



- 11 -
41.       The Government has been promoting the development of the agri-
cultural credit system in Mexico through three measures: (i) establishment of
the Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico (collectively known as
FIRA) that rediscount agricultural loans, provide technical assistance, and
guarantee selected loans made by private banks; (ii) establishment of public
banks to provide credit, mainly to smallholders and elidatarios; 1/ and (iii)
promotion of private bank lending to agriculture.
42.       FIRA Trust Funds.  FIRA has been the most important agency to
mobilize financial and technical resources of public and private banks in
support of medium- and long-term lending for agriculture. FIRA is now in
an important stage of expansion; the proposed loan would assist tha_institu-
tion not only with part of the necessary finance (para 48) but more impor-
tantly in institution-building activities that would strengthen FIRA and its
client banks' capacity to finance agricultural development.
43.       FIRA consists of three trust funds under the same management.  The
Trust Fund for Crop, Livestock and Poultry Credit (FONDO), established in
1955, rediscounts short-term production credits made by private banks. The
Special Agricultural Credit Trust Fund (FEFA), established in 1965, channels
foreign loans such as those from the Bank and the Inter-American Development
Bank, with corresponding local counterpart funds, to provide financing for
medium- and long-term investment. The Technical Assistance and Loan Guarantee
Fund (FEGA), established in 1973, encourages private banks to lend to low- and
mediuni-income farmers by guaranteeing a portion of the subloans and reimbursing
the banks for their expenses in providing technical assistance associated with
lending operations.
44.       The three trust funds in FIRA share common management.  Lending
policies, financial plans, and the lending program are determined by a Technical
Committee consisting of high level representatives of the Ministries of Finance
and Agriculture as well as the Bank of Mexico, the National Rural Credit Bank
(BANRURAL), the Agricultural Marketing Company (CONASUPO), the agricultural
insurance company (ANAGSA), and representatives of small farmers, ranchers,
and elidatarios. The General Director is responsible for FIRA's operations
and for proposing policies to the Technical Committee. FIRA has over 800
technical staff located in the head office and 136 branches in all parts of
the country (Map IBRD 11789R1).
45.       FIRA has helped improve the technical and economic standards for
bank lending to agriculture. Each sub-loan is appraised by an authorized
technician who has received FIRA-sponsored training covering sub-project
analysis and FIRA's operating regulations. Prior to FIRA, agricultural lending
was generally based on availability of collateral rather than technical and
financial viability of the investment program.
1/   Ejidatarios are member of an elido, a form of group land tenure based on
usufruct.



- 12 -
46.       FIRA has also promoted increased medium- and long-term lending for
agriculture by improving the institutional capacity of the banking system and
by providing additional finance. FIRA has strengthened participating banks'
technical staff through a number of training programs; this has enabled
commercial banks to greatly increase the size of their agricultural depart-
ments. FEGA activities have made possible bank lending to farmers who in
the past would have been too risky for loans from commercial banks. FIRA has
also channeled steadily larger amounts of credit to agriculture, complementing
the resources available from commercial and public banks. FIRA now finances
about 30 percent of institutional credit for agriculture, up from 12 percent
a decade ago.
47.       FIRA initially benefitted commercial farmers and large cattlemen;
however, in the early 1970's, FIRA started a program to make development
loans available to low-income farmers. 1/ Low-income borrowers now account
for about 30 percent of FIRA's program. FIRA helps banks to develop sound farm
plans and programs of technical assistance for its low-income clientele. The
technical soundness of the loans has reduced risk sufficiently to encourage
many banks to lend to such beneficiaries. The guarantees and reimbursement of
technical assistance costs associated with credit to low-income producers has
also provided an incentive for bank lending. The Bank has supported this
program, and the Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Agricultural Credit Projects (Loans
910-ME, 1217-ME, and 1569-ME) allocated a total of US$162.5 million (37
percent of the total loan amount) to the low-income producer component. The
Bank has also assisted FIRA's participation in other programs benefiting
low-income farmers: US$57.5 million out of the two PIDER loans (para 37) was
allocated through FIRA for agricultural credit for low-income farmers; US$11.3
million of the US$56 million loan for the Tropical Agricultural Development
Project (Loan 1553-ME) has been allocated to credit through FIRA primarily for
low-income producers, and the Rainfed Agricultural Development Project, which
is now being processed, would include a credit component for low-income
producers. In addition, six loans (equivalent to US$164 million) from the IDB
have included credit through FIRA to low-income and small farmers.
48.       FIRA's 1980-1982 operations program emphasizes expanded lending.
Demand for farm investment credit is strong, and there is sufficient institu-
tional capacity to channel additional credit resources into the sector, but at
this time funds are insufficient to meet the credit needs. In 1980, FIRA will
only have resources sufficient to discount 70 percent (or US$700 million) of
the total medium- and long-term credit requests of the participating banks.
For the period 1980-82, FIRA has estimated its medium- and long-term investment
program at US$5,666 million. FIRA would contribute 60 percent of the above
investment, and the participating banks and the beneficiaries would contribute
11   Low-income farmers are defined as farm families whose net annual income
is less than 1,000 times the regional daily minimum rural wage rate.
Daily minimum wages are established annually by the Government for 111
regions, and, for 1980, range from US$3.91 in the poorest states to
US$7.39 in the northern border states.



- 13 -
25 percent and 15 percent, respectively. FIRA would generate funds from its
own resources and receive funds from the Bank of Mexico; however, to meet
fully the above financial commitment, FIRA would have to mobilize additional
funds from other sources. The Bank's participation under the proposed project
is equivalent to 5.7 percent of FIRA's total program.
49.       Public Banks.  Nearly 55 percent of all agricultural credit is
channeled through the public banking system. The largest public agricultural
bank, BANRURAL, was created in 1975 through a merger of three public sector
banks and now accounts for 50 percent of the institutional lending to agri-
culture. Total BANRURAL lending during 1979 was about US$1,700 million,
including about US$390 million medium- and long-term credits for investments
of which about US$130 million were rediscounted by FIRA. BANRURAL's 1980
lending program amounts to US$2,430 million.
50.       The other public financial institution serving the farming community
is the National Bank for the Sugar Industry (FINASA), which has the responsi-
bility for short- and long-term credit needs of sugarcane producers, the sugar
industry and marketing. FINASA's lending to canegrowers during 1979 was about
US$140 million, of which US$37 million was rediscounted by FIRA. FIRA plans
to increase its lending operations through FINASA in the coming years and is
currently carrying out a special training program for FINASA technicians.
51.       Private Banks.  Until the establishment of the FIRA rediscounting
facilities, commercial banks hesitated to undertake agricultural term lending
because of the short-term nature of the bulk of their resources, problems
of collateral, their lack of familiarity with the sector, and the high risk
which is generally associated with farming. This situation has changed
considerably during the last decade mainly because of the increasing support
extended by FIRA in terms of funds, training of staff and provision of other
support services. Many private banks have been establishing and rapidly
expanding their agricultural credit departments and hiring significant
numbers of agricultural technicians. FIRA has provided intensive training
programs for the banks' technicians and is progressively transferring to
them the authority to evaluate and approve subloans.
52.       Private banks loan mainly to commercial producers and agroindustries.
The Bank of Mexico, in order to encourage bank lending to ejidatarios and
low-income producers, has stipulated that 0.7 percent of total deposits of
multi-purpose banks and 2 percent of deposits in commercial banks be held in
the form of agricultural loans to low-income producers. This provision is
complemented by FEGA loan guarantees and reimbursement of technical assistance
expenditures. About 76 commercial banks and banking groups participate in
FIRA-financed lending operations; total medium- and long-term rediscounts are
estimated to reach US$600 million in 1980.



- 14 -
Performance Under Previous Credit Projects
53.       The Bank has financed six credit projects, totaling US$600 million,
to support lending for crop and livestock development and for agroindustries.
In addition, three agricultural and rural development loans included US$68.8
million for credit through FIRA for low-income farmers (para. 47).
54.       The Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (US$110 million) supported
crop, livestock, and agroindustrial development activities, and was the first
project to include a specific component directed to low-income producers,
totaling 20 percent of project subloans. Disbursements under the project were
completed one and one-half years ahead of schedule and about 10,900 subloans
were made. Of the total amount lent under the project, 54 percent was for
livestock enterprises, 24 percent for annual crop farms, 7 percent for perennial
crops, 13 percent for agroindustries, and 2 percent was unclassified.
55.       The Fifth Agricultural Credit Project (US$125 million) was fully
disbursed by February 1979, four months ahead of appraisal estimates. In this
loan, 40 percent of the total project investment was directed to low-income
farmers. About 6,900 subloans were made to farmers in the low-income catego-
ries and 10,740 subloans were made to medium-income farmers. Of the total
amount lent under the project, 37 percent was for livestock enterprises, 46
percent for annual crops, 6 percent for perennial crops, 9 percent for agro-
industries, and 2 percent was unclassified.
56.       The Sixth Agricultural Credit Project continued Bank support of
FIRA's long- and medium-term lending program. Implementation has proceeded
ahead of appraisal expectations and by March 1980 funds were fully com-
mitted. Bank disbursements amounted to US$130 million, or 65 percemt of the
total loan. One-fourth of the project is targeted at low-income farmers. By
December 1979, FIRA had rediscounted 11,500 subloans; about 60 percent of the
investment went for crop production, 33 percent for livestock production, and
7 percent for agroindustrial development.
57.       The Bank has completed an audit report on the fourth loan to FIRA,
and a completion report on the fifth loan is now being prepared. FIRA's
performance throughout the 1970s has been impressive. As an institution, it
has grown rapidly, trained many high quality technicians of its own as well
as from private and public banks, and established technical assistance
systems and demonstration centers which have benefitted farmers throughout
Mexico. Due to the slow start-up of its monitoring and evaluation division,
FIRA does not yet have in-depth development impact studies of its lending
program. Nevertheless, FIRA's rediscount program has undeniably increased
private and public bank lending to the agricultural sector, thereby providing
an important support for the Mexican Government's programs to increase agri-
cultural production. With increased lending to the country's low-income
producers, FIRA has made a contribution, though modest, to improve distribu-
tion of the benefits of production increases within the agricultural sector.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
58.       A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Seventh Agricultural Credit
Project," No. 2944-ME, dated May 28, 1980 is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. The project was prepared by FIRA and was appraised by
a Bank mission in January 1980. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C.
in May 1980. The Mexican negotiating team included Mr. Pedro Galicia of
Nacional Financiera, S.A. and Mr. Horacio Garcia Aguilar of FIRA.
Project Objectives and Description
59.       The proposed project would be a continuation of Bank assistance to
FIRA's lending program and would help to finance a wide range of investments
in crops, livestock, fisheries and agroindustry development throughout the
country as well as to strengthen the capacity of FIRA and the participating
banks. The objectives of the project would be to:
(i) support the Government's agricultural diversification program,
including expansion and development of fisheries and agroindustries,
with increased low- and medium-income farmer participation;
(ii) strengthen FIRA's planning and programing capabilities and provide
an institutional framework for efficient allocation of financial
resources through private and public lending agencies;
(iii) induce private commercial banks to increase participation in
agriculture through FIRA's rediscounting facility and strengthen
each agency's subloan evaluation and supervision capabilities and
technical services;
(iv) intensify training for the technical staff of FIRA as well as
those of participating banks;
(v) establish an operating regulations and procedures manual to
standardize the participating banks' lending under FIRA;
(vi) strengthen FIRA's monitoring and evaluation capabilities and
data base system; and
(vii) introduce a system of periodic interest rate adjustments for FIRA.
60.       Subloans would be made to individual farmers, farmer groups, and
cooperatives. About 63 percent of the total lending program would be for
annual and perennial crops; 32 percent for livestock; and 5 percent for
agroindustries and fisheries.



- 16 -
61.       Crops.  Lending for crop production would be for annual and perennial
crops. Investments would include land clearing and preparation, land levelling,
on-farm irrigation and drainage works, farm buildings and storage facilities,
and machinery and equipment. For perennial crops, investments would also
include the costs (planting materials, agricultural chemicals, fertilizer and
hired labor) associated with the start-up period.
62.       Livestock.  Sublending for livestock would finance beef production,
dual-purpose production (meat and milk), dairy production, and small animals
(swine, poultry, goat and sheep). Investments would include purchase of
animals, improvement and establishment of pasture, fences, buildings and water
facilities, on-farm irrigation facilities, and machinery and equipment.
Purchase of replacement breeding livestock would not be financed under the
project (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2).
63.       Agroindustries.  Subloans would be extended to small- and medium-
scale enterprises for forestry industries; agricultural implement and service
industries; slaughterhouses; fruit and vegetable packing and processing
plants; milk pasteurizing plants; grain storage facilities; feed mills; and
fishmeal plants. About 60 percent of the total lending would be for moderni-
zation or expansion of existing enterprises and about 40 percent would be to
establish new industries. Investment items would include engineering design,
site preparation, buildings, storage facilities, utilities installations, and
machinery and equipment.
64.       Fisheries.  A coordinated investment program (encompassing small
boats or launches with outboard engines, fishing equipment, ice storage
facilities, and refrigerated trucks) would be provided to benefit low-income,
in-shore fishermen. Additionally, subloans would be made for shell-fish
and fish farms to increase production for the domestic market.
65.       Training, Demonstration and Technical Assistance.  Under the project,
FIRA's training program would be expanded to intensify training of its staff,
technical staff of participating banks, and farmers. The project would also
make provision for selected FIRA staff to be trained abroad in technical fields.
To facilitate training for farmers, new demonstration centers would be estab-
lished in strategic locations, and selected existing centers would be expanded.
As under previous projects, FIRA would reimburse through FEGA participating
banks for part of the cost of providing technical assistance to eligible
farmers.
66.       Data Base System and Monitoring.  In order to improve FIRA's data
base management system and improve its monitoring capabilities, the project
would provide for facilities, equipment, additional qualified staff, and
consultant services to assist FIRA in these areas. The data base system would
be strengthened to improve (i) timely availability of quality data to various
user groups in FIRA's management, and (ii) FIRA's internal control of its
lending program.



- 17 -
67.       Planning and Programing.  Under the project, FIRA's planning and
programming set-up would be strengthened by providing additional personnel
and consultant services for preparation of annual investment programs and
medium-term plans.
Project Implementation
68.       FIRA would be responsible for project execution.  Funds would be
channeled through some 90 private and public lending agencies. Formulation,
evaluation, approval, and supervision of investment development plans would be
carried out primarily by FIRA-approved participating bank technicians, with
support from FIRA staff. Although FIRA has established a good reputation for
its organization and technical competence, the project would have substantial
institution building content. Steps would be undertaken to strengthen FIRA's
planning and programing capabilities in order to ensure active and greater
participation in national agriculture planning and coordination, and efficient
allocation of its financial resources by preparing sound annual investment
programs and medium-term plans. FIRA is preparing an Operating Regulations
and Procedures Manual to provide direction and guidelines to FIRA field
offices and participating banks for lending to farmers. Improvements would
be made in the data base system to assist FIRA in managerial decisions and
to facilitate internal control of its operation. Provisions would be made
under the project to provide support to the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
to increase its capabilities to carry out detailed analysis of subloans
and analysis of the development implications of FIRA's lending programs.
69.       A total of 40 man-months of consultant services would be included
in the project. FIRA's Planning and Programing Unit would be supported by
specialists in planning and agricultural finance, contracted for an equivalent
of 12 man-months. About 10 man-months would be utilized for hiring agricultural
specialists for the training and demonstration programs, and 18 man-months
would be used by the Monitoring and Evaluation Division and the Computer
Services Division to improve the quality of the data base system. The total
cost of consultant services, estimated at US$10,000 per man-month, would be
US$400,000.
Total Investment Program and Financing
70.       The project would comprise a total investment program of US$1,179 mil-
lion equivalent to about 20 percent of FIRA's 1980-1982 medium- and long-term
operations. About US$325 million, or 28 percent, would be in foreign exchange.
The proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange cost.
Sublending Policies and Procedures
71.       Beneficiaries.  Low-income beneficiaries 1/ would receive credit on
concessional interest rates ranging from 14.0 to 1670 percent per annum.
Loans to low-income farmers would be eligible for 80 percent guarantee by
FEGA. Technical assistance costs incurred by participating banks with respect
to loans to low-income beneficiaries would be eligible for reimbursement by
FEGA. FEGA normally reimburses actual expenses up to 3 percent of sub-loan
1/   Low income farmers are those whose net annual family income is less
than 1,000 times the regional minimum daily wage rate.



- 18 -
balance outstanding; in special cases it can reimburse up to 6 percent of sub-
loan balance. These measures have been tested and found useful in promoting
technically sound lending to low-income beneficiaries. One-half of the
proposed project and 58 percent of the loan is targeted at this group.
72.       The Technical Committee of FIRA, in response to the priority given
to rainfed agriculture (para 36), has decided to provide extra emphasis on
lending to these farmers. A second beneficiary category would benefit farmers
in rainfed districts whose incomes are between 1,000 and 1,500 times the
regional wage; fifteen percent of project cost would benefit farmers in this
category. Up to 60 percent of subloan amount would be eligible for guarantee
by FEGA. Participating banks' technical assistance expenditures not exceeding
2 percent of subloan balance would be eligible for reimbursement. Sub-loans
to these medium-income farmers would be at 17.0 or 17.5 percent per annum
interest rates.
73.       About 28 percent of the project would be allocated to finance
subloans to other farmers. Subloans to this group would not be eligible for
FEGA guarantee or technical assistance reimbursements, and would bear interest
at 18.0 to 21.5 percent per annum.
74.       Subloan Terms and Conditions.  Terms and conditions of subloans
would vary with the income level of the beneficiary:
Beneficiary                      Maximum          Rediscount         Minimum
Percentage          Rate to           Interest
of Subloan       Participating        Rate to
Rediscounted           Bank           Beneficiary
1. Low-income
(a) Those who receive
institutional credit
for the first time        90                10.5               14.0
(b) Others                    90                11.75              15.5
2. Medium-income in
rainfed zones                  80               13.5               17.0
3.  Others
(a) Income between 1,000
and 2,000 times
regional minimum wage    70                 14.25               18.0
(b) All others                70                19.0                21.0
Interest rates to beneficiaries and rediscount rates to participating banks on
subloans for agroindustries or fisheries development would be one-half percent-
age point higher than the rates shown in the table above. The spread for



- 19 -
participating banks varies from 2.0 to 3.75 percentage points to reflect the
administrative costs, perceived risks and return on their own exposure in
loans for the respective categories. In cases where FIRA rediscounts to the
participating bank less than the maximum portion of a subloan, it would
allow the bank a slightly larger spread to compensate for the additional
exposure (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2).
75.       FIRA is introducing a system for annual revision of interest
rates applicable to new loans. The adjustment would reflect the difference
between: (i) the average of the cost of borrowed funds to banks (ACF) 1/ in
the 12 months preceding the adjustment; and (ii) the average of the ACF for 12
months preceeding the prior adjustment. The average ACF for the 12 months
ending April 1980 (the latest month for which the index is available) is 17.4
percent.
76.       The repayment period for subloans would be based on expected cash
flows and would range from 3 to 15 years (including grace periods of up to
three years). No subloan would be made to an individual sub-borrower for
on-farm investment if the amount of the proposed subloan, together with the
aggregate amount outstanding under previous FIRA-financed subloans to such a
sub-borrower, exceeded US$222,000 (Mex$ 5,000,000) (draft Project Agreement,
Schedule 2). Subloans made to groups of farmers could be proportionately
larger provided the individual limit on outstanding balance is not exceeded
for any member of the group. FIRA would obtain prior Bank approval for
project subloans in excess of US$800,000 (Mex$ 18.4 million) (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1).
77.       Subloan Appraisal and Supervision.  Subloans would be made by
participating public and private banks on the basis of sound development plans
appraised by bank technicians. Based on past experience, the overall quality
of subloan appraisal is good, and FIRA is taking steps through its training
program to improve it further. For each subloan, the participating bank
would prepare a financial plan, including a farm budget, an income and oper-
ating expense statement and a financial cash flow, and would impute a financial
rate of return based on FIRA's guidelines. Subloan approval would be based
on the technical and financial viability of the proposed development plans.
FIRA would ensure the economic soundness of subloans. Since calculation of
the economic rate of return (ERR) of all subloans is impractical, FIRA would
calculate ERR's only for selected investments regarded as typical subprojects
in each category of the principal activities (draft Project Agreement,
Schedule 2). The results of the economic analysis would be made available
to the Bank upon request.
1/   The ACF is the cost per annum of borrowed funds to multi-purpose banks
calculated monthly by the Bank of Mexico.



- 20 -
Procurement
78.       Bulk purchasing under ICB would not be feasible since the agricul-
tural lending activities would be implemented over a two-and-one-half-year
period, be widely distributed geographically, cover a variety of investment
activities, and involve a large number of sub-borrowers. An adequate selection
of machinery, tractors and other agricultural equipment and inputs is available
to sub-borrowers through local and international suppliers and permits can be
obtained to import machinery and tractors in horsepower ranges that are not
available in Mexico. As in earlier projects, FIRA would require sub-borrowers
to obtain quotations from several sources of supply whenever practicable for
goods, civil works and imports of breeding livestock to be financed under
subloans. Equipment for the demonstration and technical assistance programs
would be procured through FIRA's ordinary procedures, which are acceptable to
the Bank.
79.       Machinery and equipment for agroindustries would be purchased by
private producers or groups of producers. FIRA would make available to prospec-
tive sub-borrowers a list of suppliers of agroindustrial machinery, including
in it those from Bank member countries and Switzerland, as well as their agents
or representatives in Mexico. FIRA would apply suitable procedures, either
directly or through the financial intermediaries, to ensure that goods and
services procured under the project are competitive in quality and price and
are appropriate for the needs of the sub-borrower's enterprise. After the
proposed loan is signed, FIRA would advertise locally and notify embassies in
Mexico of Switzerland and Bank member countries that manufacture agroindustrial
equipment of the details of the agroindustries' component of the project,
giving broad particulars of the types of machinery likely to be required
(Schedule 2 to draft Project Agreement).
Disbursements
80.       All project subloans would be committed during two-and-one-half years
and proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed over approximately three
and one-half years. The Bank would reimburse FIRA for: (i) 40 percent of its
rediscounts of subloans; and (ii) 33 percent for its eligible expenditures for
the productive support component (namely: training and demonstration centers,
monitoring and evaluation, data base system, and planning and programing).
Project Benefits and Impact
81.       Based on FIRA's past experience, it is projected that about 140,000
families, or about 770,000 persons, would benefit directly from the project.
Secondary benefits, although non-quantifiable, would also accrue from trans-
portation, processing, marketing and agricultural services activities. At
full development, it is estimated that incremental production of basic crops
(maize, beans, wheat and soybeans) would increase by 1.2 million metric tons
annually; cotton, sorghum and safflower by 180,000 metric tons; milk by 90
million liters; and beef and pork by 100,000 metric tons. The incremental
production of these basic food products alone would amount to a foreign



- 21 -
exchange savings of about US$177 million annually in 1979 prices. Increased
production of export crops, mainly coffee, cotton and vegetables, would
contribute significantly toward foreign exchange earnings, and, likewise,
incremental production in fisheries and agroindustries would generate foreign
exchange savings. The market prospects for the additional production that
would be generated by the project are favorable. The ex post analysis, which
would be carried out by FIRA's Planning and Programing Unit and the Monitoring
Division, would indicate more precisely the overall impact of the various
investments on production, employment and income.
82.       Most investment plans or subprojects are expected to have financial
rates of return in the range of 20 percent to 40 percent; economic rates of
return would be somewhat higher in part due to shadow pricing of labor and
exclusion of transfer payments, such as taxes, in the economic analysis.
By allocating 65 percent of the total project costs, or US$766 million, to
low- and medium-income producers, the Government strengthens its efforts to
increase employment and improve income distribution among the rural population.
83.       The project would have substantial impact on institution building.
Strengthening FIRA's planning and programing capabilities would ensure its
greater participation in national agricultural planning and coordination and
would promote preparation of sound annual investment programs and medium-term
plans, thus ensuring an efficient allocation of FIRA's financial resources.
Compilation of an Operating Regulations and Procedures Manual by FIRA would
provide better direction and guidelines to its field offices and participating
banks for lending to farmers. Improvements in the data base system would
assist FIRA in managerial decisions and would facilitate internal control of
its operations. Support to the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would increase
its capabilities to carry out detailed socio-economic analysis of subprojects
and analysis of the development implications of FIRA's lending program and
procedures. Expansion of the training and demonstration programs would ensure
transfer of appropriate technological packages to farmers and improvements in
the quality of technical services provided to farmers. Moreover, training of
FIRA's staff and the staffs of the participating banks would further improve
subproject appraisal analysis.
84.       Finally, adoption of a mechanism for periodic adjustment of interest
rates for agricultural lending which is linked to the ACF index and therefore
takes into account the rate of inflation, the cost of funds and the prevailing
market rates, would: (i) standardize interest rates in agriculture and make
them more compatible with those of other sectors; and (ii) help ensure efficient
allocation of resources to the agricultural sector.
Project Risks
85.       Since FIRA is an efficient and mature institution, the project
presents no special risk in terms of the technical and financial soundness
of various investment programs that would be financed under the project.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Bank of Mexico, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
87.       Special conditions of the project have been described in Part IV of
this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
88.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
89.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 9, 1980



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEX,CO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEST
RtECC  CRUSUtED AU7aRACES
LADAIA C  40560                            m 0.)mZc0                   ERE8ENCE GROUPS CADJUOE   yPJS
LAN0 An  (SROUA"D SQ. 7t.)     T<XICO                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
LTOAL           1972.5                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
ACR4C7JLTURAL    944.9                                 MOST RECEtN      GEOGRA2HIC    INCOME       IINCOnE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       REGION /c  GROUr /d    GROUP /I
GNRP PtR CAPITA (US$)                 380.0       710.0    1290.0            1124.4     1097.7      1942.6
ENERGY CONSUrPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRMZS OF C0AL EQUIVALENT)      770.0      1047.0    1227.0            943.1       730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL SIATSTCS
POPULA7ION, MID-TEAR (KLLLlONS)     36.4        50.3       63.3
Imun POPULATION (PRECUT OF TOTAL) 50.3           59.3       63.2.           59.3        49.0        51.2
POPlATTON PROJECTIONS
IOPSXTION IN  Ar  2000 (MILLIONS)                        116.0
STATIONARY POPUATION (aLLIONS)                          204.0
YEAR STATIONAXY POPULATION IS REACRED                  2075
POPVLATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        1.0        26.0       32.0            23.5       44.6         28.2
PEI SQ. KM. AGRICU.LTURAL LAND     36.0        52.0      67.0             80.5      140.7        10.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTRE (PERLCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.6        46.5      45.9             40.9       41.3         35.4
15-64 YES.                         51.0         50.0      50.6             54.4       55.3         56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.4         3.5        3.5             3.9        3.5          5.1
POPULATION GROUrH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTSAL                              3.1         3.3        3.3             2.4        2.4          1.7
URBAH                               4.9         4.8       4.6              3.7        4.5          3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOOSAND)      45.0        42.0       38.0            32.8       31.1         27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      12.0         9.0        8.0             8.5        9.2          9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2         3..        3.0             2.4        2.2          1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, AONTUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        25.1     608.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..      21.0             17.7       34.7
P000 AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          87.5        100.0      96.1             99.4      104.4        102.0
FER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   107.0       105.0     117.0            107.0      105.0        120.8
PROTEINS (CRAMS PEE DAY)           65.0        65.0      66.9             60.4       64.4         80.9
OP WNICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        29.0        28.0/f    27.5             28.3       23.5         31.3
CRILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      14.0         9.d       6.0              6.7        8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT StRTN (TEARS)    58.0         62..      64.7             63.6       60.2         65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            78.0        74.0         *-            76.1       46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPSLATION)
T07AL                                *-        54.0      62.0             63.4       60.8         69.4
URBAN                                *         71.0      70.0             79.5       75.7         83.1
RURAL                                ..        29.0      49.0             38.6       40.0         43.0
ACCESS ro EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TO7AL                                ..          ..        ..             58.8       46.0         70.1
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..             77.8       46.0         88.3
RURAL                                ..        13.0      14.0             24.5       22.5         33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1700.0      1440.0         ..          1841.9     2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION ?ER XURSING PeRSON          ..      1570.0         ..           933.7     1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER ROSPITAL BED
OSAL                             1900.0       930.0     860.0            563.4      453.4        197.6
URBAN                                ..       780.0     770.0            279.4      Z53.1        260.2
0L'RAL                               *-      1310O.OL   1090.0          1140.9     7732.4       1055.3
AOMIOSIONS PER NOUPITAL RED            ..           ..       ..             25.7       22.1         17.3
NOUS .NC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLO
.OTAL                              5.4          5.         ..              5.0        5.3         4.7
UREA2N                              5.7         5.7         ..             4.8        5.2          4.4
0RU.3L                              5.2         5.8         ..             5.3        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUNB.ER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
70-.AL                              2.9         2.5        ..              1.3        1.9          1.1
URBAN                               2.6         2.2        ..              1.3        1.6          1.2
RusLAL                              3.4        30.          ..             1.5        2.;    .      .2
ACCIsS O CLECTRICITY (0ERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TCTA^L                               ..        59.0        ..             54.3       50.0         66.0
*'RBAN                               .          0                         80.1       71.7         85.1
P.L'IAL                              ..        28.0         .              4.2       17.3



- -    24-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCtAL tNDICATORS DATA SREET
MXCO                      REFERNCE a OUPS (ADJUTD ARAGES
SAME        SAPs      9TN't 8CKER
MOST RECENT     GCOCRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOei
1960 /b     1970 /b E!S1ATR /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /I
EDICATION
ADJUSTSD EoLL9NT UTIOs
PR7ay         ! TOTAL              80.0        104.0     116.0            107.3      102.5        101.7
MALE                  82.0       107.0      116.0           109.1       108.6        110.0
UiALE                77.0        102.0     114.0            107.4        97.1        92.8
SRCOIDAEE:   TOTAL                 11.0         22.0      37.0             40.5       33.5         51.2
HALE                  14.0        27.0      40.0             40.4        38.4        56.4
PPUILE                a.0         17.0      34.0             39.0        30.7        43.7
VCATIOVAL U8OL. (S Of SECOIDAST)  24.0            24.0        ..             18.5       11.5         18.3
1O1tL-TRAIR RATIO
PLNARY                             44.0        46.0       46.0             37.1       35.8         27.1
SCONDARY                           13.0         14.0      17.0             17.9       22.9         25.3
ADULT LITnACY RTE (PERCENT)          65.0         74.0      76.0             77.4       64.0         86.1
OONSIJHETION
PA3SCNCU CAIS PUE TwOOSAuD
POPULATION                         14.0        24.0       41.6             29.1       13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         95.0       276.0      301.0            172.1      122.7        225.9
TV RECEtIVES PER TOUSn
POPULATION                         19.0         59.0      84.0             67.9       38.3        102.6
NESPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
tOrMisT) CIRCULATIOK PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  79.0           ..        ..             76.1       40.0         78.5
ciNMA AmNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CeITA 10.0             5.0       4.2              4.2        3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11300.0      13000.0   16600.0
FErALZ (PERCENT)                   15.2        17.4       18.5            21.5        25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              55.1         39.4      34.0             30.2       43.5        26.9
IDSTRY (PERCENT)                   19.5        22.9       25.0            23.8        21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.2         28.8      28.8             30.9       33.5         33.8
MALE                                 51.1         47.4      46.8             47.3       48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                9.2         10.1      10.7             13.3       16.8         16.3
CONOMIC DEPENDNCY RATIO                 1.6          1.9       1.8              1.5        1.4          1.3
INCOMSE ISTRIMEION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE tCOME
RECEIVED BY
RICHEST 5 nRCENT O  ROUSEdOLDS   28.7/h        27.9       23.9            23.7        20.8
RICREST 20 PERCENT oF HOUSEHOLDS  s8.eTh       58.3       54.4            58.7        52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.5/h        3.4        2.9              2.9        3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF NOUSEN3LDS   1o.371h      10.5       10.4              9.9       12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARII6f (icoUPS
ESTIMATED ASOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LmL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     270.0           265.6       170.0
VURAL                                ..           ..     216.0           185.1       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INMME
LEVEL (U5S PER CAPITA)
URAN                                 ..           ..     332.0           396.3       282.5       550.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     332.0           308.1       248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION 59LOW ABSOLUTE
POVERT  INCOMC LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                                     35.2        20.5
RURAL                                                                     46.6        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a     h adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
ralues of thoe iaoicaor and the most '-,)ultced country in each group.  Coverage ,C . c -,Cries among the
indicators depends an availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otberwise noced, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for 'tost Recent Escinate, between 1974 and 177.
'c  Lacin America I Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Incose (S551-1135 per captci,  1976);  /a  Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2501) per capita. 1976);  /f  Av. 1964-66;  _L  Data refer to rural health centers only;
/h 1963.
Most Recent Escimate of CNP per capita is for 1978.
AuSuste 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX I
MI)nO PW snrA. Mxcaa                                                                      Page  3 of' 5
Mots:Aitesgh  hedata are drpa fan sooroec gner%li  a.dgd tha  oNst satheritativo  Sad relibl., it shold alSo ha ated that they Say net be loten--
iflM    '             ler ef.tea... of the i..k of setadardlnd dstdaitiols sad  locsptS so   by dif fract coutries in  oIllaetiag  the data. The date are, Monnthsl.Se,
oseful to desribe orders of opitussd, Stastrodgeo, sat  aeh terataln  osrtaa ea3o  diff.aero   betwee  conrie
7*       t*dfor sfab IndIaour Are ,p0v"atUss.fgtsd gealtrc'i  ses,se                                 lMia  the sotra  values of the indcator tod thU Aat poptLlated
ootint  in eabgrosp.  heto ink of data, pemp sWaeerg   of .11. tadIetors for Capital Surp.. Oil  aT-rtere and of indloators of Acc... to Ator sad Enorsta
Di.te.nl. Mossoig, S&Oon  DostfihactIlo  sAd 9eeer   for other coe1try Poop. Sra ppslatioo-eiahted gatrlo  aeSas  ithout salasie of the eatr-s  slos: sad
the alt populatd country.  die             oe        fcoibe              h   nin s                o   vilahilityo:f dta.ta  o  isttsifr.eciinso  be onevined
be_silatiaam azeS_xof_oa~ iSb                     sr.ll   so.9  Lv.eae strueu   s  oeonio   ofI                       oco    aluss oh..eoao            the vialus of ote
indloator at a tise n-na the ousntev- vatrtfrales nouns.
tf rAM(thoscoond sq.ha.)oooto et.isoa    srntoooutin    ttl.rbnadrrl-
Tt -Total acfeco area coaprIsiog land area an7nadetr,                                    ae    fpol    toa, ur an,adf rural  sevdb toret                     ps a
jzr-iou lton     hos~t recent ostilate of apeioolttra  aren  Sod tearwily                   pecnae   f thisi  rosPeti-e potolti.on. toerta. disponnl  ay i-clude
orpeemlanetly for or-op., pasture,  arket sad titoha gardens or to                       tie colletion tad dioposal, oitt or ottiost treetaeot, of tonao strct
Lie fallow.                                                                              and  osootrby satn-bort  oYetsa  or the coo of pit prince sd ela,la
ioat.llatioos,.
9!rp  M  CAPIA(Us!  - MIPapr capita estloatas at currant valrket prices,Iil p                    o lter ft ii   - Populatbo  dividad by toahe  of pratioiog phyaieians
oatlboa"talodti     eoanvesan aathod as Worl-d Ret Atlas (i975.'77 ba`sis),                q)lifliid r-   Io-i..l  oool    -civriyeo.
.1960. i9,70,-ed 1977 data.                                        -                      PaNulaio  o   hroine Peron.  - Pop~ltiatt   dIvided by -otsr of practicing eao
MM     2 mznou  m  CAPIT  - AsAni coeoscwtion of casrrai.1 i                             adf  l   gradat  torsos, practic    erase, and assistantnus.
t -~ ~~~~~aaoi.    n~sto, acUs-.a A                                               onainpr  ootl  e   total,octet end stea  - Popoation  (Wtota, urba,
thesa  sl.stoitpriTkll uen`of  9oal e1q"uavlsat pee cait;                                 =sd  orl) dIvdd bytei   esetive "'lr of hospi tal  ed  Lt.ah                     i
i970, ed 1976 data.                                                                        poblie end pirnist georn1 and epoil.lod toetpital and rethbiionit   cetes
focepita.s are eetaliseaatnt  pereanstly staffed by at icast on bynioinn.
POFJIATIla  31   1111% ,                                              Z~~~~~~~~~~~stalhiihalts providlag prbncipelly custodial oars ace cot itloluad. R-eal
Sa   h)- As of Joij i; 1960, 1970, and                    hoptl,-ee, Is.ud  health and   edIcal cetters hoct peaaaltly. Staffod
1977 data.                                                                                " y a pW'eioi    (bit by a .edlcal assistant, nurs, aIddife, etc.) ohich offer
Urban Pootlatica (porcest of total)   Raptio of serhas to total Ppopintion;                 ia.patieat scoo. datice and procida a liidttd rang  of Satoale  facilities.
dliffsrent dafloiftisasf urban area  NW agffct compnoa ility of data                   AdWisnin    r? Hosoital Bad - Total tushor of ndaiosio.. to or discharges fros
afa  onico;iid  1970, and 197  dat..                                            boptl   lie   y the outr of beds.
ta N11izt,a4,96oOa-
fr44)p                00.~sz   - ftrralt  eossiltion projections s-s based co.S.   f  _ ~~l
to            niI o  by age sad e-  and thair Mortality and fertility             Aveag  Snsofcosehldoesocspe   hoshl)   _oa   -b-t.sd  ua 
rate.   Projeoction parnsete-n for eraos.lty rates cospriss of thire                  A heesoho1d  -osseoul        ru   f olionnotsar   log~atr   n
level  assoonin  life  opectancy at tr-th incresasin  with counterys                   thsir sin sels.  A boarder or lodge  no  or noy art be icluded in the
po .cpita jloos  Jevel, nad fale. life saet4any sthillolag at                        househld for ettatisical pirp.sco.
7   .-5 er.  The perst.r. fur fertility eats a10 tare thre  irroi                  Ao-rane ohrofeeonjon    poal.  -bhn  and rura  -iA erage  uSh-r
as-ou% deelbos 1. fertility accrding to inca" levl and past                           ofpesn  pe  rcais            ura, en -crl occupied covttinal deelilog.,
f-tlY Dilming perforeasSc. Each enotry is thet asigned on  of these                   roSpectirely,  DenllioAg  erclude nan-pereanent Struturs cod unncpied partI.
tins cotdinatitaaa of inrtn11ty end fertility broods for projection                  Acenad toElitriobty (tooen  of deelli-ogs1;   ttal,  ra.  an-LSd cora   . Ie-
ioiryO.                                                                                onahiona  deolings cith  lettrieity  In lit          uarters aS percentage of
9yt 4p"      poaioo"       n    tticensy popoltion thos  is to p th                      total, urban, and coral decUlbs  rseti
the   r   rate.1 _it .q1oa`1 to the death rate, Sol alto the ego
otrutic  rea-ba  oce-tant. This is achieved only notar fortility rates             fEDUATIONf
deelino  to the roplanset leve  of nit tot -rodIcr&tiot rate, ohn                 -AdXjoted SPcoellsett batios
zac genertion of  -rr  ~reqlecee  %t4i  ceat1.  The stationay pops.                    -rnvtbo     total. ele cod f-1ae   Gross total, eae and reale enroll.
ation  cIte en  estimated cc the basi  of thc projected characteriotbne                  neto          gSat tie priasry levl a  percetages of  -epeotr- pr:-y
of the popeatioio in tie Year 2000, lad the rato of decline of fertility                 oooiaepePultlc...; torenlip  inlodee obilire   sd b-Il y-r  ut.
rate to rplaceaet le-e.                                                                   oju.ttd for different  .otgtho ofp,arsoy oduontbon; roe o-utri- .1t
Year otato -s  ocoult ic  in reached - The rear sreo sttionac   popo.ltiec                  uo-erea  ed-Uctico earollat asp One-d 1i0 p-ern  site  nSe- Npupl
-io  h-s bon  reahed.                                                                     r  beloc or ahor  the efficoal .01h-  age.
Popultion lonoota                                                                           eodr   oocI-ttl   a   anto~  yfesal   - IoaP-utdasaee;secdo-y
Prs.i..d-Year popstlotie  per eqccr  diloator  100 lectures) of                    duaiveucstirtforears of approvd priSlry i-tatrci-n
total area                                                                               Proidee gencral  -octio..l, or teachr trainig itucruti-n  for pupilo
Ior t . h. agricuIltrl land -Coa.Wttd no ahov  for agriclt-rl land                       usullic of 12 to 17 yaear  of ego; corronpondenee cuneaegenerall
o_ly.                                                                                    re.lodd.
PI-ISolti- Me. St-otwne. Coeret- Chillrn  (0.i4 fYoro), woriiog.age                        cocatiotal enobllaor  Coereto of  -etdary; -   -~.. Pn Ita  -.astltctiosc  -cclude
(1-.1  YeasJ  cod retired(by yer  and over) aS percentages of Sdd-year                     teebibal, industrial, or other prorea   aleb operato  -odependntly or as
Population; 1961, 1970, and 197 data                                                       departantn  of eecodssy istitution..
Pop     Mhi Reet oto(prcet  i tota  - MAn-l eretb ratee of total aId-                Pol-teaohdr ratio. c~rircan   eonay-  oa    tud It enrolld in
ferpP     leic   or15-0 P.            Wl.ta  I9-l                                            rar   n  scoeylci   ivddb    tr   f .earter  -o tieh.                       e
PPolat-o  arowb Rate          -ecst     ra      Annual gro-t  ratea of urts                  opoadlg  r-eb..
popotlatbo, for 1-950-60  15-0  ad1970-75.                                               Adul~tliterao   ratetpecent  . lIteate.  oIut.  able to veto and crote)0
Crde Binh Rate (per th-usad) - Anna liv  births per thouand of too-                          afreteof ttladul  opcto  aged 15 years ant Ice.
Tear pet.t;1950, 1970, end 1977 data.
Crde TDeati Rnto  per thouand) - Annul deaths per thousad of sod-yea-                  OoO5fG
Populat-o; 1960, 1970, cod 1977 Iota.                                                  Poe    Cant  Pee thousad cooa~c -Psegedr                           pien tor  ar
Irs   rcdolcRt-overage onber of laightora     os  ciil bear                       teaticc   tec  thoeight perec..c;  -1oldenab,loce  bearee  and cu_lit,ry
o    ertea  rerdoto  period if  h. e  p-i-.ce  percent age.                                   I  
op-, f:  fertility rates; oula   finy-pa  acgseding in 1960,                           Rodi. Oc-ever  p-er othosnd.P c      ltin I -Aull os-pee of r             f-:eeo  rad-o
19Wr, and 1975.                                                                          broadcats to 4 0ee-a  polIl   pe  touad  ff cr.ani-t  coo-l.den             liecd
Fitlly pliIobo  - A""eotor"' nna tI cscds) - Mal oa-                    of                 receicro  on ooure  cod in yearn oh.. rgietraclon   oradioo~tatneoc
aetot-c of birti-cent-i icrctune  uc e  ofna.tional  fasoy                              efet; lata for r-'t Year  asp act le comarble  -ic   tot   -tunirbe
pl-no  pr-g-an                                                                          boihoi d lcning.
realyPlcolp -Usrs   srentifonr'M      stan) -Poroentago of er-od               fV Rceivers  cer thosuad  opulat-c) - TV ree -er  for broadcast to do...ed-
so-  of otild-eelon age                                                                  -b.iyas   t   s    irtotridete  clic   e  iuei  cualn  ecolude  uI .leonod ft recivrs  -o -outria
toaleoied oneti  es  age grop.                                                       adin  or Y     oI   r rgiotratio of ~ft7 cots en  It effect.
FOOD AND NJTRITICN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ dil  generalntsres   eerape, teitdasnperiodicaLI publication
loden or (tod          l~~~~~~9-fl-l00)  - bsdet~~~I ofprcpta.             devotd prtas-ly to  -recring general cews.  It" io  cosdere tob da
enilposcino   l  Po   edte.Pouto  occude  need' nd                                        it aPe-. to least for  tille  n ced.
feed cod  oenclendar y-a  basin   Coaaditles co-   priaSry  odoin                                 cltcdseprCptaorYar - dazed  c tIc ouste  of tickets
~oc   uaon   nteatd of sugar) cudh are edible end contai   utbtt                 ol urn   ti  yuriclub.    tabsiusco drv -ic ce     cod sulite
(e..  cfeet   ta  ree-luded).  ASgarote p-dactio  of earl cona-f                  unt
Is bnod on  stond  aveag  producer price esighta.
;Poroociq uently   f cabrtc   Forootofreuithts     CaptI fosddtO50
prd.y.  Availabl  supis oapeise dosesetic prodootien, oortn  lesfIe  andons e  out  -oludin9 lose i..es,  -odarton  etc. Defiotboo.
,rporta, cod obangee it otoIk.  Net supplies  m"iud  anizsjl feed, seds,               dovaious contisr  tot coparable.
qust itien used it food processing, and Losses in ditribution. Require-              Pea. 'oren)- Pee1le  labor force as percetao of total lsbor fcree.
SSnt. ee-s -tbi-ed by fAO aSSed on phys,j.io .initeds for oosl                      driutr  .oe _ee J - lahor forc  00 farsung, --r-ry   booting end
soti,ity and Ae.tho oo-id-rig ro-irostal twpirat-, body vighto,                         ioin      as ; pcetge of  .tota  1sor force.
ago and ne  distritiuolon   of ppulation,  nd alcis10 pereot for                    Ilndatrc  rent)   La-inr fore,  -inliog,... cot-utioc,  anofaturing  and
eato at ho..sotold b-el.                                                                ictotyeatr Sad cex to perealtag  of total labor force
Perenita suoLr of rtein  peante  dar) - Potain content of per                        Ps-tico-ttbo date oeret~ - total, sal, an Lfosle  - Partioipase t            cc
onpia tn sppl  offoo  pe  As. le  suplyof oodis  afiad  o        stiebty rates are   spted aS total, sale. and feale. labor forc  aS per-
niece. Rquireanett  for all coutries establishd by USDA provide fer a                  cetngee6 of total, sle and feusle poytlatiot of all ages.. repectively;
si.ialsa alownc  of 60  eas of total protein pe day and 20 geesea of                   1960, 1970, and 1975 data.  These are  Sits- Participation  ratenofIetitg
anial and pulse protein, cf tOol 10 pea   hobosld he Anisel prtein.                    age-sen Itrcor  of ole pePulsobti, nod long ti   trend.  A fectz;atee
Ths  sadedoare -insaer then tiose of 759 gese of total protein nod                 are frol national eIoren.
25 gesaMS cf  tis]l protein as an laereo  f-c the  -Ird, proposed by, A Phi          k. ts,espz,9p a     - Ratio of Poolati-t under iS  ed l  and sur to
in ths Third Wor1d Prod Surry.                                                         tI.aorfre  o  a  ge-sup of i5-6l years.
Per.  at prti     fcoi   ros nnlai and sulse -  rtIn nVupi  of food
deie   esannele and patl.. it geee  t  dsp. -                                       nm
ItlI   nos i-) Mrtait dat  'oe btan)            - Ano  deliaths  e  thousand        Pecaaso  Pit   asholi   aiad kind) - R-eel-d by ciobest
it ag  group 1-  Yo-rs, to etude-e  i  tle  g   op   o   atdev                            pcatrihs20pcetpoet      Percent, and pooret tO) p                          .ten
piog coutries data derived fin  life tabOos,                                             of lsshls
doLlo                                                                                    PetVo  TAsesTT 1ROUrS
flf  foetanoy art dInl  rears) -_ioage  Icae   f yeare of life                           eine   Ab,1otluePvryon                ve 20prcaia. ubanadrua
infant Mortaity tate'pe   ibend       nna  othe ef infant  under nestriti-aa,  adequate diet pl    ... tsennal to-f     r_i_eto:5 ac.t
Yea-o   ag   e  tendlc    biths.                                                         aff-rdai..
Anesst....       aerprtn of  cclnt)-titl ura,adrrlEOti-ted RelatIve PEn,ty =rc   Levl)7   e tpt)-'he   n   ua 
Lae   f  p1eople to:tal, ba, an  rural  eothtrasnaleacset                            R-aLi rlative povety it-lcli   n-lo   fteaeorcpt
--eene  supply  1. inldes treated eurtac  sater  or matrntod out                      pereonn  1-oose of the coutry. Urban leve  is deri-d fro  200 rura  leve
-not-iatu   oaercb as tblat froes protected h-eolse, cprngs,                              ith edjusosat for tInhr cos t of lOi   in urban aras
nod sanitary eel) aSI percentages of tisir respective populatios-  Do                    stite   pop.toloe      Below  bsolute Poverty  _ines  Leve   -eoo).  ra   n
an   ha  ure  a pbhio foutala or- etndpe  bested act eSre  than 200                    rurl   Peest of popolation ~urban and rua)coareasitpor
eater  fn   a house Say be oneold"'d as halee vio-    rescaubd  ac.eo.
or heat house.  Lt  _"m  arS,e  -eaMale n..a. -,It asply that the
housoeife or      erea of the h-ashold   Snol have tt  po    a dieWpa-                                                          ftnwndr end 5oci5l Dana Div-ico
toonts Part of the day i. fetching she   J-.e4rses                                                                         M-tSIo tAdS.ysn  and P-ecetiola, OrPeratt






- 26 -
ANNEX I
Pag. 4 of 5
MEXICO: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Preliminary
Actual              Eatif    s                            Projected                                            Growth Rates                    As Percent of GDY
1970           1975          1977                          1979           19R           1982            190            1970/75     1975/70     1970182     1970         1978        1982
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                                                 Constant 1972 Prices, 0S$ Milli.o.
Green Donestic Prodoct                               36,970.4       48,510.8       50,969.6       54,436.2       58,791.1       63,670.8       74,705.7       94,956.7             5,6         3.9         8.2      99.8        99.3         05.7
Gains from Terne of Trade                                91.8          685.5          404.7          389.1        1,102.0        2,799.6         3,378.8       4,510.3            49.5       -17.2        71.7       0.2         0.7          4.3
Gross Domeetic  ncome                                37,062.3       49,196.2       51,374.3       54,825.2       59,893.1       66,470.4       78,084.5       99,475.0             5.8         3.7         9.2    100.0         100.0       100.0
IGports                                               3,851.3        5,883.7        4,510.0        5,608.2        6,867.4        8,285.9       10,458.0       13,847.5             8.8        -1.6        16.9      10.4        10.2         13.4
Ooports (iEpo-t capacity)                             3,094.1        4,148.1        4,479.1        5,312.6        6,592.6        8,917.1       10,765.4       13,882.3             6.0         8.6        19.3       8.3        907          1358
Reno.rce - sp                                           757.2        1,735.6           38.9          295.2          274.8        - 631.2        - 307.4        -  34.8            18.0       -44.6         -         2.0         0.5         -0.4
Canscoption                                          30,650.7       40,404.9       42,036.6       44,287.5       47,276.6       50,885.3       58,684.0       74,943.0             5.7         3.1         7.3      82.7        80.8         75.2
POsed Invee=nt                                        7,160.7       10,526.9        9,376.6       10,833.0       12,891.3       14,953.9       19,093.1       24,497.2             8.0         1.0        15.2      19.3         19.8        24.5
Grene Domestic Ravings                                6,411.5        8,791.4        9,337.7       10,537.7       12,616.5       15,585.1       19,400.5       24,532.0             6.5         6.2        16.5      17.3        19.2         24.8
Gross National aSvings                                5,964.6         7,683.7       8,306.7         9,308.9      11,097.4       13,997.3       17,792.5       22,841.2             5.2         6.6        17.6      16.1         17.0        22.8
TRADE IN GOODS AND FS                                                                            Contort Prices, U1$ Millieee
IMPORTS, TOTAL                                            3,416.9        8,0636.7       7,855.0       10,589.7       14,676.7       19,571.5       29,090.3       46,845.1            20.4         7.0        28.7    100.0        100.0        100.0
Foed                                                      74.6          443.0          532.0         658.0           756.7        1,170.6        1,739.9        2,801.0           42.8        14.1        27.5       2.2         6.2          6.0
Potroleum and Prodotte                                   54.2          291.1          127.0          157.0          188.4          200.0          200.0          322.1            40.0      -18.6          6.2       1.6         1.5          0.7
Other Goode                                            2,223.4        5,879.7        5,261.7        7,398.6       10,523.9      14,031.8       20,953.6       33742,.3            21.5         8.0        29.7      65.1        69.9         7270
Non-Factor Services                                   1,064.7         2,022.9        1,934.3        2,376.1        3,207.7       4,169.1         6,196.8        9, 978.9          13.7         5.5        27.1      31.2        22.4         21.3
EXPORTS, TOTAL                                            2,745,4        6,081.7         7,795.1      10,036.5       14,089.6       21,062.1       29,945.0       46 96276            17.2        18.2        5-.4    100.0        100.0        000.0
Selected A8nic.lt-ral Goode                              711.6          932.4        1,439.1       1,600.2         1,888.2       2,265.8        3,221.4        4,934.6             5.6        19.7        19.1      25.9        15.9         10.8
Petroleo and Products                                    38.4          460.1        1,029.4        1,805.0        3,92S.9        8,865.8       12,605.0       20,400.1            64.3        57.7        62.6       1.4        18.0         42.1
Selected M.nsteRs                                       244.3           423.4         444.9          531.9           727.6         873.1        1,241.3         1,901.4           11.6         7.9        23.6       8.9         5.3          4.1
Monofecturro                                             353.5        1,069.3        1,611.0        2,008.9        2,37C.5        2,844.6        4,044.3        6,195.1           24.8        23.4        19.1      12.9         20.0        13.5
Other Goode                                                             119.3           79.8          120.4          142.1          170.4          242.3          371.2            -           0.3        19.1       _            1.2         0.8
Non-Factor Servlons                                    1,397.7        3,077.2        3,190.8        3,970.2        5,035.3        6,042.4        8,050.u       13,159.2           17.1         8.9        21.3       50.9        39.6        28.7
TRADE INDIGES
Esport Price Imd..                                       91.4          175.6          191.3          203.8          256.6          344.3          405.4          501.5            13.9         5.1        18.8
Import Prica l-deo                                      88.7          146.8           173.9          188.8          213.7          236.2          278.2          338.3            10.6         8.7        10.2
Toers of Tr-de                                         103.0          119.6           110.0          107.9          120.1          145.8          145.7          148.2             3.0        -3.4         7.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                                                               Conotott 1972 PrIcs., US$ Eilli.e.
Pninary                                               4,139.8        4,484.0        4,769.8        4 946.9        5 ,0.8         5,146.8        5,354.7        5,682.4             1.6         3.3         2.0      11.2         9.1          7.2
es"ondery                                             12,417.1      16 952.3       18 236.7       20,026.7       21,925.0        24,063.5       28,918.1       37,881.0            6.4         5.7         9.6      33.6         36.8        38.7
Tertiary                                             20,413.5       277074.5        27,963.2       29,462.5       31,119.5       34,460.5       40,432.9       51,393.3            5.8         2.9         8.2      55.2        54.1         54.1
Totel (GDP)                                           36,970.4       48,510.8       50,969.6       54,436.2       58,791.1       58,791.1       63,670.8       94,956.7            5.6         3.9         8.2    100.0         100.0       100.0
GONSOLIDATED PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCES
Currant Reosipto                                      5,455.5         9,108.7       10,278.8      11,716.3        12,663.3       14,165.5       16,642.5       21,257.3           10.6         9.2         9.2      14.7        21.4         21.3
C-rreel Oopendtoren                                    3,921.8        8,424.5        8,895.9        9,752.0       10,694.4       11,683.0       13,627.0       17,359.7           16.3         5.4         8.7      10.6         17.8        17.4
Public S-ving                                          137             684.2         1,382.9       1,964.2        1,965.8        2,482.4         3,015.4        3,897.4          _10.1        42.7        11.3       4.1         3.6          3.9
Resoorco.  for Iv...tsnt                             1,601.7           734.8        1,479.5       2,022.5        2,024.1        2,556.0         3,104.9        3,987.1         -14.2         39.4        11.3       4.3         3.7          4.0
Inr-esc,rt                                            2,277.8        5,052.3        4,387.8        5,007.2        5,508.0        6,334.2         7,664.4        9,925.6           17.1         0.1        11.3       6.1         9.1          9.8
Deficit (Net)                                           666.1        4,297.5        2,908.2        2,984.8        3,484.0         3,778.3        4,559.6        5,938.6           44.9       -11.1        11.2       1.8         5.4          5.8
ALLOCATION OF GRO0  PUBLIC SECTOR EXPENDITURES                                                                                                                                                                               A. P. -nt of T.t.1
EnerI y                                                               5 354.9       6,511.3        7,518.2                                                                                    12.0                              30.2
Transport Acd Coeounicationo                                          1,746.8        1,511.9        1,330.4                                                                                   -8.7                                5.3
Social Welfare                                                        4,211.5        4,628.4       4,881.9                                                                                     5.0                               19.6
Ondoetry                                                             1,635.9         1,464.0       1,376.5                                                                                    -5.6                                5.5
Agnlc-ltore and Onral Ibvelopmnot                                     1,972.3        1,626.8       1,446:6                                                                                    -9.8                                5.8
Ge-erel Adinistr-tieon cod Defano-                                    3,282,7        5,190.4        6,554.3                                                                                   25.9                               26.3
CG --erce                                                             1,528.0        1,445.2       1 725.2                                                                                     4.1                                6 9
Touritm                                                                  63.0           73.9           51.6                                                                                   -6.4                                0.2
Total                                                                19,795.2       22,451.7       24.884.6                                                                                    7.9                              100.0
Period Average
SELECTED INDI7ATORS                                                                                                                                                                   70/75       75/78      78/82
ICOR                                                      2.02            5,31          6.92            2.70           2.49           2.64                                         4.11        6.75      2.9
Omport El.stioity                                         1.29           0.05          -4.78           3.55            2.61           2.49                                         1.58       -0.40      2.06
MarSisal SDvign. Ratio                                       _            0.01           0.06           0.31           0.37           0.45                                         0.14        0.23       0.36
Vslo. Added per Norker (1972 crie--)
Is  Milli-o-         An % of Total       1960-1970                                            7.of Averae
LABOR FORCE AND OUT0UT PER 1O0YER                         I_       '975       16         1970     Groth Oats          1966           1978             1960          1870         1nov0  Rate
Agrinoltern                                           5.4      5.1        50.5      39.2         -0.6              608.8         939.0             34.7          33.0            4.4
Indac-ry                                              2.1      3.0       19.6       23.1          3.6            2,468.9       4,134.9           140.6         145.0             5.3
Servic.e                                               3.2     4.9        29.9       37.7         4.4            3,222.8       4,044.8           183.6          142.0            2.3
Total                                                 00.7    13.0       100.0      508.0          2.0            1,75.6        2,847.6           100.0                          5.0



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 27-
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAMNT,ETENLASITAC   NDDB                                                                   Page 5 of S
(US$ million at current prices)
Actual                           Preliminary Estimates                               Projections
1970           1975            1976            1977                1978                1979            1980             1982            1985
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                               2,745.4          6,081.7        6,836.3         7,795.1            10,036.5             14,089.6        21,062.1        29,945.0        46,962.6
Imports (including NFS)                               3,416.9         8,636.7         8,421.7         7,855.0            10,589.7             14,676.7       19,571.5         29,090.3        46,845.1
Resource Balance                                      - 671.5        -2,555.1        -1,585.4         -  59.9             - 553.2              - 587.1         1,490.6           854.7           117.5
Interest, net I/                                      - 307.0        -1,266.5        -1,551.2        -1,811.0            -2,311.8            -3,236.5        -3,738.6         -4,505.1        -5,765.1
Direct Investment Income                              - 267.5          - 657.5        - 666.7         - 401.4             - E77.4              - 572.9         - 687.5         - 907.5        -1,275.0
Workers' Remittances                                    122.7            174.6           239.6          251.0                277.0               332.4           398.9           574.4           807.0
Current Transfers Net                                    55.3            123.4           156.0          168.5                192.3               230.7           276.8           365.4           513.4
Current Account Balance                             -1,068.0         -4,181.2        -3,407.7        -1,852.8            -2,873.1            -3,833.4        -2,259.8         -3,618.1       -5,602.2
Private Direct Investment                               322.8            748.8           626.2          555.9                530.0               636.0           763.2         1,099.0         1,544.0
Public Med. and Long Term Loans, net                    258.6          3,565.8        4,265.5         3,937.3             4,079.0              3,237.4         2,588.3         3,296.4         4,808.8
(Disbursements)                                     (821.3)         4,418.6        (5,417.9)       (6,232.3)           (8,343.3)          (10,142.4)       (8,629.7)       (9,812.4)    (13,299.7)
(Repayments)                                       (-562.7)         (-852.8)    (-1,555.4)    (-2,295.0)              (-4,264.3)          (-6,905.0)    (-6,041.4)        (-6,516.0)    (-8,490.9)
Other Capital                                           588.7             31.7       -1,801.9        -2,136.2            -1,513.4                110.0           132.0           174.2           244.7
(Public Short Term)                                 (139.6)          (842.8)         (879.5)        (-950.0)          (-1,490.2)              (160.0)
(Other Capital, n.e.i.)                             (449.1)         (-811.1)    (-2,681.4)        (-1,186.2)             (-23.2)             (-50.0)
Change in Reserves (-= increase)                       -102.1           -165.1           320.9         -504.2               -222.5              -150.0       -1,223.7           -951.5          -995.3
GRANT AND LOAN COMITMENTS
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS                                862.5          4,864.5        6,192.7         8,194.5              9,208.9
IBRD                                                    146.8            310.0          410.0           162.0                554.5
IDA                                                                       -               -                -                  -
Other Multilateral                                      112.4            121.8           171.72          122.0               152.2
Governments                                              79.8            335.8           318.1           165.6               385.3
Suppliers                                                69.7            156.8           135.7          133.6                 97.5
Banks and Financial Institutions                        453.9          3,799.9        4,836.5         6,322.8             7,983.2
Bonds                                                    -               140.3          321.3         1,288.5                 36.4
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                                                                            EXTERNAL DEBT
Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                 3,316.7        11,809.6        16,607.6        20,381.2            26,970.4                                   Outstanding and Disbursed
(end of period)
Interest on Public Debt                                 222.1            855.0        1,138.6         1,388.2             1,853.1                                     $Milliona          Percent
Repayment on Public Debt                                479.8            799.6        1,264.3         2,463.3             4,675.7
Other Debt Service (net)                                 -                -               -                -                  -                Public M & L.T.
Total Debt Service (net)                                701.9          1,654.6        2,402.9         3,851.5             6,528.8                  Loans
Burden on Export Earnings 2/  (%)
a.  Public Debt Service                                24.5             26.4           34.0            47.9                63.3             IBRD                   1,480.9               5.5
b.  Total Debt Service                                 24.5             26.4           34.0            47.9                63.3             Other Multilateral    883.9                  3.3
c.  Total Debt Service and Direct                                                                                                           Governments            1,123.0               4.2
Investment Income                      33.8             37.0            43.4           52.9                 67.9             Suppliers                635.3              2.4
Average Termcsof Public Debt                                                                                                                   Bonds                  2,698.8              0.0
a.  Interest as h of prior year's D.O. and D            7.4             10.2            9.6             8.4                  9.1            Other Financial
b.  .Amnortization as 7. of prior year's                                                                                                        Institutions    20,148.4                74.7
D.C. and D                            16.1              9.5           10.7            14.8                 22.9            Total                 26,970.4             100.0
IBRD Exposure
a.  IBERD D.O. ned D. as % of Public D,O, and D   17.5                   9.5             7.4            6.7                  5.5
b.  IBRD Debt Service as 2 of Public
Debt Service                           7.7              7.0             5.5            3.9                  2.8
IDA Exposure
- Not applicable or available
I/ Includes interest on short-term private and public debt
2/ Includes worker remittances






- 28 -                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of April 30, 1980)
Loan                                                       Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower             Purpose         Cancellations   bursed
36 loans fully disbursed                       1,710.4
909      1973  NAFINSA                    Water Supply           90.0        28.4
968      1974  NAFINSA                    Roads                  90.0        19.3
970      1974  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             47.0        30.7
1022      1974  NAFINSA                    Airports               25.0         5.9
1053      1974  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development          50.0        38.6
1110      1975  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development         110.0        13.9
1111      1975  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             50.0        43.7
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry               50.0         5.9
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                   Water Supply           40.0        28.9
1205      1976  NAFINSA                    Industry               50.0         2.3
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways               100.0        51.7
1420      1977  NAFINSA                    Tourism                42.0        36.7
1462      1977  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development         120.0        85.4
1524      1978  NAFINSA                    Tourism                50.0        21.2
1552      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry               47.0        30.1
1553      1978  NAFINSA                    Agriculture            56.0        54.9
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                   Urban Development      16.5        15.4
1560      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry              100.0        59.2
1569      1978  NAFINSA                    Agricultural Credit  200.0         69.2
969-1    1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             25.0        12.1
1643      1979  NAFINSA                    Small-scale Agri.      60.0        60.0
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                   Highways              120.0       120.0
1686      1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry               80.0        69.1
1706      1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             92.0        92.0
1712      1979  NAFINSA                    Industry              175.0       175.0
1820 1/   1980  NAFINSA                    Small and Medium
Mining              40.0       40.0
TOTAL                                           3,635.9 2/ 1,209.6
Of which has been repaid to the Bank              614.1
Total now outstanding                           3,021.8
Amount sold                    92.3
of which has been repaid       90.8                  1.5
Total now held by Bank 2/                       3,020.3
Total Undisbursed                                           1,209.6
I/   Loan approved by Executive Directors March 24, 1980, but not yet signed.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                                                US$ Million
Year           Obligor                    Type of Business      Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59    Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/            Industrial Equipment       0.8     -       0.8
1958       Bristol de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                   A.C. Engine Overhaul        0.5             0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A. 1/          Twist Drills               0.3     -       0.3
1962/65/   Compania Fundidora
66/68      Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.            Steel                      2.3    21.4   23.7
1963       Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/            Steel                      0.9     0.1    1.0
1963       Quimica del Rey,
S.A. 1/                    Sodium Sulphate            0.7     --      0.7
1964/66    Industrial del Hierro,
S.A.                      Construction Equipment   --         2.0    2.0
1970       Minera del Norte, S.A,        Iron Ore Mining            1.5     -       1.5
1971       Celanese Mexicana, S.A.    Textiles                     12.0     --    12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de
C.V.                      Pulp and Paper               2/      2/      2/
1973/79    Cemento Veracruz             Cement                     15.9     -      15.9
1974       Cancun Aristos Hotel         Tourism                     1.0     0.3    1.3
1975/78    Mexinox, S.A.                 Steel                     12.0     3.2   15.2
1978       Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.    Pulp and Paper                9.0     2.6   11.6
1978       Tereftalatos Mexicanos,
S.A.                      Petrochemicals             19.0     -      19.0
1979       Empresas Tolteca de
Mexico, S.A. 3/            Cement                   100.0     --   100.0
1979       Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.               Tourism                            2.3    2.3
1979       Conductores Moneterrey,    Electrical Wire
S.A.                         and Cable               18.0     --    18.0
1980       Industrias Resistol, S.A.  Particleboard                25.0     --    25.0
1980       Vidiro Plano de Mexico       Flat Glass               116.0      --   116.0
Total Gross Commitments                               334.9    31.9  366.8
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                           247.4    22.1  269.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                      87.5     9.8   97.3
Total Undisbursed                                     203.9     0.6  204.5
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Loan of US$100 million, of which US$85 million has been sold to
participants.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project works are well advanced except in the Texcoco Region.
Overall, the majority of the project works as originally
defined have been completed, and the works in progress are
expected to be completed by early 1980. The Executive Directors
have agreed to amend the Project Description to include new works
which would serve the same objective of increasing bulk water
supply to the Mexico City metropolitan area (R79-307).
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a reduction in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
km) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in early 1981, or about two and a
half years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1 Rio Panuco Irrigation Project; $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to be
completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural devel-
opment has been somewhat slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program has been strengthened and will
emphasize better water utilization and intensive agriculture.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been post-
poned by the Government because of interim improvements of the
existing airport carried out by the local municipality with its
own resources. At Campeche, the Government has decided to
construct a new airport with its own funds instead of improving
the existing airport. Loan proceeds allocated to Guaymas and
Campeche were reallocated in August 1977 to complete construction
of the six airports retained in the project. One of the six
airports has been completed and works in the other five airports
are proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is accelerating after delays due to
inadequate budget support. Reprogramming of the project is
underway to adjust for these delays. The closing date will be
extended accordingly.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIDER I):  $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project investments are generally on schedule. After an in-depth
mid-term evaluation in early 1979, project implementation is
being strengthened. PIDER management is taking steps to ensure
proper operation and maintenance of earlier PIDER investments.
Emphasis is also being given to improved cost recovery, invest-
ment analysis and programming, monitoring, and rural industries.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Baio Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity, and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development over
a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope of
the project to be financed under the Bank Loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
the revised project is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The Bajio Urea Plant has been completed and the Palaritos Urea
Plant is expected to be completed by October 1980. The Parathion
Plant has also been completed. The project is, on average,
2-1/2 years behind schedule. Most of the commissioning work
will take place during the next 6-8 months, and no major
problems are expected. The estimated cost is about 35 percent
above the original budget, mainly due to increases in equipment
and civil works costs.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Subloan agreements have been signed with five cities, where
construction has begun. Three additional subprojects (which
would fully commit the loan funds) are being reviewed by the
Bank. Several positive measures have been taken by the Mexican
authorities to accelerate project execution, including the
preparation and implementation of guidelines for project
design and the reorganization of the Special Project Unit in
charge of project execution. Construction in three cities is
on schedule.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:  $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closing
Date: June 30. 1980.
Due to partial cancellations in some subprojects, $1.5 million
are available for further commitment.



- 33 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Prolect:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The project has had a slow start, traffic growth in 1976 was
less than anticipated, and funding in 1976-77 (the stabilization
period) was inadequate. The traffic took an upward swing in
1977, continued to rise in 1978, and 1979. As a result, the
operating and working ratios improved significantly. The
railway has prepared a revised investment plan on the basis of
which new financial targets and a revised list of goods have
been prepared and accepted by the Bank. Due to delays incurred
in 1976-1977, the project will be completed in late 1980, about
two years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto is also under construction.
Project implementation is slightly behind schedule. An outline
for the ecological and environmental study is being reviewed
in the Bank. The marketing studies of domestic as well as
North American tourism and the economic study of tourism have
been completed. Overall, progress is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule. Project authorities have made
important progress in implementation of inter-agency agreements
to improve investment planning and execution.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
A cofinancing loan of US$25 million was provided to the borrower
on December 1, 1978 by a group of commercial banks. Progress
of commitments is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices.



- 34 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27. 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Five of the six pilot projects have been approved by the Bank;
the sixth is expected to be submitted shortly. After initial
delays in project execution, project authorities are making
excellent progress in the agricultural development program of
each pilot project. The applied research programs are proceed-
ing on schedule.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress on institutional and on some work related aspects(
of this project has been good, though disbursements are behind
schedule.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12. 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Demand for industrial investment financing continues to be
strong. US$86.3 of the Bank Loan has been committed to date,
and projects requiring another US$9.5 billion are under
examination.
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation is proceeding rapidly. The loan is expected
to be fully disbursed by the end of 1980, 18 months ahead of
schedule.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure ProJect:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979:
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
A number of livestock and irrigation subprojects have been
approved by the Bank, and the Government is accelerating
preparation and presentation of the balance of the program.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979; the 1980 budget is
adequate.
.I



- 35-                            ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979i
Closing Date: Octobr 31, 1982.
Project completion is delayed by about 12 months, to July 1982,
due to a revision of foundation requirements made after a severe
earthquake in the project area in March 1979. Preliminary
estimates indicate cost increases of about 20 percent. Civil
construction work is progressing satisfactorily. Basic engineer-
ing is about 95 percent complete, and detailed engineering is
about 50 percent complete. At end 1979, the equivalent of
approximately US$90 million were committed, of which US$52
million were for equipment and supplies.
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979:
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30. 1979;
Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong;
US$46.6 million of the loan have been committed to sub-
projects to date, and additional subprojects requiring
US$17.4 million are being considered.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of
Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Approved by the Executive Directors on March 25, 1980. The
Loan has not yet been signed.



- 36 -                      ANNEX III
MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: about 3 months
(b) Project prepared by: FIRA
(c) First preparation mission: November 1979
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: January 1980
(e) Negotiations completed: May 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1980
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) Interest rates, terms, and conditions for subloans would be as
summarized in paragraph 74. These would be reviewed periodically
and would not be different from those under subsequent Bank-
financed credit projects for beneficiaries of similar socio-economic
conditions.
(b) Prior approval of the Bank would be required before any subloan
over US$800,000 equivalent were rediscounted under the project
(para. 76).
(c) The maximum subloan balance outstanding to any one beneficiary
would be US$222,000 (Mex$ 5 million) (para. 76).
(d) FIRA would ensure the economic soundness of subloans. Each
subloan would be approved based on the projected financial
rate of return of the farm development plan. FIRA would
calculate economic rates of return on selected typical
investment plans (para. 77).
(3) Procurement would be through normal commercial channels. FIRA
would require sub-borrowers to obtain quotes from several
sources of supply whenever practicable. For agroindustrial
investments, FIRA would ensure that the goods and services
procured are competitive in quality and price and appropriate
to the sub-borrowers' needs (paras. 78 and 79).






IBRD 117891
e:r
ji
lw-r D
ME,
F-fd`                                                                                 Nwl
S                                                                 JAIAIIA
kom4: TIiA                                                                                                                              9ELIZZ
P,                                    CmDvkAs
CAIATE       W
.......                                                                 i 4                                                                                             0'."'              L 5ALVADj,     WICAk
COTA RI(
0p                    s  0   N   O   R  A
9c
C
Cd, I             C  H  I H  U A-H  U  A
0                                                         ci.-...      C OA H U I L A
o'                                                                             N U E V 0                                                  u
PC c I fl c                                                                                                             LLT LLI,   L E 0 N
i,d                                          r)
D  U  R A  N  G  0
Oceon
'y  c o
A d-,
5  ZACATCAS  -V4'--
S A N          TAMAULIPAS
L U I S
P 0 T d'S j-
MEXICO                                                                                    R ,I,
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJKT                                                                A-ELA
NAY RIT                                                     Z                                                                     A
Distribution  of FIRA  Offices                                                                      PApvAjt*J4T0                                                                                    Y U C A T A N
IA                             od"
2V
A  -"V  --IDALGO:   41
A  L I S
J T--                                            1- HI
FLI    CL-ntral Offices
A      Regional Offices                                                                             A, w F    0                                                                                          QUINTANA R4
tat. Offices
X
L  M.o:
0      s
_0                                                                                          CHETUMALA,
Agencies                                                                                                     &" 11 AEPJEBLI               -'R
ca L I i1A IF                   MEXICO
1-1                                                                                    M,ICHOACAN
Sub Awties                                                                                                                              ('-7-A-, T I                               P E C H E
A,A S C
-      Ragional Boundaries                                                                                                           0                                 0
r A,
-      State Boundaries
1      L - I-
Internationol Bavnclar'Ies                                                                                                                                                                                    BELIZE
I                                                     0 A-0           0   A   Xo  A   C   A
E R    R 0
r t
N'                                                                                                           C H  I A'
0      100     200    300      400      500
"g-d- a   mp-    hk "q .11.1fta rh           -d
-0 ff. - "'P  'hp   fmw-l
zw-            'z:;'.gzd



