Document of                 i
The World Bank                   v1              t
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2944-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MEXICO
May 28, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Latin Ametrica and the Caribbean Regional Offices
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            = Mex$23
Mex$l           = US$0.0435
Mex$l million = US$43,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
2
1 hectare (ha) 2                     = 10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km )      2             = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )             = 0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                      = 2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)      3                   = 0.26 gallons
1 cubic meter (m )                   = 35 cubic feet
1,000 kg = 1 nietric ton             = 0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ACF              -  Index of Average Cost of Funds to Multi-Purpose Banks
ANAGSA           -  National Crop and Livestock Insurance Agency
ANDSA            -  National Warehouse Agency
BANRURAL         -  National Rural Credit Bank (BNCR)
BANXICO          -  Bank of Mexico
CNC              -  National Smallholders Confederation
CNG              -  National Livestock Producers Federation
CONASUPO         -  National Marketing Corporation
DP               -  Division of Programing
FEFA             -  Special Agricultural Credit Trust Fund
FEGA             -  Technical Assistance and Loan Guarantee Trust Fund
FICAR            -  Trust Funds for Credit in Irrigated Areas
FINASA           -  National Sugar Finance Agency
FIRA             -  Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico (in the loan
documents FIRA is referred to as FONDO)
FONAFE           -  National Ejido Development Fund
FONDO            -  Trust Fund for Crop, Livestock and Poultry Credit
IDB              -  Inter-American Development Bank
NAFINSA          -  Nacional Financiera S.A.
PIDER            -  Integrated Program for Rural Development
SARH            -  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
SH y CP          -  Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
SPP              -  Ministry of Programing and  Budgeting
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO
FISCAL YEAR
January - December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..................................          1
A.   Agriculture in the Economy                                   1
B.   Agroindustries Sector 5..                  ...5
C.   Fisheries 7...  *.....*...... *........ .7
D.   Marketing and Prices  ............. ............. .....      8
E.   Development Policies and Strategy ..................         8
II.  AGRICULTURAL CREDIT .............. .... ....... . ... .             9
III.   AGRICULTURAL TRUST FUNDS (FIRA) .........................         15
IV.   PERFORMANCE UNDER PREVIOUS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS .         22
V.  THE PROJECT  .................. . ...                              24
A.   Introduction ..* .........                                  24
B.   Project Objectives.......................... .              24
C. Brief Description                .....25
D.  Detailed Features . .. .    ........ ......... .25
E. Total Investment Program             ....33
F.   Financing .......... ...........  so ....... ....           35
G. Procurement..........   35
H.   Disbursements  ......  .   .....                            37
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............  .......... .. . .....         38
A.   Planning and Programing                                     38
B.   Operating Regulations and Procedures Manual .41
C.   Sublending Policies and Procedures                          42
D.  Accounts and Auditing ................                       45
VII.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................... ...        46
A.   Illustrative Investment Plans .......................       46
B.   Project Benefits .... . ..................... I..... .* .    46
C.   Project Cash Flow ...                        ...... ...9.0  48
*                    DD.   Project Risks ..........................0.4.-.- ......      49
VIII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......         50
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico during January/February 1980. The mission included N. Sharma,
J. Intrator and H. Kim of the Bank, L. Posner, C. Percival, 0. Schulz,
G. Kawatea, consultants and Ms. K. Conroy, research assistant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World 13ank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
Annex 1. Credits for Agriculture through the Banking System and
Sources  of  Financing   .................. . . . .  ..  .  .. . .  .  .. . .   ....... .  51
Annex 2.
T.1  Principal Indicators of FIRA's Operations, 1971-1979 .......  52
T.2  Medium- and Long-Term Loans Rediscounted by FIRA, 1971-1979  53
T.3  FIRA Rediscounts 1973-1979: Projections 1980-1983 .........  54
T.4  Comparative Statement of FEFA's Assets and Liabilities,
1973-1979  *........ ...... . ................. ......      55
Annex  3.    Project  Financing  ... ...... . . . . . . .   ........................... ...... .  56
Annex 4.  FEFA Receipts and Disbursements - Projected Cash Flow .  57
Annex 5.  Illustrative Investment Plans ... o .......  ...... ......  58
T.1  Investment Plan Al - Rainfed Annual Crops Farm (180 ha)
Cash Flow Projection .....   ................*.., ...... 64
T.2  Investment Plan A2 - Gravity Irrigated Annual Crops Farm
(200 ha) - Cash Flow Projection ........... ......... 65
T.3   Investment Plan Bl - Dairy Production (23 ha) - Cash Flow
Projection ............................  66
T.4   Investment Plan B2 - Beef Production - Cash Flow Projection  67
T.5   Investment Plan Cl - Small Inshore Fishermen Group - Cash
Flow  Projection  .................................................  68
T.6  Investment Plan C2 - Fruit Packing and Storage Plant -
Cash Flow Projection     .....................      69
T.7  Investment Plan C3 - Grain Elevator - Cash Flow Projection   70
Annex 6.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File   71
MAP   IBRD 11789R1 - MEXICO - Seventh Agricultural Credit Project
Distribution of FIRA Offices



MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in the Economy
1.01     Mexico's agricultural sector accounts for about 10% of the gross
domestic product, employs nearly 40% of the total labor force of 17 million,
and represents more than 15% of the country's exports. During the last 15
years; however, growth in agriculture has been sluggish and production has
not kept pace with domestic demand. Its rate of growth declined from an
average of 6% per annum between 1945 and 1955 to 4.4% annually from 1955
to 1965, to less than 2% per annum since 1965. Throughout this period, the
country's population has grown at an average annual rate of 3.2%, although
more recently it has shown signs of declining to 2.9%.
1.02     This reduced agricultural production, coupled with increasing internal
demand, resulted in large food imports and a steady deterioration of the
agricultural trade balance, until it recovered in 1976, due to a sharp rise in
world coffee prices. Even though Mexico has maintained a positive agricultural
trade balance, food imports have increased substantially during the last
decade. Since 1970, corn, wheat, sorghum and powdered milk have been the
principal food imports, accounting for over 3% of total imports. During this
same period, foreign exchange earnings from agricultural exports more than
doubled. Due to the more rapid growth in industrial and petroleum export
earnings, the share of agricultural commodities decreased from 23% of total
exports in 1970 to an estimated 15% in 1978. However, in dollar value, they
increased from US$621.2 million in 1970 to US$1,800 million in 1979. Coffee,
cotton, shrimp and fresh produce are the primary export items.
1.03     Although the agricultural sector is presently producing below
its potential, it could, with an appropriate policy and institutional frame-
work and implementation of sound investment projects, become a more important
source of employment and foreign exchange earnings.
Production Trend
1.04     Crops.  Basic crops production (maize, rice, wheat, sugarcane and
soybean) has remained somewhat stagnant; total production has varied between
44 and 49 million tons in the last five years. Although basic crops account
for 75% of the cultivated area, the area devoted to these crops has declined
by 14% between 1970 and 1979. Maize is Mexico's most widely grown crop,
accounting for about 8 million ha, or over half the country's cultivated
area. Most of it is cultivated in the rainfed areas by small producers. In
1979, imports of maize and wheat were estimated at 4.6 million tons. Bean,
an important staple crop, is also grown by almost 80% of the low-income
producers. Almost 400,000 tons of beans are presently imported annually.
Sugar production increased from 1.8 million tons in 1970 to 2.7 million tons
in 1978, but, due to increased domestic demand, exports have declined from about



- 2 -
600,000 tons in 1970 to about 14,500 tons in 1979. Although the country
imported about 1 million tons of oilseeds in 1979, domestic production has
increased from 1.7 million tons in 1978 to 2.2 million tons in 1979. Fruits
and vegetables account for almost 47% of total agricultural commodity exports.
Total exports of agricultural products increased from 1.4 million tons in 1975
to 2.6 million tons in 1978.
1.05     Beef.  The total cattle population is estimated at about 31 million
for 1979, and, since 1970, it has been growing at an annual rate of about 2%.
In this same period, the carcass meat output increased by about 4% annually.
The increase in productivity has been due partly to improvement in offtake
rates and heavier carcass weights. The present level of meat consumption
in the country is about 12 kg per capita.
1.06     Beef production in Mexico is prevalent in: (a) the arid and semi-
arid northern rangelands; (b) the wet tropics along the Gulf Coast; and (c)
the dry tropics along the Pacific Coast. The northern rangelands are used
mainly for extensive cattle breeding with European breeds and with stocking
rates ranging from 5 to 50 ha per animal unit. Income is derived primarily
from the sale of feeder cattle and cull cows. The area has traditionally
supplied the US market with feeder cattle (male weaners) and boneless beef.
The dry and wet tropic zones produce beef almost exclusively for domestic
consumption from Zebu-type breeds. The wet tropics have developed into a
major area for cattle fattening and have become a principal source of supply
for the Federal District. Presently, there is considerable transfer of
one- to two-year-old steers from the dry tropics to the wet tropics for
fattening. Stocking rates in the wet tropics are 1 to 3 animal units per
ha because of the high initial fertility of the soil, abundant and well
distributed rainfall and the high quality of the pastures.
1.07     The volume of annual exports of live cattle and boneless beef to
the United States has fluctuated considerably, depending upon the export
prices and the export quotas. The latter is regulated by the Government and
the National Livestock Producers Federation (CNG) in an effort to ensure
adequate beef supplies for the domestic market. Exports of feeder cattle
have averaged around 600,000 head annually since 1970 with peaks of nearly
one million head in 1972 and 1978 coinciding with high US beef meat prices.
The 1979 export quota was fixed at 440,000 head in order to ensure reasonable
supplies of beef for the domestic market. Progress is now being made in
developing grazing fattening systems to stimulate production. Boneless beef
exports which have averaged around 25,000 tons since 1970 were reduced to
10,000 tons in 1979 in order to increase supplies for the domestic market.
To accelerate production for the domestic and export markets, the Government
is now taking firm measures to increase credit funds for investment purposes,
improve the technical assistance delivery system, and improve and expand
marketing and processing facilities.
1.08     Milk.  In 1979, the national dairy herd was estimated at about 8.5
million. Milk production was about 6.5 million tons, averaging 765 liters
per cow. Nearly 70% of total production is from about 2.6 million dairy



- 3 -
cows located predominantly in the central plateau temperate zone. About I
million Holstein cows, in commercial herds, produce 56% of total milk production.
Domestic production provides about 90% of the national consumption, while the
balance is imported as milk powder. Annual consumption averages about 100
liters per capita.
1.09     The semi-stabled system of production is practiced mainly in the
temperate regions where pasture and crop production is entirely dependent upon
seasonal rainfall. Herds are small and mostly family operatecd. This dairy
system is characterized by its dependence upon crop residues, particularly
corn stover, as a maintenance ration for about half of the year, with year-
round supplementation with concentrates. Consequently, daily milk production
levels generally range from 6 to 11 liters per cow. Milk production from
grazing is confined principally to the tropical region, which is a major beef
producing area. Milk output averages around 3 liters per day for a 150-day
seasonal lactation.
1.10     Commercial herds of Holstein cows are raised under an intensive
system involving housing of cattle and forages grown under irrigation in the
arid, semi-arid, and temperate zones.  Alfalfa is fed in the spring and summer
months and forage oats and corn silage in the winter.  High levels of con-
centrates are used throughout the year. Daily milk production ranges between
10 and 15 liters per cow but costs of production are high because of high
infrastructure investment costs and the high costs of concentrate feeds.
Demonstration farms have shown that costs can be lowered by as much as 30%
by grazing herds on permanent pastures and this innovation is being slowly
adopted but there are still some applied research problems to be resolved.
Attempts to promote commercial ejido dairy units of 100- to 1,000-cow herd
size during the last 10 years have been only partly successful since generally
there is an absence of the managerial skills required for efficient dairy
operation.
1.11     Pork.   The swine population in 1979 was estimated at over 13
million head and is increasing at an average annual rate of 2%. Hog meat
production is at about 650,000 tons from an annual slaughter of almost 8.5
million head. Nearly 70% of the swine population is located in the northeast,
central and northern states. Commercial producers usually haLve a herd of more
than 80 sows. At current offtake rates, the industry is operating at about
50% of its potential production.
1.12     The domestic market absorbs all the production, with annual
consumption of fresh pork averaging about 10 kg per capita. The high price
and shortage of beef has increased consumer demand for pork meat, indicating
good prospects for increasing production.
Agricultural Development Trend
1.13     From 1945 to 1955, Mexico's agricultural sector experienced rapid
growth, with substantial increases both in areas brought under cultivation
and in crop yields. Total land under cultivation of the nation's five principal



- 4 -
crops (corn, beans, cotton, wheat, and sorghum) increased from 7.2 million ha
in 1945 to 9.7 million ha in 1955, representing an annual increase of about
3%. Also during this period, the Government financed the development of
large irrigation schemes which brought some of the northwest region's most
fertile lands under cultivation. On average, 110,000 ha were brought under
irrigation each year. With the introduction of improved technical packages,
production yields rose markedly in cotton (5% per annum), wheat (4.5% per
annum) and bean (4% per annum), with a less substantial productivity increase
in maize (2% per annum). The combined effect of the increase in area and
yield resulted in an annual production growth rate of 6%. During the next
decade, 1955 to 1965, the growth rate of agricultural production slowed to
4.4% per annum. There were several reasons for this decrease. First, the
expansion of lands brought under irrigation decreased to 65,000 ha per year.
Second, the annual growth rate of new lands for cultivation of major crops
dropped to 1.8% (compared to 3% during the previous decade). Third, although
there were major yield increases in certain crops such as wheat (145%) and
cotton (40%), their impact on overall production increases was minimal be-
cause: (a) most of the new lands brought under cultivation were sown with corn
and beans; and (b) the land under cotton cultivation decreased by 120,000 ha.
Since 1965, there have been no significant increases in land brought under
cultivation; in fact, between 1965 and 1975 there was an actual decline of 3%.
It can be discerned from the agricultural growth pattern that for 25 years
Mexico relied on the construction of large-scale irrigation schemes, the exten-
sion of cultivated lands, and some technological improvements to increase agri-
cultural output.
1.14     As manifested in the deteriorating growth rate of production, the
Government's overall strategy for agricultural development did not focus on
the potential of the total agricultural sector. In the past, the Government's
priority was primarily in large-scale irrigation schemes, which have become
increasingly expensive, while neglecting the vastly under-exploited potential
of the rainfed agricultural lands. About 90% of the Government's financial
and technical resources for agriculture have been earmarked for the irrigated
districts. In 1976, of the 15 to 20 million ha under cultivation, only
5 million were under irrigation. Although the policy of promoting such irriga-
tion schemes in sparsely populated areas was successful in producing 50% of
the agricultural production, it left unsolved the basic problems of the 70% of
Mexican farmers who cultivate rainfed lands; of these, 50 to 60% are subsis-
tence farmers with less than 5 ha. Also, farmers with irrigated lands have
always had greater access to credit, modern technology, and inputs. This has
resulted in a marked dualism in Mexico's agricultural development. Further,
the low productivity of the subsistence farmers has resulted in incomes
insufficient to cover basic family needs. This has forced farmers either to
abandon agriculture totally and migrate principally to urban areas in search
of employment, or to seek part-time employment to supplement their farm
earnings. Rural unemployment and underemployment rates remain high, with
about two-thirds of agricultural labor earning incomes below the minimum
wage.
1.15     The Government's agriculture investment policies have changed notably
in recent years, first, by introducing the PIDER program, and, second, by
establishing in 1977 within the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources



- 5 -
(SARH) the Directorate General of Rainfed Districts.  Following the irrigation
district pattern, 124 rainfed districts were established, covering 70% of
the country.  The main objective of this new program is to reinforce exten-
sion, research, credit and marketing services in these areas. An initial
program, covering areas with adequate rainfall, is now being developed with
the support of the Bank.
Forestry
1.16     Mexico has about 21 million ha in commercial pine stands.  In 1978,
total wood production was 8.2 million m3, 2.1 million m3 of which was converted
to pulp. Between 1977 and 1978, timber production increased 13% but during that
same period, pulpwood production stagnated. About 34.8% of wood production was
on private property, 28% on ejido land, 8.8% in communities, and 0.6% on
federal and 0.1% on state land. The remaining 27.7% was produced through
concessions on different land properties. In 1978, the total value of forestry
production was US$1,030 million, representing 1.3% of GDP. In 1978 forestry
imports, mostly pulp and paper products, were valued at US$258 million while
exports reached only US$65 million. At present, Mexico's forestry resources
are extremely underutilized.
1.17     FIRA's lending program includes both short- and long-term credit for
forestry development. Since 1978, credits have also been channelled through
the new Trust Fund for the Development and Assistance of Agroindustry; 60% of
its credLits have been for forestry projects. To ensure a rapid development of
the sector, Mexico needs increased financing of both short- and long-term
credits, complemented with appropriate technical and organizational know-how
and training facilities.
B. Agroindustries Sector
1.18     Until the 1970s, the Mexican Government's agroindustrial policy
focused on import substitution. To promote this policy, the Government
provided various incentives, including preferential interest rates, technical
assistance programs, guaranteed low prices on the raw materials used by the
agroindustries, and established infrastructure. Partly as a result of the
Government's efforts, the agroindustrial sector experienced a rapid growth
during this period, increasing at an average annual rate of 10%. In 1979, it
accounted for 18% of the industrial sector's output, with 27% of the agro-
*           industrial goods exported (valued at US$320 million).  Presently, the agro-
industry subsector employs about 740,000 persons, about 4.4% of the total
labor force.



-6-
Government Strategy and Policies
1.19     Since 1960, there have been four principal trends in the agroin-
dustrial subsector's development: a rapid increase in the production of non-
food agroindustrial goods; an increase in the subsector's domination by
medium- and large-scale enterprises; an increase in foreign investment in
the subsector; and an increase in the capital-intensive types of operation
in the subsector. To allay the negative impact of these trends, the present
administration established a National Commission of Agroindustrial Development
in 1979. The commission was given two principal responsibilities: to formulate
a National Agroindustrial Development Plan and, subsequently, to coordinate
activities of the various public and private institutions involved in its
implementation. Its principal objectives are to promote agroindustries
which would: (a) increase the production of basic processed agricultural,
livestock and forestry goods; (b) emphasize labor-intensive production methods;
(c) increase the incomes of ejidatarios, comuneros, and small farmers;
(d) establish a solid productive agroindustrial base as an integral part
of Mexico's rural development scheme and as a framework for maximum
utilization of Mexico's human and natural resources; and (e) increase the
production of agroindustrial goods for exports.
1.20     To obtain these objectives, the Government has introduced a series
of fiscal incentives for the agroindustrial sector. Additionally, financing
for agroindustry investments is available from several trust funds, and FIRA
has provided as much as 20% of all agroindustrial credits since 1965.
FIRA's Involvement in the Agroindustrial Sector
1.21     FIRA established its agroindustrial program in 1965 and provides
three types of financing to the sector: it rediscounts long-term loans for
the establishment, expansion or modernization of agroindustries; it redis-
counts short-term working capital credits, and it finances part of the cost of
the feasibility studies which it conducts for its potential agroindustrial
clients. Given FIRA's limited resources for short-term credit financing, most
of its working capital subloans are for long-term credit clients. The prin-
cipal types of agroindustries financed by FIRA are: cold storage installations
for fresh produce, fruit processing plants, grain drying and storage units,
feed mills, vegetable dehydrating plants and milk pasteurizing and processing
plants.
1.22     In 1979, FIRA discounted US$80.4 million of agroindustrial credits,
mainly in the north and northwest regions of the country. This represented
9% of FIRA's entire lending program. Of FIRA's total agroindustrial port-
folio, only 3.3% of the subloans have been to low-income producers. In 1980,
FIRA plans to increase its lending to agroindustries by 25%. Between 1981
and 1983, FIRA's agroindustrial program is expected to represent 10%, 11%, and
12%, respectively, of FIRA's total annual lending program. Over this period,
the program expects to rediscount US$1,437 million of agroindustrial credits.
It is estimated that this investment would generate about 98,000 jobs in the
subsector.



1.23     l3esides rapid expansion, FIRA has indicated that it plans to diversify
its lending program. The principal changes being introduced are promotion
of greater participation by the small-scale producer in the agroindustrial
sector; financing of small farm implements and agricultural machine service
enterprises; financing of ejido-owned forestry industries; financing of fishing
enterprises, particularly those owned by small-scale fisherme-; concentration
of an increased percentage of its lending in regions designated by the Government
as priority zones for industrial development; and increased lending to low-income
producers, increasing from its present level of 3.3% of agroindustrial lending to 5%.
1.24     Under the Seventh Agricultural Credit Project, the Bank would support
these investments, and funds (US$42 million) would be made avaLilable for greater
participation by agricultural producers in agroindustrial activities.
C. Fisheries
1.25     Mexico has important fisheries resources, with a fishing zone that
covers 2.9 million km2. The fisheries sector provides employnent for
110,000 f-ishermen as well as full or part-time employment in related
activities for an additional 700,000 Mexicans. In 1978, 200,000 tons of
fish, valued at US$420 million, were caught in Mexican waters; over a third
of this was exported.
1.26     The majority of Mexico's fishermen work only the near-shore
coastal waters, leaving untouched the vast resources of the more distant
coastal waters and of the open sea. Government programs to promote the
sector's development have principally worked with the fishing cooperatives.
By Mexican law, only cooperatives may exploit the nine high value species:
shrimp, lobster, sea tortoise, oysters, shark, abulone, clams, grouper and
totoaba. In 1941, the Government established the Bank of Cooperative Develop-
ment, which was to meet the credit needs of these fishing cooperatives. Most
of the bank's credits were used to purchase the equipment necessary to catch
shrimp in the more distant coastal waters.
1.27     Most of Mexico's large-scale fishing activities have been controlled
by the parastatal company, Productos Pesqueros Mexicanos S.A. (PPM). PPM was
created with the sole aim of improving the distribution and commercialization
channels from pier to marketplace.  Since 1976, the Government has radically
changed its orientation toward this sector. To begin with, it has established
the Department of Fisheries at the ministerial level and it is actively pro-
moting private sector participation. It has also transformed the Bank of
Cooperative Development into the Bank of Fisheries and Port D)evelopment
(BANDER) and, in January 1980, allocated to this new bank an equity capital
of US$217.4 million to meet the increasing demand for credit from the
fisheries sector.
1.28     In view of the scarcity of funds for investment purposes, FIRA is
now directing attention to the largely unexploited fisheries sector. Under
the proposed project, funds (US$8 million) would be made available to support
small cooperatives which are engaged in inshore coastal fishing as well as
to promote deep water marine fishing for the domestic market.



- 8 -
D. Marketing and Prices
1.29      Marketing arrangements for traditional export crops are better
organized than those for crops sold domestically. Commercial farmers
engaged in the export subsector generally enter into contractual arrange-
ments with processors and exporters, with prices reflecting world market
conditions. Marketing constraints are severe in domestic agriculture, with
many small producers having access only to limited and localized markets.
Additionally, the lack of adequate factor market and distribution systems
has somewhat restricted farmers' access to modern inputs. Further, problems
occur because of the absence of timely marketing and price information, which
has impaired small farmers' ability to make sound decisions. Storage facilities
at the farm level are inadequate, and lack of transportation infrastructure in
rural areas adversely affects marketing of surplus produce.
1.30      To overcome some of the above problems, the Government established
the National Marketing Corporation (CONASUPO) to regulate the price and supply
of basic food items. CONASUPO has become the principal purchasing agency for
basic grains and is the sole importer of grains and milk products. With about
2,000 buying depots throughout the country, CONASUPO purchases grains and
stores and transports them to the major consumption areas. CONASUPO also
implements the Government's price support policy of basic food commodities.
The Government's price policy is geared to provide basic food to urban dwellers
at low prices. However, since 1974, the farmgate prices of basic food crops
more than doubled and current farmgate prices for major food items are
close to the adjusted international prices (para 6.19). In 1980, CONASUPO
has announced a support price increase of 20% for corn and wheat and 30% for
beans. Generally, support prices are set prior to the planting season and
reflect (a) the cost of food in urban areas; (b) minimum wage rates in urban
and rural areas; (c) cost of fertilizer, fuel and electricity; and (d) incen-
tives for producers. Milk and beef prices are controlled by the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, and the annual exports of young steers are regulated
by the National Livestock Federation.
1.31      The Government is currently undertaking several studies relating to
wholesale and retail marketing and delivery systems and has created a marketing
trust fund to invest in a marketing project to upgrade rural and urban market-
ing centers, primarily for perishable goods.
E. Development Policies and Strategy
1.32     The Government gives agriculture a high priority and recognizes
that prospects for increased production would depend on how effectively it
could rationalize its pertinent policies and agricultural development program
to utilize more fully the country's resources. The current administration
has undertaken a far-reaching administrative reform that will allow broader
and more effective Government action in the sector. The Government is now
focusing on a balanced approach and emphasis is given to irrigated as well
as rainfed agriculture. The new emphasis on rainfed agriculture should lead
to an increase in the productive potential of vast areas currently under-
exploited and to a reversal of past trends toward larger income disparities
between the modern and traditional subsectors.



1.33     The underlying tenets of the Government's development plan for
agriculture are (a) self-sufficiency in basic food production; (b) increased
production of export commodities; and (c) improved economic and social
conditions of the rural poor. In pursuit of these goals, the Government's
investment program focuses on agricultural diversification and includes
provision f-r opening and developing new areas; development of new and re-
habilitation of existing irrigation and drainage infrastructure; improvement
of agriculture under rainfed conditions; promotion of multi-sectoral rural
development programs; and channeling of funds through the public and private
banking system to producers to stimulate private investment to augment produc-
tion. In order to facilitate the above, the Government is improving its
national and regional planning and programing and it plans also to invest in
agricultural research, extension and marketing. The Government is now consider-
ing a new legislation aimed at inducing private investment and promoting
orderly development in the agricultural sector.
1.34     The Government's agricultural development strategy has to overcome
a number of constraining factors relating to agricultural policies. The
present administration is critically reviewing policies concerning land
tenure, irrigation water law, interest rates, and support prices, and some
attempts are now being made to alleviate problems emanating from the policies.
1.35     The Bank's agricultural lending program supports the Government's
overall strategy and focuses on the production, employment and income dis-
tribution aspects of the agriculture and rural sector. As of 1979, about
38% of the Bank's lending to Mexico was for agriculture and rural development.
The Bank's agricultural lending program for Mexico has four goals: (a) to
increase productivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs
of irrigation rehabilitation and on-farm improvements; (b) to improve the
productivity of small farmers who receive the benefit of most Bank lending
through programs for rural development, rainfed agricultural development,
bringing new areas under cultivation, and establishing irrigation and drain-
age units; (c) to complement infrastructure investments with general support
services, including provision of agricultural extension, marketing programs
and medium- and long-term credit; and (d) to promote off-farmi employment
opportunities in rural areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries.
Additionally, the Bank will continue discussions with Mexican authorities
concerning agricultural development policies.
II. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
General
2.01      As of December 31, 1979, the total outstanding credit to agriculture
was est-imated at about US$4,870 million (Annex 1). Over the last three years,
total institutional credit has increased at an average annual rate of about 10%
in real terms. The public sector accounts for over 80% of the outstanding
funds, t:he Agricultural Trust Funds (FIRA) and the National Rural Credit Bank
(BANRURAL), providing 31% and 50%, respectively. At the end of 1980, the total



- 10 -
outstanding credit is estimated at about US$6,300 million, an increase of 29%
over that in 1979. Also, in 1980, FIRA will rediscount US$1,565 million
compared to US$1,160 million in 1979. However, while funds from the public
sector have been increasing substantially, the private banks' share (from
their own resources) of the outstanding credit has decreased from 28% in 1975
to 19% in 1979. Additionally, funds from private banks are usually channeled
to commercial farmers for short-term purposes. About 55% of the funds redis-
counted by FIRA is for short-term borrowing and the remaining 45% is for
medium- and long-term investment purposes. Between 30% and 35% of FIRA funds
have been directed to the low-income producers. Likewise, BANRURAL predomi-
nantly provides short-term loans to low-income producers (about 90% of its
clients are ejidatarios).
2.02      While no reliable information is available on non-institutional credit
sources, a study undertaken by the National Smallholders Confederation (CNC) in
1979 reported that non-institutional credit still remains the principal source
of funds for about 70% of the ejidatarios.
2.03      Currently, there is a high demand for credit in agriculture, partly
accelerated by the Government's expanded agricultural development program. How-
ever, the total funds now available for agricultural lending are inadequate even
though there is sufficient institutional capacity and an adequate credit delivery
system to channel additional credit resources into the sector. Although no
official data exist, various Government sources estimate that less than 30%
(1.3 million) of farm families receive institutional credit. In 1980, FIRA
approved only 65% or US$1,565 million of the total credit requirements of the
participating banks. Shortages of credit funds for medium- and long-term invest-
ment purposes are also substantial. Less than 25% of BANRURAL's total lending
program of US$1,673 million in 1979 was for medium- and long-term investments.
For the period 1980-82, FIRA has estimated the medium- and long-term investments
at US$5,666 million; however, this total investment would benefit less than 20%
of the farm families. To finance the above investment, FIRA would contribute
60%, and the participating banks and the beneficiaries, 25% and 15%, respectively.
FIRA would generate funds from its own resources and receive funds from the
Bank of Mexico; however, to meet fully the above financial commitment, FIRA
would have to mobilize additional resources from external sources. The
Bank's participation under the proposed project would meet part of this
financial requirement and ensure successful implementation of FIRA's proposed
development program.
2.04      Government policies are focused on increasing funds to finance
development investments in agriculture. The Government has also stimulated
development of a strong technical capacity in the banking system to ensure
that funds are effectively utilized. Private banks are responding to the
growth in demand by establishing or expanding agricultural credit depart-
ments, and the Government, through the rainfed agricultural districts' program,
is expanding the penetration of BANRURAL regional banks to new areas.



- 11 -
Public Banks
2.05      National Rural Credit Bank (BANRURAL).  BANRURAL was created in 1975
through an amalgamation of three public sector agricultural credit institu-
tions: the Banco Nacional de Credito Agricola, the Banco Nacional de Credito
Ejidal and the Banco Nacional Agropecuario. BANRURAL was established at
the national level, with 12 regional banks under its control, and it
currently accounts for 50% of the institutional lending to agriculture.
The Federal Government is the majority shareholder in BANRURAL; the remain-
ing shartes are held by the Bank of Mexico, the Nacional Financiera, the
National Crop and Livestock Insurance Company (ANAGSA), and the National
Warehousie Agency (ANDSA). On December 31, 1978, fully paid-up capital and
accumulated reserves amounted to US$131 million, not including additional
reserves created by BANRURAL to cover overdue and other loans of doubtful
recovery. BANRURAL holds the shares of the 12 regional banks, which, from
a legal point of view, are independent companies.  Additionally, BANRURAL
owns the majority share capital in two other banks (Banca Promex S.A. -
55% and Banco Provincial de Sinaloa - 93%).
2.06      BANRURAL has its head office and three branch offices in Mexico City
and the 12 regional banks have about 450 branches. The Board of Directors
of BANRURAL, chaired by the Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources, consists of 13 members, eight of whom are nominated by various
Government departments. Representatives of the National Conifederation of
Smallholders and the National Farmers' Confederation are also members of the
Board. At the time of the merger, BANRURAL took over all the staff of the
three banks, and the total number of employees now is approximately 23,000.
BANRURAIL's lending operations are financed from three main sources: (a) short-
term credits from a large number of foreign commercial banks; (b) Government
budgetary allocation; and (c) medium- and long-term credits through FIRA
rediscouints and the Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated Areas (FICAR). All
foreign borrowings are guaranteed by the Government, and, as of December 31,
1978, amounted to about US$1,300 million. In recent years, the Government
allocated about US$680 million annually to BANRURAL. The Government grants
include provisions that allow about 25% of the lending operations to be
earmarked for social purposes and not be recovered. These grants have enabled
BANRURAL to create considerable reserves, amounting to US$1,065 million.
About one-third of the annual Government grant covers most of the bank's
administrative and general expenses.
2.07      BANRURAL's main operation is short-term lending to organized groups
of low-income farmers, ejidos and individual smallholders to finance current
agricultural crop and livestock production. Total BANRURAL lending during
1979 was about US$1,673 million (US$1,217 million for short-term production,
US$391 million for medium- and long-term financing of investments, and
US$65 million for commercialization). Part of BANRURAL's medium- and long-term
investment credits are rediscounted by FIRA (US$88 million in 1978 and
US$132 million during 1979). BANRURAL's lending program for 1980, as approved
by Government, totals US$2,430 million, US$1,913 million for short-term produc-
tion credits, about US$478 million for medium- and long-term investment credits
and the remaining US$39 million for marketing.  In 1980, FIRA plans to rediscount



- 12 -
US$174 million of BANRURAL's medium- and long-term loans. While in 1979,
BANRURAL's short-term credits for agricultural production reached about 1.1
million beneficiaries and a cultivated area of about 3.8 million ha, its
greatly increased lending program for 1980 is expected to reach 1.4 million
farmers on 5.0 million ha. In short-term production credits, 93% of bene-
ficiaries are ejidatarios and the remainder are smallholders and commercial
farmers. Eighty-three percent of BANRURAL's 1980 lending program for invest-
ments would benefit ejidatarios and low-income farmers and the rest would help
commercial producers.
2.08      BANRURAL management is making serious efforts to overcome weaknesses
and deficiencies inherited from its predecessor institutions. Operational
procedures for all banks in the system have been unified, thereby increasing
coordination and efficiency. Loan recuperation is gradually improving;
collections in 1979 were about 80% of loans due (87% recuperation in irrigated
farming, and 67% in rainfed areas). Improved reporting procedures on loan
recuperation have been introduced to enable management to undertake necessary
actions on a timely basis.
2.09      National Sugar Finance Agency (FINASA).  FINASA is a Government-owned
financial institution and is solely responsible for providing all the short-
and medium-term credit needs of the sugar industry (both cane producers
and sugar mills), financing production credit, investments and marketing.
FINASA also operates the Sugar Trust Fund, which lends and issues guarantees
to sugar mills unable to provide normally required collateral. It also
manages the Sugar Price Stabilization Funds. FINASA's equity as of
December 31, 1978 was US$62 million and its principal source of financing
is borrowings from foreign commercial banks. FINASA's outstanding loan port-
folio on December 31, 1978 was US$1,242 million. Its total lending during
1979 was US$787 million (US$139 million to sugarcane producers, US$235 million
to the sugar industry for current production and investments, and US$413
million for the marketing of sugar). About US$37 million of FINASA's loans
to sugarcane producers were rediscounted through FIRA during 1979.
2.10      Cane production is largely undertaken by ejidatarios and private
smallholders. Total sugarcane cultivated in 1978 was 483,400 ha (441,360 ha
in 1977), of which 313,700 ha was cultivated by 94,500 ejidatarios and
169,700 ha by 20,380 smallholders. All loans to cane producers, such as
those to be provided under the proposed project, are channeled through the
mills and, to the extent possible, are in kind (seeds, fertilizers, tractor
services). Until recently, FINASA had only two technicians authorized
by FIRA to evaluate and approve subloans, but FIRA is currently carrying out
a special training program to significantly increase that number.
2.11      The National Crop and Livestock Insurance Company (ANAGSA).  ANAGSA
was founded in 1961 as an autonomous Government agency and since 1976 it has
greatly expanded its operations. ANAGSA provides crop insurance mainly for
maize, sorghum, cotton, hemp and soya, while insurance for fruit plantations
and vegetables is still limited to very small areas. Insurance coverage is
limited to the production costs, excluding farm labor cost. Insurance premiums
are paid both by producers as well as the Government. Also, ANAGSA provides
livestock insurance (currently over one million head) and life insurance for
credit beneficiaries.



- 13 -
Private Banks
2.12      Until the establishment of the FONDO rediscounting facilities,
private commercial banks were hesitant to undertake agricultural term lending
because of the short-term nature of the bulk of their resources, problems of
collateral. their lack of familiarity with agriculture, and the high risk
which is generally associated with farming. This situation has changed
considerably during the last decade, mainly because of the increasing support
extended by FIRA in terms of funds, training of staff and other support
services. Many private banks have been establishing and rapidly expanding
their agricultural credit departments and hiring significant numbers of
agricultural technicians. FIRA has provided intensive training programs
for the banks' technicians and is gradually transferring the authority to
evaluate and approve subloans to FIRA-authorized bank technicians. To date,
private banks have 460 technicians authorized to approve subloans and some
additional 430 technicians in training who will eventually receive FIRA
authorization. These technicians are now authorized to approve medium- and
long-term subloans up to US$110,000 (Mex$2.5 million) each, and a few who
have received special authorization from FIRA may even approve subloans
up to US$220,000 (Mex$5.0 million). Subloans exceeding these limits are
evaluated in consultation with FIRA staff.
2.13      Lending operations by private banks are concentrated mainly on
commercial producers and agroindustries. The Bank of Mexico, in order to
encourage bank lending to ejidatarios and low-income producers, has stipu-
lated that 0.7% of total deposits of multi-purpose banks and 2% of deposits
in commercial banks must be held in the form of agricultural loans to
low-income producers. Furthermore, this provision has been strengthened
by the additional services provided by the Technical Assistance and Loan
Guarantese Trust Fund (FEGA) regarding guarantees and the reilmbursement for
technical assistance activities provided by the banks. In spite of these
provisions and incentives, private bank operations in the low-income
farmer sector are increasing on a very modest scale.
2.14      Commercial banks have been making increased use of FIRA rediscount
facilities, with FIRA rediscounts amounting to 56% of the 1979 outstanding
loan portfolio as compared to 29% in 1975. About 76 private and mixed
commercial banks, banking groups and multi-purpose banks participate in
FIRA-lending operations. Total FIRA rediscounts through these banks during
1978 were US$695.7 million (66% short-term and 34% medium-term) and
US$982.6 million in 1979 (56% short-term and 44% medium-term). The 1980
rediscount program through the private banks is estimated at US$1,343 million
(51% short-term and 49% medium-term rediscounts).
2.15      FIRA generally rediscounts to the participating banks 90% of the
amounts of subloans. Only in exceptional cases, such as subloans exceeding
US$100,000 or large loans for agroindustries, are banks required to increase
their participation in subloan financing to 20% to 30%. In view of the
large dlemand for credit and its greatly increasing lending program for the
coming years, FIRA intends to substantially increase the banks' share in
subloan financing. Under the proposed Seventh Credit Project, the 10%
participation would be maintained for lending to low-income producers while
for other categories of subloan beneficiaries the banks wouLd be required



- 14 -
to increase their participation.  FIRA would create a suitable interest rate
structure on rediscounts which would include incentives for increased bank
financing, thus making it attractive to the private banks.
Interest Rate Structure
2.16      To date, the interest rate structure in agriculture has been changing
moderately.  Nominal interest rates on medium- and long-term credits redis-
counted by FIRA to the participating banks range between 11.0 and 13.5% for
low-income producers, 16% for other producers, and 17% for agroindustries.
These rates are applicable under the Sixth Credit Project as well as all
other FIRA rediscounts.  Interest rates on short-term credit (which are not
included in the Sixth Project) vary from 14% for low-income producers and
16% for other producers to 16 to 17% for agroindustries. BANRURAL interest
rates on medium- and long-term credits are equal to those of FIRA; however,
rates on short-term subloans vary from 16% for ejidatarios to 18% for
other beneficiaries.
2.17      The above rates are negative as inflation is now estimated at
between 18 and 20% and below the market rates charged by the commercial
banks, which vary between 19.5 and 23%. Net interest rates on term deposits
(from 3 to 12 months) for February 1980, averaged 18%. The average cost of
funds (ACF) to the financial departments of multi-purpose banks, which is a
weighted average of interest rates paid by banks and other financing insti-
tutions on bonds, notes, and certificates of deposits, excluding checking and
savings accounts, averaged about 16.5% in 1979. The ACF rate is calculated
monthly by the Bank of Mexico and averaged 18.8% for the first four months of
1980. Since its inception, the ACF index has been readily accepted by the
banks as it adequately reflects the cost of funds, but now they are charging
sub-borrowers a spread of about two to five points over the index. The
Government has recently revised this index to make it more representative
of the cost of funds to Mexico's multi-purpose banks.
2.18      The Government is amenable to bringing about desirable changes
in the interest rate structure relating to agriculture, and it is increasingly
favoring the adoption of a variable interest rate system linked to the ACF
index for term lending operations. The Government's current thinking on
the interest rate structure is that:
(a)  interest rates in agriculture should be compatible with
those of other sectors;
(b)  interest rates structure should be adjusted periodically;
(c)  interest rates in agriculture should be somewhat lower
than the commercial rates (also allowing a small subsidy
to low-income producers) in order to maintain a favorable
investment climate; and
(d)  interest rates adopted under FIRA should be used for all
other agricultural credit programs such as the Integrated
Program for Rural Development (PIDER), the Investment Program
for Rainfed Agriculture (PLANAT) and Tropical Agriculture.



- 15 -
2.19      UJnder the proposed project, the interest rate structure would be
linked to the ACF level, with provisions for periodic adjustment (para 6.16).
Interest rate for the low-income producers would be below ACF, reflecting the
Government"s policy of subsidizing this target group, while the rates for the
commercial farmers would vary above the ACF level. As the annual rate of
inflation iLs expected to decrease to the international levels by 1982, the
prevailing rates should be positive in real terms.
III. AGRICULTURAL TRUST FUNDS (FIRA) I/
3.01      In order to stimulate lending to agriculture and induce greater
participation of the private banks and financial institutions to finance
credit needs of farmers, the Government established FIRA within the Bank of
Mexico. FIRA is the common name for a group of three trust funds: (a) the
Trust Fund for Crop, Livestock and Poultry Credit (FONDO); (b) the Special
Agricultural Credit Trust Fund (FEFA); and (c) the Technical Assistance and
Loan Guarantee Trust Fund (FEGA). Detailed financial data on FIRA's operation
is given in Annex 2.
Trust Fund for Crop, Livestock and Poultry Credit (FONDO)
3.02      The establishment in 1955 of FONDO as a trust fund in the Bank of
Mexico was a landmark in the development of agricultural credilt in Mexico.
By providing a combination of credit and technical assistance to the public
and private banks, the FONDO has contributed significantly to ithe growth
of credit and to the improvement of the appraisal and supervision practices.
3.03      The FONDO was created to encourage the private banking systems to
participate more actively in financing the credit needs of the agricultural
sector. T'he large differential margin between the lending rate to farmers
and FONDO"s discount rate to the participating banks has permitted higher
rates of return on the private banks' invested capital. The private banks
bear the risk of lending and the responsibility for collection, but their
risks are greatly reduced by the development of the FONDO's regional offices
and staff,, which, in the past, carried out much of the technical analysis
of prospective sub-borrowers and subprojects.
3.04      Initiated with Government funds, the FONDO originally restricted
its activ:Lties principally to short-term agricultural production credit to
finance annual crop production and upkeep of livestock herds. The FONDO's
resources were later augmented by loans from USAID and the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), and it also began to discount longer term subloans for
investments.
3.05      Since 1965, when FEFA was established, FONDO has redliscounted only
short-term credits for crop, livestock, and agroindustrial prcduction to
private banks. During 1979, FONDO rediscounted US$546 million, its recupera-
tion of rediscounts from banks was US$481 million, and its total outstanding
rediscount portfolio at end-1979 was US$380 million. FONDO operations are
1/   FIRA is referred to as FONDO in the loan documents.



- 16 -
financed by its equity, amounting to US$42 million at end-1979 and borrowing
from the Bank of Mexico. In 1980, FONDO lending operations will amount to
US$860.8 million, an increase of 60% over 1979.
Special Agricultural Credit Trust Fund (FEFA)
3.06      The real movement into on-farm development lending occurred only
after 1965, when the second trust fund (FEFA) was established within FIRA.
This fund was established to channel foreign loans, such as those from the
Bank, with corresponding counterpart funds in local currency, supplied by
the Bank of Mexico, for medium- and long-term lending to finance investments
in agriculture, livestock, and agroindustries. During the first seven years
of FEFA's operations, funds channeled through it for agricultural development
were on a very modest scale, and only in 1973 did its annual lending program
surpass US$50 million. The Bank played an important role in the growth of
FEFA. It was the execuLing agency of five Bank credit projects, the on-going
Sixth Credit Project and of credit components in other Bank-financed projects,
totalling US$664 million. The Fifth Credit Project, executed during 1977/78,
and the Sixth Credit Project, which is now nearing completion, helped to trans-
form FEFA into the most important lending institution for agricultural develop-
ment in Mexico (Annex 2, Table 4). In addition to Bank loans, IDB loans, which
are now fully disbursed to FEFA, amount to US$164 million, and, in 1979,
FEFA obtained a US$50 million medium-term loan from the Chase Manhattan Bank
for agroindustries.
3.07      FEFA rediscounts medium- and long-term loans for agricultural
livestock and agroindustries development to both the public and private
banks. Total rediscounts during 1979 amounted to US$648 million, its
recuperation was US$196 million and its total outstanding rediscount port-
folio at end-1979 amounted to US$1,114 million. Government equity in FEFA
has been increasing steadily because the principal of external loans from
the Bank and IDB is repaid by the Government and the local currency equiva-
lent, deposited with the institution at the time of receipt of the external
loans, is accumulated in FEFA as additional equity. Total FEFA equity at
end-1979 was US$555 million, an increase of 48% over 1978. FEFA's lending
program for 1980 is US$704 million, 30% of which FEFA expects to finance
through Bank loans, 40% from the recuperation of outstanding rediscounts and
the balance from various internal and external sources.
Technical Assistance and Loan Guarantee Trust Fund (FEGA)
3.08      FEGA was created in 1973 as a trust fund to defray to participating
banks part of the cost of loan evaluation and technical assistance associated
with lending operations to ejidatarios and other low-income farmers (up to 3%
of the loan amount and, in special cases, up to 6%) and to issue guarantees to
private banks for the recovery of loans to these beneficiaries. Since its
creation in 1973 and until December 31, 1979, FEGA issued guarantees amounting
to US$301 million, while total FEGA payment on account of guarantees (up to
80% of the subloan amount) were US$1 million during 1979 and US$1.2 million in
1978. Technical assistance reimbursement during 1979 totalled US$6.5 million
(US$0.8 million to BANRURAL, US$4.0 million to private banks) and US$1.7 million
to FIRA to cover part of its costs of training and demonstration centers. All



- 17 -
payments Trade by FEGA on account of guarantees and for technical assistance,
as well as, FEGA's administrative costs, are paid by the Government. The total
amount paiLd to FEGA by the Government since its establishment was US$33
million. FEGA's approved budget for 1980 is US$16.6 million. Reimbursement
for technical assistance costs is estimated at US$9.1 million (US$1.3 million
for BANRURAL, US$5.2 million for private banks and US$2.6 million for FIRA),
and US$2.2 million is provided for the payment of guarantees to private banks.
The balance (US$5.3 million) is earmarked for payments of interest on external
loans and for FEGA's administrative expenses.
Cost of Funds
3.09      The average cost of FONDO-FEFA resources was 4.3% in 1977, 4.5% in
1978, and 5.6% in 1979. The increase in 1979 was due to: (a) the receipt of
a US$50 million loan from the Chase-Manhattan Bank which bears commercial
interest rates; and (b) the increase in the interest rate from 3% to 6%
paid by FIRA to the Bank of Mexico on additional funds withdrawn during 1979.
As of March 1, 1980, all Bank of Mexico funds allocated to FIRA bear an
interest rate of 8%, and FIRA estimates that for 1980 the average cost of
all its resources would be 8.75%. The total funds allocated to FIRA by the
Bank of Mexico up to end-1980 would amount to US$1,000 million.  Interest on
all external credits (except foreign exchange differences) is paid by FIRA
on due daLtes, while repayment of principal and all foreign exchange differences
are paid by the Government. Overall, FIRA's financial position until end-
1979 was sound due to: (a) the low cost of FIRA's external resources and
borrowings from the Bank of Mexico; and (b) adequate differentials between
the cost of funds and the rediscount rates paid by the participating banks.
By the end of 1979 the accumulated surplus and reserves of FONDO amounted to
US$38 million and of FEFA US$46 million. FIRA's financial position is expected
to remain sound and the higher rediscount rates which should become effective
in mid-1980 would enable FIRA to cover the increased cost of resources.
Assistance to Low-income Producers
3.10      FIRA has established a special program to aid low-income producers;
almost 30% of FIRA's past lending program was channeled to this group. About
35% of t'he 1980 lending program (US$1,565 million) is earmarked for the low-
income producers. Additionally, FIRA has supported the low-income producers
through externally financed projects. Under the Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 910-ME of June 1973), about 20% of that loan was allocated to
low-income farmers. This program was expanded under the Fifth Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 1217-ME of March 1976) in which 47% of on-farm lending
was allocated to low-income producers and continued in the Sixth Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 1569-MIE), in which 33% of the loan was allocated to this
group. FIRA has also been an active participant in Mexico's Integrated Program
for Rural Development (PIDER), which would benefit some five million poor families
in 100 micro-regions. The Bank has made two loans in support: of PIDER, totalling
US$230 million, of which US$57.5 million was allocated to agricultural credit
through FIRA for low-income farmers and a third PIDER project is now being
appraised. Furthermore, US$11.3 million of the US$56 million loan for the Tropical
Agricultural Development (Loan 1553-ME) has been allocated to credit through FIRA,
primarily for low-income producers, and the Rainfed Agricultural Development
Project, which has been appraised, would include a significant credit component
for low--income producers. In addition, six loans (US$164 miLlion) from the IDB
have included credit through FIRA for low-income farmers.



- 18 -
Recuperation of Rediscounts
3.11     FIRA rediscounts are collected automatically from the participating
banks through their accounts with the Bank of Mexico, and FIRA has virtually
no overdues. Periodic reports received from the participating private banks
on overdue subloans rediscounted by FIRA show that they are below 1% of the
total outstanding loan portfolio. On medium- and long-term loans made through
BANRURAL and rediscounted by FIRA, mainly to low-income producers and ejida-
tarios, overdues are estimated at 10 to 12%.
FIRA's Medium-Term Investment Program (1980-82)
3.12     For the period 1980-82, FIRA would base its lending on an overall
program equivalent to about US$12,054 million. Lending for short-term and
for medium- and long-term investments would amount to 53% and 47%, respectively,
of the total investment. FIRA would contribute about 63% of the investment
funds, and the remaining balance would be provided by the participating banks
(22%) and the beneficiaries (15%).
3.13     The thrust of FIRA's program would be to augment basic food production,
increase production of agricultural export commodities, and accelerate and
diversify agroindustry production. Almost 80% of the investment program
would focus on basic food production. FIRA's program is also designed to
reduce regional imbalances in terms of development. Almost 56% of the medium-
and long-term investment funds would be directed to the more depressed regions,
mainly in the central and southern part of the country.
3.14     FIRA's detailed 1980 investment program has been approved by the
Technical Committee, the governing body of FIRA that sets priorities and
policies and approves its financing and lending program. About 35% of the
overall lending program would focus on low-income producers.
3.15     FIRA's 1980-82 program is reasonable, inasmuch as it reflects the
Government's priorities and is in keeping with institutional capabilities,
including the participating banks. The proposed project would support almost
20% of the medium- and long-term investments under the 1980-82 program.
Organization and Management
3.16     The Bank of Mexico is the trustee of the Government for the three
trust funds administered by FIRA. Two technical committees, one for FONDO-
FEFA and the other for FEGA, are the governing bodies of the funds.  These
are composed of 10 members and each is headed by a senior official of the
Ministry of Finance. Other members are the Secretary of SARH, representatives
of the Bank of Mexico, Banco Nacional de Credito Exterior, ANAGSA, BANRURAL,
the Mexican Banker's Association, and two members appointed by farmers'
organizations. FIRA is managed by a Director, who is the Fiduciary Delegate,
and is assisted by three Sub-Directors (technical services, marketing, and
general administration).



- 19 -
Since its inception, FIRA has expanded its organization and has decentralized.
It now has a central office in Mexico City, nine regional offices, 37 state
state off-ices and 90 local offices. The Bank of Mexico, as t-rustee, pro-
vides FIIRA with the required staffing, office facilities and administrative
services. FIRA's total staff presently numbers 1,263, of which 812 are
professional and 451 are administrative. About 35% of FIRA's staff is
located at the central office. FIRA is now considering structural changes
to strengthen its organizational set-up and to increase decentralization.
3.17      Training and Demonstration.  In addition to its lending activities
for agricultural production and development, FIRA operates training and
demonstration farms engaged in applied agricultural research, production-
oriented demonstrations and training activities. These are strategically
located in the zones of major present or potential production throughout the
country and can be considered as an important complement to the Government's
research and extension services. FIRA also continuously maintains training
courses for its own and participating banks' agricultural technical staff.
Additionally, FIRA complements the participating banks in providing technical
assistance to low-income producers, and its technical staff provides some
support in preparing, evaluating and supervising the farm development. While
FIRA has reasonable training and demonstration programs, additional resources
are needed to expand these programs in order to improve technical services to
farmers.
3.18      FIRA's Planning and Programing.  As FIRA's lending has grown immensely,
it has evolved into a large and relatively autonomous agency for agricultural
development. In recognition of this, FIRA has set up a Division of Programing
(DP), which is responsible for (a) FIRA's annual programing; (b) preparation
of proposals for borrowing from international agencies; and 4(c) FIRA's analysis
and diagnosis of the agricultural sector. During 1979, DP prepared FIRA's
first annual program and its medium-term plan. In late 1979, DP was reorganized
to improve its overall effectiveness.
3.19      FIRA's medium-term plan is based on projections from historical trends
of the size and composition of the lending program. The projected targets,
by and Large, reflect Government policies and past trends toward increases in
medium- and long-term subloans, participation of low-income producers, and
lending to agroindustries. DP's 1980 lending program provides an estimate of
the size and composition of funds to be channeled into agriculture and is
based on inputs from the state and regional levels. For the preparation of
the 1980 program, DP communicated the Government's national priorities to
FIRA's field offices in early October 1979 with DP's projection of the national
targets for FIRA's lending but without specifying regional targets. FIRA's
state- and agency-level representatives and specialists estimated the funds
they could place in sound investments during the coming year, based
on consultations with their participating banks, important borrowers, and
other Government agencies in the area. Further discussions resulted between
DP and the regional agencies before the annual program was finalized. Eventu-
ally, the final estimates provide the basis for contractual agreements between
FIRA and the participating banks for subloans to be discounted through FIRA.
3.20     Most of the regions carry out their programing and adjustments at
the regional residency in consultation with the state residents and special-
ists. In the northwest and southeast regional residencies, FIRA is experi-
menting with a decentralized structure which locates the specialists at the



- 20 -
state residency, leaving the regional residency with only a few coordinators.
In all likelihood, the remaining seven regions will follow the same decen-
tralization structure in the near future, providing greater roles to the
state-level agencies in the planning process.
3.21     The absence of sufficient economists at the state and regional levels
hampers the quality of planning; investment programs are largely prepared
by technicians. Also, inadequate staff at the central level reduces FIRA's
ability to carry out effective studies and analyses. As a result, there has
been no detailed analysis on agricultural credit that would provide perspec-
tive on the role of credit within the sectoral program. Sector diagnosis
is mediocre and restricted to selected data collection. The establishment
of the planning and programing function at the division level does not provide
DP with sufficient status to ensure access, influence and the ability to
attract talented people.
3.22     FIRA is relatively autonomous.  Financing for FONDO and FEFA lending
activities is supported through funds from the Bank of Mexico, recuperation
of previous loans and foreign borrowings. Interest earnings are sufficient
to cover the cost of borrowed funds and FIRA's administrative and general
expenditures. Only FEGA receives annual Government budgetary allocations
to cover the cost of technical assistance and the payment of guarantees.
The "trust fund" status of FIRA insulates it from much of the normal political
and bureaucratic pressures. FIRA's 1980 annual program was approved by its
Technical Committee but the approval process was largely routine due to FIRA's
success in placing funds for agriculture. FIRA has been remotely involved in
planning for the agricultural sector and has had minimal influence on sector
planning despite its vast experience, substantial size and rapid growth in
recent years.
3.23     While FIRA is moving in the right direction in planning and programing,
there is currently a pressing need to (a) upgrade the status of DP to a Unit
for planning and program analysis and hire additional economists at the
regional and national level to strengthen FIRA's capabilities to carry out
pertinent studies; (b) improve FIRA's analysis and diagnosis of agriculture
and credit requirements and analysis of the development effects of FIRA-assisted
programs; and (c) improve coordination with other agencies involved in agricul-
tural production and development.
3.24     FIRA recognizes the above and places high priority on planning and
programing to ensure (a) active and greater participation in agriculture sector
planning and coordination, and (b) efficient allocation of its resources to
sound investment programs. Consequently, it has agreed to take firm measures
under the proposed project, focusing on the above, to revamp its planning and
programing mechanism.
3.25     Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Monitoring and Evaluation Division of
FIRA, known as Division de Evaluacion de Sistemas e Informatica, developed from
a professional staff of two in 1976 to one of 55 in February 1980. Although
its original objective was limited to economic and financial impact analysis
of FIRA's subloans, the division has expanded its scope to include internal
systems analysis, and, most recently, selective data collection on agricultural
production and credit. In December 1979, the division was reorganized into
three offices: the Office of Credit Impact Evaluation, the Office of Internal
Systems Analysis and the Office of Information.



- 21 -
3.26      The Office of Credit Impact Evaluation, with a central office staff
of 15 and a field staff of 26, remains the principal focus of the division.
A series of credit impact methodologies has been developed and tested, and
the most recently completed credit impact evaluation attempted to measure
subloan impact on farm systems. The study, which was conducted over a one-
year period on a 155-subloan sample, illuminated the impact of various
investments on production and income, but it did have several shortcomings,
principally the extremely small sample taken and improper classification of
sample units.
3.27     Based on experience with the above methodology, a new methodology
is presently being tested using a sample of 550 subloans. Once the re-
sults of this trial are analyzed and the methodology improved accordingly,
it will be applied to the rest of the principal farming activ:Lties. The
sub-borrowers in the sample will be interviewed monthly over a five-year
period. With the financial, technical and socio-economic data collected, FIRA
will be able to measure the adequacy of its technical services, the financial
success of its lending program, and the socio-economic impact of its present
credits.
3.28     Although the Office of Internal Systems Evaluation was not formed
until December 1979, the Monitoring and Evaluation Division had been conducting
studies in this area since 1977. The studies have focused on the evaluation
of (a) the supervision of banks participating in its lending program,
(b) efficiency of technical field staff, and (c) assessing by subloan type
and by borrower type the extent of recurrent financing.
3.29     The studies carried out by the Monitoring and Evaluation Division
have resulted in several significant changes in the institution; for example,
a study of the state/regional office structure resulted in the initiation
of a pilot project in two regions of Mexico to test means of decentralizing
FIRA's decision-making to the state level and an analysis of the monthly state
office reporting system has resulted in its replacement with a more concise
format, to be submitted by the regional offices on a quarterly basis. This
new format can also be stored in the computer.
3.30     The credit impact studies have also resulted in improvements in FIRA's
investment programs. For example, realizing the low profitability of small-
scale dairy stables, FIRA initiated a series of field research programs to
develop a less expensive dairy package based on grazing rather than stable
feeding systems. This new system is now being used commercially by 14 ejidos
in Tabasco.
3.31     The work of the Monitoring and Evaluation Division is important as
it allows FIRA to ascertain the development impact of its len1ding, thereby
providing the data necessary for its preparation of sound annual investment
programs. However, to reach these goals, the division needs to be strengthened
with addlitional staff and facilities. The Seventh Credit would provide funds
for such strengthening.



- 22 -
IV. PERFORMANCE UNDER PREVIOUS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS
4.01      The Bank has to date financed six credit projects, totaling US$600
million, to support lending for crop and livestock development. The first
project (Loan 430-ME, US$25 million, effective October 1, 1965) provided funds for
medium- and long-term on-farm investments to medium-sized and commercial farmers
in the tropical zone, central plateau and northern Mexico. Subloans financed a
variety of activities but largely livestock, annual crops and perennial crops,
with a lesser amount for agroindustries. Some 5,500 on-farm subloans were made,
80% of them for less than US$6,700, while 2% were in excess of US$80,000, the
latter group accounting for 23% of the amount lent.  Livestock activities
accounted for 60% of the disbursements; annual crops, 19%; perennial crops, 5%;
and agroindustries, 16%.
4.02      The favorable performance of FIRA under the firs. project encouraged
the Bank to process a second loan to maintain continuity. The second project
(Loan 610-ME, US$65 million, effective September 19, 1969) continued the
activities initiated under the first loan and added a cattle development
component for southeastern Mexico. In this project, 11,651 subloans were made,
averaging US$17,000 each: 85% averaged US$6,400 and only 1% were over US$80,000
and accounted for about 10% of the funds. Livestock activities absorbed 61% of
the funds disbursed; annual crops, 28%; perennial crops, 8%; and agroindustries,
3%.
4.03      The third project (Loan 747-ME, US$75 million, effective September 1,
1971) was fully disbursed in April 1974 and closed on September 30, 1975.
In this project, 12,326 subloans were made; 81% were for less than US$20,000,
averaging US$6,500, while 6% were in excess of US$80,000 and accounted for
29% of the amount disbursed. Of the amounts lent, 58% were for livestock
enterprises (four-fifths of these beef ranches), 24% for annual crops, 8%
for perennial crops, 7% for agroindustries, and 3% for mixed farming enterprises.
4.04      The first three projects included an appreciable number of modest-
sized subloans, and in the third project, an increasing number of ejidos
participated. The fourth project (Loan 910-ME, US$110 million, effective
October 24, 1973), while continuing to support the activities financed under
the previous projects, included a specific component directed to low-income
producers, totaling 20% of project subloans. Disbursements under the fourth
project were completed by December 31, 1975, one and one-half years ahead of
schedule. Overall, 10,881 subloans were made, averaging US$24,260. Of the
total number of subloans, 1,910 went to low-income producers, averaging
US$19,140.  Individual smallholders received 1,118 subloans, and groups (i.e.,
ejidos, sociedades and grupos solidarios) received 792 loans. There were
23,552 direct beneficiaries and the average subloan per beneficiary in the
low-income producers' category was US$1,552. Of the total amount lent under
the project, 54% was for livestock enterprises (two-thirds of this for beef
ranches), 24% for annual crop farms, 7% for perennial crops, 13% for agroi-
ndustries and 2% unclassified.



- 23 -
4.05      The fifth project (Loan 1217-ME, US$125 million, eff'ective
August 28, 1976) continued to support FIRA's medium- and long--term lending
programs. It was fully disbursed by February 1979, four months ahead of
appraisal estimates. In this loan, 40% of the total project investments
and 48% of the loan amount was directed to low-income farmers, more than double
the amount lent to these farmers under the previous Bank-financed agricultural
project. About 6,900 subloans were made to farmers in the low-income categories
(i.e., both individual farmers and groups of ejido farmers) and 10,740 subloans
were made to medium-income farmers. The average subloan size in the low-income
category was US$20,600, and there were 198,450 beneficiaries: 179,000 ejida-
tarios arid 19,450 individual small-scale farmers. The total amount lent to
these low-income farmers was US$189.7 million and the average subloan size per
beneficiary was US$956. Some 16,240 medium-income farmers received subloans:
2,140 ejidatarios and 14,100 individual farmers. The total amount lent to the
medium-income farmers was US$177.7 million and the average su'bloan size was
US$10,942. Of the total amount lent under the project, 37% was for livestock
enterprises (two-thirds of these for beef ranches), 46% for annual crops, 6%
for perennial crops, 9% for agroindustries and 2% unclassified.
4.06      The Sixth Agricultural Credit Project continued Bank support of FIRA's
long- and medium-term lending program. It was approved June 1978 and became
effective in January 1979. Implementation proceeded far ahead of appraisal
expectations and, by March 1980, funds were fully committed, with Bank dis-
bursements from the loan account amounting to US$130.0 million, or 65% of
the total. Total project cost is estimated at US$627 million, 25% of which is
destined for low-income farmers; 61% for medium-income and commercial farmers;
10% for agroindustrial development; and 3.5% for technical assistance, training,
and demonstration farms. By December 1979, FIRA had rediscounted 11,500 subloans
worth US$306.0 million with funds provided by the Sixth Credit. This included
1,240 subloans worth US$36.0 million to low-income producers; 10,000 subloans
worth US$250 million to commercial farmers; and 260 subloans worth US$20.0
million for agroindustrial development. On a sectoral basis, 60% of the invest-
ments went for crop production, 33% for livestock production, and 7% for agro-
industrial development.
4.07      The Bank has completed audit reports on the first four agricultural
loans tco FIRA, and a completion report on the fifth loan is IIow being prepared.
The Bank: has stressed increased lending to low-income producers, increased
emphasis on crop rather than livestock production, and less emphasis on models
and more emphasis on sector orientation in loan preparation. Altogether, the
agricultural loan series has absorbed US$600 million of Bank funds, making
the program one of the largest in the Bank's agricultural portfolio.
4.08      FIRA's performance throughout the 1970s has been impressive.  As an
institution, it has grown rapidly; trained many high quality technicians for
its own as well as private and public bank staffs' and established technical



- 24 -
assistance systems and demonstration centers which have benefitted farmers
throughout Mexico. Due to the slow start-up of its Monitoring and Evaluation
Division, FIRA does not yet have in-depth development impact studies of its
lending program. Nevertheless, FIRA's rediscount program has undeniably in-
creased private and public bank lending to the agricultural sector, thereby
complementing the Mexican Government's programs to increase agricultural
production. And, with its increased lending to the country's low-income
producers, FIRA has directly addressed the difficult development issue of
distribution of the benefits of production increases within the agricultural
sector.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
5.01      The Government of Mexico has requested Bank assistance in financing
the Seventh Agricultural Credit Project to support the Government's overall
development programs for agriculture to promote export growth, reduce the
country's dependence on imported foodstuff and alleviate poverty and under-
employment in the farming sector. The proposed project would be a contin-
uation of Bank assistance to FIRA's lending program, which has received
financing under six Bank loans, and would help finance a wide range of in-
vestments in crops, livestock, fisheries and agroindustry development through-
out the country. The thrust of the proposed project would be toward increasing
agricultural production and productivity and in institution building. In
contrast to the on-going Sixth Credit Project, the proposed project would
include an additional category for medium-income producers and would designate
about 15% of the total program for their use. Also, under the Sixth Credit
Project, only 25% of the total project costs was allocated for low-income
producers but under the proposed project 50% would be earmarked for such
sub-borrowers. The preparation report for the proposed project was compiled
by FIRA staff and submitted to the Bank in January 1980. A list of studies
and working papers relating to the project is given in Annex 6.
B. Project Objectives
5.02      The objectives of the proposed project would be to:
(a)  support the Government's agricultural diversification program,
including expansion and development of fisheries and agroindustries,
and increase low- and medium-income farmer participation;
(b)  strengthen FIRA's planning and programing capabilities and
provide an institutional framework for efficient allocation
of financial resources through private and public lending agencies;



- 25 -
(c) induce private commercial banks to increase participation in
agriculture through FIRA's rediscounting facility and strengthen
each agency's subloan evaluation and supervision capabilities
and technical services;
(d) irtensify training for the technical staff of FIRA as well as
for those of participating banks;
(e) establish an operating regulations and procedures manual to
standardize the participating banks' lending under FIRA;
(f)  strengthen FIRA's monitoring and evaluation capabilities and data
base system; and
(g) introduce a more flexible interest rate structure for agricultural
financing under FIRA.
C. Brief Description
5.03      The proposed loan would support part of FIRA's projected lending pro-
gram over a two-and-a-half-year period to cover the foreign exchange costs of
FIRA-financed subprojects and institutional improvements (paraL 5.38). Subloans
to individual farmers, farmer groups, and cooperatives would be based on tech-
nically and economically sound development plans for a wide array of activities,
including crops, livestock, fisheries and agroindustries. Given the wide
range of types of sub-borrowers and variations in regional conditions and
agricultural activities, subloans would vary considerably. F-[RA would focus
on development-oriented medium- and long-term investments, placing emphasis
on selection of sub-borrowers in terms of development potential and on transfer
of appropriate technology to farmers.
5.04      About 63% of the total lending program would be for annual and
perennial crops; 32% for livestock; and 5% for agroindustries and fisheries.
Further, about 50% of the total program would be directed to low-income
producers, 15% to medium-income producers, and 28% to other commercial producers.
5.05      As under the on-going Sixth Credit Project, FIRA would be responsible
for projeact execution. Funds would be channeled through some 90 private and
public lending agencies, utilizing the existing credit delivery system. Formu-
lation, esvaluation and approval, and supervision of investment development
plans would be carried out primarily by FIRA-approved participating bank
technicians, with logistical support from FIRA staff.
D. Detailed Features
Crops Lending Program
5.06      Lending for crop production would be for annual as well as perennial
crops under rainfed and irrigated conditions.



- 26 -
5.07       Rainfed Annual Crops.  Funds would be made available for on-farm
investments in the traditional farming systems to increase productivity of
basic food crops, mainly maize and beans. Investments would include land
clearing and preparation, upgrading of soils, storage facilities, machinery
and equipment. Subloan beneficiaries would be primarily ejidatarios or
groups of smallholders and medium-income producers with farms mainly in the
range of about 50 to 300 ha. Investments on an average farm of 160 ha in
semi-arid and temperate areas would amount to about US$21,800, with an average
of 16 families per subloan. Likewise, investments on an average farm of 200 ha
in the tropic areas are estimated at about US$28,700, with an average of 40
families per subloan. At full development (by year 5), yields of maize
and beans are expected to increase from the present levels of 1.7 tons/ha
and 0.6 ton/ha to 2.2 tons/ha and 0.9 ton/ha, respectively. Other important
annual crops that would be financed in the rainfed tropic areas are rice and
soybean. Rice yield would increase from the present level of 2.2 tons/ha to
to 2.7 tons/ha in a period of five years, while soybean yield would increase
from 0.8 ton/ha to 1.2 tons/ha in a period of four years.
5.08      Gravity-Irrigated Annual Crops.  Major focus would be given to the
northern region of the country, which includes a large number of medium-income
producers and ejidatarios who are in the process of moving into irrigated
agriculture. Improvements would allow a significant increase in the area
designated for higher value crops and more intensive use of cropland; cropping
intensity, on the average would increase to over 125%. Investments on an
average farm of 200 ha are estimated at about US$47,800, with an average of
15 families per subloan. Investments would include on-farm irrigation and
drainage infrastructure, land levelling, machinery and equipment, farm buildings
and storage facilities. Yields of wheat, sorghum, beans and soybeans would
increase from the present levels of 3.8 tons/ha, 5.0 tons/ha, 1.2 tons/ha
and 2.0 tons/ha to 4.2 tons/ha, 5.8 tons/ha, 1.6 tons/ha, and 2.4 tons/ha,
respectively, at full development (year 4).
5.09      Tubewell-Irrigated Annual Crops.  This type of farming is predominant
in the arid and semi-arid areas of the northwest and subloan beneficiaries would
be commercial farmers as well as ejidos or groups of small landowners who
participate in small-scale irrigation operations. Beneficiaries would be in
areas in which the Government has already financed infrastructure for the
development of ground-water resources. SARH is expected to drill 1,000 tube-
wells over the next three years in areas of low-income producers. Subloans
would cover investments of about US$73,900 per farm of 260 ha, with an average
of 14 families, and would finance land improvement and preparation, power
installation, well equipment, on-farm irrigation, buildings and agricul-
tural machinery. Development investments would emphasize higher value crops
such as wheat, sorghum, soybean, safflower and cotton, and would increase
the average cropping intensity to 125%. Yields of wheat, sorghum, and
soybeans would reach similar levels to those projected for improved production
under gravity-irrigated areas. Other crops, such as sesame, safflower and
cotton would reach yield levels of 0.9 ton/ha, 1.5 tons/ha, 3.0 tons/ha,
respectively, at full development (year 5).



- 27 -
5.10       Irrigated Orchards.  In the arid and semi-arid areas, irrigated
annual crops are to some extent replaced with orchards because of higher
return and lower irrigation water requirements. Grapes and wa,lnuts would be
the principal crops. Average investment on a farm of 50 ha for land preparation
and planting materials of industrial grapes is estimated at about US$240,900
in eight years, with an average of 10 families participating. Grape yields
would begin in the third year with about 5 tons/ha and at ful]L development
(year 8) would increase to between 15 and 20 tons/ha.
5.11      The project would also finance the rehabilitation of deciduous
fruits such as apples, peaches, pears and olives. About 100,000 ha of these
orchards are in production in the north, northwest, and central part of
the country. Average rehabilitation investment per farm of 50 ha would be
US$114,000 and would include elimination of old trees, replanting, pruning,
control of pests and diseases, acquisition of farm machinery, and building of
barns and installation of water supply system. Yields are expected to double
from 6 tons/ha to 12 tons/ha in about four years. Under a group system, the
average r,umber of beneficiaries would be 10 families per subloan.
5.12      Funds would also be provided to finance small-scale operations for the
establishment of new orchards of pecans, pistachios, almonds and date palms
in the north, northwest and Baja California. The average investment on a farm
of 50 ha is estimated at about US$168,200 over a five-year period, with an
average of 10 families per subloan. Subloans would finance land improvement
and preparation, on-farm irrigation systems, buildings, and machinery and equip-
ment. Actditionally, planting materials, agricultural chemicals, fertilizers,
and hirect labor associated with the start-up period would also be financed.
Farming systems would vary between 20 ha and 80 ha, and, at full development
(about 15 years), yields would reach 2 tons/ha for pecans, which would be the
principal crop.
5.13      In tropical areas where there is irrigation, the project would also
finance lhe establishment of tropical fruits such as maranon, mango, grapefruit,
and African palm. The investment for an average farm of 100 ha with 20
beneficiaries participating is estimated at about US$137,600 over a four-year
period.  Subloans would finance preparation and improvement cf land, and
planting materials, agricultural chemicals, and fertilizer associated in the
start-up period.
5.14      Rainfed Orchards.  Emphasis would be given to the humid tropics where
there is a high demand for investment funds among small-scale individual
farmers with an average of 1 to 5 ha of farm land to rehabilitate existing
plantations of tropical fruit trees (coconut, cocoa, and citrus) in order
to increase production to their potential levels. There are about 150,000
ha of coconuts in the states of Tabasco, Guerrero, Colima and Michoacan;
64,000 ha of cocoa in Tabasco and Chiapas; and 215,000 ha of citrus, mainly
oranges, in these areas. Subloans would finance the cost of replacing part
of the existing plantation; investment items in the initial period would
include land improvement and preparation, unproductive tree removal, planting
materials, fertilizers, agricultural chemicals, and hired labor.



- 28 -
5.15      Export Crops.  Coffee, the principal export crop occupies about
375,000 ha mostly in the high areas of the South Pacific Coast (Chiapas,
Oaxaca, and Guerrero) and in the state of Veracruz. Investment would be made
available to rehabilitate 17,100 ha of existing plantations to increase
production. Subloans would finance the cost to provide better shade trees,
replanting materials, elimination of unproductive plants, fertilizer, agri-
cultural chemicals, and equipment. Coffee yields are expected to rise from
the present level of 1.7 tons/ha to 4.0 tons/ha at full development (year 6).
5.16      There are 450,000 ha of sugarcane in Mexico, with the states of
Veracruz and Jalisco the main growing areas. About 300,000 persons are in the
sugar industry. Investment funds would be made available to commercial farmers
and ejidos to increase the area of sugarcane in rainfed as well as in irrigated
areas. It is estimated that, for new plantations in rainfed areas, the in-
vestment would be about US$12,800 per ha, and in irrigated areas, about
US$14,000 per ha. Subloans would finance farm machinery and equipment and
land preparation and improvement. Under project conditions, cane yields would
increase from 45 tons/ha to 70 tons/ha in rainfed areas and from 60 tons/ha
to 90 tons/ha in irrigated areas.
5.17      Subloans would also be provided for vegetable production.  Tomatoes
and melons are the principal export crop, and presently, it is estimated that
about 140,000 ha are under export vegetable cultivation. Subloans would
finance land improvement, on-farm irrigation systems, farm buildings and
storage facilities, nurseries and greenhouses, and machinery and equipment.
Livestock Lending Program
5.18      Based mainly on previous lending patterns, about 50% of sublending
for livestock would be for beef production, 20% for dual-purpose production
(meat and milk), 20% for dairy production and 10% for small animals. As
there is a wide range of ecological regions and type of borrower, there
would be considerable variation in the size of the subloans as well as in the
investment packages financed.
5.19      Beef Production.  Investment items would include land clearing, estab-
lishment and renovation of pastures and fences; improvement of cattle handling
facilities, water supplies, and farm buildings; and the purchase of farm machinery
and breeding stock. In the northern semi-arid region, output would consist of
feeder steers and boneless beef from cull cows. Participating banks would provide
short-term credits for fattening more feeder steers through both feedlot and FIRA-
developed grazing systems in order to increase the supply of meat to the domestic
market. Ranches in the dry tropic Pacific region have limited fattening capacity,
and a high proportion of their steers are sold for fattening to the Gulf Coast
region, which is being developed as the major source of quality beef for the
domestic market. New areas would be developed out of forest land and the carry-
ing capacity of existing farms would be increased by sowing improved pasture
species. Investment per ranch is estimated at around US$44,000, with an



- 29 -
average of 17 beneficiaries per subloan. Farms would range from an average
of 4,000 ha in the northern semi-arid region to 125 ha in the humid tropics.
It is estimated that the proposed investments at full development would
result in. improved carrying capacities, ranging from an increase of
around 15% for the northern area to around 40% for the humid tropics, and
increases 4in weaning rate from 60% to 65%.
5.20      Dual-Purpose Production.  Emphasis would be given to financing
more milk production in the Gulf Coast and humid tropic zone lby promoting
dual-purpose cattle (Swiss Cebu and Holstein Cebu crossbreds) systems of
production. Input costs are low as animals are grazed on tropical grassland
without concentrate supplements. The dual-purpose farm is virtually the only
means of supplying fluid milk to tropical urban areas. The rapid influx of
population and rising incomes in the State of Tabasco have created a serious
deficiency in milk supply there. In more remote areas, milk from dual-
purpose cows would be used to produce cheese on the farm for sale. Invest-
ment items would be similar to those proposed under the beef production
program (para 5.19). Investment per ranch is estimated to average about
US$36,000, with 10 beneficiaries per ranch. Participating farms would average
around 100 ha and it is estimated that at full development there would be
increases in carrying capacity of over 30%, improvements in weaning rate
from 60 to 65%, and in milk production from 450 to 700 liters per cow.
5.21      Milk Production.  The project would give increased emphasis to
investment in dairy production.  Over 90% of the subloans would be used for
increasing the size of existing commercial dairy farms concentrated in the
irrigated arid, semi-arid and temperate zones of Mexico. Investments would
include alfalfa and/or perennial grass establishment, expansion and improve-
ment of existing buildings, water supplies, irrigation, milking and cooling
equipment, agricultural machinery and the purchase of in-calf Holstein heifers.
Most of the investments would go into the traditional system of milk production
in which feed is harvested and fed to confined animals; however, where possible,
grazing on perennial pastures would be promoted in order to encourage farmers
to gradually adopt FIRA-promoted lower cost methods of milk production.
Because many of these farms have a limited area of land on whiich to expand
feed production, herd expansion is generally associated with increased reliance
on purchased feed. Rearing of heifer calves for herd replacements is now a
profitable enterprise and would be promoted, particularly among low-income
farmers. Average investment is estimated at around US$45,000 per farm with
an average of five beneficiaries per subloan. It is estimated that, at full
developmtent, the calving rate would be raised from 70% to 75% and milk produc-
tion per cow increased from 3,600 liters to 4,000 liters.
5.22      Other Livestock.  Small animals are an important part of the investment
program in other livestock. The major investments in this category would con-
tinue to be for swine and poultry production, but investments would be made for
productiLon of sheep and goat. Investment in swine production would be for both
combined and separated breeding and fattening operations, predominantly based
on purchased feed. The majority of the subloans are expected to continue to be
in the "Bajio" (central plateau) region which has easy access to the grain
markets and the main consumption centers. Investment in swine production



- 30 -
would average about US$39,000, with four beneficiaries per subloan. The in-
vestments would be mainly in buildings for the different classes of livestock,
feed storage, water and drainage facilities and purchase of breeding stock.
Mainly through an increase in the annual farrowing rate from 1.7 to 1.8 liters
per year, the total number of pigs sold per sow per year is estimated to
increase from 13 to over 15 by year 2 of development.
Agroindustries
5.23      One of the underlying tenets of FIRA's lending program is to increase
the participation of small- and medium-scale producers. Under the proposed
project, it is expected that about 144 subloans would be extended to small-
and medium-scale enterprises. Of the total agroindustries program (US$40
million excluding contingency), about US$4.8 million would be utilized for
forestry industries; US$3 million for agricultural implement and service indus-
tries; US$6.9 million for slaughterhouses; US$6.3 million for fruit and vegetable
packing and processing plants; US$4.8 million for milk pasteurizing plants; US$4.8
million for grain storage facilities; US$4.2 million for feed mills; and US$3.7
million for fishmeal plants. About 60% of total lending would be for moderniza-
tion or expansion of existing enterprises, and about 40% would be to establish
new industries. FIRA's rediscounts of subloans would be for investment purposes
only to cover costs of such capital items as engineering design, site
preparation, buildings, storage facilities, utilities installations, machinery
and equipment, specialized transport and fishing vessels.
5.24      Slaughterhouses.  Lending for slaughterhouses and by-product
processing plants would account for about 12% of total funds designated for
agroindustries. Funds for investments in slaughterhouses would be directed
primarily to producer groups, while subloans for by-product processing
facilities (bloodmeal, bonemeal, tallow) would be promoted among existing
enterprises. Investment costs would include slaughter and chilling plants
and machinery and equipment; total investments for new enterprises would range
between US$1.1 million and US$1.9 million and for renovation of existing
plants, between US$0.7 million and US$1.2 million. Development of small- and
medium-scale specialized meat product plants would be emphasized through
marketing and technical assistance. The average investment cost for such
enterprises is estimated at US$0.5 million. Beneficiaries per subproject
would average between 150 and 200, depending on the size of operation and
producer associations.
5.25      Fruit and Vegetable Packing and Processing Plant.  In addition to
the traditional growing areas, crop gathering centers in areas of newly
developing fruit and vegetable production would be emphasized among small-
and medium-scale producer groups. Investment costs would range from US$0.35
million for a simple packing shed with grading and selection lines, conveyors,
and related utilities and services, to US$0.7 million for a large-scale
facility complete with refrigerated storage. These enterprises would be
labor-intensive and would require minimal managerial and technical personnel.
Each subproject would have about 30 to 50 beneficiaries.



- 31 -
5.26     G_rain Elevators.  Currently, there is an acute shortage of grain
storage capacity, particularly in the northeast region because of expanding
grain production, and FIRA is promoting construction of such facilities among
producer groups (200 to 300 producers per group) throughout the country. The
high capacity grain elevators require investment of about US$1.0 million for
elevators, related construction, drying machinery, equipment ard utilities.
Funds would also be available for the establishment of on-farm silo systems
among producers and producer groups.
5.27      Feed Mills.  FIRA is accelerating its efforts to promote small-scale
producer-owned and operated feed mills in strategic locations. There is
presently a high demand for feed mill subprojects because of the surging cost
of mixed feed for livestock and poultry. Experience indicates that members
of producer-owned mills obtain feeds at prices generally 10% beLow the current
commercial rates. Investment costs of civil works, utilities, machinery and
equipment would amount to about US$0.4 million.
5.28      Milk Pasteurization Plants.  FIRA is promoting establishment of
small-scale pasteurizing plants in outlying areas which account for a large
number of small-scale dairy producers who do not have easy access to proces-
sing plants. Establishment of such plants would ensure steady milk supplies
in large consuming centers. Investment cost for a turnkey pasteurizing plant
would amount to about US$0.35 million, and each subproject would have 40 to
50 producers.
5.29      Sawmills.  A large proportion of the rich forest reserves belong to
ejidos but a few have successfully exploited their resources. FIRA is
providing sawmills and forest products industries among ejidos in cooperation
with local governments and PIDER, which are providing infrastructure support.
SARH is also providing technical assistance in silviculture practice, while
FIRA technicians are providing technical assistance in organizaLtion and
management, operations, marketing, and financial and legal aspects. Further,
to induce investments in forestry, FEGA would provide loan guarantees as well
as reimbursements to banks for technical assistance outlays. Average invest-
ments in sawmills would amount to US$1.0 million, with an average participation
of 50 to 80 members in each ejido.
5.30      Agricultural Implements and Service Enterprises.  There is a great
demand in the rural areas for equipment repair and maintenance workshops.
There is aLlso a strong market for simple tools and accessories, which are
fabricated locally by these shops. About 7% of the agroindustry funding has
been earmarked for this subsector which could meet an essential need. A
typical subloan of US$0.2 million would finance a shop building; heavy power
lines; and metal working machinery such as drills, presses, lathes, and
cutting machinery and accessories. Beneficiaries, on average, would number
from 5 to 20 per subloan, all of whom would likely be skilled craftsmen.



- 32 -
5.31      Fisheries.  Presently, funds from institutional sources for investment
in fisheries are scarce. However, under the proposed project, FIRA would have
a modest program (US$8 million excluding contingency) to promote fisheries
development and meet credit needs.
5.32      An integrated investment program (encompassing small boats or launches
with outboard engines, fishing equipment, ice storage facilities, and
refrigerated trucks) would be promoted among low-income, in-shore fishermen.
This simple low-cost (US$70,000) package would enable small, low-income fisher-
men groups (average of 30 families) to increase their incomes through direct
sales of fresh fish in major consumption centers. For larger fishermen groups
and established cooperatives which supply export markets, funds would be
provided for vessels and equipment, fillet plants and freezing and ice plants.
A composite investment package consisting of the aforementioned items would
amount to about US$0.4 million. Additionally, subloans would be made for
in-shore shellfish farms and commercial inland fish farmers to increase
production for the domestic market.
5.33      Investment cost for a standardized fishmeal plant would be about
US$1.0 million. Items to be financed would be civil works, which would
include the plant building and an auxiliary utility warehouse; a small
unloading dock; power substation; conveyors; tubes; pumps; and transport
vehicles. Beneficiaries of the subproject would average between 20 and 30.
Training, Demonstration and Technical Assistance
5.34      Under the proposed project, FIRA's training programs would be expanded
to intensify training of its staff, technical staff of participating banks, and
farmers. Additionally, the project would make provision for selected FIRA
staff to be trained abroad in technical fields. The training would include
two-year scholarships for post-graduate degrees where staff expertise re-
quires strengthening. FIRA's training program would focus on agricultural
finance, farm management, subloan appraisal, low-cost technology and improved
farming systems, and technical aspects relating to crop and livestock activi-
ties. To facilitate training for farmers, new demonstration centers for crops
and livestock would be established in strategic locations, and selected
existing centers would be expanded. Under the project, the number of livestock
demonstration farms would be increased from 33 to 49 centers, with emphasis on
forage production and heifer rearing. Likewise, in agriculture, the number of
demonstration farms would increase from 20 to 47. Most of the new centers
would focus on improving yields and profitability of basic rainfed crops. The
project would also include five training centers, two for tropical dairy
production and three for rainfed crop production. Investments would include
civil works, land improvement and development, crop and forage establishment,
agricultural machinery and equipment, and livestock. Additionally, the project
would provide for short-term consultants equivalent to 10 man-months to assist
with training.



- 33 -
5.35      Cechnical assistance would continue to be provided to the low- and
medium-income farmers by FIRA and the technical staff of the participating
banks. Sinice FIRA has significantly increased its lending program for low-
income producers, the importance of technical assistance has been heightened.
Through FEGA, FIRA would reimburse, as under previous projects, participating
banks for p-rt of the cost of providing technical assistance (equivalent to
3X to 6% of outstanding subloan balance) to such farmers.
Data Base System and Monitoring
5.36      In order to improve FIRA's data base management system and improve
its monitoring capabilities, the project would provide for facilities, equip-
ment, additional qualified staff, and consultant services to assist FIRA in
these areas. The data base system would be strengthened in order to improve
(a) timely availability of quality data to various user groups in FIRA's
management, and (b) FIRA's internal control of its lending program. The
principal source of input for the data would be from the technical evaluation
and disbursement documents prepared in the field. The data base would identify
types of sub-borrower by economic activities and regions, and for each subloan
there would be information on the investments to be financed, income and
operating statement and cash flow situation. Additionally, the disbursement
levels under each subloan would be recorded, and the data base would allow
identification of repeater subloans.
Planning and Programing
5.37      Under the project, FIRA's planning and programing set-up would be
strengthened.  Provision would be made for additional personnel and consultant
services (paras 6.02 to 6.10).
E. Total Investment Program
5.38      FIRA has proposed for the project a total investment: program estimated
at US$1,179 million, of which about US$325 million, or 28%, represents the
foreign exchange component. The proposed investment program represents about
21% of FIRA's overall medium- and long-term investment program, amounting to
about US$5.7 billion for the 1980-82 period, which is based on FIRA's past
experience, national and regional priorities, FIRA's sectoral development
strategy, credit delivery capabilities, and credit absorptive capacity at the
farm level.
5.39      Project costs include no allowances for import duties, since the
government's policy exempts agricultural equipment and materials from import
duties. Base cost estimates are evaluated at mid-1980 prices and incorporate
allowances for domestic and international inflation, amounting to about 31%
of the total cost. Domestic price escalation is estimated at 18% per annum
based on recent inflation rates. The contingency for international inflation,
which is estimated at 10.5%, 9.0% and 8.0% per annum for 1980, 1981 and
1982, respectively, has been based on Bank guidelines for international
price increases (dated January 7, 1980).



- 34 -
5.40       The consultant costs would amount to US$400,000, with direct cost
(salaries, allowance, travel and overhead) estimated at US$10,000 per man-month.
Project costs are summarized below:
Total Investment Program
Total
Local    Foreign    Total  Investment Cost    FE
--------US$ million------  ---------------
I.   Productive Investment
A. Low-Income Producers
Crops                   226         88         314                        28
Livestock                94         42         136                        31
Subtotal          320         130         450          50           29
B. Medium-Income Producers
Crops                    63         25          88                        28
Livestock                32         15          47                        31
Subtotal           95         40          135          15           30
C. Other Producers
Crops                   106         45         151                        30
Livestock                69         32         101                        32
Subtotal          175          77         252          28           31
D.  Agroindustries                  22         18          40           4            45
E.  Fisheries                        4          4           8            1           45
II.  Productive Support
A.  Monitoring and Evaluation                           (0.4)                        30
B.  Training                                            (6.3)                        30
C.  Demonstration                                       (6.3)                        35
D.  Planning and Programing                             (1.6)                         5
E.  Consultant Services                                 (0.4)                        90
Subtotal            10          5         15            2           33
III.  Project Cost (Baseline)           626        274          900         100           30
IV.  Price Contingency                  228          51         279          31           18
V.   Total Project Cost                  854        325       1,179         131           28



- 35 -
F. Financing
5.41      The proposed Bank loan of US$325 million equivalent, amounting to
about 28% of the project cost, would cover the entire foreign exchange cost
(US$325 million). Financing from FIRA, participating banks, and the benefi-
ciaries would amount to 42%, 15%, and 15%, respectively (see table overleaf
and Annex 3).
5.42      The proposed loan would be made to the Nacional Financiera S.A.
(NAFINSA), a Government agency designated to borrow from the Bank, at standard
terms for Mexico and the Government would assume the foreign exchange risk.
As under the Sixth Credit Project, NAFINSA would transfer the proceeds of the
loan to FIRA on the same terms and conditions as those governirng the Bank loan
to NAFINSA, including a service charge expected to be one-eighth of 1% of Bank
loan disbursements. About US$15 million (excluding contingency) of the total
program is earmarked for the productive support component (training, monitoring
and evaluation, demonstration, planning and programing, and consultant services).
Local counterpart funds (US$10.1 million, excluding contingency) for the
productive support component would be provided through the budgetary resources
of the Government, which would be obligated to repay the principal amount of
the loan and the interest and other charges relating to the productive support
component.  FIRA would have the obligation to pay the principal amount of
the loan, interest and other charges on the amount of the loan channeled to
it. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. The closing
date for disbursements would be March 1984.
G. Procurement
5.43      Bulk purchasing under ICB would not be feasible, since the
agricultural lending activities would be implemented over a two-and-one-half-
year period, be widely distributed geographically, cover a variety of farm/ranch
investment activities, and involve a large number of sub-borrowers. An adequate
selection of machinery, tractors and other agricultural equipment and inputs is
available to sub-borrowers through local and international suppliers and permits
can be obtained to import machinery and tractors in horsepower ranges that are
not available in Mexico. Tractors up to 125 hp are manufactured in Mexico
under franchises from five major international firms, and adequate competition
and satisfactory service and maintenance facilities are assured by the range
of choice offered and the extensive network of dealers. As in earlier projects,
FIRA would require sub-borrowers to obtain quotations from several sources of
supply, whenever practicable, for goods, civil works and imports of breeding
livestock to be financed under subloans. Equipment for the demonstration and
technical assistance programs would be procured through FIRA's ordinary
procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. The services of consultants to
be financed under the project would be arranged in consultation with the Bank.



Project Financing
(US$ millions)
Total Lending   Participating                                      Total Project
Sub-borrowers      Program           Banks             FIRA             IBRD            Cost
Amount             Amount  *    Amount        %   Amount       %   Amount    %    Amount        %
I. PRODUCTIVE INVESTMENT
A. Low-Income Producers
i) Crops                    37.0       9      374.3          37.4       9    204.9    50    132.0   32         411.3   100
ii) Livestock                16.0       9      162.1          16.2       9      88.9    50      57.0   32       178.1   100
Subtotal              53.0       9       536.4          53.6       9    293.8    50    189.0   32        589.4   100
B. Medium-Income Producers
i) Crops                    17.3     15        98.0          19.6      17      47.4    41      31.0   27       115.3   100
ii) Livestock                 9.3      15       52.4          10.5      17      25.9    41      16.0   27        61.7   100
Subtotal              26.6      15       150.4          30.1      17     73.3    41       47.0   27      177.0   100
C. Other Producers
i) Crops                    53.4     27       144.4          43.3      22      60.1    30      41.0   21       197.8   100
ii) Livestock                35.7      27 b/    96.6          29.0      22      39.6    30      28.0   21       132.3   100
Subtotal              89.1      27 -    241.0           72.3      22     99.7    30       69.0   21      330.1   100
D. Agro-industries and
Fisheries                   12.6      20       50.3          15.1      24      21.2    34      14.0   22        62.9   100
II. PRODUCTIVE SUPPORT             -        -          -             -      -       13.6    67        6.0   33       19.6   100
Total Cost           181.3      15       978.1          171.1    15    501.6    42    325.0   28   1,179.0   100
a/  Beneficiaries who receive institutional credit for the first time would make a minimum contribution of 5%
and account for about 20% of project cost for this sub-category.
Contribution by other low-income beneficiaries would average 10% and account for 80% of project cost for this
sub-categorv.
b/ Beneficiaries whose net annual income does not exceed 2,000 times the daily minimum rural wage would make a
minimum contribution of 20% and account for 30% of project cost for this sub-category.
Contribution by other beneficiaries would average 30% and account for 70% of project cost for this sub-category.



- 37 -
5.44       Machinery and equipment for agro-industries would be purchased by
private producers or groups of producers. FIRA would make available to
prospective sub-borrowers a list of suppliers of agro-industrial machinery,
including in it those from Bank member countries and Switzerland, as well as
their agents or representatives in Mexico.  FIRA would apply suitable procedures,
either dir ectly or through the financial intermediaries, to ensure that goods
and services procured, using project financing, are competitive in quality and
price and are appropriate for the needs of the sub-borrower's enterprise.
After the proposed loan is signed, FIRA would advertise locally and notify
all embassies in Mexico of Bank member countries that manufacture agro-
industrial. equipment, and Switzerland, of the details of the agro-industries'
component of the project, giving broad particulars of the types of machinery
likely to be required. Assurances on these points were obtained during
negotiations.
H. Disbursements
5.45       All project subloans would be committed during two-and-one-half-
years and proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed over approximately
three-and-one-half years.  The Bank would reimburse FIRA for (a) 40% of its
rediscounts of disbursed project subloans for low-income producers, medium-
income producers, other commercial producers, agroindustries and fisheries;
and (b) 33% for its eligible expenditures for the productive support component
(training and demonstration centers programs, monitoring and evaluation, data
base system, and planning and programing).   Disbursements for the lending
program and civil works for the demonstration program would be made against
corresporLding certificates of expenditures and summary supporting documentation
as required by the Bank.  All additional relevant documentation would be
retained by FIRA and be available for inspection by the Bank during the course
of project supervision missions.  Disbursements against statement of expendi-
tures under FIRA loans have been generally satisfactory. The estimated
schedule of disbursements by the Bank, shown overleaf, assumes that the date
of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be October 1980.



- 38 -
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursed During           Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year and Quarter              Quarter                   at End of Quarter
----------------US$million-----------------------
1981
December 31, 1980              15                              15
March 31, 1981                 25                              40
June 30, 1981                  30                              70
1982
September 30, 1981             25                              95
December 31, 1981              30                             125
March 31, 1982                 30                             155
June 30, 1982                  30                             185
1983
September 30, 1982             30                             215
December 31, 1982              30                             245
March 31, 1983                 25                             270
June 30, 1983                  20                             290
1984
September 30, 1983             15                             305
December 31, 1983              10                             315
March 31, 1984                  10                            325
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.01      As under the on-going Sixth Credit Project, the proposed project
would he carried out by FIRA, which administers FONDO, FEFA and FEGA (paras
3.02 to 3.08). FIRA has established a good reputation for its organization
and technical competence in term credit, but there is need for some institu-
tional improvements. The proposed project would address this need by strengthen-
ing its planning and programing and compiling operating regulations and
procedures mannuals.
A.  Planning and Programing
6.02       Since FIRA's lending program is growing dramatically, steps are now
being taken to streamline and strengthen its planning and programing capabili-
ties (paras 3.18 to 3.24) in order to ensure (a) active and greater participation
in national agriculture planning and coordination, and (b) efficient allocation
of its financial resources.
6.03      For the proposed project, FIRA is planning to upgrade (a) the status of
the Division of Programing (DP) created in December 1979; (b) improve FIRA's



- 39 -
analysis and diagnosis of agriculture and credit requirements and analysis of
the development effects of FIRA-assisted subprojects; (c) improve coordination
with other agencies involved in agriculture; and (d) employ additional economists
at the regional and national level to strengthen FIRA's capabilities to carry
out pertinent studies and to plan and prepare sound investment programs.
6.04      The principal functions of DP would be, inter alia, to:
(a) prepare the annual investment program and medium-term
plan for FIRA's lending;
(b)  maintain coordination with key agencies such as SPP, SARH
and BANRURAL relating to credit activities and development
plan for agriculture;
(c)  analyze credit, focusing on demand and supply aspects, and
determine short- and long-term credit requirements by
agricultural activities throughout the country;
(d)  identify opportunities for sound lending and analyze credit
needs of potentially viable farming operations with improved
technology;
(e)  analyze the development implications of FIRA's lending
policies and procedures;
(f)  provide direction on development impact analyses of FIRA-
assisted subprojects;
(g)  prepare documents for FIRA borrowing from international
agencies and other financial institutions in MIexico and
abroad; and
(h)  prepare internal reports and follow up on the operations
during the year compared to the annual programs originally
prepared.
6.05      DP would consist of the Office of Sector Analysis aLnd Diagnosis,
Office of Programing, and the Office of International Development Projects.
The head of DP besides directing day-to-day activities would coordinate and
manage the preparation of the annual programs and the medium--term plans. He
would set quality standards and procedures for preparing short- and medium-term
lending programs and would advise FIRA's Director on trends and developments
in FIRA's operations compared to approved plans, programs, policies and
procedures, and events of special significance. Furthermore, he would advise
on changes in external environment that are likely to signif:icantly affect
FIRA's current and future operations and would represent FIRA in dealing with
other organizations regarding collaborative planning, programing and credit
analysis.



- 40 -
6.06      FIRA would hire additional staff to enable DP to carry out its
functions expeditiously. At the central level, five senior economists and two
less experienced economic analysts would be employed. Additionally, 10 econo-
mists would be hired for FIRA's regional residency offices. These economists
would support the national credit analysis, diagnosis of the development
effects, and special studies directed from the central office. Their primary
task, however, would be to improve analyses at the regional, state, and
district levels that would provide the underpinning for FIRA's annual and
medium-term programs. DP would also be supported by specialists in planning
and agricultural finance, contracted for an equivalent of 12 months. As under
the Sixth Project, FIRA would employ consultant services in consultation with
the Bank.
6.07      DP would integrate FIRA's current planning at the central and
regional level. Based on present experience, FIRA would continue its decentral-
ization program, providing greater responsibilities to the state-level agencies
in the planning process. To enhance FIRA's knowledge of the sector, DP would
collect relevant data and information on agriculture from other agencies and
evaluate the agricultural situation, taking into account the production and
marketing prospects and constraints. For the preparation of the annual invest-
ment programs and the medium-term plans, DP would provide direction and
guidelines to the regional and state agencies and communicate to these agencies
the Government's national, regional and sectoral priorities in terms of
production and support to the low-income producers. The state and regional
offices would provide most of the input for the preparation of FIRA's overall
investment programs. Each region's lending program would be predicated on
(a) FIRA's initial projections of national and regional lending targets
by agricultural activities; and (b) credit demand analysis at the state and
regional level and identification of sound investment subprojects. In the
preparation of key data at the state and regional level, coordination would be
actively maintained with the participating banks, important sub-borrowers, and
other local public agencies.
6.08      DP's credit analysis would focus on the demand as well as supply
aspects and would take into account results of past operations. It would
coordinate and actively seek pertinent information on the credit situation
throughout the country from various agencies (Bank of Mexico, SARH, SPP,
BANRURAL, and the Association of Mexican Bankers) involved in agriculture. Its
analysis would take into account the Government's national and regional prior-
ities in terms of production and agricultural emphasis, and, moreover, it would
focus on identifying credit needs of potentially viable farming operations and
of farming systems with improved technological packages.
6.09      DP would also be responsible for analyzing the development impli-
cations of its lending policies and procedures. The results of this analysis
would be used to influence its lending programs and policies, procedures and
operations in order to bring about a desirable pattern of growth and develop-
ment. Also, the results would indicate to what extent development is in



- 41 -
keeping wilth the Government's overall strategy and priorities for agriculture
and the rural sector.  DP would provide direction on development impact
analysis, and the Division of Impact Evaluation and Information would carry
out detailed socio-economic analyses of FIRA-assisted subprojects. DP would
also analyze important investment opportunities and determine the scope of
financing these investments.
6.10      At the central level, FIRA would maintain close liaison with the
principal agencies (SARH, Ministry of Programing and Budgeting (SPP) and
BANRURAL), which are directly involved in planning and development of agri-
culture. DP would elicit pertinent data and information relatLng to agri-
culture from these agencies and would sustain continuous dialogue on the needs
and priorities of the sector and the direction and focus of the Government's
overall investment program. With its vast experience in engendering growth
in agriculture, FIRA would participate actively with SARH and SPP in the
formulation of the national strategy and development plan for agriculture.
FIRA's detailed analysis of the credit situation and requirements throughout
the country would provide valuable input in determining the agricultural
development. FIRA's annual lending program and medium-term plan would be
reviewed by SPP each year before it goes to FIRA's Technical Committee for
approval. This would facilitate good coordination and communication between
FIRA and SPP, and moreover, it would ensure SPP's support of FIRA's initiatives
and expanded role in agriculture.
B. Operating Regulations and Procedures Manual
6.11      FIRA has agreed to compile operating regulations and procedures
manuals to provide direction and guidelines to FIRA field offices and
participating banks for lending to farmers.  The main subjects which
would be included in manuals are:
(a) various lending programs eligible for FIRA rediscournts and
their objectives;
(b)  responsibilities and procedures for credit promotion,
identification, preparation of farm development plans,
methodology for subloan evaluation and appraisal, economic
and financial criteria, investment criteria by activity
for the various lending programs, and subloan approval
authority;
(c)  lending policies and procedures, definitions of beneficiaries,
subloan eligibility criteria, sub-borrower contributions,
interest and rediscount rates, and lending terms and condi-
tions;
(d) line of credit agreements with participating banks, rediscount
procedures, accounting and reporting requirements and pro-
cedures;



- 42 -
(e)  guidelines and procedures for providing technical assistance
to beneficiaries and for obtaining FEGA guarantees; and
(f)  criteria for hiring technicians and training requirements.
6.12      During negotiations, the Bank reviewed FIRA's progress in
preparing the manuals on operating regulations and procedures.
C. Sublending Policies and Procedures
Beneficiary Categories.
6.13.     In the proposed project, beneficiaries would be classified into
three categories: low-income producers, medium-income producers, and
other producers. A beneficiary is considered a low-income producer if
his principal income is derived from farming and if his family's total net
annual earnings, including income from other sources, are less than 1,000
times the relevant regional minimum daily rural wage. Likewise, a medium-
income producer is one whose total earnings are between 1,000 and 1,500 times
the relevant regional minimum daily rural wage and whose farm is located
in a rainfed district. Other producers would be classified into two sub-
categories: (a) those whose family's total net annual earnings do not exceed
2,000 times the relevant regional minimum rural wage and are not included in
the low-income and medium-income categories; and (b) all other beneficiaries.
Minimum daily rural wages are established annually by the Government for 111
regions of the country and, for 1980, these range from US$3.91 in the poorest
states up to a maximum of US$7.39 in the northern border states; the unweighted
national average minimum daily rural wage is US$5.65 as compared to US$4.35
during 1979.
6.14      The above definition of low-income producer was utilized under the
Fourth; Fifth and Sixth Credit Projects; in the PIDER I and II Rural Develop-
ment Projects; and in the Tropical Agriculture Development Project; it
embraces about 80% of the rural population, and, together with the additional
new category of medium-income producers, it would include about 85% of the
rural population. Of the Bank loan (US$325 million), US$189 million would be
reimbursed to FIRA for low-income producer subloan rediscounts.
Subloan Appraisal and Supervision.
6.15      Subloans would be made by participating public and private banks on
the basis of sound development plans appraised by bank technicians. Based on
past experience, the overall quality of subloan appraisal is good, and FIRA is
taking steps through its training program to improve it further. In keeping
with its policy of decentralization, and given the progress made by partici-
pating banks in increasing and improving their technical staffs, FIRA is
gradually delegating subloan approval authority to FIRA-approved bank techni-
cians. Under present FIRA procedures bank technicians have the authority to
approve medium- and long-term subloans not exceeding US$110,000 (Mex$2,500,000),
and subloans above this limit are appraised in consultation with FIRA technicians



- 43 -
at the state or regional level. However,a small number of bank technicians (31
as of December 31, 1979) has already obtained FIRA authorization to approve,
on their own, subloans up to US$220,000 (Mex$5,000,000). The total number of
FIRA-approved loan technicans in participating banks on Decemaber 21, 1979, was
1,080 and an additional 1,280 technicians are receiving in-house training,
working under the supervision of FIRA and bank staff. FIRA's Operating
Regulations and Procedures Manual would serve as a useful guide, primarily to
the large number of FIRA and bank technicians involved in FIRA's lending,
guarantee and technical assistance activities.
6.16      The banks would meet a set of eligibility criteria, established by
FIRA and acceptable to the Bank, in order to participate in the project.
Participating banks would grant subloans for on-farm investments and invest-
ments in agroindustries, including fisheries. The sublending terms and
conditions would be as follows:
Beneficiary         Minimum Beneficiary       Maximum       Annual Redis-       Minimum
Category            Contribution (% of    Percentage   count Rates to  Annual Interest
cost of project       of Subloan   Participating        Rates on
financed)        Rediscounted       Banks           Subloans
1. Low-income Beneficiaries
(a) those who
receive
institutional
credit for
the first
time                  5                  90            10.50             14.00
(b) other
low-income
beneficiaries         5                  90            11.75             15.50
2. Medium-income Bene-
ficiaries in rainfed
districts                10                 80            13.50              17.00
3. Other Beneficiaries
(a) whose net
annual. family
income does
not exceed
2,000 times
the daily min-
imum rural wage      20                  70            14.25             18.00
(b) all other
beneficiaries        20                  70            19.00             21.00



- 44 -
Any subloan made to an agroindustrial or fisheries enterprise would bear
an interest rate on the subloan and a rediscount rate to the participating
bank 0.5% higher than the rates shown in the table for the respective
category of beneficiaries who own the enterprise. FIRA would lower the
yearly rediscount rates to participating banks whenever it would rediscount
to the participating bank less than the maximum percentage of a subloan. The
Government has agreed to adopt a variable interest rate structure linked to
the ACF index for lending operations by FIRA. Interest rates on subloans
would be adjusted periodically, but at least once a year, and the revised
interest rates would be applied to new subloans made after the date of adjust-
ment. Minimum sub-borrower contribution to the investment costs would be 5%
for low-income producers, 10% for medium-income producers and 20% for other
beneficiaries. In the case of low-income producers, contributions to invest-
ment costs could be in kind (labor and/or materials) or in financial resources.
The repayment period for subloans would be based on expected cash flows
and would range from 3 to 15 years (including grace period of up to three
years). Repayment schedules for the participating banks to FIRA would
be in line with those of the sub-borrowers. No subloan would be made to a
sub-borrower for on-farm investment if the amount of the proposed subloan,
together with the aggregate amount outstanding under previous FIRA-financed
subloans by such a sub-borrower, exceeded US$217,000 (Mex$5,000,000). This
amount would be adjusted if the sub-borrower is a group of farmers.
6.17      Under the Fifth and Sixth Projects, FIRA was required to obtain prior
Bank approval for project subloans in excess of US$800,000 (Mex$18.4 million),
and this US$800,000 equivalent free limit, which also applies to individual
subloans resulting from group activity, would continue to apply in the Seventh
Project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that subloans would
be made to beneficiaries according to the lending procedures, terms and
conditions outlined above.
Financial and Economic Criteria
6.18      For each subloan, the participating banks would prepare a financial
plan, including a farm budget, an income and operating expense statement, and
a financial cash flow and impute a financial rate of return based on FIRA's
guidelines. The Operating Regulations and Procedures Manual would include
detailed procedures for the participating banks. Subloan approval would be
based on the technical and financial viability of the proposed development
plans. The financial rate of return of approved subloans would be equal to at
least the opportunity cost of capital (average cost of funds - ACF). However,
approval of subloans would also take into account the type of development that
is being promoted and the needs and opportunities of beneficiaries.
6.19      Additionally, since the proposed project is viewed as sector lending,
FIRA would ensure economic soundness of subloans. Since calculation of the
economic rates of return of all subloans is impractical, FIRA would calculate
only those for selected investment subprojects that represented typical
subprojects in each category of principal activities. The calculated economic
rate of return would yield a rate at least equal to the opportunity cost of
capital. Under the present pricing system and market conditions, in which



- 45 -
input subsidies and import-export duties are negligible, and where in most
cases producer prices are compatible with world market prices, nIo significant
differences are expected between financial and economic rates of return. The
results of the economic analysis would be made available to the supervision
missions or other Bank missions upon request and an assurance to this effect
was obtained during negotiations.
Consultant Services
6.20      In addition to the consultant services required for FIRA's planning
and programing (para 6.06), a total of 28 man-months of consultant services
would be included under the project to support the training and demonstration
programs, and to assist FIRA in strengthening its monitoring andl data base
system. About 10 man-months would be used to recruit agricultural specialists
under training and demonstration programs relating to forage an,d seed produc-
tion for forages, oilseed crops and basic food crop production, layout of
agriculture and livestock demonstration farms, and establishment of orchards.
Further, about 18 man-months would be utilized by FIRA's Monitoring Division
and by the Computer Services Division to improve the quality of the data base
systems. As under the Sixth Project, FIRA would employ consultant services
in consultation with the Bank.
Reporting Requirements
6.21      Quarterly progress reports summarizing project performance, subloan
disbursemenits by categories (beneficiaries, principal activities, and subloan
size) and FIRA rediscounts would be submitted to the Bank no later than 60
days after the end of each quarter. Detailed reports, which would include
subproject costs, subloan commitments and disbursements by categories; lending
by activities and regions; type and number of beneficiaries; baLnk participation
in subloan financing; and FIRA rediscount and investment breakdown of subloans
by activities, would be prepared semiannually and submitted to the Bank no later
than three months after the end of each six-month period. FIRA would also
send the Bank annually (a) a summary of reports submitted to it by the parti-
cipating banks, showing overdue payments on outstanding subloans; (b) a
summary statement of changes in its own staffing on an overall and regional
basis; (c) a statement on the progress of its training programs and a summary
of the activities carried out on its demonstration farms; (d) a review of the
scope and effectiveness of the technical assistance activities to low- and
medium-income producers financed through FEGA; (e) and the status of technical
staffing in participating banks. Within 12 months of the closLng date of the
Bank loan, FIRA would submit a Project Completion Report prepared in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiations.
D. Accounts and AuditinR
6.22      The accounting system of FIRA trust funds, FONDO, FEFA, and FEGA, is
satisfactory. FIRA would maintain separate project records, as established
for the preceding project (Loan 1569-ME). FIRA accounts have been audited
during recent years by Alonso Ochoa Ravize, a reputable Mexican auditing firm,



- 46 -
and all audit reports on FIRA's accounts have been unqualified. In addition,
the Bank of Mexico's internal audit department periodically reviews FIRA's
financial activities and accounts. An audit, satisfactory to the Bank, would
be made of the accounts and financial statements of FONDO, FEFA, and FEGA
for each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent and qualified auditors appointed by SH y CP and the
Bank of Mexico. Certified copies of the statements audited, together with the
report of the auditors, would be submitted to the Bank no later than four
months after the close of each fiscal year. Adequate accounts and records
would also be maintai*Xed within all the participating banks so as to identify
all transactions pertaining to FIRA rediscounted subloans, and Bank supervision
missions would have access to such accounts and any other documents pertaining
to lending operations within the project. Assurances on these points were
obtained during negotiations.
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Illustrative Investment Plans
7.01      Subloans to individual farmers, farmer groups and cooperatives would
be made for a wide range of activities for crops and livestock under varied
ecological conditions throughout the country and for fisheries and agro-
industries. Consequently, subloan amounts would vary considerably by bene-
ficiary categories and principal activities. Subloans would be based on sound
financial and economic development plans and follow FIRA's financial and economic
criteria. The financial rates of return would be calculated for investment
subprojects. Based on FIRA's past experience, seven investment plans have
been selected to demonstrate the development effects of investment programs,
each showing the investment mix, development concept, technical change, and
financial and economic results. These illustrative plans, together with the
supporting tables, would be utilized by FIRA to strengthen its financial and
economic analyses. Table 7.01 summarizes the financial and economic results of
each investment plan; details are given in Annex 5. As shown in Table 7.01,
beneficiaries' income from the activities to be financed under the project would
increase significantly, providing sufficient incentive to farmers to partici-
pate in the investment program.
B. Project Benefits
7.02      Based on FIRA's past experience, it is projected that about 140,000
families, or about 770,000 persons would benefit directly from the project.
Secondary benefits, although non-quantifiable, would also accrue from trans-
portation, processing, marketing and agricultural services activities. At
full development, it is estimated that, based on previous experience, incre-
mental production of basic crops (maize, beans, wheat and soybeans) would
increase by 1.2 million m tons annually; cotton, sorghum and safflower by 180,000 m
tons; milk by 90 million liters; and beef and pork by 100,000 m tons. The incre-
mental production of these basic food products alone would amount to a foreign



MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Investment Plans - Summary of Results
Financial Economic
Rates of   Rates of
Investment Cost                    Net Cash Flow        Return      Return 2/
Number                                      Without       With
1/                       of     Sub-loan   Borrower's             Investment  Investment
Investment Plans -                      Families   Amount   Contribution  Total        Loan        Loan
__________----------   US$ '000   --------------------  --------% ----------
Al  Rainfed Annual Crops Farm (180 ha)    7           21.1        1.1        22.2       3.4          12.0       34          42
A2 Gravity Irrigated Annual Crops
Farms (200 ha)                         10        45.4         2.4        47.8       8.1         25.6        41   over 100
Bl  Dairy Farm (23 ha)                      5         34.3        8.6        42.8       3.4          19.1        28         29
B2  Beef Ranch (200 ha)                    10         24.6        6.1        30.7       9.9          26.3       22          21   7
Cl  Small In-shore Fishermen Group         15         55.9       14.0        69.9       0           19.0        29   over 100
C2  Fruit Packing  and Storage Plant       50        560.9      139.1       700.0       0          187.0         28          33
C3  Grain Storage Plant                   200        791.3      195.7       987.0       0           265.2        27          28
1/ The various investment subprojects could also be undertaken by independent entrepreneurs.
2/ Economic rates of return are higher than the financial rates in most cases because (a) border prices are close to the
domestic producer prices; (b) shadow wage rate is lower than the interest rate; (c) home consumption is
included as benefits; (d) taxes and insurance are treated as transfer payments and are therefore excluded;
and (e) overhead costs relating to project administration and technical assistance are not included in the
analysis.



- 48 -
exchange savings of about US$177 million annually in 1979 prices. Increased
production of export crops, mainly coffee, cotton and vegetables, would
contribute significantly toward foreign exchange earnings, and, likewise,
incremental production in fisheries and agroindustries would generate foreign
exchange savings. The post-period analysis, which would be carried out by
FIRA's Planning and Programing Unit and the Monitoring Division, would indicate
more precisely the overall impact of the various investments on production,
employment and income.
7.03      As indicated in Table 7.01, net cash income of beneficiaries would in-
crease considerably.  Most investment plans or subprojects are expected to
have financial rates of return in the range of 20% to 40%.  By allocating 65%
of the total project costs, or US$766 million, to low- and medium-income
producers, the Government strengthens its efforts to increase employment and
improve income distribution among the rural poor.
7.04      The project would have substantial impact on institution building.
Strengthening FIRA's planning and programing capabilities would ensure its
greater participation in national agriculture planning and coordination, and
additionally, would allow preparation of sound annual investment programs
and medium-term plans, thus ensuring an efficient allocation of FIRA's
financial resources. Compilation of an Operating Regulations and Procedures
Manual by FIRA would provide better direction and guidelines to its field
offices and participating banks for lending to farmers. Improvements in the
data base system would assist FIRA in managerial decisions and would facilitate
internal control of its operations. Support to the Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit would increase its capabilities to carry out detailed socio-economic
analysis of subprojects and analysis of the development implications of FIRA's
lending programs and procedures. Expansion of the training and demonstration
programs would ensure transfer of appropriate technological packages to
farmers and improvements in the quality of technical services provided to
farmers. Moreover, training of FIRA's staff and the staffs of the partici-
pating banks would improve subproject appraisal analysis.
7.05      Finally, adoption of a variable interest rate system linked to the
ACF index and provision for periodic adjustments, taking into account the cost
of funds would: (a) standardize interest rates in FIRA's lending operations;
and (b) ensure efficient allocation of resources in the agricultural sector.
C. Project Cash Flow
7.06      Total project subloan rediscounts are estimated at US$807 million,
of which the proposed Bank loan would finance 40%, while the remaining 60%
(US$488 million) would emanate from FEFA's own resources. FEFA's current
projections show that, during 1980-82, it would recuperate US$1,470 million
from its outstanding medium- and long-term rediscount portfolio, thus enabling
FEFA to provide the counterpart funds required for the project and to par-
ticipate in other investment lending programs. FEFA would be able to withdraw
its participation from the project account during the fourth to eighth year of
the project and utilize these funds for relending.



- 49 -
7.07      The cost of the Bank loan is estimated at 8.7% per annum, assuming
a Bank interest rate of 8.25%, plus a 0.75% commitment fee and a 0.125%
commission paid by FIRA to NAFINSA. FEFA's technical, administrative and
general expenses are estimated at 3.5% on the outstanding balances of redis-
counted subloans and the weighted average rediscount rate to participating
banks was estimated at 13.3%. Therefore, the interest collected on rediscounts
would fully cover FEFA's cost of its own resources (8.75% p.a.), the proposed
Bank loan and all of FEFA's project-related expenses. Additionally, there
would be a gradual build-up of additional net income estimated at US$120
million derived from relending rollover loan funds during the period between
recuperation of subloan rediscounts and the due dates for repayment of the
Loan.
7.08      Total financing by participating banks would amount to about
US$171.1 million, about 17% of the total project lending program.  The
average proposed margins (para 6.16) would give the participating banks a
satisfactory return on their equity and incentive to participate in the
project. In addition, private banks would be able to obtain, without charge,
FEGA's guarantee of up to 80% of subloans to low-income producers and up to
60% of subloans to medium-income producers, and partial reimbursement of
their technical assistance expenses incurred in lending to thiese beneficiaries.
The FEFA cash flow is presented in Annex 4.
7.09      The loan would be repaid by FIRA and the Government would, through
its budgetary resources, bear the foreign exchange risk. Additionally, the
Government would allocate to FIRA about US$20.7 million during project imple-
mentation for the productive support component of the project.
D. Project Risks
7.10      Since FIRA is a reasonably efficient and mature institution, the
project presents no special risk in terms of the technical and financial sound-
ness of various investment programs that would be financed under the project.
The succeBss of the project in meeting its underlying objectives would depend
on the soundness and effectiveness of FIRA's annual investment programs and
on the dievelopment impact analyses of its previous investment programs. With
the measures undertaken in the project to strengthen FIRA's planning and pro-
graming, and development impact analyses capabilities, FIRA should be able to
plan and prepare viable investment programs which would be development-
oriented in order to maximize their impact on production, employment and
income. The successful implementation of the lending program for the low-
income producers would require firm commitment and intensive effort by FIRA
and the participating banks.  Through improvements in the training and
demonstrations programs, FIRA would place special emphasis on, low-income
producers and would ensure adequate technical services to sub-borrowers.
With its interest rates and discount structure, coupled with the FEGA
guarantee system, FIRA would induce greater participation by private banks.



- 50 -
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it would provide FIRA with the necessary funds to carry out the produc-
tive support component, and be responsible for the payment of interest and
other charges in respect of the Bank loan proceeds used by FIRA for this
purpose (para 5.42).
8.02      Assurances were obtained at negotiations from FIRA that:
(a)  procurement under the project would be as outlined in paragraphs
5.43 and 5.44;
(b) subloans would be made according to the lending procedures,
terms, and conditions outlined in paragraph 6.16;
(c) the results of the economic analysis to be performed by
FIRA on selected investment subprojects that represent
typical subprojects in each category of principal activities
would be made available to Bank missions upon request
(para 6.19);
(d)  reporting requirements as outlined in paragraph 6.21;
(e) auditing would be performed as described in paragraph 6.22.
8.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$325 million on standard terms and conditions.
May 28, 1980



MEXICO
SEVENTI AGRICTLTIRAL CREDIT PROJECT
Credits for Agriculture through the Banking System and Sources of Financing
(Mex$ Millions)
Sources of Financing
Total for                Private Banks                           FIRA 2/                    Public Banks 3/
Year       all Banks 1/             Amount        %                  Amount       X                    Amount        %
1965      10,375                       2,654   25.6                     527      5.0                    7,200    69.4
197rl     17,71n                      6,018   34.0                    2,056    11.6                     9,636    54.4
1975      38,178                     10,671   28.0                    6,603    17.3                    20,904    54.7
1976      44,R00                     11,568   25.8                    9,466    21.1                    23,766    53.0
1977      63,745                     14,488   22.7                   14,439    22.7                    34,818    54.6
1978      84,857                     18,935   22.3                   23,361    27.5                    42,561    50.2
1979 4/  112,000                     21,00   19.1                   34,366    30.7                    56,234    50.2
198n 5/  145,onn                     27,678   19.0                   47,630    32.8                    69,907    48.2
1/  Outstanding balance on December 31.
2/  On December 31, 1978, 287 of FIRA's loan portfolio was with public banks and 72% with the private banks.                    x
3/  Banrural and FINASA.  7igures shown are based on net amounts of loans shown in Banrural balance sheets.
Actually Banrural's share in agricultural bank credit is considerably higher and on December 31, 1978 was
a.b.out .. . X
''Esti.-.te'
Ir Proiectnd
Fources   Indicadores fcon6riic&.^* - Banco de Mexico
iJivisiOi uie Finanzas - FInA



MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Principal Indicators of FIRA's Operations, 1971-1979
(Mex$ Millions)
1971          1972         1973         1974          1975         1976          1977          1978         1979-'
1.  Total Assets                                         3,105.8      3,538.1       4,160.9       7,226.7      8,627.9      11,747.3     17,681.2      26,972.0      38,152.4
2.  Total Rediscounts during year                        1,513.1       1,518.0      2,388.9       4,019.2      4,507.9       6,960.9     11,170.9      18,519.4    26,658.8
3.  Rediscount Portfolio at year end                     2,394.2      2,594.0       3,422.4      5,070.8       6,603.5       9,465.7     14,438.9    23,360.6        34,366.1
Short-term loans                                    442.7         421.6        696.0       1,281.3      1,369.4       2,216.6       3,884.1      7,685.5       8,751.4
Medium and long-term loans                        1,951.5       2,172.4      2,726.0       3,789.5      5,234.1       7,249.1      10,554.8    15,675.1       25,614.7
4.  Number of Participating Financial                                                                                                                         21
Institutions in FIRA lending operations                142          147           165          150           156           155          156            89-           89
Private Banks and Financieras                       135           137          154           138           142          141           146            76           76
Public Banks                                           7           10            11           12            14           14            10            13            13
5. Number of Sub-loan Beneficiaries (includ-
ing both short and long-term loans):
Low-income Producers                             20,132        22,532       37,100        77,159       82,180        91,688       94,388        74,771       137,200
Commercial Producers                              6,462         8,124        9,536        13,885       18,923        32,332       43,326       112,307        93,440
Total                                            26,594        30,656       46,636        91,044      101,103       124,020      137,614       187,078       230,640
6.  Number of FIRA technical staff                         378           402          457           604          670           715           727          755           812
1/  Unaudited.
2/  Number of participating financial institutions, as compared to previous years has not decreased; during the last two years large
banking groups and multi-purpose banks were formed through mergers.
Source:  FIRA                                                                                                                                                                Kr



-53-                         ANNEX 2
Iable 2
MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Medium. and Long-Term Loans Rediscounted by FIRA
1971 - 1979
(Mex$ Millions)
Low-Income Producers            Commercial Producers
Year            Total          Amount       Percentage          Amcount       Percentage
1971              866.7         552.3          63.7              314.4           36.3
1972              825.7         436.0          52.8              389.6           47.2
1973            1,212.7         744.6          61.4              468.1           38.6
1974            1,931.1       1,133.5          58.7              797.6           41.3
1975            2,462.9       1,363.6          55.4           1,099.3            44.6
1976            3,434.7       1,700.1          49.5           1,734.6            50.5
1977            5,034.0       2,554.8          50.8           2,479.2            49.2
1978            7,969.4       2,054.2          25.8           5,9L5.2            74.2
1/
1979           14,092.7-      3,942.7          28.0          10,150.0            72.0
Source: FIRA
1/ Estimated



-54-
ANNEX 2
Table 3
MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FIRA REDISCOUNTS 1973 - 1979
PROJECTIONS 1980 - 1983
(Mex$ Millions)
Medium and               Total
Year            Short-term            Long-term              Rediscounts
1973             1,176.3               1,212.6                  2,388.9
1974             2,088.1               1,931.1                  4,019.2
1975             2,045.0               2,462.9                  4,507.9
1976             3,526.2               3,434.7                  6,960.9
1977             6,136.9               5,034.0                 11,170.9
1978            10,550.0               7,696.4                 18,519.4
1979            12,566.1              14,092.7                 26,658.8
19801/          19,800.0              16,200.0                 36,000.0
2/
1981-:          29,550.0              25,170.0                 54,720.0
1982-?2/        44,085.0              39,090.0                 83,175.0
1983V/          65,740.0              60,685.0                126,425.0
1/ Approved Lending Program
2/ FIRA Projections



MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Comparative Statement of FEFA's Assets and Liabilities 1973-1979
(MexS Millions)
Change from          Change from           Change from             Change from            Change from           /Change from
1973       1974      1973       1975       1974       1976       1975         1977       1976        1978       1977        1979a/    1978
ASSETS
Investments in Government
Securities                     316,6      461.0      144.4      434.2       (26.8)    520.8       86.6        639.1      118.3       617.2      (21.9)      183.8    (433.4)
Medium and long-term loans and
rediscounts                  2,605.9   3,677.9   1,072.0   5,147.5   1,469.6   7,186.4   2,038.9   10,509.9   3,323.5   16,112.2   5,602.3   25,615.8   9,503.6
Miscellaneous Assets                      177.3      831.4      654.1      895.8       64.4      875.9       (19.9)   1,635.0       759.1    1,834.5       199.5    1,967.8       133.3
Total Assets                            3*099.8   4,970.3   1,870.          775   1           77.5 8,583.1   2,105.6   12,784.0   4,200.9   18,563.9-  5,779.9   27,767.4   9,203.5
+   60.3X             +   30.3%             +   32.5%            -+   48.91              +    45.Z2.            +    49.6%.
LIABILITIES
Advances from BANXICO                     587.5   1,528.3       940.8   2,100.0       571.7   3,600.0   1,500.0    5,750.0   2,150.0    7,852.0   2,102.0   11,850.0   3,998.0
Other Liabilities                          63.5      146.3       82.8      234.0       87.7      348.8      114.8       417.2        68.4    2,083.5   1.666.3    3,150.5   1,067,0
Subtotal Liabilities                   _  651.0   1,674.6   1,023.6   2,334.0         659.4   3X948.8   1,614.8    6X167 2          218.4    9,9355   3,768.3   15,QQQ.5   5,065.0
+  157.2%            +   39.3%            +   69.2%              +    56.1'b.           +    61.117.            +    51.07.
Trust Liabilities and Government
Equity
Special Fund                              130.7      173.0       42.3      267.4       94.4      382.7      115.3       527.2      144.5        703.9      176.7
IBRD loan funds                         1,816.3   2,508.1       691.8   3,281.9       773.8   3,219.7       (62.2)   4,550.8   1,331.1    5,583.0   1,032.2 } 11,905.9   3,366.8
IDB loan funds                            499.1      610.2      111.1      580.7      (29.5)  1,007.4       426.7    1,493.6       486.2    2,252.2        758.6
Accumulated Net Income                      2.7        4.4         1.7       13.5   _    9.1      24.5       11.0         45.2       20.7        89.3       44.1       861.0      771.7
Total Government Equity                 2A448.8   3,295.7       846.9   4,143.5       847.8   4A634.3       490.8    6A616.8   1 982 5    8,628.4   2.011.6   12,766.9   4,138.5
+   34.5%             +   25.7%             +   11.8%             * /                    +    30.                +    48./.
Total Liabilities and Government                                                                                                                                                           .
Equity                       3,099.8   4,970.3  +1,870.5   6,477.5  +1,507.2   8,583.1  +2,105.6   12,784.0   4,200.9   18,563.9   5,779.9   27,767.4   9,203.5 A
a/ Preliminary figures - unaudited



MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Financing
(US$ millions)
Total Lending   Participating                                   Total Project
Sub-borrowers      Program           Banks           FIRA          IBRD             Cost
Amount       %     Amount        Amount       %   Amount   %   Amount   %       Amount
I - PRODUCTIVE INVESTMENT
A. Low-Income Beneficiaries        53.0       9 a'   536.4         53.6        9    293.8  50    189.0  32       589.4   100
B. Medium-Income Beneficiaries   26.6       15       150.4         30.1       17     73.3  41      47.0  27      177.0   100
C. Other Beneficiaries             89.1     27 -/   241.0          72.3       22     99.7  30      69.0  21      330.1   100
D. Agro-industries and
Fisheries                    12.6      20        50.3         15.1      24      21.2  34      14.0  22       62.9   100 0
II - PRODUCTIVE SUPPORT                  -      -           -            -         -     13.6  67       6.0  33        19.6   100
Total Cost                  181.3      15       978.1       171.1       15    501.6  42    325.0  28   1,179.0   100
a/ Beneficiaries who receive institutional credit for the first time would make a minimum contribution of 5% and
account for about 20% of project cost for this sub-category.
Contribution bv other low-income beneficiaries would average 10% and account for 80% of project cost for this
sub-category.
b/ Beneficiaries whose net annual income does not exceed 2,000 times the daily minimum rural wage would make a minimum
contribution of 20% and account for 30% of project cost for this sub-category.
Contribution by other beneficiaries would average 30% and account for 70% of project cost for this sub-category.



MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FEFA Receipts -nd Disbursesents - Projected Cash Flow
Doting the Life of the Proposed Loan
(USS millton)
---------                                      -         -----           Year                                                                 ----------------
1        2         3         4          5         6         7        8        9          10       11         12       13        14        15        16        17        Totals
R E C E I P T S:
1. Borrowings: Withdrawals fron
World Bank Loan 2/                    95.0    120.0       90.0    20.0                                                                                                                                            325.0
2.  FEFA's Own Resources                   205.0    190.0        50.0                                                                                                                                                   445.0
3.  Recuperation of Rediacounts:
a) Principal                                              26.8    60.9       102.2   131.6       155.0    147.0    112.0       52.3      19.2                                                                    807.0
b) interest 3/                        19.2     58.0       89.0   100.4        95.7    82.1        64.6     44.0      24.4       9.5       2.6                                                                    589.5
4.  Go-ernment Reimbur-ement 4/              _         5.2        6.2      9.3                                                                                                                                           20.7
Total Expected Receipts           319.2    373.2      262.0   190.6       197.9  2T37        219.      191.0    1.2,1r
D I S B U R S E M E N T S:
5. Rediscounted SubIoans 5/
a) For Los-income Producers          125.0.   170.0      137.2    50.6                                                                                                                                           482.8
b) FPr Medium-income Producers        45.0     50.0        25.3                                                                                                                                                   120.3
c) FPr other Beneficiaries           110.0     58.7                                                                                                                                                              168.7
d) FPr Agro-industries and            10.0     13.0       12.2                                                                                                                                                     35.2
Fisheries
6. Training, Demonstretion, and
Technical Assistance                   5.0       6.0       8.6                                                                                                                                                     19,6
7. Direct Espenses:
a) Interest and Commitmn-t Charge
on World Bask Loan /            6.1      14.2       22.0    27.2        25.6    23.5       21.4      19.3      17.1      15.0      12.9      10.8        8.7       6.6       4.5       2.4       0.5       237.8
b) Interest on FEFA. own
Resoprces 7/                     9.0      26.2       36.8    38.9        35.4    26.7        17.9      4.8                                                                                                  195.7
c) FEFA Administrative and
Ceseral Espenses 8/              5.0      15.2       23.5    27.4        25.2    21.6        17.0     11.6        6.4      2.5       0.7                                                                    156.1
8. Repayoent of Principal -
World Bank Loan                                                               25.0    25.0        25.0      25.0      25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0        25.0     25.0       25.0     25.0      25.0        325.0
Totul Expected Disbursements  315.1    353.3          65      144.1      111.2    96.8       81.3      60.7      45         2.5      38.6      35.8       33.7      31.6      29.5      27.4      25.5    i.741.2
C AS N H A L A N C E:
9. Excres of Yearly Receipts over
Di.b.-ae-ests                          4.1      19.9      (3.6)   4G.5        86.7   116.9       138.3    130.3       87.9      19.3    (16.8)   (35.8)    (33.7)   (31.6)   (29.5)   (27.4)   (25.5)            446.0
10. Withdrawal of FEFA Resources 9/                                      (40.0)   (100.0  (100.0)   (150.0)   (55.0)                                                                                                   (445.0)
11. Cpualative Cash Balance at
Year's End 10/                         4.1      24.0      20.4    26.9        13.6    30.5        18.8      94.1    182.0    201.3    184.5    148.7          115.0     83.4      53.9       26.5       1.0         1.0
1/ Every 12 mosths fron World Bask Loan effectiveness.                                                      6/ Includes NAFINSA service charge of 1/8%. on balance of loan outstanding.
j/ A time lag of three months Is assumed between FEFA rediscount disbursements and World Bank               7/ 8.757. p.a. - average coat of FEFA resources.
Loan withdrawal.                                                                                      8/ FEFA administrative exp-ese- astimated at 3.5% on  sto.ts-ding balances of rediscpunted loans.
3/ Average rediscount rate of 13.31 p.s.                                                                   9/ Withdrawal from Project Account of FEFA's own resources (see item 2).
4; A time lag of one year is assumed between FEFA disbursement and Government reimhurseien.                10/ The projected annual cash balasoe would be used for new rediscount- to par-ticipting backs.
5/ Projected for initial operations only (secludes  relending of fonds - see footnote 10).                       Intereat on such relending of funds Sio st shn in  this statemt ad is estiet  at
US$120 ollli,fter dedction of FEPA'5 adiistrati- sepe-ee.
May 23, 1980



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
Illustrative Investment Plans
Investment Plan Al: Rainfed Annual Crops Farm (180 ha)
1.        This plan represents a typical group farming system in the rainfed
areas of the central states in temperate regions. The enterprise is assumed
to be owned by an ejido of seven families (about 40 persons). Under present
conditions, about 88% of the cropland is planted in maize and beans. The
development program calls for an expansion of the cultivable area from 140 ha
to 180 ha over a four-year period, increasing at a rate of 10 ha annually.
Productivity of maize and beans would increase through better land prepara-
tion, control of pests and diseases, use of fertilizer, weed control, and
improved cultivation practices.
2.        Total investment cost is estimated at about US$22,200 of which land
improvement comprises 21%; buildings and installation, 3%; and machinery and
equipment, 71%. Land improvement includes clearing and leveling of 15 ha and
construction work consists of improving barns and machine sheds for storage
of farm inputs. Machinery and equipment includes a tractor (60 hp) equipped
with a set of implements, which would permit clearing of new land as well as
allow efficient and timely land preparation and cultivation. In the plan, it
is assumed that 50% of the annual operational costs are financed under a
short-term loan and the sub-borrower contributes 5% of the investment cost.
Additionally, crops are insured against losses attributed to adverse climatic
conditions.
3.        The proposed development plan is expected to increase the cropping
intensity from 100% to 129%; however, the cropping pattern would remain the
same. Yields of maize and beans would increase from the present levels of
1.7 tons/ha and 0.6 ton/ha to 2.2 tons/ha and 0.9 ton/ha, respectively,
at full development. Labor requirement is expected to increase from 2,080
man-days annually to 2,215 man-days per annum at full development. Likewise,
farm income is expected to increase substantially. Net cash income would
increase from US$3,400 (without project conditions) to US$12,000 at full
development (year 8). The financial rate of return is estimated at 34%
and the economic rate of return at 42%.
Investment Plan A2: Gravity-Irrigated Annual Crops Farm (200 ha)
4.        This investment plan depicts improvement in a group farming system
(10 families), producing mainly grains and oilseed in the arid and semi-arid
irrigated regions of the northwest. The production plan includes expansion
of the cropped area from 175 ha to 200 ha, introduction of high value crops,
on-farm improvements and improved farming practices.



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
5.        Investment cost is estimated at US$47,800, of which land improvement
comprises 14%; building and installations, 43%; and machinery and equipment,
38%. On-farm improvement includes land clearing, leveling, sulbsoiling, and
improvement of farm buildings and installations (barn, shed, and water supply
facility). Additionally, the plan allows for the purchase of al tractor (60 hp),
including implements in order to ensure timely land preparation and cultivation.
6.        The development plan is estimated to increase the cropping intensity
from 100% to 114% and the cropping pattern includes wheat as a new crop. High
costs of production, low prices, and a greater quantity of water requirements
have decreased cultivation of maize under irrigated conditions in these areas.
Consequently, wheat is now increasingly replacing maize. Under improved
conditions, yields of wheat, sorghum, beans and soybeans would increase from
the present levels of 3.8 tons/ha, 5.0 tons/ha, 1.2 tons/ha, and 2.0 tons/ha
to 4.2 tons/ha, 5.8 tons/ha, 1.6 tons/ha and 2.4 tons/ha, respectively, by
full deve:Lopment (year 4). Total labor requirements are expected to increase
from the present level of 1,705 to 2,578 man-days. Net cash income would
increase substantially from US$8,100 under the present situation to about
US$25,600 at full development (year 8). The financial rate of return is
estimated at 41% and the economic rate of return at over 100%.
Investment Plan Bl: Dairy Farm (23 ha)
7.        The dairy investment plan is predicated on existing commercial dairy
farming systems, which are common in the arid, semi-arid and temperate regions
of Mexico where commercial dairying is dependent upon irrigated forages as a
feed base. It represents the traditional system of milk production in which
cows and replacement animals are confined to stables or yards and fed harvested
forages. Green alfalfa is fed during the spring and summer, and maize is
grown and stored in pits for feeding during the winter.  Additional winter
feed is obtained from autumn-sown oats.  As these farms have a limited area
on which to expand, it is usually necessary to purchase a certain proportion
of the forages required in the form of alfalfa hay as well as concentrate
foodstuffs.  Over 90% of the investment loan would be utilized for increasing
the size of the unit.
8.        As an illustration, this plan is for a 17-ha dairy unit 1/ stocked with
45 Holstein cows and replacement heifers. Infrastructure includes corrals, cow
barn, milking parlor and milking equipment. Total long-term investment over
a three-year period is estimated at about US$43,000, of which livestock
comprises 46%; constructions, 14%; machinery and equipment, 17%; and forage
establishment, 18%. Construction items include improvements and extensions
to the milking parlor, water supply channels, water troughs, corrals and
fences. Investment in machinery and equipment includes expansion and improve-
ment of imilking equipment, milk cooling equipment and water pump, as well as
expenditures on tractor, agricultural equipment and farm vehicle. Short-term
working capital would be needed annually, amounting to about one-twelfth of the
annual operating costs.
1/   This could be owned by an individual or an ejido consisting of 10 families.



- 60 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
9.        In the development program, the irrigated area would be increased
from 17 ha to 23 ha to expand forage production. By improved management
practices such as better seed bed preparation and correct fertilizer usage,
the dry matter yields of forage crops would increase for alfalfa from 11.9
to 15.0 tons/ha and maize from 6.9 to 8.5 tons/ha.  In addition, grazed annual
ryegrass is substituted for harvested oats in order to increase feeding value
and lift dry matter yield from 5.0 tons/ha for oats to 6.5 tons/ha for annual
ryegrass.  A further innovation would be the sowing in each of the three
investment years of 1 ha of permanent pasture to be utilized by grazing in
order to introduce a lower cost method of milk production.  By these methods,
the proportion of farm-produced forages would increase from 72% at the present
level to 86% at full development (year 5). Through the investment in 12
in-calf heifers and retention of herd-born heifers, the herd would increase
from 45 cows (56 AU) before development to 60 cows (80 AU) with the project
(year 3). Further increases and improvements are expected as follows:
calving rate would increase from 70% to 75%; calf mortality would decline from
16% to 12% (in year 4), adult mortality would be reduced from 3% to 2% (in
year 4); milk production per cow would increase from 3,600 liters to 4,000
liters (in year 5); and total milk production would rise from 162,000 liters
to 240,000 liters (in year 5). Under present conditions, two permanent workers
are employed and about 560 man-days of part-time labor are required annually;
under project conditions, total manpower would increase to three permanent
workers and 685 man-days of part-time labor.
10.       Without project, the net cash income is US$3,400, which represents
only 8% of sales. With the improved plan, at full development (year 6),
the net cash income would increase to US$27,400, representing 11% of sales.
Over the same period, the value of the herd would increase by US$31,636, or
almost 60% of its initial value. The financial rate of return is estimated
at 28% and the economic rate of return at 29%. The cash flow analysis
indicates that the subloan would require a grace period of four years and loan
repayment period of six years.
Investment Plan B2: Beef Ranch (200 ha)
11.       The investment plan illustrates the prevailing system for beef
production in the main breeding and fattening areas in the humid tropical
Gulf region. In this region, new farming areas are being expanded, utilizing
forest land as well as increasing the carrying capacity of existing farms by
sowing improved pasture species.  The region also fattens a considerable number
of cattle which migrate from the dry tropics, mainly from the Pacific region.
The beef production investment includes an expansion of the pasture area from
175 ha to 200 ha over a two-year period as well as increasing the existing
carrying capacity by better weed control and subdivisional fencing in order to
increase pasture utilization. In the first two years of the project, 25 ha of
new pasture are to be developed out of forest land.
12.       Based on the above, total investment is estimated at US$30,700, of
which livestock comprises 45%; constructions, 30%; machinery and equipment,
3%; and pasture establishment, 18%. Constructions include subdivisional
fencing, cattle handling facilities, and water facilities.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
Machinery and equipment consists of a sprayer to be used for controlling
external parasites and weeds and a water pump. Pasture establishment involves
clearing forest land and sowing it with African star grass. Working capital
in the initial year would finance 100% of the purchase price of- fattening
steers and 50% of annual operating costs.
13.        The development program is estimated to improve pasture feed quality
and to increase the carrying capacity from the current level of 1.3 AU/ha to
1.7 AU/ha (year 3). To utilize the increased carrying capacity, the herd
size would increase from 110 breeding cows (219 AU) to 160 cows (340 AU)
through the purchase of 20 in-calf heifers and by the retention of ranch-born
heifers (year 6). In order to utilize excess carrying capacity in the
initial stages (project years 1 to 4), steers would be purchased annually for
fattening.. Improvement in animal health services and better herd management
and grading are expected to improve production performance of the herd. Under
improved conditions, the weaning rate would rise from 60% to 65% (year 5);
weaner mortality would decline from 10% to 6% (year 5); adult mortality would
be reduced from 4% to 2% (year 3); beef carcass per breeding cow would increase
from 86 k,g to 120 kg; and total annual beef production would increase from 9.4
tons to 19.3 tons. It is assumed that the farming system continues to employ
two permanent workers as under present conditions; however, te-mporary labor
would increase from 1,050 man-days annually from the present level to 1,430
man-days at full development.
14.       Without investment, the net cash income is estimatedl at US$9,900,
representing 47% of ranch sales. At full development (year 9), net cash income
would increase to US$18,400, amounting to 60% of sales. During the same period,
the value of the herd would increase by US$72,700, or more than 70% of its
pre-development value. The subloan reflects a grace period ofE five years and
a repayment period of seven years.  The financial rate of return is estimated
at 22%, aLnd the economic rate at 21%.
Investment Plan Cl: Small Inshore Fishermen Group
15.        This investment plan consists of a simple low-cost package that would
provide adequate fishing equipment and small fishing boats that would enable
low-income fishermen groups to increase production for local markets. This
illustraitive plan is based on a representative 15-family ejido, which would
generate its own labor requirements. Without project conditions, assume that
the group rents boats, including gear, from intermediaries who take a substan-
tial portion of the catch as payment.   In this case, the group rents three
boats, w'hich allows each family only a subsistence income.
16.       The investment package includes 10 fiberglass launches of 7.9 m
length, each equipped with a 50-hp outboard motor. Local firms are now con-
structing launches and manufacturing fishing ge2ar and accessories, but motors
are being imported. A cold storage room (;4 m ) for the catch and a general
purpose fish receiving-clearing room (32 m ) would be constructed. Addition-
ally, a refrigerated truck would be financed to enable the group to take its
catch to, the local or regional markets. Total investment cost is estimated at
US$69,900.



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6
17.       The 10 small boats with 30-man crew would allow each family to
maintain full-time employment in fishing and have a steady cash income. The
boats would be utilized on an average of 184 days per year, depending on
weather conditions and the spawning seasons of different species. About 20%
of the investment cost would be contributed by the beneficiaries. The loan
is expected to be fully repaid by the sixth year of the project. In the first
year of the project, US$42,300 in short-term working capital would be required;
subsequently, operating costs would be self-financed. Net cash balance would
increase rapidly to US$19,000 by year 7.  The financial rate of return is
estimated at 29% and the economic rate at over 100%. These high rates would
be realized because: (a) the group would have 10 completely equipped boats
which would be manned by 30 fishermen so that each family would be able to
fish an average of 184 days per year; (b) production would soar since 10 boats
would be used instead of only three and incremental benefits would be high in
a relatively short gestation period.
Investment Plan C2: Fruit Packing and Storage Plant
18.       This investment plan consists of an apple packing and processing
plant financed by an association of producers in a major fruit producing area.
With proper grading, packing and transport of the fresh fruit, producer
revenues would be enhanced substantially. Apples would be stored for periods
of up to six months with little deterioration in quality. The processing
plant would purchase from members and non-members apples at US$521 per ton
and, upon processing, sell for an average of US$913 per ton. With the proces-
sing plant, the growers must now dispose of their produce quickly during the
harvest season, thus receiving relatively lower prices.
19.     2 The investment consists of civil works, a syall refrigerated storage
(2,400 m ), a selection and packing2facility (1,200 m ) and materials and
equipment storage facility (2,200 m ), the latter for boxes and packaging
materials. Fruit storage capacity would be 2,400 tons. Total investment cost
would be about US$700,000. Short-term working capital of US$547,800 and
US$426,100 would be required in the second and third years of the project,
respectively, and would decline to an average annual level of US$187,000 in
ensuing years. Participants would contribute 20% of the investment cost.
20.       At full development, 25 workers would be required for the six-month
operation period for a total of 150 man-months.  In addition, two maintenance
crew and five administrative-supervisory personnel would be employed for six
months and a professional manager would be hired on a year-round basis. During
the subloan repayment period, the net cash income would be US$37,000 annually
and after debt service, annual net cash income would increase to US$187,000.
The financial rate of return is estimated at 28%, and the economic rate at 33%.



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6
Investment Plan C3: Grain Storage Plant
21.       This subproject concept envisions a modest-scale mechanical storage
installation (capacity of 38,000 tons) in a grain producing area. This scheme
would be supported by a producer group (over 200 members), but non-members
would also be able to utilize the facilities at normal fees. During the peak
harvesting season, crop losses range from 20% up to 50%; thus, the investment
in these facilities would reduce these crop losses.
22.       Investment funds would finance a 38,000-ton grain storage complex,
including grain drying equipment, power installation, and loading and
unloading facilities for trucks. Total investment cost is esiimated at
US$987,000. Civil works would include the warehouse (5,250 m ), office,
laboratory, facilities for trucks, and a power substation. Machinery would
consist of conveyor equipment, a ventilator system and scales. Additionally,
a pickup truck would be provided, together with a mobile laboratory for
sampling grain. The facility would handle a volume of 57,000 tons annually
of sorghum, maize, soybeans and wheat over a 10-month period. The producers
would form, a board of directors to manage the enterprise, but responsibility
for actual operation would be delegated to a professional manager supported
by a small staff (two administrative staff and a two-man maintenance crew).
During the operational period, 16 workers would be hired.
23.       The net earning of the complex would amount to US$41,800 during
the first eight years. Revenues would permit repayment of the investment loan
(year 8). A short-term working capital loan, amounting to about US$222,000,
would be required in the first year of operation. The financial rate of
return is estimated at 27% and the economic rate at 28%.
April 11, 1980



M E X I C O
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDI'r PROJECT
INViSTMENT PLAN Al -- RAINFED ANNUAL COPS FARM (180 ha)
Caeh.Flow Proiection
(Mex$ '000)
0       1        2       3        4        5       6        7        8      10       15       20
(I) CASH INFLOW:
I  GROSS VALUE OF PRODUC'TION        805.9   924-3  1052.4  1166.4  1284.6  1362.6  1362.6  1362.6  1362.6  1362.6  1362.6  1362.6
2  INVESTMENT LOAN    (95%. of 6)        0   484.3        0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0        0       0
3  FARMERS CONTRIBUTION(57 of 6)         0    25.5        0        0       '0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0
4  SHORT-TERM LOAN    (59% of 7)    347.8   376.8   419.7   457.5   492.9   520.4   520.4   571.4   520.4   520.4   520.4   520.4
5   TOTAL INFLOW       (1+2+3+4)   [153-7  1810.9  1472.1  1623.9  1777.5  1882.9  1882.9  1934.0  1882.9  1882.9  1882.9  1882.9
(II) CASH OUTFLOW:
6  INVESTMENT COST                       0   509.8        0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0        0       0
7  OFERATING COSr                    695.5   753.6   839.3   915.0   985.7  1040.7  1040.7  1142.7  1040.7  1040.7  1040.7  1040.7
8   TOTAL. COST             (6+7)    695.5  1263.4   839.3   915.0   985.7  1040.7  1040.7  1142.7  1040.7  1040.7  1040.7  1040.7
9   NE'T CASH FLOW           (5-8)   458.2   547.5   632.8   708.9   791.8   842.3   842.3   791.2   842.3   842.3   842.3   842.3
DEBT SERVICES:
10F PRINCIPAL PAYMENT                    0        0    67.7    79.9    94.3   111.2   131.2          0        0        0        0       0
11 INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST              0    43.6    87.2    75.0    60.6    43.6    23.6           0        0        0       0        0
:12 SHORT 'T'ERM LOAN INTEREST        31.3    33.9    37.8    41.2    44.4    46.8    46.8    51.4    46.8    46.8    46.8    46.8
:13 SHORT-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.    347.8   376.8   419.7   457.5   492.9   520.4   520,4   571.4   520.4   520.4   520.4   520.4
:14 TOT'AL DEBT SERVICE(SUM1O-13)    379.0   454.3   612.3   653.5   692.1   722.1   722.1   622.8   567.2   567.2   567,2   567.2
:15  CASH BALANCE         (9-14)      79.1    93.2    20.5    55.4    99.7   120.2   120.2   168.5   275.1   275.1   275.1   275.1
-- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - --- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ,. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



M E X I C O
SEVENTH AORICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INvESTmENT PLAN A2 -- GRAVITY IRIGATED ANNUAL CROPS FARM (200 ha)
Cash Flow Projection
(14ex$ I000)
-------------------------------------- ----------------------YEAR--------------------
0       1       2        3       4        5       6        7       a       10      15       20
(I) CASH INFLOW:
1 GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCTION        1917.8  2338.0  2459.9  2581.9  2660.8  2660.8  2660.8  2660.8  2660.8  2660.-  2660.8  2660.8
2  INVESTMENT LOAN       (957. of 6)     0  1045.0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0
3  FARMERS CONTRIBUTION C 5. of 6)       0    55,0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0
4  SHORT-TERM LOAN       (50/. of 7)  828.3   918.0   942.6   967.1   991.8   991.8   991.8  1101.7   991.8   991.8   991.8   991.8
5   TOTAL INFLOW       (1+2+3+4)   2746.1  4356.0  3402.4  3549.0  3652.5  3652.5  3652.5  3762.6  3652.5  3652.5  3652.5  3652.5
(II) CASH OUTFLOW:
6  INVESTMENT COST                       0  1100.0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0
7  OPERATING COST                  1656.7  1835.9  18S5.1  1934.1  1983.5  1983.5  1983-5  2203.5  1983.5  1983-5  1983.5  1983.5
S   TOTAL  COST            (6+7)   1656.7  2935.9  1885.1  1934.1  1983.5  1983.5  1983.5  2203.5  1983.5  1983.5  1983.5  1983.5
9   NET CASH FLOW           (5-8)  1089.4  1420.0  1517.4  1614.9  1669.1  1669.1  1669.1  1559.0  1669.1  1669.1  1669.1  1669.1
DEBT SERVICES:
10 PRINCIPAL PAYMENT                    0        0   146.1   172.4   203.4   240.0   283.2          0       0        0       0        0
11 INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST             O    94.1   188.1   161.8   130.8    914.2    51-0          0       0        0       0        0
12 SHORT TERM LOAN INTEREST          74.6    82.6    84.8    87.0    89.3    89.3    89.3    99.2    89.3    89.3    89.3    89.3
13 SHORT-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.    828.3   918.0   942.6   967.1   991.8   991.8   991.8  1101.7   991.8   991.8   991.8   991.8
14 TOTAL DEBT SERVICE(SUM10-13)    902,9  1094.6  136i.5  1388.3  1415.2  1415.2  1415.2  1200.9  1081.0  1081.0  1081.0  1081.0
15  CASH BALANCE          (9-14)    186.5   325.4   155.8   226.6   253.9   253.9   253.9   358.1   588.0   588.0   588.0   588.0
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICUJLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INVESTMENT PLAN B1 -- DAIRY PRODUCTION (23 ha)
Cash Flow Ploaction
Mex$ ' 000)
0            1            2             3            4             5            6            7             8             9            15            20
(i) ('a5h Inflow:
1 Gross Value of Production                      980.6       1,074.8      1,121.9       1,210.6      1,390.6      1,550.6       1,575.6      1,575.6       1,575.6      1,575.6       1,575.6       1,575.6
2 Investment Loan (807. of 6)                       0          722.1         33.1          33.1          0             0            0             0            0             0            0             0
3 Farmers Contribution (207. of 6)                  0          180.5           8.3          8.3          0             0            0             0            0             0             0            0
4 Short-Term Loan (part of 7)                      74.1         75.7          75.9         80.9          90.9         97.0         93.7          93.7         93.7          93.7          93.7         93.7
5 Total Inflow (1+2+3+4)                        1,054.7      2,053.1      1,239.2       1,332.9      1,481.5       1,647.6      1,669.3      1,669.3       1,669.3      1,669.3       1,669.3       1,669.3
(ii) Cash Outflow:
6 Investment Cost                                   0          902.6         41.4          41.4          0             0            0             0            0             0             0            0
7 Operating Cost                                  888.8        908.7        910.2         970.7      1,090.8      1,164.4       1,124.8      1,124.8       1,124.8      1,124.8       1,124.8       1,124.8
8 Total Cost (6+7)                                888.8      1,811.3        951.6       1,012.1      1,090.8      1,164.4       1,124.8      1,124.8       1,124.8      1,124.8       1,124.8       1,124.8
9 Net Cash Flow (5-8)                             165.9        241.8        287.5         320.8        390.7         483.2        544.5        544.5         544.5        544.5         544.5         544.5
Debt Services
10 Principal Payment                                 0            0             0            0           60.0         100.0        150.0         150.0        150.0         178.3          0             0
11 Investment Loan Interest                          0           65.0        133.0         138.9        141.9         131.1        113.1          86.1         59.1          32.1          0             0
12 Short-Term Loan Interest                         13.3         13.6         13.7          16.4         17.5          16.9         16.9          16.9         16.9          16.9         16.9          16.9
13 Short-Term Loan Principal Payment                74.1         75.7         75.9          80.9         90.9          97.0         93.7         93.7          93.7         93.7          93.7          93.7
14 Total Debt Service  (Sum 10-13)                  87.4        161.1        222.6         934.4        309.2         345.6        373.7        346.7         319.7        321.0         110.6         110.6   en
15 Cash Balance (9-14)                              78.5         80.7         64.9          86.4         81.5         137.6        170.8        197.8         224.8        223.5         437.9         433.9



MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INVESTMENT PLAN B2 -- BEEF PRODUCTION
Caoh Flow Projection
O            1            2            3            4            5             6            7            8             9            10         11-20
(i) Cash Inflow:
I  Gross Value of Production                      480.4        559.1        760.2        843.6         713.1        783.8        884.4        942.1         987.9      1,011.7      1,011.7       1,011.7
2  Investment Loan  (80n. of 6)                     0          438.9        126.4          0             0            0            0            0            0             0            0             0
3  Farmers Contribution (207. of 6)                 0          109.7         31.6          0             0            0            0            0             0            0             0            0
4  Short-Term Loan (part of 7)                    120.9        239.2        365.4        423.1         269.4        193.0        193.9        194.5         194.8        194.8        194.8         194.8
5  Total. Inflow (1+2+3+4)                        601.3      1,344.9      1,283.6       1,266.7        982.5        976.8      1,078.3      1,136.6       1,182.7      1,206.5      1,206.5       1,206.5      ,
(ii) Cash Outflow:
6  Investment Cost                                  0          548.6        158.0          0             0            0            0            0             0            0            0             0
7  operating Cost                                 241.8        401.3        538.2        615.3        461.7         385.9        387.8        389.0        389.6         389.6        389.6         389.6
8  Total Cost (6+7)                               241.8        949.9        696.2        615.3        461.7         385.9        387.8        389.0         389.6        389.6        389.6         389.6
9  Net Cash Flow (5-8)                            359.5        395.0        587.4        651.4        520.8         590.9        690.5        747.6         793.1        816.9        816.9         816.9
Debt Services:
10  Principal Payment                                0            0            0            0             0           79.0         93.2        110.0         129.8        153.3          0             0
11  Investment Loan Interest                         0           39.5         90.4        101.8         101.8        101.8         87.5         70.7          50.9         27.6          0             0
12  Short-Term Loan Interest                        10.9         21.5         32.9          38.1         24.2         17.4         17.5         17.5          17.5         17.5          17.5         17.5
13  Short-Term Loan Principal Payment              120.9        239.2        365.4        423.1        269.4         193.0        193.9        194.5        194.8         194.8        194.8         194.8
14  Total Debt Service (Sum 10-13)                 131.8        300.2        488.7        563.0         395.4        391.2        392.1        392.7         393.0        393.2        212.3         212.3
15  Cash Balance (9-14)                            227.7         94.8         98.7         88.4        125.4         199.7        298.4        354.9        400.1         423.7        604.6         604.6



M E X I C O
SEVFNTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INVSST4EfT PLAN Cl -- SI1L INSHCPSI FISHERMEN GtOUP
Cah  Flow     ection
(KeiS '000)
---------------------------------------_------------------------YEAR ----------------------------------------------
0        1         2        3         4         5        6         7         8       10        15        20
---------------.-------------------------------_-_----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) CASH XNF1OW:
I  GROSS VALUE OF FRODUCTION             954.0  1789.0  2983.0  2983.0  2983.0  2983,0  29B3,0  2983.0  2983.0  2983.0   2983.0  2983.0
2  1lJVFSTMENT IOAN-   (8QC% OF 6)1/    97.6  1286.4                  0              0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0
i  Fiishermen Contribution (207! of 6) J   24.4    321.6         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
4  SHORT-TERM LOAN  (PART OF 7)           751.0   973.0           0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0
5   IOTAL INFLOW          (1+2+3+4)    1827.0  4370.0  2983.0  2983,0  2983.0   2983.0  2983.0  2983.0  2983.0  2983.0   2983.0  2983.0
(II) CASH OUTfLOW:
6  INVESTMENT COST                       122.0  1608.0           0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0
7  OPERATING COSTI/                       751.0    973.0   1718,0   1718.0   l7JR.0  2113,0  2063.0  1718.0  1718.0   1788.0   1823.0   1858.0
8   TOTAL. COST                (6+7)     873.0  2581.0   1718.0   171R.0  17t8.0   2113.0  2063.0  1718.0  1718.0   1788.0   1923.0   1858.0
9   NET CASH FlAiW              (5-8)    954.0  J789.0   1265.0   1265.0   1265.0    R70.0    920.0   1265.0  1265.0  1195.0   1160.0   1125.0
DERTr SFRVICES:
10 FPINCIPAL PAYMENT                          0     13.4    192,2    228.7   272.2    323.9   353.5               0        0         0         0         0
11 INVESTMENT LOAN INTEEST                 9.3    140.8    260.4    223.9    180.4    128.7        67.2          0        0         0         0         0
12 SHORT TERM LOAN JNTEREST              142.7    184.9          0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0
13 SHnRT-T. LOAN PRINCIPFAL PMT.         751.0    973.0          0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0         O
14 TOTAL DE8T SERVICE(SUM1O-13)          903.0  1312.0    452,6    452.6    452.6    452.6    420.7               0        0         0         0         0
15 Fiehorman's Remuneration 4/             51.0   450.0    800.0    800,0    000.0  400.0          480.0        826.0    828.0    628.0       828.0    828.0  *
16 Cash Balance (9-14)                      0       27.0      12.4      12.4      12.4   17.4       19.3        437.0    437.0   367.0        332.0   297.0
S/ 80% of investoent costs at 19t for five yearj.
2/ 20% of investment costs.
3/ Include replacesent of outboard motors every four yearsi one launch in year 5, two in year 10 and three in year 15 and four in year 20; refrigerated
truck every six years.
4/ Regular xemaneration instead of dividing the dtlty catch, calculated at the mini-um rural ugae sx$5l0 per day x 184 fishing days x 30 fisheremn at
full developenpt.



M E X I C O
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL  CREDIi PRFll..lCT
INVESTMENT PLAN C2 -- FRUIT PACKING AND STORAGE PLANT
Cash Flow Projection
(Mex$ million)
--------------------------------------------------------------YEAR----------------------------------------------------------------
0         1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8        10        15        20
(I) 1CASH [NFl nw:
l  GROSS VALUE OF PKODUCTLOlN                   0         0     18.1      18.1      18.1       18.1      18.1      18.1      18.1      18.1      18.1      18.1
2  TNVESTMENT LOAN    (80CR OF 6)1/             0       6.4       6.5         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
3  FARMERS CONTRIRUITTN (207. of 6) 2/          0       1.6       1.6         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
4  SHORT-TERM LOAN   (PART OF 7)                0         0     12.6        9.8      11.3      11.9      11.9      13.1      11.6       8.4       9.2        9.2
i   10TAL TNFLOW            1+2+344)            0       8.0      38.8      27.9      29.4      30.0      30.0      31.2      29.7      26.;      27.3       27.3
(IT) CASH OUTFLOW:                                                                                                                                                 I
6  INVESTMI-NI COST                             0       8.0       8.1         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0
7  OFFRATING COST2/                             0         0     12.0      12.(      12.3      12.4      1 i,      13.6      12./      12.7      13.3       13.1
8  1llTAL COST                  (6+7)           0       8.0      20.1      1 .()    12.3      12.4      12.3      13.6      12.7      12.!       13.3      13.1
S    NET CASH FLOW               (5-8)          0         0      18.7      15.9      17.1      17.6      17.7      17.6      17.0      13.8      14.0       14.2
DEBT qERVICES:
10 PRINCIFAL PAYMENT                            0         0        .9       1.9       2.3       2.7       3.3       1.8         0          0         0         0
ll INVESTMIN T LOAN INTFREST                    0        .6       1.8       2.3       1.9       1.5       1.0         .3         0         0         0         0
12 SHORT TERM LOAN INTERESr                     0         0       1.2        .9       1.1       1.1       1.1       1.2       1.1         .8        .9        .9
13 SHORT-T.  LOAN F'RINCIPAL FMT.               0         0      12.6       9.8      11.3      11.9      11.9      13.1      11.6       8.4        9.2       9.2
14 TOTAL DFPT SERVICF(SUM1O-13)                 O        .6     16.5  tl.0          16.6       17.2      17.3      16.       12.7       9.2      10.t      1O.1  Q
15   CASH BALANCE              (9-14)           0       -.6       2.2       1.0        .5        .4        .5       1.1       4.3       4.6       3.9        4.1
_/ 807 of investment costs at 197 for five years.
2/ 20% of investment costs.
3/ Includes vehicle replacement in project years 7, 12 and 17, and machinery and equipment parts inventory.



M E X I C O
SEVENtH  AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJFCT
INVESTHfT ?AN C3 -- GRAIN ELEVATOR
Cash Flov Proiection
(Mex$ million)
- - --                                --YEAR--------
0         1         2         3          4         5          6                   8         10        15         20
(I) CASH  INFLOW:
1  GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCTION                      0         0      10.8      10.8      10.F       10.8      10.8      10.8       10.8      10.8       10.8      10.8
2  INVESTMENT  LOAN        (80. OF A) I/          0     18.2          0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
3  FARMERS CONTRIBUTION(20%. of 6) 2/             0       4.5         0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
4  SHORT-TERM LOAN   (PART OF 7)                  0         0       5.1       L-.7      2.5        3.5       3.6        3.4       3.4          0          0         0
5    IOTAL  INFLOW          (1+2+3+4)             0     22.7       15.9      12 .       13.3      14.3      14.4       14.2      14.2       10.8      10.8      10.8
(T r, ) CASH OtlTFI OW:
6   INVESTMENT COST                               0     22.7          0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
7  OFFRATING COST3/                               0         0       3,4       3.7       4,5        4,7       4.5        4.5       4.5        4 .7      5.0        5.3
8    TOTAL COST                  (6+7)            0     22.7        3.4       3.7        4.5       4.7       4.5        4.5       4.5        4.7       5.0        5.3
9    NET CtASH  FLOW               (S-8           0         0      12.5       8.8        8.8       9.6       9.9        9.7       9.7        6.1       5.8        5.5
DEBT SFRVICES:
10 PkINCIFAL  FAYMENT                            O0                 t.5       1.7       2.1       2.4        2.9       3,5        4.1          0         0          0
I1  TNVESTMENT  LOAN  INTEREST                    0      1.7        3.5       3.2       2.8        2.5       2.0        1.4        .8          0          0         0
12 SHORT TERM LOAN  INTEREST                     0          0        .5        .2         .2        .3        .3         .3        .3          0         0          0
13 SHORT-.T. v-OAN FRINCIPAL  FlMT.               0         0       5.1       1.7       2.5        3.S       3.6       3.4        3.4          0         0          0
14 TOlAL  DEBT SERVICE(SUM1O-13)                 0       1.7      10.5        6.7       7.6        8.8       8.9       8.7        8.7          0         0          0
15   CASH  BALANCE              (9-14)           0      -1.7        2.0       2.0       1.2         .9       1.1       1.1        1.1       6.1        5.8       5.5
1/ 807 of investment costs at 197 for seven years.
2/ 207. of investment costs.
3/ Includes vehicle replacement in project years 5, 10, 15 and 20, and machinery and equipment parts inveatory.



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
MEXICO
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data
Available in the Project File
A.   On the Economy and Financial System
A.1 Informacion Economica - various issues; published by Bank
of Mexico
A.2 Informe Anual 1978 - Annual Report of Bank of Mexico
A.3 Nacional Financiera S.A., Annual Report 1978
B.   On FIRA
B.]. FIRA, Organization Chart
B.2  FIRA, Annual Report 1978
B.:3  FIRA, Annual Statistics 1978
B.4  FONDO, Audited Financial Statements 1978
B.5  FEFA, Audited Financial Statements 1978
B.6  FEGA, Audited Financial Statements 1978
C.   BANRURAL - FINASA
C.1 BANRURAL, Audited Financial Statements 1978
C.2 FINASA, Annual Report 1978
C.3 National Commission for the Sugar Industry, Sugar Statistics 1979
D.   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project
D.1  FIRA, Septima Solicitud de Prestamo al BIRF, January 1980, and
supporting documentation
D.2  Background data for illustrative investment plans
D.3  Background data on cost of productive support component






IBRD 11789 RI
V~~~~                                  lie-~~~~~~~ -                                                                                                          . ,,E "                                        'Oe  980
-   -    -  -F: -   -  -  -   -    -', 
F   17                                                               ,                                                                               FFCA,~ 
(A5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IZ7T'&YT5!
-7% s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~',A    ~                                                                                             *-1 
.   .~~~~A"                                                                                                                                                             F'- 
\.                                                                         t~~~~~~~~~~~~~l i 
S C) N Z  P A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                               '                                           A
.1                          'F,         /    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~ LII  N
H.~~~~~~ 
tF a                                    D i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-' 
a  TF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SEVENTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJKT~~~~~~~~~N AE<                                                             ;~F
AG    A~~~
J                              JA5 LAFI
Disrib tionofl    Offices                                       SAI                        u                      A 
Centrnal Offices                                                                                                                                                                        'QITN AN  aF-\,  ' 'i
A  Stale OCfces                                                      '      H       *     ~    ~     >HFr~    
Agemc,es                                                                    FP-.'H  FAEAO-                         E               F(FBN,IFA  
Sub Agencies                                                                              <N4 FAMOKP *E C* -                                                                       H En
RegFonal Boundaries                                                  4-4                                                                                                                  nv~-H* H  0*H H 
-         State Boundairtns                                                          "H    FAHH*FH                                         .               /'5' 'S<HA
-- InternatFonal Bound,clFes                                                          N  .HHHH  FA  X  A   CE ALIZE~,
EA,         t>                         H E    r1                                            F
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F                                                              ;
GI.EPRERO      *'AFAA       FN FHH.HH9      HF'I FTA'            ' 
,hh- ~ ~   ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ,
itiI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



