= CAL          LOAN NUMBER 1891 ME
Gusartee Agreement
(Seventh Agricultural Credit Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                        / 5     , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1891 ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES (herei    fter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Special Trust Agreement between the Guarantor
and Banxico dated August 26, 1965, Banxico has been entrusted by
the Guarantor with the Special Trust Fund for the purpose of
financing agricultural, livestock, fisheries and agro-industrial
development in Mexico;
WHEREAS the Guarantor, Banxico and the Borrower have
requested the Bank to assist in financing such development;
WHEREAS the Bank has in the past made the prior loans for
that purpose and has now agreed to make to the Borrower a seventh
loan in various currencies equivalent to three hundred twenty-five
million dollars ($325,000,000) on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided and that Banxico
undertake certain obligations to the Bank as in the Project
Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
subject, however, to- the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes:
(a) to cause Banxico to carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound agricul-
tural, industrial, administrative and financial policies and
practices;
(b) whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that
the funds available to Banxico for purposes of the Project will
be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for
carrying out the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide Banxico or cause Banxico to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures;
(c) to pay into the Fondo Especial de Asistencia Tecnica y
Garantla jpara Cr6ditos Agropecuarios, such amounts as shall
be required by Banxico to carry out Part 2 of the Project;
(d) with regard to the portion of the Loan allocated to
carry out Part 2 of the Project, to pay to the Borrower such
amounts as the Borrower shall require: (i) to repay to the Bank
such portion of the Loan; and (ii) to pay to the Bank any interest
and other charges due thereon.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any govern-
mental assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other governmental assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any of its political sub-
divisions, or of any agency; and the term "agency" means any
agency or instrumentality of the Guarantor or of any political
subdivision of the Guarantor and shall include any institution or
organization which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly
by the Guarantor or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor
or the operations of which are conducted primarily in the interest
of or for account of the Guarantor or any political subdivision of
the Guarantor.


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any
of its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions
to take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by the Borrower or Banxico of its respective obliga-
tions contained in the Loan Agreement or the Project Agreement and
will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or
appropriate to enable the Borrower and Banxico to perform such
obligations.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all action which
shall be necessary or advisable:
(a) upon the recommendation of FONDO to that effect, to
cause such import permits as shall be needed for the importation
of goods required to carry out the Project to be issued as
promptly as possible, in compliance with the legislation and
administrative procedures of the Guarantor; and
(b) to enable Banxico to apply or cause to be applied
the policies set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, in accordance with its
laws, appoint independent and qualified auditors for the purposes
of Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Borrower,
providing that any loss incurred by the Borrower in connection
with the payment of interest or other charges on, or the repayment
of principal of, the Loan and resulting from changes in the rate
of exchange between the currencies in which payments or repayments
are to be made will be borne by the Guarantor. The Guarantor shall
not change or fail to enforce any provision of such arrangements.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Nacional Financiera, S.A. is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 10.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-5-
For the Guarantor:
United Mexican States
c/o Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel la Cat6lica 51
M4xico 1, D.F.
Mexico
Cable address:                    Telex:
NAFIN
Mexico City                            NAFIN 383-1775765
Mexico City
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By
j  thorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   S
Regional Vice President
Latin merica and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of        198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


