                                                                                                                99834
Improving Agricultural Productivity in Azerbaijan
Zaur Rzayev, Communications Associate in the World Bank
Office in Baku, offers this story.
                                                                    Photo Gallery
A few years ago, Tofiq Mammadli was the first to introduce
drip irrigation in his small strawberry field in Jalilabad in the
south of Azerbaijan. He did so with a US$25,000 grant for
agricultural innovations. Before the new on-farm irrigation
system was installed, water had to be brought in furrows
between the rows, which consumed a lot of water and made it
difficult to pick berries the day after watering. Tofiq says that
the new irrigation system has produced such profits that he
has quadrupled the area under plantation.
                                                                    Related Links
Many nearby farmers have followed his example and have
also started using modern irrigation methods in their               The World Bank in Azerbaijan
strawberry, potato and tomato fields—one aim of the                 Country Partnership Strategy for
Competitive Grants Program of the World Bank-supported              Azerbaijan
Agricultural Development and Credit project. Since its start,       Azerbaijan Agricultural Development
around 100 innovative agricultural ideas from all over the          and Credit Project
country have received funding. Successful experiences are
                                                                    Ministry of Agriculture
shared with other farmers for replication and development.
                                                                    Market Information Commercial Hub
                         Azerbaijan's agriculture is mostly
                         based on small family-owned farms that were created as a result of privatization
                         of former collective and state farms. Nascent private farmers did not have
                         access to inputs for productive agricultural production, nor were banks ready to
                         finance this risky sector. Therefore, the project initially tested a group borrowing
                         scheme under which ten or more farmers borrow together and act as each
                         others' guarantor. These loans are small, based on market rates, and allow
                         farmers to buy input seeds and other materials for production. Since the
Tofiq Mammadli
                         beginning of the project, thousands of Azerbaijani farmers benefited from the
program.

Hussein Fataliyev lives in Masalli. Cattle, sheep, and chickens roam freely around his small farm. "I
used the money to buy food to fatten up young cattle and then I sell them off at a profit to repay the loan
and replenish the herd. I was trained to prepare a business plan and I have increased my herd by 50%
in three years," says Fataliyev.

                         One of the challenges facing Azerbaijan's farmers is lack of capacity to store
                         and process produce. To address the issue, the project is providing a line of
                         credit to medium-sized producers and processors to establish and expand their
                         operations. This line of credit is disbursed through local commercial banks and
                         is accompanied by extensive training and capacity building programs to enable
                         banks to finance similar projects with their own funds.

                         Advisory centres established by the project help farmers to grow plants that will
Hussein Fataliyev        yield a lot and to use productive farming methods. Jalal Aliyev used to produce
                         wheat, but three years ago his local agricultural advisor suggested he switch to
sunflowers, which are in high demand in Russia. He did and doesn't regret it. His revenues have tripled.
In the past he could hardly make both ends meet.

                         It is believed that agriculture has the potential to become the new engine of
                         Azerbaijan's growth, once oil and gas revenues reach a plateau. This will
                         require more efforts to improve the quality and supplies of Azerbaijani
                         agricultural products, and to enable farmers to access international markets
                         beyond traditional export destinations. Food quality and safety standards should
                         be strictly followed at all stages from production to marketing if Azerbaijan wants
                         to achieve this goal. These are areas where the World Bank's global experience
               could help.
Jalal Aliyev
