LOA'rA   &6      /J
FILE  COPY                                RESTRICTED
Report No. PI- la
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibUity for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
YUGOSLAV INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
1970
January 5, 1970
Industrial Projects Department



CURRENCY ELUVALiTS
Currency tkit    =    New Dinar (N.D.)
US$1              =    N.D. 12.5b
N,D. 1                   M US$0.08
N.D. 1,000,000    a    Us$80,000
Other Units
AU measurements are in the metric system.
Financial Year
January 1 - December 31



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF YUGOSLAV INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
1970
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SU MIRY AND CONCLUSIONS                                      -
I.  INTRODUCTION AND THE BORROWER                                1
Introduction                                               1
The Borrower                                               2
II.  DESCRIPTION OF PROJECTS                                      2
III.  THE ENTERPRISES                                              3
Past Performnce and Special Features of
Presentation of Accounts                                 h
Forecast Performance after Completion of Projects          6
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                   6
Terms of Proposed IBRD Loan and Procurement                7
V. YUGOSLAV INDUSTRIAL SECTOR                                    8
VI. CONCLUSIONS                                                  11
Map of Yugoslavia indicating the location of the three
beneficiary enterprises.
APPENDICES
1 - ZAVODI CRVENA ZASTAVA (ZCZ) - with Annexes 1 to 6, Charts 1 to 3
2 - ZELJEZARA SISAK (SISLK) - with Annexes 1 and 2
3 - INDUSTRIA POLJOPRIVREDNIH MASINA z[-1AJ (ZMAJ) - with Annexes 1 and 2
This appraisal report has been prepared by A. S. El Darwish.
The Appendices were prepared by A. S. El Darwish, K. B. Eckrich,
J. T,. P. Jaff6, M. V. Dehejia and C. Prout.



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF YUGOSLAV INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
1970
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                     i - ii
I. INTRODUCTION AND THE BORRO{ER
Intro ducction                                              1
The Borroer                                                 2
II.  DESCRIPTION OF PROJECTS                                       2
III.  THE ENTERPRISES                                               3
Past Performance and Special Features of
Presentation of Accounts                                  4
Forecast Performance after Completion of Projects           6
IV, PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                    6
Terms of Proposed IBRD Loan and Procurement                 7
VO  YUGOSLAV INDUSTRIAL SECTOR                                    8
VI. CONCLUSIONS                                                   11
Hap of Yugoslavia indicating the location of the three
beneficiary enterprises.
APPENDICES
1 - ZAVODI CRVENA ZASTAVA (ZCZ) - with Annexes 1 to 6, Charts 1 to 3
2 - ZELJEZARA SISAK (SISAK) - with Annexes 1 and 2
3 - INDUSTRIA POLJOPRIVREDNIH MASINA a AJ (ZIAJ) - with Annexes 1 and 2
This appraisal report has been prepared by A. S. El Darwish.
The Appendices were prepared by A. S. El Darwish, K. B. Eckrich,
J. W. P. Jaff6, M. V. Dehejia and C. Prout.



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRkISAL OF YUGOSLAV INDUSTRIA, PROJECTS
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.       The Bank has been asked to consider making a loan to the Yugoslav
Investment Bank (YIB) to help in financing part of the foreign exchange
requirements of three industrial expansion and modernization projects.
This would be the third IBRD loan to Yugoslav industry in the recent past,
the first two (504 and 554-YU) were made in 1967 and 1968 respectively for
altogether 17 projects and totaled US$26.7 million.  IJith the exception of
one subproject, which was revised slightly and is therefore delaye-d,:- t of tl_e
others are progressing about as expected.  There are three other projects
in which a slight cost overrLun is antiaipated. However, no difficulties are
foreseen in obtaining the additional financing that may be required particu-
larly in view of YIB's commitment to provide all necessary funds to complete
the projects.
ii.      The three projects for which Bank assistance of US$18.5 million is now.
requested are:
(a)  The expansion of Zavodi Crvena Zastava (ZCZ), Yugoslavia.'s only
integrated car and light truck manufacturer, from 96,000 to about
200,000 vehicles per year;
(b)  The expansion of Industria Poljoprivrednih Masina, Zma.j s (ZMAJ)
automotive wheel manufacture to keep up with rising demand; and
(c)  The installation of continuous casting and other equipment to
improve productivity and capacity utilization in Zeljezara Sisak
(SISAK), Yugoslavia's largest steel tube maker. SISAK has
received funds on two previous occasions fran IBRD and is there-
fore well known to the Bank.
iii.     The appraisal carried out by missions in mid-1969 show,ed the
projects to be well conceived, economically sound, technically feasible and
financially viable. The enterprises are well established and competently
managed and their projects will help them to adjust and take advantage of the
economic changes which have resulted from the 1965 Economic Reform. They
appear capable of exporting their products as needed to meet foreign exchange
obligations.
iv.      Of the three projects that of ZCZ is by far the largest.  Yugoslav
production of passenger cars has fallen substantially behind demand and over
50% of new cars registered in 1967 and 1968 were inported.  Demand is likely
to continue its rapid growth and annual requirements in 1974 are expected to
reach about 350,OO0 cars and thus provide ZCZ with a basic domestic market of
a reasonable size for viable car manufacture. Recognizing the growth of
passenger and goods road traffic, the Bank, in mid-1969, made its third high-
way loan to Yugoslavia and also contributed to the modernization and expansion
of commercial vehicle and automotive engine manufacture as a part of its two
earlier industrial loans to Yugoslavia.



ii
v.       An essential feature of the ZCZ project is that Fiat (Italy) have
entered with ZCZ into a joint venture which, in addition to Fiat's substantial
quasi-equity investments in the enterprise, involves providing a license,
know-how, engineering assistance, collaboration in research and development
and marketing assistance, as well as a very significant component exchange.
This helps ZCZ overcome scale limitations and enables it to market suitable,
modem cars in Yugoslavia at prices within only 10% above comparable retail
prices in other European countries.
vi.      The three projects have a total cost of ND 1,560 million (US$125
million) of which US$h3.5 million is required in convertible foreign exchange.
The proposed Bank loan of US$158.-5 million would provide 40% of the convertible
currency cost, Fiat's and the proposed IFO quasi-equity investments in ZCZ
another US$20 million and suppliers' credits of US$5 million would make up the
balance. The local currency requirements of the projects will be covered by
equity-type investments from various Yugoslav entities, a public debenture
issue, loans from Yugoslav banks and the enterprises' internally generated
funds. A novel and interesting feature of the proposed Bank operation is that
the financing for the projects will combine venture capital and loans from a
variety of local, foreign and international institutions.
vii.     The Yugoslav economy has been growing rapidly over the last 20 years
with the industrial sector and tourism in the lead. Industrial production in
Yugoslavia rose by 6.5% in 1968 and about 12% in 1969. A growth rate of
about 10% is likely in the 1970's unless unexpected constraints develop.
Industry contributed 31% of Yugoslavia's gross national product in 1968 and
almost 40% of total social sector employment, Metal fabrication, which is
dominated by automotive production, is the largest industrial subsector and
accounted for about 16% of gross industrial product in 1967.
viii.    The proposed Bank loan would be made to YIB and guaranteed by the
Yugoslav Goverment.  It would be at the IBRD's standard rate of interest
and for I1 years, including 2½ years of grace in line with project require-
ments. YIB would relend the proceeds of the Bank loan at identical repayment
temns. YIB will charge the legal maximum relending interest rate of 8%,
giving YIB a spread of 1% above the present IBRD rate. Dinar loans made by
other Yugoslav banks will be at similar repayment terms and interest rate as
that of the Bank.
ix.      Financial forecasts show that the three enterprises should be able
to meet all project costs and service their local and foreign debts satis-
factorily. They are a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$18.5 million
equivalent.



I. INTRODIUCTION AND TIlE BORROWER
Introduction
1.       In 1967 and 1968. the Bank made two loans (Nos. 504 and 554-YU) to
Yugoslav industry of together US$26.5 riilliona These are described in the
reports to the Board of Directors, LA-2a dated June 29, 1967 and LA-3 dated
July 26, 1968. In October 1968, the Yugoslav Investment Bank (YIB), in asso-
ciation with other prominent Yugoslav banks, submitted to IBRD an application
for a third industrial loan, comprising nine enterprises. At that time, the
Bank was in the process of reviewing its future lending policy to Yugoslav
industry so as to increase its impact on the country's economy. In the past,
the Bank had lent some sums for urgent modernization and rationalization
programs to a relatively large inumber of varied industrial enterpri ses. It is
now examinJ.ng continuing this type of financing to small and medium sized
enterprises through the YIB which witld act as a development finance company.
Such lending would be supplemented by direct appraisals of and loans to large
industrial projects which would be chosen with the prinme purpose of helping
them to undergo structural changes to make them more efficient and interna-
tionally competitive. The proposed loan presents an interim solution between
the past and future pattern of lending0 It concentrates on one important
project in a critical sector but also includes smaller projects. It is stil-]
made through YIB although all projects were individually appraised by Bank
staff.
2.       Of the nine projects submitted, the Bank decided to proceed with the
detailed appraisal of four projects: Zavodi Crvena Zastava (ZCZ), which
produces about 90% of the automobiles manufactured in Yugoslavia; Fabrica
Automobila Priboj (FAP), one of the larger producers of heavy trucks; Industr>J
PoJjoprivrednih Masina, Zmaj (ZMAJ), a manufacturer of agricultural machinei.7
and sole producer of automobile wheels; and Zeljezara Sisak (SISAK), a steel
tube producer. Three oL the four projects chosen for appraisal cormiprise a
substantial part of the automotive sector in Yugoslavia. This is a large
industrial subsector in need of development, whose foreign exchange require-
ments are substantial.  About US$8 million (1/3 of the IBRD loans in 1967 and
1968) has gone to the Yugoslav automotive industry (TAM, the country's large-,
truck producer; DMB, the largest engine manufacturer; and Pretis, a producer
of cars and ball bearings among other things). The fourth enterprise, the
steel tube works, has received two previous loans from the Bank, US$1.4
million under Loan 73-YU (1953) and US$1 million under Loan 50h-YU (1967)
and is therefore an enterprise with which the Bank has been associated for
a number of years.
3.       Detailed technical and economic studies made by each enterprise
were sent to the Bank together with reports on each project prepared by them
with the help of YIB. An appraisal mission went to Yugoslavia in May 1969
followed by further discussions with ZCZ in late July.
4.       As a consequence of detailed discussions with the management of
FAP and their bankers, FAP withdrew its application from the Bank because
the project was not sufficiently prepared nor was it geared to their plan
to make substantial improvements and expand production under a new technical
cooperation agreement with an established international truck manufacturer.
The mission found that the other three projects would be suitable for Banls
lending.



- 2 -
.        EThe enterprises carrying out the projects and the proposed alloca-
tion of IBRD loan funds to each one of them would be as follows:
Table 1. Allocation of IBRD Loan
Allocation
Name                            Purpose                       (us$ Million)
ZCZ      Cars and small goods' transporters                        10.0
SISAK    Steel tubes                                                6.2
ZMAJ     Wheels, agricultural machinery                             2 *.3
18.5
The Borrower
6.       It is proposed that the Loan would be made to the Yugoslav Invest-
ment Bank, which since 1961 has been the borrower of all previous industrial
and most other Bank loans to Yugoslavia. YIB's history and operations have
been described in detail in connection with the two previous industrial loans
(Nos. 504 and 554-YU). Its operations have grown further and at the end of
1968 YIB's total assets amounted to ND 25.5 billion or the equivalent of about
US$2 bi1lion.  In July 1969 in continuation of the measures to transform YIB
into an autonomous institution, the major part of the Government loans to
YIB was separated from its liabilities and put on a management fund basis.
This has substantially strengthened its financial structure. YIB is expected
to continue to play a major role in investment financing in Yugoslavia. It
is intended to make a reappraisal of YIB's activities and prospects in the
first half of 1970 in connection with possible Bank lending on a line of
credit basis.
II. DESCRIPTION OF PROJECTS
7.       ZCZ plans to expand from an annual capacity of about 96,000 vehicles
soon to be reached to about 200,000 vehicles in 197h, and possibly further
in the late 1970's. This increase in scale, combined with a well-planned
manufacturing program, is expected to improve considerably the financial
and economic returrns of the enterprise. The project is a joint venture with
Fiat (Italy) acting as licensor and participating with IFC, YIB and General-
export (a Yugoslav export import group), in foreign, international and
domestic quasi-equity financing. ZCZ will collaborate with Fiat and other
car producers in an extensive international exchange of components and will
produce a special version of a new Fiat 128 model adapted to Yugoslav market
requirements.
B.       SISAK intends to install a continuous casting machine in their steel
plant and add equipment to enable separation of medium and heavy seamless tube
manufacture.  This will increase total output of seamless tube from 79,000
to 137,000 tons/year by 1973, improve capacity utilization and reduce manu-
facturing costs.



9.       ZMAJ will expand output of automotive wheels from 900,000 to 2.3
million per year in 1973 to keep up with expansion of the automotive industry.
This will be attained by eliminating bottlenecks in present installations
and adding two new wheel production lines -- one for cars and small trucks
and the other for tractors and large trucks. Furthelmore, ZMA'J's manufacturing
costs per unit will be reduced considerably due to better utilization of
assets and labor.
10.      Detailed appraisals of the projects are contained in Appendices 1
through 3 attached to this report.
III. THE ENTERPRISES
11.      All three enterprises are established, well located going concerns;
ZCZ lies 60 miles southeast of Belgrade in Kragujevac (Serbia), ZMAJ is 5 miles
north of Belgrade in Zemun (Serbia), and SISAK is in a town of the same name
in Croatia. The enclosed map shows the location of the enterprises. The fol-
lowing table provTdes some of the main financial information about the enter-
prises, their projects and the expected improvements in performance after the
projects are ccmpleted:
Table 2. Past and Projected Financial Results and Project Cost
Unit          ZCZ        SISAK        ZMAJ
a) Past Results (at or dunn  year
ended December 31, 196)
No. of Workers                                     10,000       6,000        3,000
Total Assets (Net)                   (ND Million)   I oeo         800          151
Long-Term Debt/Own Funds                            3i/47       36/64        37/63
Current Ratio                                       1.3:1         4:1        1.5:1
Paid Sales                                          1,228         575          253
Net Earnings: Amount            1/                   60.5        13.4         13.3
As % of own funds-,                    13%         6%          11%
Cash Flow                                            118.6       71.5         22.6
Export Sales: Amount                                 162?/       72            8
% paid in convertible currency          98%       42%          10%
Ainnual Average Growth of Sales since 1965           22.7%       18%         13.3%
b) The Project (excluding other fixed
asset investments)
Total Project Cost                  (ND Million)   1,323          177         57
IBRD Financing (as % of Total)             "          125/(9%)   77.5(44%) 28.4(501
Loan/Venture Capital Financing                      26/74       69/31        69/31



Unit        ZCZ       SISAK      ZaMkT
c) ?roijcted Results (year of Project
Cmpletion: 1974 for ZCZ, 1973 for
SISAK and ZMAJ)
Total A        Net)                 (ND Million) 2,190         950       2400
Annual Sales                             "       4,110         75        446
Net Earnings: Amount                     if        415          70        28
As % of own funds'                  26g        16%       14%
Increase in Earnings (before interest)
as % of addition in gross assets               21%        20%        21%
Cash Flow                           (ND Million)   646        18          h8
Export Sales:  Amount                    "         7506/       125        50
% paid in convertible currency       45%       90%       52%
Long-term Debt//Own Funds                        25/75      33/67      26/74
Current Ratio                                    2.5:1  about 3:1   about i.6:J
Long-term Debt Service Coverage                    3.9         3.2       2.6
reciation rates adjusted where appropriate.
/ Includes sales in Yugoslavia fQr convertible currency.
X IFC-will finance anv;ther ND 100 nillion equivalent (gK) with a quasi--quity
participation.
Past Performance and Special Features of Presentation of Accounts
12.      In 1968, the three enterprises had a sales revenue of together
about ND 2,000 million (US$160 million), combined aseets of ND 2,100 million
(US$165 million) and employed about 19,000 workers0  Long-term debt/own fur,s s
ratio ranged from 36/64 to 53/47 and current ratio from 143:1 to 4:1, which
are within the range of enterprises financed in previous IBRD industrial loarir..
13.      The enterprises all keep orderly accounts in similar fashion to
Western manufacturing firms; however direct comparisons are not normally
possible because of differences in presentation. These are discussed in
detail in the report "Appraisal of Yugoslav Investment Project" (LA-2a)
dated June 29, 1967, specifically in Appendix 3 - "Financial and Operating
Characteristics of the Yugoslav Enterprise.'
14.      Total assets usually include assets such as employee housing and
also the difference between invoiced and paid sales on the balance sheet.
Such practices reflect adversely on normal measurements of return on assets
The relationship between long-term debt and own funds is a reflection of the
financial maturity and past profitability since, in Yugoslavia, new enter-
prises used to be initially financed entirely by debt. Furthermore, as fro.i
January 1, 1969 enterprises are required to switch operating statements frcma
a cash to an accrual system. This tends to deform direct canparisons of
forecast sales, costs and profits with historical data. The policies of
income distribution within an enterprise often result in inconsistent year-
to-year movements in depreciation allowTances and wage bonuses. It is there-
fore useful to review annual cash generation of an enterprise as well as its
net earnings record.



- 5 -
15.      Despite various differences arising from Yugoslavia's social System,
Yugoslav enterprises enjoy many important common characteristics with those
operating in Western Europe and North America. Although the assets of a
Yugoslav enterprise are social property, management and control are vested in
the employees who act through an elected workers' council. In general, enter-
prises are free to make their own decisions regarding new investments, plant
location, product lines, marketing and purchasing, the hiring-firing and wage
policies for employees. Coordination of development is carried out through
chambers of industry, government indicative planning, exchange of views within
the banking system and in cooperative arrangements between enterprises. This
autonomy is not limited by fiscal centralization of capital appropriation but
by foreign trade regulations, certain administrative price guidelines and
sectorial preferences manifested in differential financial terms and foreign
exchange retention rates. These characteristics are also often found in
Westerm  countries with "free" market economies.
16.      The three enterprises proposed for financing have responded well to
the new economic environment introduced by the 1965 economic reforms. They
are technically, financially and commercially well managed and have developed
iportant links with manufacturers in Western Europe, either through the
purchase of licenses and technical advice or through the practice of joint
production agreements and component exchanges.  For example, the agreement
between Fiat and ZCZ involves the use of all these techniques. This enables
ZCZ to enjoy the advantages of modern technologies and economies of scale to
a degree that would not be otherwise possible in an economy of Yugoslavia's
size and level of development.
17.      Most domestic prices of the enterprises: products, using the present
exchange rate, are not substantially different from prices in Western Europe.
This is due to the pressure exerted by actual or potential competition from
imports. Existing price controls have not affected the enterprises, since
the guidelines of the authorities led to prices within the range of those
acceptable to the enterprises. Therefore the policy of further relaxing
price controls -- which is currently being implemented -- is not expected to
have a significant effect on the prices of the enterprises' products. The
enterprises are, in the Yugoslav context, profitable, even though domestic
prices are not significantly higher than world prices because basic cost
inputs and conversion efficiency and costs are reasonable. Imported materials
pay small duties and those produced locally are normally priced in line with
landed cost of imported materials. Though wages have increased -- and will
continue to rise gradually - they are still comparatively low by WAest
European standards. Wages are linked to productivity and the enterprises'
earmings. Cases are known of cutbacks in workers' payroll in enterprises
showing a deterioration in earnings. Financial costs are somewhat lower than
in Western Europe and taxes, which have been reduced by the Economic Reform,
are much lower than corporate incoae taxes in Western Europe and the United
States.



- 6 -
Forecast Performance After Completion of Projects
18.      Profitability and cash generation of the three enterprises after
completion of their projects show net earnings to range from 114 to 26% on own
funds. Cash flow ranges from 25% to 40% of own funds. This is significantly
higher than the present cash flow, which ranges from 18 to 30% of own funds.
The financial structure of the enterprises in 1973 and 1974 is reflected in
a long-term debt/own funds ratio varying from 33/67 to 25/75 which is a
considerable improvement on the present (53/47 to 36/64) and within the range
of industrial enterprises previously financed by IBRD. Current ratio improves
to over 1.6:1 for all three enterprises (w4th Sisak at 3:1;' ain debt service
coverage ranges from 2.6 to 3.9 times. This is considered satisfactory and
compares well with the projected range for 14 of the enterprises financed by
IBRD's previous industrial loans (after completion of their projects) which
was from 1.6 to 4.4.
19.      EKports of the three enterprises, which are the main source of
financing imports of raw materials and components, are projected to increase
from about US$20 million in 1968 to US$75 million in 1974 (of which an
estimated US$40 million will be to countries having convertible currencies).
The plans laid out for this large expansion in difficult markets are well
conceived so that the enterprises should be able to attain this target of
export of about 15% of their total output. Due to improvements in producti-
vity, the enterprises will have reduced manufacturing costs so that they will
be able to export at world market prices while covering all direct, costs
and making some contribution to overheads. Service of the IBRD and other
loans to the enterprises in local and foreign currencies appears assured.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
20.      The total project costs (excluding interest during construction
which will be charged to operations) of ND 1,560 million (US$124,6 million)
is to be provided as shown in the following table:
Table 3.  Financial Plan for the Three Enterprises
(US$ million)
ZCZ      SISAK    ZMAJ    TOTAL
IBRD Loan                                   10.0         6.2     2.:3    18.5
IFC and Fiat Quasi-Bquity                   20.0          -       -      20.0
Supplier Credit - West                       5.0          -       -5.0
Domestic & East            7.5         -       -        7.5
Yugoslav Bank Loans and Debentures           5.2         3.6     0.9      9.7
Generalexport and YIB "IBuity"              11.2          -       -      11.2
Enterprises' own funds (cash generation)    46.9         4.4     1.14    52.7
1o5.8       1h.2     4.6    124.6



- 7 -
21..     A nove'l featrre of the ZCZ project is that it will be a joint vrenture
ith the profits and the risks being shared by ZCZ, Fiab (the licensor and
technical partner), YIB, Generalexport and IFC, all of which participate in
the financing with venture capital. In 1968, Fiat made a quasi-equity invest--
ment of US$5 million in ZCZ and is now investing another US$12 million in
the same form to finance the present project.  IFC is considering a similar
quasi-equity investment of US$8 million in ZCZ. Both Fiat's and IFC's parti-
cipations are ultimately convertible into fixed interest loans.
22.      These quasi-equity investments of Fiat, IFC and the Yugoslav banks
and enterprises provide 30% of ZZts financing requirements, ZCZ are supply-
ing another 45% from their own funds and cash generation. Domestic machine
suppliers as wqell as those from Western and Eastern countries (such as
Czechoslovakia and Eastern Germany) are providing another 12% of the financingc
Dinar loanswill be provided at suitable terms by Yugoslav banks including
YIB, which will also float a public debenture issue. While IBRD funds provide
the major portion of the SISAK (40%) and ZMAJ (60%) total financing, they
contribute only about 10% of ZCZts requirements. IFC is also providing about
8% of ZCZ's financing. The YIB has undertaken to provide or cause to be
provided additional funds (in domestic and/or foreign currency) if required
by the enterprises to complete the projects as planned.
23.      The proposed Bank loan of US$18.5 million will be used to purchase
imported goods that cannot be procured locally for reasons of quality, price
or delivery time. No major changes are expected in the above project costs
or in the relationship between domestic and foreign currency requirements.
Adequate contingency allowance have been made to provide for unforeseens
and possible escalation in prices.
Terms of Proposed IBRD Loan and Procurement
24.      It is proposed that the Bank loan be made to YIB for a term of 14
years, including a grace period of 2½i years in line with the schedule of
execution of the projects. It would carry interest at the standard rate
prevailing at the time the loan is approved. Disbursements would be made
only for the c.i.f. price of imported equipment and materials.
25.      The proceeds of the loan would be relent by YIB to the enterprises
in the same currencies and the same repayment terms as those for the loan ot
the Bank to YIB. YIB will charge the enterprises 8%, the maximum fixed by law
for interest rates of local banks, giving it a spread of 1% above the present
IBIRD interest rate. These terms are expected to permit the servicing of
IBRD's loan proceeds without strain on any of the three ultimate beneficiarieze
26.      It is proposed that the enterprises follow procedures of interna-
tional procurement which are appropriate for metal fabrication projects --
that is to say the comparison of at least three offers from suppliers in
Bank member countries and Swtitzerland. YIB would supervise this procedure.
The Bank would have the right to review with the YIB adequate adherence from
time to time. This would be generally similar to the procedure followed in
IBRD's most recent loan to Yugoslav industry (1968) and which is applied in
loans to development finance companies. However, the Bank would approve bid
documents and the final selection of a supplier for any item or group of itmusrF
exceeding US$1 million. The Bank has introduced this special approval reTy1re
ment this year because some large items are expected to be purchased wTith
IBRI) funds.



- 8 -
27.      Experience gained with 1967 and 1968 industrial loans and in
appraising the proJects for the proposed loan has shown that Yugoslav enter-
prises procure imported goods and services on an international basis and are
not unduly biased towards sources which may be linked to foreign licensors
or technical partners. It has alao-become increasingly clear, however, that
strict adherence to full international competitive bidding procedures, as
defined in the Bank's general guidelines, is impractical in some industrial
branches, especially metal fabrication projects. There, wide competition is
normally limited by the special nature of the equipment involved, the greater
number of machines having relatively small value and by the enterprises'
understandable preference to buy from the same manufacturers that have supplied
their existing plant to reduce difficulties of maintenance, to avoid duplica-
tion of stocks of spare parts and improve suppliers' service. Furthermore,
because of the very large number of contracts, the procedures for wide inter-
national competitive bidding would put disproportionately heavy demands on the
enterprises, the YIB and the Bank Group, and result in slowing down implementa-
tion of the projects.
V. YUGOSLAV IDUSTRIAL SECTOR
28.      With an area of 257,000 sq km, Yugoslavia is about the size of the
United Kingdom but has only about one-third as many people -- 20 million.
Despite considerable movement of people toward industrial occupations and
cities, about half the Yugoslavs continue to derive their income from agricul-
ture. A consistently high rate of savings and investment has permitted the
country's gross national product to grow by 7 to 8% since 1953. The highly
industrialized north, the fertile agricultural soils in the northeast, the
valuable mineral deposits in the central and southern regions, the natural
beauty that makes the Dalmatian Coast a famous tourist attraction, and an
industrious people, all provide the basis for continuing growth.
29.      Industry is Yugoslavia's most important economic sector contributing
some 31% of GDP in 1968.  Industrial employment accounts for almost 40% of
total employment in the social sector; however, the social sector employment
is relatively small since a large portion of the labor force is still working
in the private sector, mostly on small farms. Exports of industrial products
account for about 84% of total goods exported.
30.      Over the post world war period large investments have been made in
new industrial capacity, enabling a rapid expansion of production primarily
to meet the needs of the domestic narket. From 1953 until 1964 the average
annual growth in industrial output exceeded 12%. Thereafter growth slowed
sharply until it came to a virtual halt in 1967.  In 1968, however, rapid
industrial expansion was again resumed. As a result of the industrialization
process there was a major shift of workers from agriculture to manufacturing
and mining. Output per worker has been increasing rapidly since 1960 and
now contributes about equally as growth in industrial employment to the
expansion of manufacturing output.



- 9 -
31.      The pattern of industrial development has been changing in emphasis
from developing the country's infrastructure and capital goods industries in
the 1950's to more expansion of the consumer goods industries in the 1960's.
The capital goods and consumer goods industries now contribute about equally
to total industrial output. The leading industries in terms of their contri-
bution to domestic product are metal fabrication (16%), textiles (12%), food
and wood products (12%) and chemicals (7%).
32.      As industry grew, some production branches found that the domestic
market alone was too small to achieve even the minimum economies of scale.
Some other industrial branches, notably certain textiles, clothing, leather
and footwear, although they had established themselves primarily on the basis
of the domestic market, found it possible to compete successfully abroad.
Such products have been sold mainly to East European countries, but have also
indicated that they are capable of competing in Western markets, notably in
West Germany and Italy.  Other important products exported to the West have
been basic materials such as non-ferrous metals and rolled copper and aluminum
products. Total exports of manufacture have risen rapidly since 1960 and the
share of exports in gross industrial output is now about 14.
33.      Notwithstanding the recent progress of local capital goods indus-
tries, Yugoslavia continues to import a substantial part of her needs of
machinery and equipment, mostly from the West. The diversification of output
and in many cases the small scale of production meant that enterprises had
difficulty in competing successfully with larger enterprises abroad, while
the heavy expenditures on research and development in more developed countries
Imposed a heavy burden on Yugoslav enterprises in their attempt to keep pace
with technical change. Their response in these circumstances has been to
enter into a variety of cooperative arrangements with both domestic and
foreign partners. In some cases the Yugoslav and foreign company exchange
components for their respective product lines, and in a few others the Yugoslav
enterprise has become a major supplier of a particular item in the foreign
partner's range of products.
34.      Considerable progress along these lines had been made by the early
1960's. Nevertheless progress was limited as long as severe restrictions on
foreign trade remained, md as long as central authorities in Yugoslavia had a
large influence in investment decisions. This tended to hamper the reorganiza-
tion of industry on the lines required by economic considerations. Further-
more, while many Yugoslav exporters could find markets in Eastern Europe for
their products, they could not sell in the pest.  Thus in relation to the
manufacturing sector, the Economic Reform of July 1965 was designed to curtail
external influence on the direction of industry, to provide enterprises --
through reduction of taxes and general contributions -- with financial
resources for reinvestment, and to promote the modernization of industry by
orienting prodaction and trade increasingly to Western technology and Western
markets.



- 10 -
35.      The impact of these refomn measures has been felt increasir.ngly SinC.
1965. Devaluation in 1965 stinulated exports of manufactured goods, improve-
ment in productivity and control of manufacturing costs. However, some indnu-
trial branches were hit by cost increases arising from devaluation itself
and the growth in personal incowes.  Some industrial branches suffered from
the liberalization of imports and from the tariff reductions accompanying the
Reform. The decline in fixed investment in 1967 at a time of increasing
imports of capital equipment depressed demaid for domestic producers' goods.
Overall growth of industrial output came to a halt in 1967, forcing the author-
ities to take a variety of measures stimulating industrial expansion. Steps
were taken to expand credit both for domestic production and for export.
These as well as measures to stimulate consumer demand and home construction
have led to a new phase of industrial expansion,  Annual growth in industrial
production rose from almost zero in the first quarter of 1968 to 6, 7 and 11%
for the remaining quarters, averaging 6%5% for the whole year. Rapid indus-
trial growth continued during 1969, and it is estimated that it averaged
12% last year. Prospects for growth rates of about 8 to 9% in the early 1973's1
are favorable provided that availability of foreign exchange does not become
a constraint to such expansion.
36.      The difficulties confronting manufactuiing industry over the past
three years were great. Nevertheless,progress has been made in particular
sectors in accordance with the objectives of the Reform, although the moderni-
zation of industry has been hampered by the shortage of investment funds.
Investment in different industrial branches since 196h, the year preceding ti1s
Reform, has been oriented increasingly to the production and processing of
petroleum and the expansion of output of non-ferrous metals and chemicals,
particularly fertilizers. These three branches absorbed one-third of all
fixed investments in industry in 1967 against 19% in 1964, Iron and steel
continued to absorb 13 to 19% of total fixed industrial investment, while the
shares of most other branches declined, with above average decreases in metal
fabrication, electrical equipment and textiles. In these branches particular#v,
specialization and modernization are important if Yugoslav enterprises are t'V
compete successfully with foreign products imported under the stimulus of
liberalization.
37.      The integration of enterprises and greater specialization in indus-
trial production among different plants is proceeding over a wide range of
products.  For example, the number of commercial vehicle manufacturers have
been reduced by the 'merger of various enterprises;       car producers,
assemblers, and their component suppliers are grouped into an association;
and leading producers of heavy electrical equipment have reduced their range
of products radically. Nevertheless, many enterprises have understandbly
found difficulty in adjusting to the new conditions brought about by the
Reform, and the Government is considering additional measures such as tax
incentives or special credit facilities to promote the more rapid integrati 'r.
specialization and rationalization of industrial branches.



-11-
VI. CONCLUSIONS
38.    The projects which would benefit from a prospective Bank loan
have been found to be economically sound, technically feasible and
financially viable as shown in the enclosed Appendices. As a result
of growing demand for their produots and of new capacity to be added
by the projects, the enterprises' sales are expected to continue to
increase. Exports will also increase output and quality, and ration-
alization of production will reduce costs. The profitability of the
enterprises is expected to improve and their ability to service the
proposed debt seems to be well assured.
39.    The ZCZ car project provides a number of special features which
are particularly original and relevant in the context of Yugoslavia's
industrialization policy following the Economic Reform. Among these
are strong links in a joint venture with a foreign licensor, intensive
exchange of components with foreign countries, quasi-equity partici-
pation of foreign, domestic and international groups, design of a pro-
duct and development of an expansion project in a form which ensures
cost competitiveness with imports with only a reasonable amount of
protection.  The application of this approach to car manufacture, which
is normally difficult to implement when the domestic market and conse-
quently scale of manufacture is small, is shown in the enclosed ZCZ pro-
ject appraisal report in Appendix 1. It may well serve as a model of
the project planning techniques to be considered when embarking on a
study of the possibilities of establishment of a complex industry in
developing countries w1ith a relatively small domestic market.
40.    During negotiations assurances were obtained that the federal
authorities will exchange views currently with the Bank concerning
their economic and fiscal policies towards the automotive industry.
The YIB will keep the Bank informed regarding the financing and imple-
mentation of expansions in the local finms which supply components to
this industry. Furthermore, the authorities agree that Yugoslavia's
steel manufacturing programs require comprehensive study, because of
that industry's significance to the metal fabrication subsector, and
are considering procedure for cooperation with the Bank to organize
the implementation of such a study.
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1970



A U S  T 9R  I A
~~' ~   oa  >JS Zt~~~~4    >  dc -xw~~                      U        N        G        A          R         Y          
YU GO S LAV IA                                                                      TIj ,OGRAD                         4   ^t    0  
LOCATION  OF ZAVODI CRVENA  ZASTAVA (ZCZ),                                                   a     -)                                   /\         t    
ZELJEZARA  SISAK(SISAKJ AND                                ,                                                                     M    A    N    I   A
INDU5TRIA  POLJOPRIVEDNIH  MASINA(ZMAJ)                              t                             _ k                     Gos              OF ZMA
Europeon Highwoy.                                                                               r  >;                            
Crher Clas I~M Hlho,'jXq                                                                             >                    bC E     
.**eBoundorres gf Republics ono Au,0,0oc, Foy Pnoves                                                                         Kieev          tA!
5-5-----5--0---5 Ro A oo!
0   20  40  60  810  00M'j                                                       '             REECE A 
DECEMlBER 1969                                                                                                                                                                   IR-64
LOCATION OF     I ZCZ 2674



APPENDIX 1
YEJGOSLAVIA: ZAVODI CRVENA ZASTAVA (Z0Z)V
PROJECT APPRAISAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                         i - iv
I. EXISTING PLANT                                                    1
II. THE PROJECT                                                       1
III. COLLABORATION AGREEMENT BETWERI ZCZ AND FIAT                      3
IV. THE YUGOSLAV CAR MARKET                                           4
A. Current Total Vehicle Park and Sources of Supply             4
B. Past Growth of Passenger Car Park                            4
C. Projections of Future Demand for Passenger Cars              5
V. COMPETITION, PRICES, DISTRIBUTION AND EXPORTS                     6
A. Competition                                                  6
B. Prices                                                       7
C. Distribution, Service of Domestic Sales and Exports          8
VI. ECONOMIC FEATURES OF THE PROJECT                                  9
A. Scale of Manufacture and Costs per Car                       9
B. Utilization of Manpower and Assets                          10
C. Protection                                                  11
D. Conclusions on Economic Features                            13
VII. MANAGEMENT AND LABOR                                             14
VIII. PROJECT COSTS                                                    15
IX. PROJECT FINANCING                                                16
A. Financing by Long-Term Debt                                 16
B. Equity Financing                                            17
X. FINANCIAL RESULTS AND PROJECTIONS                                18
A. Past Results                                                18
B. Projections of Financial Perfomance                         19
C. Convertible Exchange Balance                                20
D. Return on Investment and Debt Service                       21
ANNEXES
1 - Yugoslavia: Past and Projected Car Park, Registration and Demand;
Growth in Ownership, GNP and Elasticity of Car Demand (1965 to 1974)
2 - Yugoslavia: Projected Demand and Supply of Passenger Cars Shared
Between Local Producers and Imports (1969 to 1974)
3 - ZCZ Capital Costs (Stage II)
l4 - ZCZ's Statement of Income and Financial Position (1965 to 1968)
5 - ZCZ's Statements of Projected Income, Financial Position, Sources and
Applications of Funds and Sales Revenue (1969 to 1974)
6 - Total Projected Convertible Currency Exchange of ZCZ (1969 to 1973)
CHARTS
1 - Evolution of Ownership of Passenger Cars in Yugoslavia and Spain (l962-'75)
2 - Yugoslavia Car Ownership per 1000 Inhabitants Against Per Capita Income
at Current Rate Compared with Other European Countries
3 - Domestic Demand in Yugoslavia as Shared Between ZCZ, Other Local Manmfac-
turers and Imports (1964 to 1974)
/ This report has been prepared by A. S. El Darwish of the Industrial
Projects Department and Mr. K. Eckrich of I.F.C.



APPENDIX 1
Page i
ZAVODI CRVENA ZASTAVA (ZCZ)
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Zavodi Crvena Zastava (ZCZ), located in Kragujevac, 60 miles south-
east of Belgrade, is Yugoslavia's largest car producer and its only integrated
manufacturer. It employs about 10,000 people and has a production capacity
of 56,000 vehicles per year. It is now expanding capacity to about 193,000
vehicles in two stages.  It will thereby rationalize its manufacturing
program and for optimal economics, allocate production of certain components
to its licensor -- Fiat of Italy -- and other Fiat licensees in Poland and
the USSR. ZCZ has been cooperating with Fiat since 1954. The first stage
of expansion up to 96,000 vehicles per year is now being implemented and is
expected to be completed by early 1970.
The second stage, for which IBRD and IFC financing have been
sought, is about to be embarked on, and is scheduled for completion in 1974.
It is to cost about ND 1,323 million (US$105.8 million). Equity investment
will provide US$78.1 million, and loans US$27.7 million.
A major part of the equity (US$46.9 million) will be provided by
ZCZ cash generation. Fiat will invest US$12 million in addition to US$5
million it has already invested in the first stage expansion. IFC is consid-
ering a US$8 million quasi-equity investment in the ZCZ-Fiat joint venture. Tso
Yugoslav enterprises, Generalexport, an importing, exporting and general
investing group, and the Yugoslav Investment Bank (YIB) are also making
equity investments. These investments in venture capital in a Yugoslav
enterprise by both Yugoslav and foreign groups constitute a nea feature
which adds to the significance of the project.
The proposed IBRD loan of US$10 million will be supplemented by
suppliers' credits, loans by two Yugoslav banks, and an issue of public
debentures.
As a result of this expansion, the enterprise's annual turnover wilI
increase very rayidly    from ND 1,230 million (US$100 million) at present
to ND 4,110 million (US$330 million) in 1974. Annual profit, after depre-
ciation and interest, is expected to increase from ND 60 million (US$4.8
million) in 1968 to about ND 415 million (US$33 million) in 1974. This will
represent a return of about 18% on total net assets employed. The return on
new investment in this project is estimated to be 21%. The debt service
coverage continues to increase from 1.6 times in 1969 to 3.9 times in 1974.
A thorough market analysis which the enterprise has conducted
together with Fiat shows that the Yugoslav passenger car market is expected
to continue its rapid growth and consume about 340,000 cars annually by 1974,
at the beginning of which year the total car park (registered vehicles) will
reach 1.6 million cars. Ownership would still only be about 74 cars per 1000
inhabitants which is considerably lower than in most West European countries
today and would still leave scope for further market growth.



APPENDIX 1
Page ii
It is expected that ZCZ will retain about a 45h, share of the
domestic demand -- as compared to 45 to 50% over the last five years -- and
continue to develop its small exporb market for cars. ZCZ's competition
from imports will continue and grow in absolute numbers but the percentage
of demand supplied by imports is expected to decrease fran about 40% at
present to about 30% by 1974. Competition is also anticipated from locsl
assemblers of imported knocked down cars who finance these imports by car
sales in Yugoslavia for convertible currency and by exporting certain parts
to their licensors abroad. Their share of the market is projected to
increase from about 6% now up to 22% by 1974.
The enterprise's expansion is centered on the production of an ilOOcc
Fiat 128, a small 800 kg, h-door sedan of modern design. It has been adapted
to Yugoslav conditions by conversion into a "semi-brake" model, with a rear
door and a folding rear seat permitting the car to be used both as a sedan
and a semi-station wagon --- with little sacrifice in appearance. This makes
it possible to extend the marketing of the same car to a wider range of
customers.
ZCZ's target of 100,000 cars a year of the new 128 model and close
to 200,000 in total including their older models will bring them waithin rango
of the size at which the handicaps of scale become less critical. This size
of plant would be about the same as that of Volvo in Sweden, and the manu-
facturing volume for the main model would be close in scale to many model
runs produced in European factories. ZCZ will import body paiels which
require a larger volume for economic manufacture and restrict their own produc-
tion to components which can be made viably at the enterprise's scale of
operation. This results in a much lower specific investment requiremient per
car than their present scale, and not much higher investments than fully
integrated producers with 100% more volume.  Furthermore, the project could
be considered as a transitional phase until growth cf demand justifies furthor
expansion in the later 1970's. This would result in further economies of sca'.o2
ZCZ takes full advantage of its close relations with Fiat and other
Fiat licensees in the area to rationalize production. ZCZ places great
emphasis on competitive pricing of its cars, and intends to make this possible
by importing all itemAs that cannot be purchased in Yugoslavia or produced
by their own factory at competitive cost. The enterprise will pay for these
imports by exporting components which can be produced at reasonable cost.
The domestic retail prices of ZCZ are within about 10 of its
European counterparts. The economic viability of the enterprise and its
domestic suppliers, other local inputs and distributors was measured by
a calculation which indicates that the effective protection required is
only about 14,%. This excess cost is low considering the project's contri-
butions -- direct and indirect -- to the Yugoslav economy.  Besides an
annual net foreign exchange saving of about US$100 million, the project will
double ZCZ's direct employment to about 20,000 people and create labor
opportunities to many more among its supplLers and associates.  It will
permit wage increases in a country where wages are among the laoest in
Europe, without sacrificing returns which are imperative for implementaticn



APPENDIX 1
Page iii
of Yugoslavia's economic growth and liberalization. The project will make
a contribution to industrial development as a whole through providing business
for an exceptionally, vis-a-vis alternative industries, large network of
sub-suppliers.
ZCZ has a competent management team which has developed it into a
mature international firm. The enterprise has succeeded in gaining the
confidence of Fiat and enlisting their support far beyond the provision of
technical assistance and know-how. It collaborates with Fiat in an exten-
sive component exchange worth about US$40 million annually, and is the show-
piece of Fiat licensing in Eastern Europe; furthermore, it has a direct Fiat
quasi-equity risk investment which will eventually be about US$20 million,
and has thus ensured Fiat's continuing interest.
The project's performance relies on a rapid (though realistic) rate
of growth of the local demand for cars.  It depends on management's continuing
competence in handling more complex problems than it has ever tackled in the
past. It relies also on the enforcement by the authorities of a policy which
provides encouragement for this growing industry, but balances such policy
evenly (both quantitatively and in timing) 'with   a target of import liberal-
ization and the intention to increase the industry's efficiency, productivity
and ability to compete. During loan negotiations, the Yugoslav authorities
confirmed their intentions of exchanging views periodically with the Bank on
policies affecting the automotive industry.
ZCZ's quality consciousness has permitted it to export components
to Italy and complete vehicles to countries in competition with its licensors
and other international manufacturers. ZCZ has its own research, development
and design department to solve local technical problems, while relying on
Fiat for major model development.
As a consequence of the collaboration between ZCZ and Fiat, the
project is well conceived, its technical features are in experienced hands,
and the design of the facilities and the technology selected are satisfac-
tory. It will enable ZCZ to pull out of small scale infant operation to
rational manufacture of a modern car at a reasonable cost. Loading of
machinery will be adequate, and utilization of workers and assets will be
improved to approach standards of West European manufacturers. Manhours
required per vehicle will be reduced by about 20% and vehicle costs are
expected to be lowered by 4% in spite of increases in wage rates projected
over the next five years.
Many Yugoslav enterprises would benefit from the dynamic influence
of an association with foreign corporations. The number of joint ventures
with foreign firms has not been as great as was expected when favorable new
legislation was passed in mid-1967. The ZCZ-Fiat joint venture agreement
is expected to lead the way to others. Its approach to planning a complex
manufacturing industry may also serve as a model for other developing
countries.



APPENDIK 1
Page iv
The growth of ZCZ also has the following wider implications:
a) it symbolizes the acceptance of private cars as a means of
transport rather than a luxury article. This is quite a recent concept in
Yugoslavia and one that seems to have spread to the USSR, which is now revamp-
ing its automobile industry.
b) it highlights acceptance of the principle that profits of an
enterprise should be shared not only by its own workers but also between
them and other Yugoslav enterprises, international organizations and foreign
enterprises which contribute to financing and know-how.



APPENDIX 1
Page 1
I. EXISTING PLANT
ZCZ's principal plant is located in Kragujevac (Serbia), some
60 miles southeast of Belgrade on the Sofia internatinnal highway. In 1968,
at somewhat more than 2-shift capacity, it marnufactured about 50,000 vehicles,
mostly passenger cars, and assembled 6,600 Fiat cars. The present plant was
built in 1962 in connection with an expansion of capacity from about 15,000
vehicles in 1961  ZCZ became predominantly a vehicle manufacturer following
entry into a technical arrangement with Fiat in 1954.
The enterprise was founded in 1853 as a gun factory, and its plant
was rebuilt following World War II destruction to manufacture trailers, jeeps,
ploughs and other products. With the new construction of machine, press,
welding, painting and assembly shops in 1962, the old factory, about a mile
away, is being used as a subsidiary workshop and for the manufacture of
shotguns. ZCZ has two other plants in Southeast Ylugoslavia, which produce
automobile accessories. It purchases its engines from an independent enter-
prise (DMB Belgrade), and other components (such as electrical equipment,
tires, castings) from about 80 suppliers accounting for about 40% of the
total cost of the complete vehicles, These suppliers are linked with ZCZ
in an association of vehicle and parts producers. Total ZCZ sales revenue
in 1968 amounted to approximately MD 1,230 million (US$98 mil-lion), of which
about 17% came from operations other than vehicle and spare parts sales.
Early in 1968, ZCZ embarked upon a large expansion program (Stage I)J
expected to be completed by early 1970, to increase annual manufacturing
capacity to 75,000 passenger cars and 5,000 commercial vehicles, plus 10,000-
15,000 assembled Fiat cars.  This has involved an investment of about US$25
million, financed by the enterprise, Fiat and local loans.
II. THE PROJECT
The project (Stage II) consists of the addition of facilities to
produce, in two shifts as at present, 100,000 cars per year of a semi-
station wagon (semi-brake) version of Fiat's 128 model adapted to suit
Yugoslav customers who want a sedan which can also be used to transport goods
This expansion involves addition of two new buildings to house present and
future machine and press shops.  The three existing buildings will all be
extended and used as welding, painting and assembly shops, and will be linkeS
with the new buildings by overground covered conveyors. Manufacture of
commercial vehicle components and their assembly will be moved to the old
factory and will be complemented by certain machinery to increase capacity
from 5,000 to 8,000 units per year. The assembly of Fiat cars -- with a
minor dcmestic content -- will be transferred to a new, independent buildinz
at an output of about 10,000 units per year.



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
The following table compares present (1968) output with that
expected to be achieved upon completion of Stage I expansion and the project
(Stage II).
Table 1. Present (1968) Post Ste I (1970)  and
Pofst Stag II e574 Capait ' 
(in units)
Stage II
Present   Stage I   (The Project)
1968      1970          1974  -
ZCZ 1281/ semi-brake            -          -           100,000
ZCZ 750                        35,000    50,000         50,000
ZCZ 1300                       11,000    25,000         25,000
Commercial Vehicles             3 000      6 000       8&C22
000    81,COO          183000
Other Fiat models-assembled    7,000    15,000          10,0
56,oo0    96,000       193,000
The site is well serviced by road and railway, and is strategically
close to Belgrade, the center of conrumption, commercial activity, labor,
supply and all of''Lcial contacts and banking that ZCZ requires.  The site
is connected to power lines, water supply and drainage facilities, though
supplementary feed lines will have to be installed.
The mach1inery which mill be added for the project will consist
principally of apnroximately 3c33 machine tools, 60 presses and various
weldir., painting and as embl;r equip-aent. Machining of parts for the new
128 rilallel  il be dividI: d into 7 principal multipurpose lines for group
work such as gears and machir:.lrlg of castings and will be added to the 10
similar existing lines.  The ni;w press shop will be made up of one heavy
press line having one 1,500-ton double acting press and six 900-ton presses.
The other presses and the existing presses will make 5 more press shop lines
of 800 tons as well as general, medium and small presses.  Various items of
assernily, painting and welding aquipment will be added, as well as conveyors
for mechanization of internal transport. The machine shop and press shop
equipment is expected to be loaded at between 60% and 95% of 2-shift capacity.
In a further step (Stage III), ZCZ plans to increase production
to about 300,000 vehicles per year by the late 1970's to meet the prospective
increase in demand. The precise timing of this step will depend on the
further growth of the market.
The YIB have assured the Bank that all ZCZ's Yugoslav component
suppliers have access to adequate local and foreign exchange funds, to
finance expansions to meet increasing demand for locally purchased car
components, and will keep the Bank infonaed of their progress. ZCZ will
insist on obtaining components which are competitively priced in relation
1/ 1100 cc transverse engine with front wheel drive. The number 128 is a
serial prototype number different from the older models whose number was
equal to the engine cubic capacity.



APPEMNIX 1
Page 3
to other European prices. Since the enterprise is planning to export more
components to Fiat than is needed to pay for the bare minimum of its imports,
ZCZ will be able to exert pressure on its domestic suppliers to quote compe-
titively.
ZCZ has completed most of the design work on the project and is
now about to order equipment. The enterprise expects the buildings to be
finished and most of the machinery and installations to be delivered by early
1971 and erection and trials to be completed during the first half of 1971.
It is expected to produce and sell about 10,000 of the new 128 models in
1971, 4o,000 in 1972, 75,000 in 1973 and 100,000 at full capacity in 1974.
III.   COLLABORATION AGREMM  BETWEEN ZCZ AND FIAT
Under the business collaboration agreement with Fiat, the enter-
prise:
a) has purchased from Fiat a basic license and know-how for a
royalty of 0.5% on sales plus a flat fee of US$1.75 million equivalent for
the 128 model;
b) has been using Fiat's research and development facilities to
design a vehicle suitable for the Yugoslav market;
c) is using Fiat's resources in marketing, advertisement, and
sales know-how;
d) will deliver to Fiat from its own workshops car seat frames
and other components as partial repayment for the parts which the enterprise
will import from Fiat to avoid producing them at higher cost. ZCZ expects
to be the sole manufacturer of certain spare parts of Fiat vehicles whose
production has been discontinued in Italy. ZCZ will channel other camponents,
such as radiators, from associated compacies to Fiat, who has undertaken to
absorb half the value of goods to be exported by ZCZ and to assist ZCZ sell
other non-automotive Yugoslav goods in Italy. This division of labor involv-
ing trade of approximately US$200 million over five years will benefit both
ZCZ and Fiat and is expected to balance foreign exchange requirements for
operations;
e) has concluded agreements for the supply over five years of
about US$132 million worth of components for Fiat vehicles produced under
license in a 600,000 cars per year plant in the USSR, and another US$15
million worth of components to Poland over the same period;
f) will receive from Fiat US$17 million in venture capital and,from
Italian manufacturers,      supplier credits for equipment of up to US$5
million and up to US$35 million of credits from the Italian Government for
supply of components. Fiat will also assist ZCZ in selections and negotiatior
of prices and delivery times of machinery and equipment.
The Bank staff is of the opinion that the collaboration agreement
between ZCZ and Fiat does much to enhance the viability of car manufacture
in zCZ.



APPENDIX 1
Page 4
IV. THE YUGOSUAV CAR MARKET
A  Current Total Vehicle Park and Sources of'   ply
At the end of 1968, the total vehicle park (registered vehicles)
in Yugoslavia reached 585,00o  vehicles, of which 440,00O were private
passenger cars, 35,000 official cars, and 110,000 trucks, busses and other
commercial vehicles.  About 70% of the additions to the park over tlhe past
five years has been met from local manufacture and/or assembly of cars,
trucks and busses.
There are four passenger car plants in Yugoslavia including ZCZ,
which is the largest and the only integrated manufacturer, accounting for
roughly 90% of the total domestic output of passenger cars in recent years.
The other three (PRETIS, TOMOS and RIV) are assembly operations. TYhey import
completely knocked down (CIO) packs from their technical partners in Europe
and export an equal value of car parts that they themselves manufacture.
Trucks, busses and other comme-cial vehicles are produced by
seven enterprises, the principal ones being TAM and FAP-FA14OS, which manu-
facture medium and heavy trucks and busses, and together account for over
60% of total ccmmercial vehicle production. The balance is made up by ZCZ,
TOMOS, IMV, ZMAJ and UTVA, which manufacture primarily light trucks up to
2-ton payload, vans and microbusses.
B. Past Grh of the Passenger Car Park
The evolution of the passenger car park in Yugoslavia and its
breakdown by major region and ownership are shown in the following table:
Table 2. Passenger Car Park irY   liavi
(as at January 1)
Average
of     Increase  Ownership in
which   in Total   Yugoslavia.
..ear  Serbia   Croatia  Slovenia  Other TOTAL   Private       %        (cars/OO0)
(in 1,000)
:)&-4    35.5    28.5      35.2    13.4   112.6      89.3      -            5.9
"5    44.0      34.5      43.1    20.2   14l.8    116.1      26            7.4
%66    58.7      46.4      55.4    27.4   187.9    160.5      31            9.6
1967    87.0     61.0      68.o    37.3   253.3    224.0      35           12.8
:968   126.9     89.8      85.o    50.5   352.2    320.9      40           17.6
12_69    n.a.    n.a.      noa.    n.a.  475.0    440.0       35           22.5



APPENDIX 1
Page5
The average park growth of about 33% per year over the past five
years (and about 17% per year over the previous five years) has resulted
primarily from the rapid growth of privately owned cars in the country.
These increased at 38% per year and accounted for about 90% of the total
park in 1968 as against about 45% in 1958.
Passenger car ownership in Yugoslavia as of January 1, 1967
(measured as the number of registered vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants) was
12.8 or roughly of the same order of magnitude as in Brazil, Czechoslovakia,
Greece and East Germany, but higher than in neighboring East European coun-
tries such as Hungary, Poland, Rumania and Bulgaria. Most West European
countries have an ownership in excess of 100.
Imports of passenger cars (coming mainly from Germany,France and
Czechoslovakia) have increased more rapidly over the past few years than
domestic production as shown in the following table:
Table 3. Gross Supply of Passenger Cars
(in 1,000)
1964     1965     1966      1967   1968
ZCZ                             26.8     35.0      38.1     42.2   56.l
Others (Pretis, Tomos, INV)      1.3       2.8       .0       5.7    8.5
Total Domestic Production       28.1      37.8     42.1     47.9   64.6
Imports                          4.8      13.0     20.2      51.8   52.9
C. Projections of Future Demand for Passenger Cars
In mid-1968, with the assistance of Fiat and the Zagreb Institute
for Market Research, ZCZ made a detailed study of the future market for
passenger cars in Yugoslavia. The study used two alternative approaches.
In the first aoproach, the Veneto region of Italy was selected as
the one most resembling, geographically and historically, the Republic of
Slovenia in Yugoslavia and it was found that passenger car ownership in
Veneto corresponded reasonably well with that in Slovenia, but with a 5-year
time lag. The rates of growth achieved in Veneto during the period 1963
through 1967 were used to project ownership in Slovenia during 1968 through
1972. These projections were slightly adjusted for a difference in the
income elasticity of demand between the two regions and by the expected rate
of growth of per capita income in Slovenia during the coming five years as
against the rate actually achieved in Veneto during 1963 to 1967. To arrive
at a projection for the expected car park growth in the country, the calcula-
tion was repeated for Croatia using Slovenia as the model, for Serbia based
on Croatia and so on for the various regions of Yugoslavia.
In the second method, a sample survey of about 5,000 Yugoslav
families was made. They were divided into non-agricultural families and
agricultural families. The non-agricultural group was further subdivided
into three sub-groups: low, medium and high income. Two coefficients,



APPENDI 1
Page 6
tased on hist.orical data, were calculated:  the  innual rate of motor- eti'
and the coefficient of ownership. The coefficients for the highest incame
group were then correlated with similar data for groups in Italy and Spain
and based on the regression analysis, future coefficients for the high inccr-c
group families in Yugoslavia were projected. Projections for the medium and
low income brackets were made by correlating them with the next higher income
bracket in Yugoslavia. For the families in the agricultural group, the growth
rate of coefficients, which had been sinilar to those for the low income
bracket families, was assum,ed to grow more rapidly due to the influence of
diffusion (deraonstration effect). Using these coefficients, growth of the
car park was then determined for the years after 1969 -- the forecast for
1969 was based directly on intentions of purchase as established by the
survey.
The projections made by the two methods compared quite closely.
It is significant that a similar survey in Spain conducted under the super-
vision of Fiat in mid-1966 has proved to be reasonably accurate, in spite of
restraints due to curtailirng credit for car purchases in late 1966 and the
devaluation of the Spanish Peseta in late 1967.
Based on these projections, the demand for passenger cars, assum-
ing a scrap rate of 1 to 1.5% of total park, is estimated as follows:
Table 4. Demand for Passenger Cars and Ownership in Yugoslavia
1969      1970       1971      1972       1973       1974
7bOo cars)
Park (at Jan. 1)      474h1     616.5      798.1    1,020.6   1,276.5   1,569.0
Scrappage               3.6        5.h       8.8        11.1      lh.8       20.0
Demand                146.0     187.0      231.3       267.0     307c3      341.0
(cars/l ,O00)
Average Ownership      24         30        39          49        61         74
In Annex 1, Charts 1 and 2, the above data are given in greater
detail and scme are shown graphically.  The past and expected growth of the
Yugoslav passenger car market is also compared to that in some other European
countries. All these data indicate that the forecast demand of passenger
cars in Yugoslavia is reasonable.
V. COMPETIOPRICES, DISTRIBUTICN AND EXPORTS
i. Competition
ZCZ's domestic market share has dropped from about 85% in 1964 to
52% in 1966 and some 45% in 1968; imports rose in the same period from about
15% to 45% and local assembly from 0 to about 10%. ZCZ's market share has
been affected by its own delivery limitations, and by the narrow and somewhat
outdated range of its vehicles.  Though ZCZ's expanded program is e.;secte1
to reduce these restrictions, competition from imports and from domestic



APPENDIX 1
Page 7
producers may develop so as to prevent ZCZ from regaining rapidly the market
share lost since 1965. On balance, it is reasonable to assume that ZCZ's
projected share of annual supply of the total passenger market will remain
at about 45% over the next five years, though it is likely to recover part
of the loss in its market share in the mid- to late 1970's.
ZCZ is nevertheless expected to more than double its domestic
sales between 1969 and 1974, while other damestic assembly operations will
increase their output more than sixfold and imports will increase by some
60%. It has also been assumed that Yugoslav exports of cars will increase
substantially, primarily to the non-convertible currency countries of
Eastern Europe. These projections of market sharing are shown in Annex 2
and Chart 3 and are summarized below:
Table 5. Projections of Local Demand and Supply (1969 to 1974)
(in 1,000)
(actual)
1964-1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974
1) Net Local Demand              370     146.0  187.0  231.3  267.0  :307.3  341.0
2) Domestic Supply:
ZCZ                         200      76.5   91.6  116.8  1h1.9  162.0  187.0
Others                       20      13.5   28.5   44.0   55.5   75.0   83.0
Total Domestic Supply         220      90.0  120.1   6.8  197.4  237.0  270.0
Less: Exports (mainly ZCZ)         )      _3.5)  _(8.) (12.9) (16.6) (20.1) (25.0)
Total Net Domestic Supply        210       86.5  111.2  147.9  180.8  216.9  245.0
Plus:  Imports                   160      59.5   75.8   83.4  86.2   90.4   96.0
370     146.0  187.0  231.3  267.0  307.3  341.0
ZCZ share of local demand         48%     50%    44%    45%    47%    46%    47%
Imports as % of local demand      43%     41%    40%    36%    33%    30%    28%
It is assumed that the Yugoslav Government will pursue its past
policy of supporting ZCZ as long as it offers cars at reasonably competitive
prices. Imports of cars as well as the number of domestic assembly plants
would be kept within limits so as to avoid the proliferation of manufacturers
which usually entails high cost to the economy. The Government has indicated
that it will continue this policy, will keep the Bank informed of developments
and will exchange views periodically with the Bank over problems which might
arise.
B. Prices
Since 1965, ZCZ has not changed its car prices except for minor
increases because of design improvements. It has been assumed that prices
will remain unchanged through 1974. These are ND 13,h00 for the 750 model,
ND 23,000 for the 1300 model, and about ND 18,000 for the new 128 model --
including dealer margin but excluding purchase and road taxes.



APPENDIX 1
Page 8- 
Prices of cars in Yugoslavia are fixed by the manufacturers but
are controlled by the Government Bureau of Prices, who expect justification
for changes. Wage increases are expected to be absorbed by better utiliza-
tion of labor and assets and increases in the scale of operations. Increases
in material costs, however, are viewed by the authorities as justifying
increased prices.
ZCZ's prices are compared with those of similar cars in their
countries of origin on a per unit weight basis in the following table:
Table 6. Cormarison of Car Retail Prices and
Price/Kg in Home Markets
(at official exchange rate -- August 1969)
Price       Price/k       Price/kg
(US$/car)     (US$7kgy    (ZCZ = 100)
ZCZ 600/750                               1,072           1.74         100
Fiat 600 (Italy)                          1,024           1.67         7
NSU 600 (W. Germany)                         990          1.60          92
Skoda 1000 (Czechoslovakia)               1,272           1.68          96
ZCZ 128 semi-brake                        1,456           1.84         100
Opel Karavan (W. Germany)                 1,543           1.77          96
ZCZ 1300                                  1,836           1.84         100
Taunus 12M (W. Germany)                   1,718           1.75         9
VW 1200 (W. Germany)                       1,262          1.50          82
This shows that ZCZ's dcmestic sales prices by weight are 5% to
15% above average European prices.  It also shows that ZCZ's price (by weight)
for its 128 model is the same as for the 1300 model, even though the former
is more moderm and sophisticated in design. Part of the benefit of the larger
scale operation will thus be passed on to the consumer.
C. Distribution, Service of Domestic Sales and Exoorts
ZCZ distributes its cars through 25 dealers, of which the three in
Belgrade and the one in Zagreb do 30% of the enterprise's business.  Most of
ZCZ's customers place their orders directly with the enterprise. The dealers
receive the cars and make delivery, but ZCZ finances transport, free service,
guarantee expenses and most of the advertising required. Since, therefore,
the dealers have few expenses, they are satisfied with a 2.6% markup on
sales.
ZCZ has a well organized and supervised system of service and
distribution of spare parts along the lines used by Fiat and other large
European car makers. Dealers' garages and service stations, and recognized
garages and parts distributors are supplemented by ZCZ's own stations and
service centers. As ZCZ grows, its service appears also to grow appropriately.
Common faults and distribution of spares are centrally controlled and partly
computerized. Visits to various stations have confirmed the adequacy of ZCZ's
service and distribution network.



APPENDIX 1
Page 9
ZCZ has developed a few distribution outlets for exports in opein
markets, such as Colombia, Greece and Indonesia. The enterprise plans to
develop other distribution channels in Eastern European countries which do
not have an established local car production such as RIunania and Hungary.
It also hopes to export certain models to Poland, the USSR and possibly
Czechoslovakia to fill gaps in these countries' local manulacturing range.
Fiat has promised ZCZ its support in this endeavor, where this does not
directly clash with Fiat's own export interests. The enterprise realizes
that it will have to rely mainly on its own efforts, as it has done in the
past, for exports. The Yugoslav semi-brake version of the 128 model should
help in this effort as it offers something unique in Fiat's total production
range. ZCZ's past exports to both convertible and non-convertible currency
areas wiere between 5,000 and 6,000 cars annually, except in 1968 when they
dropped to 1,000 to meet a larger share of the domestic requirements. ZCZ
is confident of a rapid growth in exports when it will enjoy a wider range
of models and when output limitations will have ended.
VI.  ECONOMIC FEATURES OF THE PROJECT
A. Scale of Manufacture and Costs per Car
Generally, car makers in Europe today aim at producing about
300,000 units per year of the same vehicle in plants which maice, on the whol:k
one million cars of different models.  Viable manufacture of components such
as body panels requires a scale of 300,000 units per year for 3 to 5 years
of model runs.
The scale of ZCZ's manufacture of its new 128 model will be at the
rate of 100,000 units per year. However, body panels will be imported frcm
Fiat, which expects to make about 400,000 sets of 128 body panels per year.
including the 100,000 required by ZCZ. Furthermore, some popular models
are still produced in relatively small quantities (60,000 to 200,000 cars
per year) by various European and even some U.S. manufacturers. It is true
that manufacturers try to share components with other models that they make
in larger scale, but ZCZ will in fact have a similar benefit by exchanging
its components with Fiat in Italy, Poland, the USSR and possibly othler Fiat
licensed plants.
The performance of Volvo, -whose annual output is about 182,000
vehicles, including 12,000 commercial vehicles, indicates that scale linita-
tions do not invariably prohibit satisfactory returns. In 1968, Volvo showc-l
net profits of 20% on equity and before tax profits were about double that.
Volvo appears to have overcome problems of scale by a high quality design of
its products, and by dividing carefully its sources of component supply bet-.;e
own manufacture and purcnase (local or imported) on the basis of sound ecorcv-
and cost criteria.
The ZCZ expansion aims at a similar effect. It uses cheap labor,
less automation and balances requirements of convertible foreign exchange forr
imports with exports of items which can be produced at competitive (;,-st 'D.
ZCZ or elsewhere in Yugoslavia.  The aims of the project are to avoAid the
pit-'alls oL excessive isport substitution and make up for it by the ,,r_&
tioral coopera.tion with Fiat and other licensees -in au at'tempt a.Jv n ra;; _rt*
Oivisiofn of labor.



APPENDIX 1
Page 10
ZCZ will save almost 30% of costs by importing body panels from Fiat
as against manufacturing them. It also thus avoids an investment of about
US$10 million. ZCZ's exports of components are at prices competitive with
Fiat's purchases from Italian makers.  These are close to ZCZ's marginal
cost and give the enterprise little profit beyond providing the means of
importing from Fiat at considerable direct benefit, and of putting local
suppliers under price pressure under the threat of replacing their
products by imports.
The enterprise expects to pay almost 25% more for domestic and
imported raw materials than large manufacturers in Italy. This represents
a burden of about 15% of retail price.  Furthermore higher fixed costs and
overheads at smaller scale add a further penalty of 5% on retail price.
However, savings of about 10% on the wage bill, distribution costs, and
dealer margins lead to a retail price which is only 10% higher than in Italy,
while providing a satisfactory return to ZCZ on investment.
Studies of investment costs of a specific model suggest that
investment in buildings and equipment per car decreases about 40% as manu-
facturing scale increases from 50,000 to 100,000 cars per year.  However,
unit investment decreases only 10% as scale increases further from 100,000
to 150,000 cars per year. This implies a relatively suitable scale from
the point of view of investment per car for the ZCZ project (Phase II manu-
facture of the 128 model is at an output of 100,000 cars per year).
As a result of ZCZ1s expansion, a reduction of about 15% in invest-
ment cost per unit is expected on the models it produces presently. The
investment per unit for the new 128 model is lower still than for the smaller
750 because ZCZ avoids investment in presses and dies by importing most body
panels. However, if the investment in equipment to be used to manufacture
components in Yugoslavia to pay for the import of 100,000 sets of 128 panels
and other components is added, total investment required per unit of the 128
is about the same as the 750 in 1974. Nevertheless,the 128 is about 30%
more in weight, 50% more in cm3 of engine, considerably more modern and sophis-
ticated in design, and sold at 40% higher in price.
B. Utilization of Manpower and Assets
The enterprise is expected to double its value added per operator
and increase value added per unit of assets by about 50% in the period from
1968 to 1974. Furthermore, profits more than double per unit of assets and
increase by about 50% per unit of payroll. - A rough comrparison
with other European manufacturers of similar cars is given in the following
table:



APPENDIX 1
Page 11
Table 7.  2omparison of ZCZ Utilization of Assets
and Manpower with Fiat and Seat (pain)
Yugoslavia      Spain      Italy
ZCZ          Seat        Fiat
1968             196-        1968
AGrsualSales  (year end)       0.77    1.1       o.84        0.9
No. of Vehicles
No. of Veiples (cars/man)   4           8.4     lo.4         9.2
No. of aEployees
ZCZ's utilization of manpower and assets after expansion tends
towards that of Fiat and Seat in Spain in 1968.
C. Protection
ZCZ benefits from two elements of protection from imports from
convertible currency areas:
a) an import duty of 50% plus 4% surtax, or together, 54%; and
b) the restriction of importation of cars to holders of convertible
exchange, who, furthermore, must purchase cars through trading firms which
in turn must export either automotive goods amounting to 25% of the cars
imported through them or specific agricultural products equivalent to 40%
of such car imports. A license from the Secretariat of Foreign Trade is
also required.
Car imports from Eastern countries pay the same duty, are subject
to the same trade restrictions involved in dealing through export firms, but
may be sold in Dinars to a Yugoslav person who has not earned foreign exchange.
Since ZCZ's sales prices do not make use of the full import protec-
tion (54%) but are only about 10% higher than retail prices of similar vehicles
in Italy, the following sections analyze the protection required:
a) by ZCZ, after isolating the effects on costs of domestic inputs;
and
b) by the Yugoslav automotive industry as a whole, considering
domestic inputs as an integral part of the industry.
1) Protection on ZCZ Operations
The excess over world market prices on material inputs, whether
imported or domestic, paid by ZCZ, for which it is not directly responsible,
is equal to about 15% of its total costs. Furthermore, ZCZ makes a profit
of about 13% on gross assets employed, which is about 4% more on gross assets
than the return to industrial enterprises financed by previous IBRD loans.
At the same return on investment, sales price could be 3% less. Allowances
for excess input costs, adjustment of price to that corresponding to average
return on investment and allowance for some excess of wage costs over the



APPENDIX 1
Page 12
opportunity cost of labor add up to a total of about 20%, which is a penalty
not due to inadequacy in tae scale, technique, productivity or efficiency of'
ZCZ. If this is deducted from the difference, at the official exchange rate,
between ZCZ's prices and those of its products as exported by Fiat on the
world market -- a difference of up to 25% -- the nominal protection needed byr
ZCZ can be estimated to be about 5%.
Yugoslav import duties are compared in the following table, after
again deducting the 20% calculated above, with import duties in Italy, now
a recognized and established car manufacturing country, and with Spain, whose
automotive industry is recognized as growing beyond infancy.
Table 8. Customs Duty Protection from Imports
(Yugoslavia, Italy, Spain
Yugoslavia                          Italy                      _Spain
Basic     Adjusted                                   Aug.  Up to  164 to  T6v to
ere '65 1968  1968/69         1960  1962  1964  1966  1968/69  1964   1967       1905'
EEC     44%   29%   26%   17%      0%
70%    54%    34%   Other   53%   45%   39%   39%    25%    100%    77%         G9?o
Even without adjustment, import duty protection in Yugoslavia is
about the same as it was in Italy in 1960, and is much lower than it is now
in Spain. Furthermore, the Yugoslav authorities have recommended to their
Federal assembly a further-gradual reduction bf -the basic import duty to 39j,;
by 1973.
The fact that ZCZ's prices to consumers are only about 10% higher
than Fiat's in Italy suggests that the higher duty protection serves merely
as a hedge against dumping by manufacturers outside Yugoslavia and a means
of limiting domestic buyers' preference for variety, rather than quality.
2) Effective Protection on Total Domestic Value Added
The effective rate of protection (protection on total domestic
value added) has been calculated here by using mainly project data supplied
by ZCZ and Fiat. A "world market price" 15% below ZCZ's price has been assumo-1.
for the hypothetical alternative of imports of similar cars.
Table 9. Estimate of Effective Protection Required
a) Domestic Resource Cost (million ND)
1.1  Car sales - retail - difference between 1968 and 1974         2,280
+ 1.2  Parts exported to Fiat                                          160
- 1.3  Required imports and foreign expenditures                       940
1,5o00



APPENDIX 1
Page 13
b) Net Foreign Exchange Savings (million US$)
2.1  Value of importation of equivalent number of cars             155.0
+ 2.2  Parts exported to Fiat                                         12.9
- 2.3  Imports from Fiat, royalties, indirect imports, depre-
ciation of imported equipment, interest and profits
transferred abroad (excluding import dut-ies)                  62
105q.4
Implied exchange rate (official ND 12.5 = US$1)                          1L.2
Domestic cost of substituting for importation                           113.86
Effective rate of protection                                             13.8%
The outcome of this calculation is that it costs the Yugoslav
economy the equivalent of about US$1.14 to subst-tute for US$1 of iamports,
which is very favorable in comparison with other deve'loping countries in
the same industry.
3) Restriction of Imports
The restriction of imports to foreign exchange earners, with impoit-
at about 50% of total car supply in 1967 and i968, against only 15'S in 1964,
is far from being a barrier for the purpose of protecting an inefficient
producer. ZCZ forecasts that imports will continue to provide abolut 30% of
demand (and local assembly of imported CKD vehicles another 23Q) even after
the enterprise's expansion. Imports will thus share the market with ZCZ,
complementing its range and competing with it. The fact that over 500,000
Yugoslavs work overseas and earn foreign curr-ency with which they can import
cars will continue to ensure competition to ZCZ from imports.
D. Conclusions on Economic Features
1)        ZCZ's approach to its expansion project, avoiding excessive impo:t
substitution, emphasizing an international division of labor, and work.ing
closely with Fiat and other Fiat licensees, has contributed to reducing the
economic penalties which might have been expected in a project of this size,
2)        The project is expected to improve substantially the capacity
utilization and economy of scale in the existing car factory and its
suppliers. It is not likely that the operations of ZCZ could continue at
their present scale, making only a limited range of cars and relatively
outdated models.
3)        While ZCZ needs a certain amount of protection, this is not because
of large inherent deficiencies in productivity or scale of operation. The
protection is comparatively low, will not allow ZCZ to produce a poor or
expensive product, and is needed to help the enterprise in i temporary peri'L-
of leaming prior to technical and commercial maturity.
4)        In spite of 500,000 Yugoslavs working abroad, there is 8'%S unemploy-
ment. Exports of Yugoslav agricultural products is limited by marretir.g
constraints, and the country's plans for development of its mineral or r.atvia1
ooiAstic resourees are not so advanced that tieyr justify postpon --eI 1 of itS
w2.e conceived and coordinated proje:ct ti expand car production in ZGZ.



APPENDIX 1
Page 14
VII. MANAGEMENT ANID LABOR
Management
Even though the assets are socially owned, Yugoslavia's system of
"self-management" leaves decisions affecting production, marketing, investments
financing, workers' remuneration and pricing to a workers' council, made up
in ZCZ of 80 employees elected for a two-year term. Most decisions, however,
are taken upon the advice of an 11-man executive board. including the general
manager.  Fiat's influence on the enterprise is exercised through its personnel
in ZCZ and through a "business committee" of three members each from ZCZ and
Fiat, to expedite decisions and insure the effective performance of the Fiat/
ZCZ contract. The power of this committee is exerted through the general
manager using the continued Fiat support for ZCZ as leverage.
The success of this project must rely on the Yugoslav management
and on the continued interest of Fiat. ZCZ's management has the difficult
task of overcoming problems of executing a large expansion without interrup-
tions in current operation. It must revise marketing techniques, increase
vehicle export penetration, manage sub-suppliers in Yugoslavia and restrain
their prices. ZCZ's entry into an international chain of component exchange
with Fiat and with other Fiat manufacturers in Eastern Europe, with responsi-
bility for the components it manufactures and also those made by other Yugos-
lav firms, will require effective management.
Mr. Prvoslav Rakovic is the General Manager. He is a ccmpetent
engineer with 30 years experience mostly in manufacturing industry, of which
15 are as General Manager of ZCZ. He is a member of Parliament and has been
personally associated with the strong relationship between ZCZ, Fiat and the
YIB. He is supported by Mr. V. Cnobori, Commercial Manager; Mr. M. Zekovic,
the Financial and Economic Manager; Mr. Vojnovic and Mr. Vlajic, the Planning
and Development Manager and his advisor, who all have substantial experience
in their respective functions. They are backed up by other capable depart-
ment managers responsible for Production, Design, Accounting, Purchasing,
Market Projecting and Personnel.  It is the opinion of .BRD staff, based on
inspection of ZCZ's plant, accounts and project documentation, that ZCZ's
management has been successful in transforming the enterprise into a modern
firm.
Fiat envisages its own success by expansion in Europe in particular
and the world as a whole. Fiat is particularly capable of supporting an
overseas associate because it has long and varied experience in overseas
plants of different sizes. Its increasing interest and commitment in ZCZ
insure its help and support. Fiat have drawn up with ZCZ a new agreement in
February 1968 and a supplement in May 1969 which spell out all conditions of
the collaboration between the firms, the transfer of technical assistance and
know-how,   the component exchange, investment of Fiat in ZCZ, royalties,
machine purchase and execution schedules.



APPENDIX 1
Page 15
Labor
The enterprise is well located to obtain the necessary additional
labor (almost 10,000 workers) to increase its total employment to about
21,000. ZCZ relies heavily on its own training programs for its manpewer.
The additional workers required will be mainly in the semi-skiUed category.
The performance of labor in ZCZ compares well visually with other Yugoslav
enterprises. Judging from past activities of ZCZ's workers' council, manage-
ment-labor relations should continue to be satisfactory.
VIII. PROJECT COSTS
The capital costs of the project are shown in detail in Annex 3
and are summarized as follows:
Table 10. Project Costs
ND millioin           US$ million
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total
Buildings                          198       _      198   15.8       -      15.8
Local Equipment                    141       -      141   11.3       -      11.3
Imported Equipment
- From the West           -      390     390      -      31.2    31.2
- From the East           -       44      44      -       3.5      365
Contingencies                       25      39       64    2.0      3.1      5.1
Import Duties                      129      -       129   10.3       -      10.3
Local Design and Projecting         12       -       12    1.0       -       1.0
Additional Working Capital         345       -      345   27.6       -      27.6
Total                    850     473   1,323   68.0       37.8   105.8
The cost estimates were prepared by ZCZ and are based on their
experience of local construction cost, quoted machine prices and recent
equipment purchases in connection with the Stage I expansion. The estimates
were checked by Fiat who found them to be reasonable. The contingency allow-
ance included in the cost estimate is judged to be adequate. The amount of
working capital financed with leng-term funds in the financial plan should
also be adequate for financing of accounts receivable and inventory when the
enterprise's normal access to short-term bank debt and financing through
accounts payable is taken into consideration.
In the past, ZCZ has been importing equipment through Fiat and in
joint consultation with them. The enterprise intends to continue this practice
also in connection with the present project. ZCZ are satisfied that, through
Fiat, they get the best deal for themselves. They do not feel the need to be
concerned about Fiat's benefits from pooling purchases with them, and they
believe that these increase Fiat's own bargaining power with machine suppliers
to the benefit of all involved. Spot checks made by the Bank staff show that
this is reasonable.



APPEJDIY .
Page 16
IX. LPROJECT FDIANCITNG
Under the financial plan for the project, shown in the table
below, the major portion of investments is to be financed as equity capi-
tal. This should improve the enterprise?s present long-term debt to
equity ratio of 53:47 at the end of 1968, to 25:75 in 1974, which is a
more connon relationship in the automobile industry. The enterprise
would then have a solid equity base for future expansions.
Table 11. Financial Plan
(ND million)  -$miUon,
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   F          Total
Long-term loans
supplier credits
Domestic,              61.9               61.9       4.9                4.9
3Eastern v/                     32.5      32.5                 2.6      2.6
Western                         62.1      62.1                 5.0       5,0
Deben ures/              30.0               30.0        2.4                2.4
YIB >                    25.0               25.0       2.0                 2.0
Privredn9a Bank          10.0               10.0        0.8                0,8
1BRD                             125.0    125.0                 10.0      10.0
126.9    219.6   3)46.5       10.1      17.6     27.7
7CZ, cash generation' 586.5                586.5      46.9               146.9
Fiat 7/                          150.0    150.0                 12.0      12.0
Generalexport V         110.0              110.0       8.8                 8.8
YIB ,                    30.0               30M0        2.)4               2.4
IFC                              100.0    100.0                  8.0      8.0
726y5    250.C    976.5       53.1     20.0      75.
7OTAL FITTINCING        853.e4   )469.6  1 323eO      68.2      37.6    io .8
A, Financing by Long-term Debt
The proposed IBRD loan of US$10 million .nade through YIB would
be disbursed only for the c.i.f. price of inported equipment, which will
be procured by international shopping. It is proposed for a term of 14
years, including a grace period of 2½z years and would be at the Bank's
standard rate of interest; however, ZCZ would pay an additional 1i to Y-Q
making total int-3rest on the IBu fumds 8P/. Western supplJ er crelitp c'rf
"3s;5 milllica and Eastern quppIior zrae-ritc of afxo -t i$,l.' ore . ei
be  bind atnd ; e-;)ail -i or n :;>a: - -citV iyar ace,. and to car  :;s - r
sii 6,  for  este .n and E5 for 1As-tern creits- per year'



APPENDIX 1
Page 17
The enterprise expects to obtain approximately US$5 million equiva-
lent in domestic supplier credits repayable in 6 years including 1 year grace
at interest of about 7% per annum. The remainder of the long-term financing
consists of a US$2 million equivalent loan from the YIB and a US$0.8 million
equivalent loan from the Privredna Bank of Belgrade, and an issue of deben-
tures for the equivalent of US$2.4 million. The YIB and Privredna Bank loans
are expected to be for 14 years, including 2½-year grace period at a rate of
interest of about 62% and 8% respectively. The debenture issue is to be
undertaken by the YIB which recently has been among the first to introduce
the public issue of debentures into Yugoslavia with a placement for the rail-
ways and one for ZCZ to help finance the first phase expansion program.
The new debentures are to have a 2-year grace period plus 5-year amortization
schedule with about 6% interest rate.
B. Equity Financing
Venture funds total US$31.2 million made up of US$12.0 million from
Fiat, US$8.0 million from IFC, us$8.8 million from Generalexport and US$2.4
dmllion from YIB. Fiat's investment, including the above US$12.0 million, its
past us$5.o million ociitment and reinvestments will eventually total about
USC20.0 mi.iLion.
Fiat sales in 1968 were US$2,130 million. It produced 1.4 million
automobiles and ccumercial vehicles, was the largest car supplier in Europe,
and its share of the EEC automobile market was approximately 20%. Fiat has
manufacturing and assembling operations in about 30 countries including
Argentina, new assembly works in Chile and in Peru. It is presently consoli-
dating its operations with Citroen, erecting a new plant in Turkey, and
extending its works in Ireland and Portugal. The new plant Fiat is currently
erecting in the USSR is to have an annual capacity of 600,000 cars, and
production has just started in Poland with a target capacity of about 20,000
units per year. Fiat has about 35% of the equity in Seat of Spain which
produces, under its license, around 250,000 units annually.
Generalexport is a Yugoslav enterprise which is involved in import
and export operations, joint investments, and tourist ventures. The enter-
prise's assets, which are largely composed of liquid resources and a loan
portfolio, total US$107 million.  Its net income in 1968 was US$5.7 million,
and its turnover of all activities amounted to US$372 million.
Yugoslav Investment Bank_(YIB) has been the IBRD channel for loan
funds to industry, and until this year of other IBRD loans to Yugoslavia, and
has been described in Appendix 1 of Report LA-2a on the Bank's 1967 loan to
Yugoslav industry.
The remainder of the financing for the project of US$46.9 million
equivalent is to come from ZCZ's net cash generation after its present obliga-
tions to the first expansion program and to debt and dividend requirements.
The enterprise is expected actually to generate the equivalent of US$67
million during the period of Stage II, with the bulk of funds generated in
1972 and 1973. Forecasts shaw that the enterprise may have to resort to
temporary borrowings in 1970 and 1971 to finance its share of the Stage II
program. The enterprise's bankers have assured the Bank that this will be
possible.



APPENDIY' 
Page 18
The amounts invested by all of the parties to the joint venture
in ZCZ will be credited to a nominal capital account kept in dollars and
revised each year for amounts reinvested by each party. The net earnings
(defined in a manner similar to Westerr practices) of the joint venture will
be divided among the investors, including the enterprise itself, on the basis
of percentage owmership. The earnings distributed to Fiat and IFC would be
in convertible exchange, paid out of ZCZ's foreign currency earnings. General-
export and YIB would receive their share of earnings in dinars. The earnings
distributed to foreign and Yugoslav partners are subject to Yagoslav tax of
up to 35% and, mandr pj.rsent regul>ticns, roinvest-ment requi-cments oF a miyr-
mum of 20% (after tax).
X. FINANCIAL RESULTS AND PROJECTIONS
A. Past Results
The enterprise's past income statements and balance sheets are
presented in Annex 4  and surrmarized in the following table:
Table 12. Sumnary of Past Financial Results
(ND millions)
1966       1967        1966
Sales Revenues                            792.0       839.1      1,227.6
Total Operating Costs                     694.6       726.5       1,077.7
Normal Depreciation                        30.1        37.6          58.1
Interest and Other                         27.0        26.2          31,3
Net Income                                  0     .3   48_8       -5
Cash Generated from Operations             70.86.                   TT
Year-End
Current Assets                            778.0       952.2       1,073.0
Current Liabilities                       552.1       684.1         80L.8
Net Working Capital                       225.9       268.1         268.2
Net Fixed & Other Assets                  648.7       679aO         721.9
Long-Term Debt                            519.1       535.0         521.T
Company's Cwn Funds                       355.5       412.1         1468.7
Net Income/Company Capital                  11%         12%           13%
Current Ratio                               1.4         1.4           1.3
Debt Service Ratio                          1.7         1.8           2.0
Debt Equity Ratio                         59:41       56:44         53:47
These statements indicate that the enternrise has increased sales
and profits gradually. Accelerated depreciation rates, introduced in 1968,
which are intended to reduce reported earnings so as to foster reizvestment,
amount to 2.2p for buildings, 20% for equipment and tooling, and 13% for otihei
assets. Fairer allowances, used in this report's calculation for 1.968 anld
in projections, are about 3% on buildings, 8 to 10% on machinery, 20% on
tooling and 12 to 15% on other assets.



APPENDIX 1
Page 19
ZCZ's debt/equity ratio is somewhat high, but the debt service
ratio (at 2 for 1968), is satisfactory. A large part of the enterprise's
debt, almost entirely in non-convertible currencies, is long-term, running
to as much as 25 years. Long-temn interest rates are low and for the existing
larger credits range from 3 to 7%,with the average under 5%.
B. Projections of Financial Performance
In the following projections, purchase of raw and semi-finished
materials and finished components account for almost 68% of total cost
(excluding profits), labor is about Ul%, manufacturing and overhead expenses
about 12%, depreciation 6%, and interest 3%.
ZCZ intends to purchase locally only components and materials
which are competitive with world prices including import duties. Otherwise,
it will import components from Fiat or elsewhere in Europe. The prices
negotiated with Fiat are reasonable. Import duties range from about 5%
(on bearings) to 25% on normal automobile ccmponent groups. Sheet metal
and sheet metal parts pay a duty of about 11%, which also applies to most
raw and seni-finished materials.
The overall average annual wage is ND 10,500, about US$8140. This is
increased by indirect benefits to make US$1,300 gross per year. Wages in
similar industries in Italy are about double this rate and in Spain about
40% highar. ZCZ projects an annual increase of 8% in wages, which is reason-
able compared to the recent past. This is subject to the enterprise's meeting
its earnings targets since increases in wages -- or even maintaining the same
wages from year-to-year -- are subordinated in ZCZ (as elsewhere in Yugoslavia)
to the enterprise's other financial cammitments.
Manufacturing costs include power, water, office expenses, royalties
and plant general expenses. Power costs about US 17 mills, which is within
the range of costs in Spain and Italy.  Royalty paid to Fiat is &  on ZCZ
manufactured vehicle turnover. This is low by usual standards (3 to 5%) and
is probably of little significance in the deal between ZCZ and Fiat as a whole.
The dollar equivalent of fees to Fiat is expected to be US$1.1 million per
annum at full capacity.
The ZCZ expansions are expected to triple the enterprise's sales
and profits are expected to increase even more substantially. The full
forecasted income, balance sheets and cash flow statements are shown in
Annex 5. The income statements and some other relevant financial data are
summarized below:



APPEDEDX 1
Page 20
Table 13.  Forecast of Incone Statements
(ND million)
1969      1970      1972       1974
Sales Revenue (ex-factory)               1,717.6   2,134.7   3,200.8   4,109.6
Total Operating Costs (including
reserve tax)                       1,489.9   1,793.0   2,642.1   3,384.1
Normal (non-accelerated) depreciation        65.8     106.7      224.0     230.9
Interest                                     49.2      68.2       86.4      79.h
Net Income                                  112.7     166.8      248.3     1_5.2
-            -
Less:  Acceleration of Depreciation       _38.0)    (50.0)   (107.0)    (52.O)
Income Available for Distribution            74.7     116.8      141.3     363.2
Cash Generated for Operations               178.5     273.5     472.3      646.1
Net Income/Average Capita1                   18%       19%        20%       25%
Current Ratio                                 1.4       1.4        1.7       2.5
Debt Service Ratio                            1.6       2.2        2.8       3.9
Debt/Equity Ratio                           53/47    48/52       38/62     25/75
ZCZ's cost projections appear to be well founded based on current
operations and assumptions regarding cost improvemients that the enterprise
expects after expansion. These figures have been checked by Fiat, and found
to be reasonable.
ZCZ has an operating breakeven point after depreciation and interest
at about 65% of full capacity and has a cash breakeven point after operating
cost and interest (before depreciation) at about 40% of full capacity. This
provides a fair insurance against financial difficulty resulting from operating
below full capacity, should this be necessary for a time due to slower build
up of the market.
C. Convertible Exchange Balance
Yugoslav exchange regulations provide that an enterprise must be
able to meet its foreign exchange requirements out of its own exports,
allocated exchange (US$135/car) or exchange purchased from other enterprises.
The convertible exchange requirements for purchase of raw materials and
components for production are shown for 1969 to 1973 in Annex 6 together with
ZCZ's forecast sales to pay for them. Imports of US$175 million are paid for
by US$11D million of ZCZ exports of parts to Fiat and to Italy and ZCZ
convertible currency exports of cars, US$57 million by local sale of cars for
convertible currency, a portion of the US$65 million from foreign exchange
allocated by the government, and US$35 million by exports of other Yugoslav
enterprises to Italy. This gives the enterprise a surplus to meet its
financial and service charges over this period of some US$120 milLion.



APPENDIX 1
Page 21
The regulations also provide that an enterprise must meet its
foreign currency debt service and dividend obligations out of allocated
amounts of its exports called the "retention quota"l and out of its depre-
ciation allowance. The "retention quota" for ZCZ will be 12% of its exports,
not including its vehicle sales within Yugoslavia for convertible currency.,
It also has a depreciation allowance related to depreciation amounts on
imported equipment from the West, which it can use to meet its finarcial
obligations.  Annex 6 also indicates that, over' the life of the project, the
enterprise has a sur-)lus of hard currency n-ilable to meet these ribltgations.
A ne'T lawT increases flexibility by penritting 33% of exports to be used for
transfer of dividends.
D. Return on Investment and Debt Service
ZCZ is expected to have a return (increase in earnings) of about
21lo1 on total additional investments. The forecasts have assumed that the
present Yugoslav tax policy remains unchanged.  The taxes which affect the
forecasts directly are included in projections of overhead expenses made
above. These are a 3.5i0 tax levied on the enterprise's own capital, a turnovrer
tax on part of sales amounting to about 3/14% of total revenue and a small
mutual consumption tax.
As indicated above, the financial pcsition is strong, with the
current ratio improving from 1.4 to 2.5, the debt service ratio from 1.6 to
3.9, and the long-term debt to equity ratio from 53/47 to a forecast final
position of 25/75. The service o E I3RD's loan is amply covered, in relation
to the standards applied to the industrial loans made in 1967 and 1968 to
Yugoslav enterprises (service coverage of 1.4 timres to 4.4 times af ter
completion of projects). The debt/equity ratio of the enterprises wqhich
were recipients of these loans ranged from 80/20 to 16/84 before financing
their projects.
The implementation of ZCZts expansion strengthens its current
position and debt/equity ratio and brings this ratio within the range of
lWestern manufacturers, assuxring that ZCZ does not undergo any further expan-
sion until 1974. This makes ZCZ able to meet periodic marketing adversities
and tight money situations such as Western car manufacturers have to face fram
time to time. The implementation of its expansion project is expected to
transform ZCZ into an efficient and mature firm which supplies the Yugoslav
market with a modern car at a reasonable price. The planning of ZCZ's projec,,
its collaboration with Fiat, Italy, and its component trade with that firm
and others of its licensees in Europe, in an endeavor to optimize economic
return of car manufacture while satisfying a reasonable and realistic porticx_u
of domestic demand, leads to a satisfactory automotive project which may
serve as a model for other developing countries.
Industrial Projects Department
,anuary 5, 1970



ANNEX 1
ZCZ:
YUGOSLAVIA'S PAST AND PROJECT=-CAR PARK, REGISTRATION AND DEMAND;
GROWTH IN OWNERSHIP, GNP AND ELASTICITY OF CAR DEMAND
(1965 to 1974)
A c t u a l                         P r o j e c t e d
1966     1967      1968     1969      1970      1971     1972      1973
Exchange Rate (ND/US$)  12.5       12.5      12.5     12.5      12.5     12.5      12.5      12.5
Cars (thousands)
Park - January 1      188       253      352       474       616      798    1,021    1,277
Registration           66       101      124       146       187      231       267      307
Scrap                   1         2        2         4         5        8        11        15
Ownership (cars/1000)  9.6       12.8     17.6      23.6      30.2     38.7      48.8      60.5
Increase of Park (%)  35         40       35        32       30        28        25        23
Population (million)    19.7       20.0      20.1     20.4      20.6     20.9      21.1      21.3
1/
Total GNP (ND millions)124        125      130       1h0       149      158       167       177
Per Capita GN1KUS$)   501         501      514       550       580      612       645       670
Annual Increase GNP!/    7%         1%       4%        8%        6%       6%        6%        6%
Elasticity of growth
of car park to growth
of per capita GNP at
current prices                      7.5      4.8       3.8       3.7      3.5       3.1       2.9
1/ Constant 1968 prices.
Source: Biro Proizvodaca Motornih Vozila, Beograd; ZCZ production data; IBRD Economic
reviews.
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1970



ANNEX 2
ZCZ:
YUGOSLAVIA'S PROJECTED DEMAND AND SUPPLY OF PASSENGER CARS
SHARED BETWEEN LOCAL PRODUCERS AND IMPORTS, 1969-1974
(1000 cars)
1969     1970      1971     1972      1973     1974
DEMAND
Car Park - January 1                        474.1    616.5    798.1   1,020.6  1,276.5   1,569
Scrappage                                     3.6      5.4       8.8       11.1     14.8       22
Net Demand                                  146.0    187.0    231.3       267.0    307.3      341
SUPPLY
Domestic
1.  ZCZ: 128                                  -         -       10        40        75        100
750/13(0                          65        75       90         90       75         75
Jeeps                              1.5       1.6      1.8        1.9       2         2
Assembly Fiat Models              10        15       15         10        10        10
Total                        76.5      91.6    116.8      141.9    L62.0      187
2.  Pretis                                    8.0     10.0      12.0      15.0      20.0       20
3.  Tomos                                     4.0      8.0      12.0       15.0     20.0       20
4. IMv                                        1.5      2.5       5.0        7.5     10.0       13
5.  New Producers (Renault, VW & Others)    -          8        15         18       25         30
Total Domestic                               90.0    120.1    160.8       197.4    237.0      270
Less:  Exports (Mainly ZCZ)                   3.5       8.9     12.9       16.6     20.1       25
Net Available Domestic Supply                86.5    111.2    1147.9     180.8    216.9       245
Import                                       59.5     75.8      83.4      86.2      90.4       96
Total Domestic Supply                 146.0    187.0    231.3       267.0    307.3      341
CZ (net) as % of net domestic demand           50        44       45         47        46        47
Import as % of net domestic demand            41        40       36         33       30         28
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1970



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ZCZ CAPITAL COSTS (STAGE II)
Convertible  Equivalent   Domestic      Total
Currency      in        Currency   Equivalent
'000 US$ ND Million ND Million ND Million
1. Land (available on present site)              -- 
2. Buildings and General Installations
Extension of existing plant (about
22,000 sq. m.)                              -          -          17.7         17.7
Construction of new press shop
(about 36,000 sq. m.)                       -          -          69.5         69.5
Construction of machine shop
(about 62,000 sq. m.)                       -          -          55.0         55.0
Extension of trafo station, boiler room,
compressor room and their networks          -          -          22.6         22.6
Construction of administration building,
washrooms, annex, etc.                       -         -          15.0         15.0
Roads, ramps, rail sidings, banking
river, and bridge                           -          -          18.1         18.1
Total Buildings and General Installations                        197.9        197.9
3.  Machinery and Equipment (including
allowance for moving existing)
Imported Equipment
A. From the West (including 1% ave.
cif or franco border charges). Most
presses, heavy and medium dies,
auxiliaries, accessories              8,760      109.4         -          109.4
Special machine tools, jigs,
fixtures, tooling, accessories,
auxiliaries                          13,620      170.3         -          170.3
Welders, body painting booths,
extension existing booths,
assembly equipment, auxiliaries       8,820      110.3         -          110.3
Total Equipment from West            31,200      390.0                    390.0
B. From the East (inclluding 1%
franco border charges). Some
medium and small presses, die
maintenance machine tools, other
standard machine tools with
ancillaries, simple welding, paint-
ing and transport equipment                                   44.1         4h.1



ANIEX 3
Page 2
Convertible  Equivalent   Domestic      Total
Currency      in       Currency   Equivalent
_000 US$  ND Million  ND Million  ND Million
C. From Yugoslavia. Some medium and
small presses, most of simpler
dies, ancillaries, erection of
new machinery, moving old machines                            29.7         29.7
Simpler standard machine tools for
production and auxiliary shops,
ancillaries, erection of new and
moving old machinery                                          39.0        39.0
Assembly, welding and painting
equipment available locally,
erection of new and moving old
equipment                                                     32.0        32.0
Transformers, boilders, com-
pressors, network equipment                                   40.3        40.3
141.0       141.0
4. Contingencies                              3,120       39.0        24.5         63.5
5.  Import Duties                               -          -         129.0        129.0
6.  Local Design and Projecting Expenses!/                            12.5         12.5
(Not including ND 22 million license fee
to Fiat for 128 model since this would
be reinvested by Fiat in ZCZ)
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                                                                978.0
7. Additional Permanent Working Capital for Operatibns
Final Permanent Working Capital
(net after deducting S.T. Borrowing)
MD Million
Raw Material, Auxiliary Material             206
Special and Standard Tools                   160
Semi-Finished products and Materials         131
Finished Products and Spares                  83
Receivables                                  178
Total                                    v
Less:  Existing (end 1970)                   413
Additional Net Current Assets
(Working Capital)                          345                 345.0       345.0
TOTAL PROJECT COTL/                                                  1,323.0
1/ License fee of US$1.75 million (ND 22 million) for Fiat 128 model is not included as
it is not paid to Fiat but credited as an increase in their investment in ZCZ as it
becomes due over five years.
2/ Interest during construction and operating startup costs are charged to operations.
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1970



ANNEX 4
ZCZ STATEMENT OF INCOME AND FINANCIAL POSITION, 1965-1968
(Millions of ND)
1965      1966      1967      1968
A. Income Statement1/
Total Sales Revenue (Paid)                           681.2      792.0    839.1  1,227.6
Operating Costs
Materials, Overheads, General and Tax              524.1      589.8    610.7    932.8
Wages and Related Payments                          80.1      104.8    115.8    144.9
604.2      694.6    726.5  1,077.7
Depreciation                                          21.0       30.1      37.6      58.1
Interest                                              18.9       27.0      26.2      31.3
Net Earnings                                          37.1       40.3      48.8      60.5
B. Financial Position (December 31)
Current Assets
Cash, Deposits and Receivables                     261.3      377.4    513.6    589.9
Inventories                                        301.3      365.9    387.8    389.1
Other Current Assets (Invoiced-Paid Sales)          28.6       34.7      50.8      94.0
Total Current Assets                          591.2      778.0    952.2  1,073.0
Fixed Assets
Land and Buildings                                 157.2      265.8    275.6    315.1
Machinery and Equipment-2/                         236.6      393.2    414.4    483.1
Work in Progress                                    23.3       45.8      82.0      69.7
Other Fixed Assets                                  33.4       48.o      47.9      64.6
Less Depreciation                                 (107.0)    ('69.9)   (214.8)   (284.9)
Net Fixed Assets                                   343.$ 5              605.1     67.6
Other Assets                                        53.6       65.8      73.8      74.3
Total Assets                                  988.3   1,426.7  -L,631.1  1,794.9
Current Liabilities
Payables and Advances                               78.3      104.9    204.9    258.7
Short-Term Debts                                   213.3      293.8    399.5    331.0
Others (including current portion of L.T.)         115.3      153.4      79.6    215.1
Total Current Liabilities                          406.9      552.1    684.0    804.8
Long-Term Debt                                     403.1      519.1    535.0    521.4
Funds of Enterprise                                178.3      355.5    412.1    468.7
Total Liabilities                             988.3   1,426.7   1,631.1  1,794.9
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                     1.5        1.4       1.4       1.3
Long-Term Debt/Funds of Enterprise                   69/31      59/41     56/44     53/47
1/  1965 to 1968 accounts are on "cash" basis and from 1969 on "accrual" basis.
2/ Revaluation of assets in 1966.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
ZCZ STATEMENTS OF PROJECTED INCOME, FINANCIAL POSITION, SOURCES AND
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS AND SALES REVENUE, 1969-1974
1969     1970     1971     1972     1973     1974
A.  Income Statement
Total Sales Revenue                  1,717.6  2,134.7  2,671.7  3,200.8  3,674.9 4,109.6
Operating Costs
Materials, Overheads, General
and Tax                          1,313.2  1,605.0  1,947.4  2,305.1  2,631.8  2,919.1
Wages and Related Payments           176.7   188.0   258.0   337.0   410.9   465.o
Depreciation (not accelerated)          65.8   106.7   170.6   224.0   230.9   230.9
Interest                                49.2    68.2    81.1    86.4    85.9    79.4
Net Earnings                           112.7   166.8    214.6   248.3   315.4   415.2
Depreciation Adjustment (rapid)         38.0    50.0    73.0   107.0   112.0    52.0
Distributable Earnings                  74.7   116.8   141.6   141.3   203.4   363.2
B. Financial Position
Current Assets                       1,212.8  1,332.3  1,490.1  1,753.4  1,922.8  2,306.5
Current Liabilities                    838.6   919.1  1,033.2  1,032.1   947.1   936.1
Working Capital                      374.2   413.2   456.9   721.3   975.7  1,370.4
Fixed Assets                         1,237.0  1,834.1  2,218.0  2,311.8  2,448.8  2,473.8
Less:  Depreciation                  388.7   545.4   789.0  1,120.0  1,462.9  1,745.8
Net Fixed Assets                       848.3  1,288.7  1,429.0  1,191.8   985.9   728.0
Other Assets                            86.3    96.3   106.3   121.3   136.3   156.3
Net Assets                         1,308.8  1,798.2  1,992.2  2,034.4  2,097.9  2,254.7
Long-Term Debt                         697.8   869.3   860.1   770.5   662.8   566.2
Company Funds and New Equity           611.0   928.9  1,132.1  1,263.9  1,435.1  1,688.5
Long-Term Debt/Company Funds and
Equity                               53/47    48/52    43/57    38/62    32/68    25/75
Long-Term Debt Service Ratio             1.6      2.2      2.6      2.8      3.0      3.9
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1970



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(Millions of ND)
1-969-  1970   1971   1972   1973   1974
C. Sources and Applications of Funds
Sources
Earnings (after interest)                          74.7  116.8  141.6  141.3  203.4   63.2
Depreciation                                      103.8  156.7  243.6  331.0  342.9  282.9
Increase in Debt
Stage I and Other                              251.8   55.9    1.0    1.0    -         -
Stage II, Long-Term                               6.9  210.0  100.3   29.3    -        -
Quasi-Equity
FIAT Stage I                                    46.9   15.6    -                  _ 
FIAT Stage II                                    16.2   90.2   43.6    -        -      -
FIAT Reinvestments                                1.2    2.0   12.1   11.6    9.5    2.0
General Export and YIB-                         10.1   45.7   36.3   26.3'  26.3    1.1
IFC 1/                                            -     83.5   19.0    1.2    0.9    0.8
Total Sources                             511.6  776.4  597.5  541.7  583.0  650.0
Applications of Funds
Fixed Assets
Stage I and Other                               271.4   87.6   29.1   13.2  137.0   25.0
Stage II                                        33.1  509.5  354.8   80.6    -         -
Working Capital
Stage I and Other                                96.6   29.7    -       -       -      -
Stage II                                          -     26.1   84.4  112.2  122.3    -
Total Assets                              401.1  652.9  468.3  206.0  259.3   25.0
Repayments
Stage I and Existing                             89.7   80.9   78.0   75.6   72.8   58.9
Stage II                                          -      1.4   16.4   34.9   47.1   48.8
Sub-Total                                  89.7   82.3   94.4  110.5  119.9  107.7
Funds and Others                                   12.0   10.0   10.0   15.0   15.0   20.0
Dividends                                           7.5   35.9   49.4   48.6   68.9  113.7
Net Addition to Working Capital                     1.3   (4-7) (24.6) 161.6  119.9  383.6
Total Applications                            511.6  776.4  597.5  541.7  583.0  650.0
1/ Including reinvestment.
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1970



ANNEX S
Page 3
(Quantity in thousand cars, value in ND millions)
1969            1970             1971            1972             1973            1974
Qty.   Value   Qty.   Value   Qty.   Value   Qty.   Value   Qty.   Value   Qty.   Value
D. Sales Revenue
Cars:  Model -  750              48       619.5  50        634.7  60       761.9  60        760.9  50       630.4  50        630.14
1300             17       375.7  25       543.0  30        647.2  30        644.4  25       524.8  25        524.8
128              -        -       -       -      10       173.9  40       695.6  75    1,3C14.3 100    1,739.0
Other Vehicles                     5      157.2   5.7    179.2   6.6    207.4   7.3    230.7   8             251.3   8       251.3
Local Assemblies                  10       217.5  15       331.7  15       344.6  10        228.3  10        228.3  10       228.3
Spares, etc.                       -       69.1   -        143.8   -        186.7   -       238.8   -        27'6.2   -      276.2
Non-Car                            -       278.6   -       302.3   -        350.0   -        402.1   -       1459.6   -      459.6
Total Revenue                     80    1,717.6  95.7  2,134.7 121.6  2,671.7 1147.3  3,200.8 168.0  3,674.9 193.0  4,_09.6
of which:  Exports
Convertible Currency            1.6      27      2.3      34     3.5      45      5.2      73      7.0    1(3      7.0    103
Non-Convertible                  1.9     10      6.6      80      9.4    117    11.4    145    13.1    162    13.1    162
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1970



ANNEX 6
ZCZ TOTAL PROJECTED CONVERTIBLE CURRENCY EXCHANGE FROM 1969 TO 1973
(US$ million)
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973
Uses of Convertible Currency
Imports of Materials
Raw Materials                                           2.0      2.2     2.8    :3.3      3.7
Components 750, 1300 and General                        5.3      6.0     8.0      8.5     8.0
Components 128                                           -        -      7.5    2L4.0    30.0
Sub-Total                                          7.3            T173    351.8    7T
Components for Assembly                                 9.8    15.0    15.0    12.0    12.0
Total Imports                                            17.1    23.2    33.3    47.8    53.7
New Investment Requirements1/                              -      25.3     9.0       -        -
Financial and Service Charges
Loan Repayment                                          0.6      0.1     0.1      0.9     1.7
Interest                                                0.1      0.1     0.7      1.2     1.0
Technical Fees                                          0.4      0.5     0.7      0.9     1.1
Dividends
FIAT (less applicable taxes)                          0.3     0.9      1.2      1.5     1.6
IFC                                                    -      0.7      0.9     1.2      1.2
Total Financial and Service Charges                       1.4      2.3     4.1      5.1     6.6
Total Uses                                               18.5    50.8    46.4    ',2.9    60.3
Source of Convertible Currencies
Exports
Component Parts to FIAT                               2.0      7.0     8.5    12.5    13.0
Semi-Finished Parts to FIAT                           0.5      2.0    11.0    12.0    15.0
Goods from Yugoslavia to Italy                        1.0     3.0      7.0    10.0    14.0
Vehicle Exports                                       2.3      2.9     4.9      6.5     8.6
Total Exports2/                                         5.8    14.9    31.4    Tl4 0    50.6
Vehicle Sales in Yugoslavia for Convertible
Currency                                              9.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0
Funds for New Investment
Loans                                                  -      10.6     4.6       -       -
FIAT and IFC Investment                               1.3    13.8      4.9       -       _
Total New Investment Funds                              1.3    24.       9
Depreciation Allowance                  :                       __       7.       0.5     0.5
Allocation 3/                                           9.0    10.0    12.0    1S75    19.0
Total Sources                                            25.3    61.6    65.4    68.5    82.1
1/ Machinery and equipment.
2/  Twelve percent of this figure is the "retention quota". Another 33% usable for dividends.
3/ Foreign exchange allocated by the government a large part of which is in convertible
currency.
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1970



CHART 1
EVOLUTION OF OWNERSHIP OF PASSENGER CARS
IN YUGOSLAVIA AND SPAIN, 1962 TO 1974
9 -               6,000-
8                 5,500-
LaJ
0
EL7 -500  
0
@6 -4,500                                          
I-
i:5 -               4,000                             / Is        \
a:                              ~~~~~~~~~~~ELASTICITYI    \ 
I                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Lett Scale)        
to4 -               3,500                                 /\ ~ l/
0
i'3 3-    120   i-3,000                              <;N 
.¢              ____I________
,3  100 -    2,500                                                  /\ N                                                      2.......,,v'...500    . .-40%
I < 80 - 2,000 RATE OF INCREASE .  .,    0  0 
i                           OF PARK\                               .- /          .                               ai
O                ~~~~~~(Righ1 Scale-)                           .                         :                ii
w  60 -    1 ,500                                              .* -/o   ,, 300   - i-20% 
I-.                                                            /       '      s            :  ,:                Z            D
U ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ANA
O ~~~~~~~~REGISTRATIONS:/  ._ 
fL                    ~~~~~~~~(Right Scale-¢)   @   \                               \_
Z                      (population on Jo                ,  1;                               
~~~~~~(<Left Scale) ......../, ........ ,w -    
20 -       500                                             _S~ ..... ";<2100 
CAR OWNERSHIP       -J    _
O _ O 1 i(-Left Scale)O
1961  '62    '63   '64    '65   '66   '67    '68   '69    '70   '71|  '72    '73    '74    1975
.E          ACTUAL           ><        FOECAST                 ROUGH ESTIMATE     -
NOTE:
Black Cuv-es Correspond to Spaoin
IBRD - 4557(3R)



CHART 2
YUGOSLAVIA CAR OWNERSHIP PER
1000 INHABITANTS AGAINST PER CAPITA
INCOME AT CURRENT RATE*
400
200
i- 100__
z
I- 100                               ITALY
0      0pO               _j                                                 HOLLAND
2:
0
ORUAL
a   ~ ~    ~       9\\\w\ t/~~~              Y UGO SLAVI A
0<    60                                                       ACTUAL
1.)                                                 '68        1967 to 1974 Forecast ___-
RANGE OF 8 EUROPEAN
COUNTRIES (U.K., SWEDEN,
z     10         -    53       601               '66                     HOLLAND, FRANCE, SPAIN,
\ I    > i                       GERMANY, ITALY AND
v  1  w64r  5                   PORTUGAL) DURING PERIOD
'59          DEVALUATION                  1953 TO 1965/66
'554        \       S SPAIN
5s4     _      ACTUAL
53{                    1967 to 1970 Forecast
1971 to 1975 Forecast     *--------
LOGARITHMIC  SCALES
2                  1
100             200                   500            1,000    1,5002,000    ($/YEAR)
PER CAPITA INCOME AT CURRENT RATE*
e It is relevant that car prices in Yugoslavia, and many of the other European countries have not increased with cost
of living index; they tend to decrease even at current rate.
** Assuming 7a% growth in per capita income, and plotting park derived from a joint Fiat - ZCZ market survey.
Adjusted GNP/lncome in Yugoslavia after 1966.
IBRD - 4553(4R)



CHART 3
DOMESTIC DEMAND IN YUGOSLAVIA AS SHARED
BETWEEN ZCZ, OTHER LOCAL MANUFACTURERS
AND IMPORTS (1964 TO 1974)
360                l                                                               360
320                                        _320
I
280                                                                                280
.... ..... . .  ..
., ,.,...............................
240                                                                                240
n ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........    .....n
24 0                                                                   .'.....    ......'''. \\ .......  24
CD
'                                                                                             -1
U)                                                                      ......
0                                                                                             0
T200                                                                               200   'n
80                                           .-8
s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . ..  . ... .
iL  160 1                                                                              160 
80                                                                               80
1 0                                     ...............                           2
TN - C  OTAL DMSTIEALES
1963   '64   '65   '66   '67    '68    '69   '70   '71    '72   '73   1974
YEARS
<         ACTUAL          > <               PROJECTED
IBRD - 4556(2R)



APPENDIX 2
YUGOSLAVIA: ZELJEZARA SISAK (SISAX)V
PROJECT APPRAISAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION AND EXISTING FACILITIES                      1
II. MANAGEMENT                                                 2
III.  PAST OPERATING RESULTS                                    2
IV. RECENT FINANCIAL POSITION                                  4
V. MARKET                                                     h
VI. PRICES, PROTECTION AND COMPETTVE POSITION IN
EXPORT MARKETS                                  7
VII. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT                                 8
VIII.  COST OF PROJECT                                           9
IX.  PROJECT FINANCING                                        10
X.  OPERATING COSTS                                          11
XI. EARNINGS AND DEBT SERVICE FORECASTS                       12
XII.  RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS                                  12
ANEXES
1  - SISAK's Statement of Income and Financial Position (1965 to 1968)
2  - SISAK's Statements of Projected Income, Sources and Applications
of Funds and Sales Revenues(1969 to 1973)
2/ This report has been prepared by Mr. J. W. P. Jaff6 of the Industrial
Projects Department and by Mr. C. Prout of IFC.



11PPEID: 
Page 1
ZELJEZ.ARA SISAY, SISAK)
I INTRODIJCTION AND EXISTING FACILITIES
The prospective borrower, ZELJEZARA SISAK (SISAK), is situated near
the town of Sisak in the Repubolic of Croatia close to both raw materials afla
consumption centers.  It is the only integrated producer of steel tubes in
Yugoslavia and is licensed to use the American Petroleum Institute (API) st.mp.
In 1956 SISAK received US$1.97 million under IBRD Loan 73-YU for a
sintering plant and expansion of its seamless tube mill. The project was
carried out as scheduled and at forecast cost. In 1967, the Bank nmade another
loan (Loan No. 504-YUJ, Appendix 9 of Report LA-2a dated June 29  1967) of
US$0.92 million to cover the foreign exchange costs of a new continuous galva-
nizing line for welded tubes, with a capac-ity of 73,000 m tons per annum.
The loan was made throuEh the Yugoslav Investment Bank (YIB). This facility,
which has been installed at the estimated cost, is expected to be in operation
by January 1970.  The Bank is therefore well acquainted with the enterprise,
its operations and expansion plans.
SISAK is one of the largest industrial enterprises in Yugoslavia;
total assets as at December 31, 1968 were ND 1,017.5 million.  It employs
about 6,000 people. The present manufactmriing facilities of the enterprise
comprise a sinter plant, two small blast furnaces, a steel making plant
containing two open hearth and one electric arc furnace, seamaless and welded
tube and narrow strip mills and ancillaries. The installed capacities of the
various production facilities of the enterprise are as follows:
Annu   C                      tons)
Crude Steel                         300
Pig Iron                            160
Hot Rolled Strip                    200
Welded Tubes - Black                100
Seamless Tubes                       80
The plant is currently operating at capacity on three shifts.
Sales in 1968 of SISAK's own products amounted to ND 602 million (US$48.2
million), of which about 64% were in tubes, and the rest mainly in strip and
pig iron. The enterprise also purchases and resells goods similar to those
't produces.  Exports of tubes in 1963 were ND 63 million, some 16p of the
enterprise's tube sales. Just over 40% of these exports went to convertible
currency countries.
The enterprise's iron and steel making facilities are of small capo--
city, and cannot be considered fully efficient by present day standards.
Cn the other hand, the welded and seamless tube mills incorporate modern
technology and will, after completion of the proposed project and the newly
installed galvanizing plant, constitute an efficient processing unit of an
international competitive size. An analysis of the capacity of 58 large
international seamless pipe mills showed that about three quarters nrf thka
nave rated capacities of less than 10COC)Os m tons pe>  rum   *" :cu,m>
- .el' mrnntid.



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
The proposed project is to effect the separation of the medium and
heavy seamless tube mills, thereby increasing capacity of seamless tube
production by 70% to 137,000 m tons yearly and to install a continuous casting
machine, thereby raising crude steel capacity by 10% to 330,000 m tons per
annum and improving productivity in both sections. The total cost of the
project, including additional working capital requirements, is estimated at
ND 177 million (US$l14.2million equivalent) of which US$6.2 million is
required in foreign exchange. The Bank has been requested to provide this
amount.
II. MANAGEMENT
The General Manager of the enterprise is Mr. Norbert Veber and his
deputies for commercial and technical matters are Mr. Martin Jakubin and
Mr. Rikola Franic, respectively. The senior management of the enterprise has
continued to prove its competence as described in the management chapter of
the Report LA-2a of June 1967 and the comments made there still apply today.
SISAK's engineering staff has again demonstrated its capabilities in the
preparation of studies for the present project.
Early in 1969, SISAK signed an agreemert with "Thyssen-R8hrenwerke
A.G." of West Germany under which it may request technical assistance for the
production of tubes and exchange tube products.
III. PAST OPERATING RESULTS
A breakdown of the value of sales into main categories for the past
four years is summarized in Table 1 below:
Table 1. Breakdown of Invoiced Sales (1965 to 1968)
(in millions of ND)
1965     1966     1967     1968
Invoiced Sales:
Welded Tubes - black               70.9     86.6     70.0    100.7
- galvanized         20.5     35.7      36.6     6i.5
Seamless Tubes                   186.0    2h1.3    208.5    221.3
Hot Rolled Strips                   9.7     26.0     26.0     55.7
Closed Shapes                      -         -        -        3.0
PY L-o                            27,6    4P.9    45.8        26.8
Other Products and Services        78.9    192.8    130.8    133.1
Total Invoiced Sales                       393.6    631.3    517.7    602.1
of which:
Exports to -
Convertible Area             30.8     45.6      58.o     30.1
Clearing Area                22.2     32.8       7.9     42.3



APPENDIX 2
Page 3
The sharp increase in sales value for 1966 reflects the combined
impact of increased production due to additional steel making capacity, a
30% price increase above pre-reform prices and an increase in the purchase
and resale of the products of other enterprises. During 1967 the revenue
from sales of all products fell as a result of lower activity in the economy
which led to modest reductions in volume of output and some price cutting.
In 1968 domestic demand picked up substantially and sales revenue approached
that of 1966.
SISAK's earnings statements for the past four years are shown in
Annex 1 and are summarized in Table 2 below:
Table 2.  Summary of Earnings Statements (1965 to 1968)
(in millions of ND)
l965    1966    1967    1968
Net Sales (paid)               356.7   595.2   517.0   574.6
Net Earnings                    32.7    15.6    10.3    13.4
Cash Flow                       53.7    53.5    59.5    71.5
The drop of net earnings in 1966 was due to:
1) Application of higher depreciation rates (increasing depreciation
allowance by about ND 17 million) in anticipation of the revaluation of fixed
assets at the end of the year,
2) Teething troubles associated with the commissioning of the re-
constructed open hearth furnaces and new electric arc furnace,
3) The payment of interest on the loans which financed the large
expansion program.
Net earnings also declined as a percent of sales because of the
large increase in the proportion of resale transactions, on which there is
only a small margin of profit. Cash generation remained at the level of the
previous year. There was a further drop in net earning during 1967 (about
50%) owing to a reduction in net sales and a further rise in depreciation.
It is the enterprise's policy to charge depreciation at a rate considerably
in excess of the minimum required in order to generate funds for further
expansion projects. The reduction in earnings would have been sharper still
if the enterprise had not reduced net wages as a result of the previous year's
drop in earnings. Cash generation improved by ND 6.0 million. Net sales
increased in 1968 and net earnings improved by over 30% in spite of a further
increase in depreciation (by about ND 9 million). Cash flow rose to ND 71.5
million, though wages were increased by ND 14 million to make up for the
previous year's wage cut.



APPENDIX 2
Page 4
IV. RECENT FINANCIAL POSITION
The financial position of the enterprise as at December 31, for
the years 1965 through 1968 is shown in Annex 1 and summarized in the following
table:
Table 3. Summary of Financial Position (1965 to 1968)
(in millions of ND)
1965    1966    1967    1968
Current Assets                           323.2   372.2  354.9  360.2
Current Liabilities                      125.2   161.4   110.0    87.5
Net Current Assets                       1980   210.8   247.9  272.7
Plus:  Net Fixed Assets                  455.4  576.7  538.7   500.2
Less:  Long-term Liabilities             307.0   298.6   285.8  275.7
Own Fnds                         346.4   88.9   497.8   497.2
Current Ratio                             1.87    1.70    1.95    1.99
Long-term debt/own funds                 47/53   38/62   37/63   36/64
SISAK's current position has remained satisfactory.  Its modest
dependence on short-term bank funds has been reduced during the past two
years. The substantial improvement in the ratio of long-term debt -to own
funds is largely the result of the revaluation of fixed assets which took
place in 1966.
Outstanding ND 276 million long-term debt as at December 31, 1968
is made up mainly of ND 219 million outstanding loans for fixed assets
extended principally by the Privredna Bank, Zagreb, a small amount by the
Yugoslav Investment Bank for erecting the new galvanizing plant, and a
ND 50 million loan for working capital owed to the Kreditna Bank, Sisak and
the Privredna Bank, Zagreb. Debt service coverage was 2.8 which is satisfac-
tory.
V. MARKET
1) Past Consumption of Seamless Tubes
Table 4 shows domestic production, imports into and exports from
Yugoslavia of the entire range of seamless tubes in the years 1963 through
1968. Since SISAK is the sole producer of seamless tubes in Yugoslavia, the
production statistics are, in fact, those of the enterprise. It does not deal
through selling agents, but handles its own domestic and export sales.  It is
currently establishing near Zagreb a seamless tube warehouse, which will be
centrally situated in relation to its largest customers, refineries at Zagreb
and Novi Sad. lThe enterprise also handles exports and some imports of tubes
to meet its own foreign currency requirements on the one hand and supplement
its production capacity on the other.



APPENDIY 2
Page _
Table 4. SISAK's (Yugoslavials) 3ainaess Tube Production,
Import, Export and Consumption  1963 to 1968.)
(000 m tons)
1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968
Production                        72.9    77.8    70.3    77.3    77.4    76.7
Imports                           26.0    29.3    17.1    36.5    27.3    28.0
Sub-total                         98.9   107.1    87.4   113.8   lo4.7   104.7
Exports                           18.9    17.2    18.6    21.4    21.1    17.2
Apparent Consumption (Total)      80.0    89.9    68.8    92.4    83.6    87.5
of which Universal sizes        40.3    46.3    36.4    48.2    42.8    46.0
Taking the six-year period as a whole, the rate of increase of
apparent consumption was 1.8% per annum (2.7% per annum in the universal size
range).  The slight decline in 1967 and 1968 can be attributed to the initial
impact of the Economic Reform. The rate of increase of production during the
same period was limited by the capacity of the existing universal and light
lines and amounted to only 1% per annum.
In addition to the regular export and import of seamless tubes, the
enterprise has entered into "tube exchange" arrangements with one West German,
one East German and two Hungarian tube producers.  These arrangements, which
SISAK regards as mutually beneficial, enable it to concentrate on the produc-
tion of a smaller range of tube sizes and result in longer production runs.
At present SISAK supplies seamless tubes in the 150 to 323 mm diameter range
and receives in return tubes less than 150 mm and greater than 305 mm diameter
and special quality tubes. Exchanges take place on the basis of international
prices. Tube exchanges are not reflected in the import and export statistics
and do not qualify for export incentives or retention quotas.
The volume of seamless tubes exchanged in the period 1963 through
1968 is shown in the following table:
Table 5. SISAK's Trade Under International Tube Exchange Agreements
(1963 to 1968)
(in m tons)
1963    196L    1965    1966    1967    1968
Imports                        1,928   2,299   2,017   2,898   3,545   9,780
Exports                        2,769   2,673   2,095   5,134   1,914   6,600
Net Imports (Exports)            (841)   (374)   ( 78) (2,236)  1,631   3,180
The enterprise considers that tube exchanges will continue to play
a role in the foreseeable future.



APPENDIX 2
Page6
2) Projected Consuption of Seamless Tube
The enterprise's demand projections for tubes in the range of sizes
of the present uriversal and future medium and heavy lines are based on the
following assumptions:
a) Naphtha production in Yugoslavia will increase from 2.8 million
m tons in 1969 to 4.0 million m tons in 1974, equivalent to an annual growth
rate of 7.4%.  In the past an average of 6.4 kg of seamless tube has been
consumed per ton of installed naphtha capacity (representing about 30% of the
output of the universal line).
b) The production of structural steel in Yugoslavia will increase
from 156,000 m tons in 1969 to 2044,000 m tons in 1974, equivalent to an annual
growth rate of 5.5%. In the past an average of 37 kg of tube has been consumed
for every ton of structural steel (representing about 15% of the output of
the universal line).
c) The demand of the wholesalers, which represent the largest group
of consumers taking about 35% of the output of the universal line, will
increase at an annual growth rate of 4.2%, in step with the growth of the
manufacturing sector in Yugoslavia.
On these assumptions, the total projected domestic consumption of
seamless tubes in the range of sizes of the present universal line is shown
in Table 6 together with projections of supply.
Table 6. Projected Demand for Seamless Tubes (Universal Size Range)
and Comparison witi Supply (1969 to 1974)
('000 m tons)
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    19714
Actual
Demand
Naphtha industry         16.6    17.5    19.0    20.6    22.4    24.3    25.3
Construction industry    5.5      5.8     6.1     6.4      6.8     7.1     7.6
Wholesalers              30.2    32.0   33.4    314.8    36.2    37.8    39.3
Total        52.3    55.3    58.5   61.8    65.4    69.2    72.7
Production              43.8    44.3   44.4    44.8   68.0    88.8   102.5
Imports                 17.9    19.0    20.1    21.0    21.9    17.3    10.0
Less:  Exports           (9.4)   (8.0)   (6.0)   (4.o)  (24.5)  (36.9)  (39.8)
Furthermore, if domestic consumption fails to reach the projected
tonnages in the next two or three years, imports could be cut back to enable
the enterprise to continue operating at capacity. In actual fact, SISAK sold
its entire production of seamless tubes in 1969 and has substantial orders
for 1970.



APP ENDIX 2
Page 7
The conclusion can be drawn from the data listed above that the
enterprise's demand projections are reasonable. The actual demand in 1967
and 1268 has been somewhat below forecasts made in 1966. This is attributed
to the effect of the economic reform but the projected long-tern trend is
still thought to be realistic.
3) Projected Consumption of Welded Tube
There has been no significant change in the rate of growth of
consumption of welded tubes since the early part of 1967 when the forecast
attached to Appendix 9 of Report No. LA-2a was prepared. After some delays
associated with procurement of equipment the new galvanizing line is now
expected to go into operation during January 1970 and the enterprise's sales
forecast has been adjusted accordingly.
VI.  PRICES, PROTECTION AND COMPETITIVE POSITION IN EXPORT MARIMTS
1) Domestic Prices
In line with the prices of other iron and steel products in Yugo-
slavia, the basic prices of seamless tubes are officially determined by the
Federal Price Office. In addition, extras are payable depending onthe
quality and dimensions of the tubes and other customer requiremenlts.
The official basic prices for seamless tubes of commercial quality,
which have been in effect since 1965, are as follows:
Diameter of tube          ND/m ton      $/m ton equivalent
up to 3"                             2,525               202,00
above 3" and up to 12-3/h"           2,343              187n50
special tubes up to 12-3/h"          2,697              215.75
These prices appear to compare f avorably  iith the price ranges for
equivalent products in the United States and in the U.K.
The enterprise's projected sales revenue (Annex 2) is based on the
assumption that these prices wTill be maintainied th-roug The forecast period.
2) Export Prices
SISAK states that export prices are based on the international price
list of European tube producers with appropriate discounts depending on
quantity, transport costs and the level of import duty in the buyer's country;
Up to the beginning of 1969, export prices to the convertible currency area,
without export incentive premium, averaged about 20% below corresponding
domestic selling prices in Yugoslavia. The enterprise realized the following
average export prices in the years 1963 through 1968. These prices reflect
not only fluctuations in the international price, but also a wide variety of
tube assortments.



APPENDIX 2
Page 8
Average ea,or 'Price -f.o.b. Yuoslav border
(USs per m ton)
1963        1964        1965       1966        1967      1968
195.35      187.12      200.02     172.72      163.88    213.42
The enterprise's export sales projections are based on average basic
export prices of about ND 2,020 (US$161.60) per m ton of seamless tube and
ND 2,760 (US$220.80) per m ton of API casing, which are below the current
price level, but represent a reasonable expectation of long-range export prices.
In the case of exports to convertible currency countries, the enterprise
receives an export incentive premium of 11% on its sales revenue plus the
benefits of a retention quota, which is currently 7%. Since incentive premiums
do not apply to exports to clearing currency countries, the prices to these
countries have been taken as 10% greater than the prices to convertible
currency countries, so that the return to the enterprise is approximateJy the
same in either case. Having regard to the increasing share of tube exports in
international trade, the enterprise's expectation of the projected volume of
export sales at the predicted prices is realistic.
3) Protection
The present level of duty on the import of steel tubes into Yugo-
slavia is 16% ad valorem in those cases where the producers' association has
given its consent to the importation and 24% where no such consent has been
given. In the case of seamless tubes, consent to import is given only for
qualities other than commercial grade and API line pipe and casing. and sizes
outside the range produced by SISAK.
VII. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
The project consists of two parts: the separation of the medium and
heavy seamless tube mills and the installation of a continuous casting machine.
At present the light tube mill is being operated continuously, while
the medium (101.6 to 178 mm) and heavy (168 to 323 mm) tube mills are being
operated alternately, because they are driven from a common drive stand and
utilize some common equipment. By separating the medium and heavy tube mills,
the two mills can be operated in parallel and their combined capacity
increased from the present 47,000 m tons to 105,000 m tons per annum. The total
seamless tube productive capacity of the enterprise would thus be increased to
137,000 m tons per annum.



APPENDIX 2
Page 9
To achieve this separation the following equipment, mostly for the
heavy mill, is required: one rotary furmaca with a capacity of 25 m tons
per hour, one 1,200-m ton piercing press, one 1,900 KW elongator, one 1,000
KW drive motor for the medium pilger mill and ancillary equipment.
The separation of the medium and heavy seamless tube mills was
foreseen in the original design of these mills. Space is available in the
existing mill building and the proposed expansion represents a logical
increase in seamless tube making capacity at the low marginal cost of under
US$100 per annual m ton.
The separation of the medium and heavy tube mills will necessitate
an increase in crude steel production from 300,000 to 3Y'V,C00C m tin rer annLm. The
enterprise intends to achieve this increase by the installation of a twin
three-strand continuous casting machine, capable of casting simultaneously
from two 75-ton ladles the liquid steel tapped from the open-hearth furnaces.
It would also cast 40% of the steel produced in the electric arc furnace,
while the balance consisting mostly of special sizes or qualities produced
in the electric arc furnace, would be cast into ingots as at present.
About 18,000 m tons of the increase in output is expected to come from the
better yield obtained with continuous, as conpared with conventional, casting.
The remaining 12,000 m tons per annum will result fron an increase in the
number of open-hearth and electric arc furnace heats made possible by the
elimination of bottlenecks and delays in the teeming bay when continuous
casting replaces the existing ingot casting.
The project execution schedule is predicated on orders for the major
equipment being placed not later than March 1, 1970. This should permit test
runs of the new equipment to commenee in February 1972 and normal production
some four months later. There has been some delay in initiating procurement
action and this schedule will be reviewed when the equipment suppliers' bids
have been received.
VIII. COST OF PROJECT
A breakdown of the total project cost which amounts to ND L77.2
million (US$14.2 million), including US$6.2 million foreign exchange, is
shmmn in Table 7 below:
Table 7. Capital Cost Estimates
ND Millions                 US$ Millions
Local   Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Civil works, buildings.           19.6      -       19.6      1.5       -       1.5
Equipmett, mel. contingemny       42.4     70.0    112,4      3.4      5.6      9.0
Customs duties                    17.2      -       17.2      1.4       -       1.4
Erection                           4.8      3.7       8.5     0.4      0.3      0.7
Englg., inland transport, etc.    4.7       3.8      8.5     0.4       0.3      0.7
Working Capital                   11.0      -       11.0      0.9       -       0.9
Total         99.7     77.5    177.2      8.0      6.2      14.2



APPENDIX 2
Page 10
The inclusive foreign exchange cost of the continuous casting
machine is estimated at approximately US$3.1 million and that of the addi-
tional mill equipment also at US$3.1 million. The enterprise has based its
estimates on preliminary data obtained from interested equipment suppliers
and although a series of detailed questions cannot be resolved until orders
have been placed, it is nevertheless considered that these estimates represent
a close approximation of the cost of the project with adequate allowances for
contingencies provided in each item.
IX. PROJECT FINANCING
The financing of the estimated fixed asset costs and additional
working capital requirements of the new project would be as follows:
Table 8. Financing (ND Millions)
Fixed Assets   Working Capital    Total
Foreign exchange
IBRD                            77.50              -            77.50
Local currency
Privredna Bank, Zagreb          22.15              -            22.15
Kreditna Bank, Zagreb           22.15              -            22.15
Oim Funds                      4h440             11.0           55-40
Total                                           177.20
Detailed earnings and cash flow projections for the period 1960
through 1973 are given in Annex 2. SISAKts estimated financial requirements
and sources of funds during the construction period 1970 to 1972 are also
given in Annex 2 and summarized below:
Table 9.  Sources and Applications of Funds During Project Implementation
(1970 to 1972)
(in Millions of ND)
Sources                                   Applications
From operation:                          The project                       177.2
Net earnings                63.9     Other fixed investment             91.5
Depreciation               206.5     Debt repayment                     63.6
Increase in long-term                Reserve and consumption fund       31.3
debt                 122.9      Additional working capital        29.7
393.3                                      393.3



APPENDIX 2
Page 11
The other investment in fixed assets made during the construction
period, apart from renewals and replacements, include the purchase of equip-
ment for the manufacture of closed shapes, perforated shapes and machines for
cold tube drawing. About 68% of the requirements during the construction
period are expected to be financed by the enterprise's own funds and the
remainder from long-term borrowing.
IBRD funds will be used for providing the total foreign exchange
cost, of which about 90% is for purchase of imported equipment and 10% for
the foreign exchange component of engineering, training and erection expenses.
X. OPERhTING COSTS
The enterprise buys its major raw materials and energy requirements
at the following delivered prices:
Table 10. Prices of Raw Materials and Energy
ND                US$
Iron ore (h8% Fe, 2% Mn)             approx. 100/m ton     8.00/m ton
Coke                                         385/m ton    30080/m ton
Scrap
domestic                             320/m ton    25.60/m ton
imported                             575/m ton    46.00/m ton
weighted average                     450/m ton    36.00/m ton
Electric power                             0.1125/KwH     9 mills/KwH
Natural gas                                0.27/Nm3       2.i60/Nm3
(24.30/million B.T.U.)
The prices of these inputs are not particularly favorable to the
enterprise. However, wages are relatively low and are forecast to increase
slowly, after their considerable increases in recent years.
Present production costs, including depreciation, per m ton of hot
metal and ingots are about ND 750 (Us$60) and ND 1,057 (US$84.50) respectively
and reflect the relatively high input prices. After the installation of
continuous casting, the production cost of continuously cast billets is
projected to be ND 989.6 (US$79.17) per m ton, a reduction of ND 67.4 (US$5.79)
per m ton or 6.4% on the present cost of ingots. The projected reduction in
manufacturing costs is shown in the following table which illustrates the
benefits derived from the proposed expansion project.



APPENDI3   2
Page 12
Table 11. Product  nufacturing Cost, Present and Projected
M4anufacturing Cost       Reduction
Present    projected    Amount
(LWD/a ton)
Seamnless tubes:
light line                 2,577       2,372        205     7.9
universal line             2,232       1,899        333    14.9
API quality
line pipe                  2,650       2,200        450    17.0
casing                     2,788       2,377        411    14.7
Welded tubes (black)          1,749        1,670        79      .5
Hot rolled strip (cut)        1,293        1,228        65      5.0
The new costs are regarded as competitive with all but the largest
producers of tube.
XI. EARNINGS AND DEBT SERVICE FORECASTS
Forecasts of earnings, sources and applications of funds and a
breakdown of sales are shown in Annex 2. Invoices sales are forecast to
increase slightly from ND 566 million in 1969 to ND 586 million in 1971.
Then,principally due to the increase of 58,000 m tons of seamless tube produc-
tion capacity, projected sales rise to ND 75h million in 1973.
During the construction period, 1970 to 1971, net income falls
largely due to increase in overhead costs and in 1971, also due tc payment
out of operations of irnterest on new long temr loans. Cash flow drops less
sharply -- from ND 79 million in 1569 to ND 63 million in 1971.  In 1972,
the true impact of the projet; begins to show. Net earnings rise sharply
and cash flow doubles from EnD 63 million in 1971 to ND 128 million in 1972.
Results improve further in 1973. During the forecast period the diebt service
coverage remains adequate ranging between 2.1 at the lowest in 1971 to 3.2
after the completion of project in 1974 as shown in .Rnx   2.
The volume of export is predicated on the need to earn sufficient foreign
exchange -- through retention quota to service the IBRD debt.
XII. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS
The projected manufacturing costs of API line pipe and casing
(Us$176.00 and US$190.16 per m ton) at the completion of the proposed
expansion project compare favorably with those of other tube makers known
to IERD. The assumed export prices are reasonable and are high enough to
cover production costs and make a contribution to overheads.



APPENDIX 2
Page 13
The proposed expansion project is the outcome of several years' work
on the part of the enterprise's projects department. Both the installation of
the continuous casting machine and the separation of the medium and heavy
tube mills are soundly conceived and will enable the enterprise to increase
its productive capacity and lower its costs. Once the newi equipment is fully
operational, it is expected to increase SISAK's earmings by about km 50
million per annum, equivalent to 20% of the investment cost.
In planning the next round of expansion of the iron and steel making
division, the enterprise will be confronted with a number of difficult
decisions. IBRD has therefore urged SISAK to prepare a long-range development
plan now so as to allow adequate time for a thorough study of the alternative
solutions and ensure that development continues in an orderly manner towards
the attainment of the enterprise's objectives.
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1969



ANNEX 1
ZELJEZARA SISAK STATEMENT OF INCOME AND FINANCIAL POSITION, 1965-1968
(Million8 of ND)
1965    1966    1967    196F
A.  Income Statements-/
Total Sales Revenue (Paid)                                  356.7  595.2   517.0  574.6
Operating Costs
Materials, Overheads, General and Tax                     344.7   447.6  379.0  405.4
Wages and Related Payments                                 52.3    78.7   63.3    81.6
297.0  526.3  442.3    77.0
Depreciation                                                 21.0    37.9    49.2   58.1
Interest                                                      6.0    15.4   15.2    16.1
Net Earnings                                                 32.7     5.    70.3    13.
B. Financial Position (December 31)
Current Assets
Cash, Deposits and Receivables                            128.3  170.7  167.2   217.3
Inventories                                               186.4  183.2  176.2  141.5
Other Current Assets                                        8.5    18.3    11.5     1.4
Total Current Assets                                        323.2  372.2   37779  360.2
Fixed Assets
Land and Buildings     2/                                 144.5  252.9  254.9  261.7
Machinery and Equipment-=                                 292.5  430.5  451.7  468.3
Work in Progress                                           68.9   56.7    40.0   27.6
Other Fixed Assets                                         83.9-   60.4    62.3    69.2
Less:  Depreciation                                      (134.4) (223.8) (270.2) (326.6)
Net Fixed Assets                      455.4 7767 7   5                               00.2
Total Assets                                                778.6  948.9  893.6  860.4
=MI  mic=     z_
Current Liabilities
Payables and Advances                                      62.3    77.8   63.5    60.2
Short-Term Debts                                           28.3   30.3    21.0   16.6
Other (including current portion of L.T.)                  34.6   53.3    25.5    10.7
Total Current Liabilities                                   125.2   161.4  110.0    87.
Long-Term Debt                                              307.0  298.6  285.8   275.7
Funds of Enterprise                                         346.4  488.9   497.8  497.2
Total Liabilities                                           778.6  948.9  893.6  860.4
_ iv-   _
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                            2.5     2.3     3.2     4.o
Long-Term Debt/Funds of Enterprise                           47/53   38/62   37/63   36/64
1/ 1965 to 1968 accounts are on "cash" basis and from 1969 on "accrual" basis.
2/ Revaluation of assets in 1966.
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1970



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ZELJEZARA SISAK STATEMENTS OF PROJECTED INCCME, SOURCES AND
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS AND SALES REVENUE, 1969-1973
(Millions of ND)
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973
A. Income Statement.I/
Total Sales Revenue (Invoiced)                        566.0   575.6   585.6   690.2   753.6
Operating Costs
Materials, Overheads, General and Tax               386.2   395.1   412.4   445.8   487.9
Wages and Related Payments                           86.7    86.7    86.7    90.9    95.1
h72_.9   7T7    799.1   736.7    7753.0
Depreciation                                           61.6    64.1    64.7    77.7    77.7
Interest                                               13.7    16.2    22.3    24.9    23.1
Net Earnings                                           1        13.5     T  )    0.59  5797
B. Sources and Applications of Funds
Sources
Net Earnings                                         17.8    13.5    (0.5)   50.9    69.8
Depreciation                                         61.6    64.1    64.7    77.7    77.7
Increase in Long-Term Debt
IBRD                                                -      36.5    41.0       -       -
YIB and Other Banks                                 -       14.7    29.6      -       -
Others                                             23.8      1.1     -        -       -
Total Sources                                         103.2   129.9   134.8   128.6   147.5
Applications
New Investment
Foreign Fixed Assets                                _      36.5    41.0       -       _
Local Fixed Assets                                  -      29.5    59.2       -       _
Working Capital                                     -        -       3.0      8.0     -
Total Project                                                 66   103.2        5.0
Other Fixed Assets                                   67.7    33.3    16.0    42.2    68.0
Total Assets                                         67.7    99.3   119.2    50.2        =0
Principal Repayments
Existing Long-Term                                 17.7    20.5    18.7    19.3    20.1
New Project - IBRD                                  -        -       -        3.2     6.5
- YIB and Others                       -        -       -        1.9     3.8
17.7    20.5    TF77    24.h    30.h
Reserve and Collective Funds                          9.1      7.7     5.8    17.8    23.8
Net Addition to Working Capital                       8.7      2.4    (8.9)   36.2    25.3
Total Applications                                    103.2   129.9   134.8   128.6   147.5
Debt Service Coverage                                   2.9      2.6     2.1      3.1     3.2
1/ From 1965 to 1968 the accounts are on "cash" basis and from 1969, on "accrual" basis.
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1970



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(Quantity in thousand tons, value in ND millions)
1969          1970          1971           1972          1973
Qty. Value Qty. Value Qty. Value Qty. Value Qty. Value
C. Sales Revenue
Products
Welded Tubes - Black              53    105    40       81    41       86    56      96    48       99
- Galvanized       20      52    42    104    45    112    48    121    53    134
Seamless Tubes                    74    214    74    218    71    215    98    276   118    328
Hot Rolled Strips                 49      70    24      38    11       17    21      32    13       20
Closed Shapes                      7      24     8      30    12      50    14       58    15      65
Other Products and Services        -    101       -    104      -    106      -    107       -    108
Pig Iron - White                   -      -       -     -       -      -      -      -       -     -
- Grey                   -      -
l/
Total-"                                  566           576           586            690            754
of which: Exports
Welded Tubes - Black              12      18      3      5      4       5     5       7      4       6
- Galvanized         4      7    13       23    13      23    12      22    12       22
Seamless                          14      33    12      28      8      17    30      65    42      92
Hot Rolled Strips                  3       4      -             -      -       -     -       -      -
Other Products and Services        -       5      -      5      -       5     -       5      -       5
Total Exports (Amount)                    67            61            52             99           125
% of Total Sales                         12            ]1              9            14            16
of which:
Convertible-?                             43            46            44             89           112
Clearing                                  23            15             8             10            12
1/ Based on invoiced sales.
2/ Includes 11 percent export incentive.
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1970



APPENDIX 3
YUGOSLAVIA: INDUSTRIA POLJOPRIVREDNIH MASINA (ZMAJ) -
PROJECT APPRAISAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. INTRODUCTION AND EXISTING FACILITIES                      1
II, MANAGEMENT AND LABOR                                      2
III. PAST OPERATING RESULTS                                    3
IV. RECENT FINANCIAL POSITION                                 4
V. MARKET                                                     5
VI. PRICES AND COMPETITIVE POSITION                           6
VII. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT                                7
VIII. COST OF THE PROJECT                                        7
IX. PROJECT FINANCING                                         8
X. OPERATING COSTS                                           9
XI. EARNINGS AND DEBT SERVICE FORECASTS                        9
XII. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS                                  10
ANNEXES
1 - ZMAJ's Statement of Income and Financial Position (1965 to 1968)
2 - ZMAJ's Statement of Projected Income, Sources and Applications
of Funds and Sales Revenues(1969 to 1973)
This report has been prepared by Mr. M. V. Dehejia and Mr. C. Prout
of IFC.



APPENDIX 3
Page 1
INDUSTRIA POLJOPRIVREDNIH MASINA ZMAJ (ZMJ)
I. INTRODUCTION AND EXISTING FACILITIES
The prospective borrower, INDUSTRIA POLJOPRIVREDNIH MASINA ZMAJ (ZMAJ),
manufactures --
combine harvesters
automobile, truck and tractor wheels
light trucks, agricultural and road trailers, grain
handling and processing equipment,
and does miscellaneous jobbing work including steel forgings and light steel
structures. It is the only producer of combine harvesters (combines) and
wheels in Yugoslavia.
ZMAJ was established in October 1946 as a manufacturer of agricultural
machinery. During the early years, ZMAJ produced simple agricultural imple-
ments such as cutters, threshers and hand-operated implements. In 1951, manu-
facturing facilities were moved to the present 90-acre site at Zemun (5 miles
north of Belgrade). The site is well connected with sources of raw materi als
and the principal markets for ZMA.J's products. Operations were expanded in
1955/56 when licenses were purchased from Massey-Ferguson of Toronto, Canada,
for the manufacture of combine harvesters, from OCRIM of Cremona, Italy, for
mechanized flour mills, and from FERAT of Torino, Italy for automobile, truck
and tractor wheels. Though these license agreements have expired, ZMAJ
maintains close informal relationships with these companies. Total output in
physical terms increased from about 3,500 m tons in 1955 to almost 15,000 m
tons in 1968.
Agricultural machinery, production and sales of which are seasonal,
accounted for roughly 60% of ZMAJ's total invoiced sales of ND 271 million
(US$22 million) in 1968. The enterprise's other production, except wheel
manufacture, is basically to balance the factory workload over the year.
W,heel manufacturing, which contributed about 5% to total sales in 1968, is
largely independent of the enterprise's other activities. The enterprise
sells predominantly in the domestic market.
ZMAJ employs about 3,000 persons and has a total covered factory area
of about 800,000 sq ft. The principal production facilities comprise a forge
shop, a heavy press shop, a sheet metal shop and a general purpose machine
shop, which serve the assembly shops of the various divisions. The wheel
division is largely self-sufficient except for disc pressings which are
supplied by the press shop. ZMAJ does not have its own foundry; castings
are purchased from foundries at Topola and Novi Sad. Engines for the combines
and trucks are purchased from I.M.R. Belgrade (a Perkins licensee). Other
major purchased components include hydraulic systems, gear boxes and radiators.



APPENDIX 3
Page 2
The project under consideration is for the expansion of wheel manufac-
turing capacity on a 2-shift basis from 500,000 wheels per annum at present to
about 2.3 million wheels per annum by 1973 to satisfy the anticipated require-
ments of domestic automobile, truck and tractor manufacturers, particularly
Zavodi Crvena Zastava. Wheel sales will then be about 25% of ZMAJ's total
sales. The project, engineered by the enterprise's own staff based on
alternative schemes suggested by reputable international suppliers, is
estimated to cost ND 57 million (US$4.6 million) including a foreign exchange
element of approximately ND 28.4 million equivalent (US$2.3 million) which
IBRD has been requested to finance.
II. MANAGMESNT AND IABOR
The enterprise is efficiently managed by a competent team headed by
Mr. Brane Nedeljkovic who is about 50 and has been with ZMAJ since its incep-
tion. Mr. Nedeljkovic, who has a financial background, is assisted by an able
team of financial, commercial and engineering department heads.
Mr. Aleksandar Calic, a University Graduate with 22 years' experience,
is the Financial Director and has been with ZMA.J for 18 years. Mr. Sredoje
Milosavljevic, Technical Director, and Mr. Predrag Matic, Development Director,
are both university trained engineers, have about 17 years industrial
experience and are supported by young graduate production and development
engineers. On the commercial side, ZMAJ has two able managers in Mr. Radislav
Domanovic and Mr. Dimitrije Popovic, who are in charge of domestic and export
sales respectively, and have been with the enterprise for over 15 years. The
state of the factory and offices indicates the prevalence of discipline and
system, and the ready availability of detailed technical operating data
demonstrates close operational control by management.
In 1968, ZMAJ employed 2,962 persons:  2,204 in the factory and 758
in offices. The labor force has been relatively constant over the past few
years as shown by the following Table 1, which also indicates productivity
ratios over the period:
Table 1. Employment and Productivity
Value             Value Added
Year        Total Employees        000 ND/man           000 ND/man
1964             3,002                 52.8                 36.3
1965             3,454                 50.1                 33.6
1966             2,950                63.7                  41.5
1967             2,867                 73.5                 45.6
1968             2,962                 76.1                 57.4
The substantial increase in total employment in 1965 resulted from a
merger with the trailer manufacturing enterprise "Avala" of Zemun. The fact
that management, operating under Yugoslav conditions, was able to reduce the
work force without affecting value of output, is significant and reinforces
the view that management is effective and is able to work successfully within
the framework of the Workers' Council concept.



APPENDIX_3
Page 3
III. PAST OPERATING RESULTS
The following Table 2 is a breakdown of invoiced sales for the period
1965 to 1968:
Table 2.  Breakdown of Invoiced Sales in Quantity and Value
(1965 to 1968)
For the Year ended December 31    (Value in Millions of ND)
1965           1966            1967           1968
Qty.   Value   Qty.  Value   Qty.   Value   Qty.    Value
Combines (nos.)            1,570   94.7  1,650  109.5   1,940  128.0   1,910   159.8
'T'icks/Trailers (nos.)    600/    18.1   680/    26.2   570/    20.9   420/       17.4
1,1440         2,100           1,400            720
W4heels (COO nos.)           210    8.9      240   10.4     360    9.3    340      12.6
Other Production (OC tons) 2.3   52.2       2.3  55.2       2.5   63.8    1.9      80.8
TOTAL (000 tons)            13.6  173.9    14.9  201.3    15.0  222.0   1:3.9   27Q.(-
of w-iich:
Exports to -
Convertible Area               0.3             1.1            1.2              5.3
Clearing Area                 15.2            31.8           371             42.7
Various models of combines account for about 6CO,) of output, miscel-
laneous steel wrork about 30% and truck and trailers about 51    Though sales
of specific models of combines fluctuate, sales of ZMAJ1s omn model, the
Universal, have risen rapidly from 15 units in 1965 to over 600 units in
1968. Sales of wheels (only 5% of sales) are mainly to motor vehicle manu-
facturers in Yugoslavia, with some exports to TWest Germany and Poland.
As shown above, the number of wheels sold has increased by over 7C)% from
1965 to 1968 but sales value has increased by only about 40%, because of a.
larger proportion of sales of smaller wheels and because of increased exports
to Poland and West Germany at lower prices.
Earnings statements for the past four years are shown in Annex 1 and
are summarized below:
Table 3. Past Statements of Earnings (1965 to 1968)
For the Year Ended December 31         (Millions of ND)
1965     1966     1967      1968
Net Sales (Paid)      175.7    195.8    211.4    252.6
Net Earnings            8.6     10.4     10.9      13.3
Cash Flow              13.4     17.6     20.0      22.6



APPEIDIE 3
Page4
As sales increased, net earnings have increased at a faster rate
reflecting fuller utilization of the enterprise's fixed assets (which have
not increased significantly).  This occurred in spite of increases of 70%
in wages and almost 100% in depreciation f2om 1964 to 1968.
Contribution to earnings varies for different products. In 1968
combines and miscellaneous steel work (which accounted for 90;i of total sales)
gave a net return of about 9% on turnover. 1WTheel manufacture broke even,
and truck and trailer production was at a loss of about 10% on turnover.
However, truck and trailer production makes a positive contribution to perform-
ance by absorbing labor and overhead costs during the season when demand for
combines is low.
IV. RECENT FINANCIAL POSITION
The financial position of the enterprise in 1965 through 1968 is shown
in Annex 1 and is summarized below:
Table 4. Past Financial Position (1965 to 1968)
For the Year Ended December 31    (Millions of ND)
1965     1966     1967      L968
Current Assets                  18h.9    217.3    256.2    311.1
Current Liabilities             101 1    126.8    160.0    208.9
Net Current Assets               83.8     90.5     96.2    102.2
plus:  Net Fixed Assets                 75,0     96.0      93.5     8h.5
less:  Long-Term Liabilities            95.7    20.0      78.8      68.8
Own Funds                        63.1     96.5    110.9    117.9
Current Ratio                     1.8      1.7      1.6       1.5
Long-Term Debt/Own Funds        60/4o    48/52   41/59    37/63
ZI4AJ's present financial position is satisfactory.  In 196S, the
enterprise started marketing its products on its own rather than working
through distributors, and had to extend short-term credit facilities to
customers. This explains the substantial increase in current assets (cus-
tomer receivables) and current liabilities (short-term bank debt) over the
period 1965 to 1968 and the slight reduction in the current ratio. The sub-
stantial improvement in the ratio of Long-Term to Own Funds is the result of
the re-evaluation of fixed assets in 1966, a steady reduction in long-term
debt and increase in reserves made possible by improved profitability.
The outstanding Long-Term Debt of ND 69 million as at December 31, 1968
was about ND 30 million loans for fixed assets held mainly by the Privredna
Banka of Belgrade, which also holds about half of the 'D 35 million rorkinvg
capital loans.  The UITion Bank of Dclgrade holds the other ha.lf of working
cr.pit1 o.-ls.  Debt service co-verage in 1968 7sas about 2 times, which is
adequate.



APPENDIX 3
Page 5
V. MARKET
ZMAJ's project aims at the expansion of automotive wheel manufacture.
Therefore the market analysis that follows examines mainly future sales
prospects of the increased output of wheels.
ZMAJ is the only wheel producer in Yugoslavia and its sales projections
of about 2.3 million wheels by 1973 are based on the anticipated growth of
car, truck and tractor manufacture in the country. The principal customer
for wheels is the car industry, whose growth and prospects are discussed in
detail in Appendix 1, which is concerned with a loan to Yugoslavia's principal
car manufacturer, Zavodi Crvena Zastava. By 1973, damestic automobile produc-
tion is expected to reach a level of about 240,000 cars per year requiring
1.2 million wheels. Commercial vehicle production, provided the planned
expansions of the two principal manufacturers, TAM and FAP-FAMOS materialize,
will be of the order of 20,000 per annum, and will need about 150,000 wheels
per annum. Tractor production is expected to be about 12,000 per annum and
will absorb 24,000 small automobile type front wheels and 24,000 large rear
wheels. The total domestic requirement for wheels by 1973 will therefore be
of the order of 1.!5 million per annum.  This figure does not include wheels
required for ZMAJ's own production of trailers, trucks and combines, estimated
at 30,000 wheels per annum by 1973 and wheels required by other trailer manu-
facturers (about 70,000 wheels). ZI4J has been exporting wheels to the FIAT
licensee in Poland and to OPEL in West Germany. Recently ZMAJ submitted offers
to two firms in West Germany and expects orders for about 600,000 wheels per
annum. Sales projections assume exports of about one million wheels per annum
by 1973, a target which appears attainable in view of the enterprise's past
performance and the recent negotiations with the two prospective W4est German
customers.
The breakdown of projected wheel sales, when the project is in full
production ,is as shown below:
Table 5. Forecast Breakdown of Domestic Sales and Exports (1973)
Customer               Qty. - 000 Wheels   %   Value - Million ND       %
1. Domestic Sales
Zavodi Crvena Zastava              1,oo6        5           32.2            31
Other Automotive Producers           207         9          41.3            40
ZMAJ                                  30        1            6.6             6
Total Domestic                     1,2h3       55%          80.1            77%
2. Exports: (mainly W. Germany)      1000         45%         214.0           23%
2,2143     100%        104.1           100%



APPENDIX 3
Page 6
The principal items of agricultural machinery marketed by ZMAJ are
combines for wheat and corn. As of January 1, 1968, there were a total of
12,526 combine harvesters operating in Yugoslavia, 97% of which are of ZMAJ
manufacture.  Of these, 7,114 or 57% were owned by state or commune farmers
and the balance by individual farmers or farmers' cooperatives. The total
cultivated area in the country is about 10.2 million hectares of which 1.9
million is for wheat and 2.5 for corn. According to a study made by the
enterprise, Yugoslavia needs a combine harvester population of about 25,ooo,
i.e. an additional 12,5C0 combines. In this context, ZKAJ's projected sales
of about 9,600 combines over the next five years seem reasonable.
Sales of trucks and trailers are made through ZMAJ's combine harvester
sales organization mainly to 'ural customers. These products are well estab-
lished in the market and only modest sales increases are forecast for the
future.
The market for miscellaneous products and jobbing work, from which
ZMAJ derived substantial sales revenues in the past, is difficult to forecast.
It is expected that the major part of sales revenue in this group will be
derived from sales of steel forgings.
VI. PRICES AND COMPETITIVE POSITION
Domestic selling prices for wheels, which are negotiated between ZMAJ
and its clients and are not subject to any direct Governmental control, range
from ND 29 per wheel for the Zastava #750 passenger car to ND 382 per wheel
for the heavy FAP 20-ton truck. Export prices, though considerably lower than
domestic as shown by the following comparison (Table 6), still contribute to
sharing fixed costs.
Table 6. Comparison of Yugoslav Domestic, Exports and 'West German
List Prices of 4.50 x 13 Wheels
ND/wheel
ZMAJ Export to Opel (f.o.b.)            25.00
ZMAJ Domestic to Zastava #1300          42.68
West German List Price                   51.72
The German list prices are higher than ZMAJ's domestic selling prices.
However, German purchasers probably get quantity discounts and reduced prices
on long-term negotiated contracts. Import duty, freight and insurance to West
Germany of ZMAJ wheels areabout 20% of the f.o.b. Yugoslavia price. ZMAJ's
export price is reduced so that the delivered price of their wheels to the
customer in Germany is somewhat cheaper than those of German manufacturers.
The net difference between the price to domestic and to West German purchasers
of ZMAJ wheels is about 25% to 30% on 13" wheel.  Customs duty on wheels
imported into Yugoslavia is 11% plus 4% surtaxes.



APPENDIX 3
Page 7
ZMAJts domestic sales price for the universal combine has been
compared on a per horsepower and per kg basis with various similar combines
sold in West Germany. The comparison indicates that ZMAJ's retail prices are
within ± 10% of domestic selling prices in West Germany.
Sales prices for agricultural machinery in Yugoslavia are controlled
by the Federal Government Bureau of Prices.
VII. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
The enterprise is expanding its wheel manufacturing capacity from the
present 500,000 wheels per year to about 2.3 million wheels per year by 1973.
The expansion project has two parts, the first costing US$180,000 equivalent
has been financed and will remove bottlenecks in the existing automobile
wheel rim production line by adding one flash-butt welding machine, one weld
pressing machine and two rim profiling machines. These machines have been
-ordered   are expected to be installed soon and will increase total wheel
production capacity to 700,000 wheels per annum.
The second part of the project, for which Bank funds are to be used,
is for the establishment of two new lines, one for automobile and small truck
wheel production and the other for tractor and large truck wheel production.
The new automobile line will include one semi-automatic rim manufacturing
line (about 600 rims per hour capacity), one wheel disc manufacturing line
(about 700 pressings per hour capacity), and two wheel assembly lines (each
of about 300 wheels per hour capacity). For tractor and large truck wheels,
the equipment to be installed will include one tractor rim manufacturing line
(capacity 150 rims per hour), one attachment lug manufacturing line, and rim
and attachment lug welding equipment.
VIII. COST OF THE PROJECT
The project is estimated to cost ND 57 million (US$h.6 million),
including additional working capital but excluding interest during construc-
tion. Foreign exchange requirements, which IBRD has been requested to provide,
are estimated to be about US$2.3 million. A summary of the project cost
estimate is given as follows:
Table 7. Capital Cost Estimates
ND Millions                  US$ Millions
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Buildings                   5.0      -         5°0     0.40      0-40
Equipment, f.o.b.           1.0     26.7      27.7     .O08      2.14     2.22
Freight, Insurance, etc.   1.4       0.1       1.5     0.11     0.01      0.12
Customs Duty (24% to 28%)  7.3       -         7.3     o.58       -       0.58
Erection                    0.8      0.3       1.1     o.o6     0.02      0.08
Contingencies (5%)          0.8      1.3       2.1     0.06     0.11      0.17
Working Capital            12.6      -        12.6     1.01       -       1.01
Total        28.9      28.4     57.3      2.30     2.28     4.58



APPENDIX 3
Page 8
Costs have been conservatively estimated on the basis of quotations
received from prospective plant suppliers in early 1969. Equipment delivery
periods are expected to be between 8 to 10 months from the date of order.
Assuming that loan formalities can be completed by early 1970, it is expected
that orders can be issued, after selection from about 3 international offers,
by April/May 1970 and that the project can be operational by the third quarter
of 1971. Sales projections are based on the assumption that the new equipment
comes into full operation in late 1971.
IX. PROJECT FINANCING
The financing of the new project is expected to be as follows:
Table 8. Financing
ND Millions
Fixed Assets  Working Capital   Total
Foreign Exchange
IBRD                           28.4                          28.4
Local Currency
Union Bank of Belgrade         11.0                          11.0
Own Funds                       5.3             12.6         17.9
44.7            12.6          57-3
Detailed earnings and cash flow projection for the period 1969-1974
are given in Annex 2, which also gives ZMA.J's estimated financial requirements
and sources of funds during the construction period 1970 to 1972 as summarized
in the following table:
Table 9. Sources and Applications of Funds during Project Implementation
(1970 to 1972)
ND Millions
Sources                                           Applications
From Operations:                            The Project                     57.3
Other Fixed Investments        29.5
Net Earnings                    71.3      Debt Repayment                  18.6
Depreciation                    4h.4      Reserve & Consumption Fund    19.5
Increase in Long-term Debt      39.4      Additional working Capital    30.2
155.1                                    155.1
The other investments in fixed assets made during the construction
period are entirely for renewals and replacements. About 75% of the require-
ments during the construction period are expected to be financed by the
enterprise's own funds and the remainder from long-term borrowing.



APPEIIDIX 3
Page 9
IBRD funds will be used to provide the total foreign exchange required
for purchase of equipment and the foreign exchange part of the erection
expenses. The Bank's funds are expected to be disbursed in 1970 and 1971,
with disbursements being made only for the cCi.f. price of equipment and
material imported from the manufacturers selected.
X. OPERATING COSTS
The proposed expansion will not only enable ZMAJ to produce the larger
number of wheel required, but to produce them more efficiently as sham by
the following comparative distribution of manufacturing expenses:
Table 10. Distribution of Manufacturing Costs
(% as of total costs)
1968      1973
Materials                           54.1       70.1
Conversion
Wages and Salaries                18.3        5.B
Manufacturing Expenses             t.6        5.7
Depreciation                      12.9        4e3
General, Sales and Admin.         10.1       1h.1
Total     100.0      100.0
Labor productivity will increase from about 2,200 wheels per man year
in 1968 to about 12,400 wheels per man year in 1973.
XI. EARNINGS AND DEBT SERVICE FORECASTS
A forecast Earnings Statement is shown in Annex 2 together with a
forecast Sources and Applications of Funds Statement and a detailed break-
down of sales. Invoiced sales are expected to increase steadily from ND 286
million in 1969 to ND h46 million in 1973.  Before the new equipment comes
into full operation, the existing plant will be worked temporarily three
shifts to meet growing market demand, and this explains the increase in
wheels produced and sales revenue prior to 1972. It is not usual for heavy
press and welding equipment to operate in three shifts in Yugoslaria or
elsewhere in Europe.
Net earnings are forecast to increase from ND 16.3 million in 1969 to
ND 28.5 million in 1973; over the same period wages are forecast to increase
from ND 59.9 million to ND 93 million per annum.  This is a reflection in
early years of the introduction of a third shift and in the later years of
rewards due to expected increases in productivity.  Cash flai is forecast to
improve from ND 27 million in 1969 to ND 48 million in 1973. During the



APPENDIX 3
Page 10
forecast period, debt service coverage is expected to remain adequate,
improving from 2.1 in 1969 to 2.6 in 1973. It is even higher in 1971 when
the first stage of expansion and operation in 3 shifts improves performance
before the impact of debt service (by start of repayments) is fully felt.
When the new equipment caaes into full production, the enterprise
expects to be selling wheels for about US$2 million to convertible currency
countries. The 7% retention quota together with a foreign exchange allowance
equivalent to 5% depreciation of the equipment in the wheel plant is expected
to be adequate to service IBRD's debt.
XII. RMSULTS AND CONCLUSIONS
As a result of the proposed investment ZMAJ will not only be able to
produce the large number of wheels required by the market, but it will also
be able to produce them more efficiently. Labor productivity is forecast to
increase sixfold from about 2,200 wheels per man year in 1968 to about
12,400 wheels per man year in 1973 as a result of the introduction of
mechanization, up-to-date technology and work organization.
The project will improve the country's foreign exchange situation by
earning through exports almost US$2 million per annum of additional convertible
currency and by producing domestically a product that would otherwise have to
be imported by local vehicle manufacturers.
The wheel project has been well thought out; the engineers have
considered several alternatives and have picked the most reasonable one for
implementation.
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1970



_9iSRZ 1L
KZMAJ JT.EIENT OF INCOME AND FIMNCIAL POSITION  i9?65-1968
(Millions of: ND)
A. IncCo.e Sta,z ement--
ToiDtal Sa.< Resvenue (Paid)                                 I75.7   ±9-      i.4   252.6,
Operatir.g Costs
Materlals, Overheads, General and Tax                    i5.2 .L, 3L4      J 4.,   I 17 6.
'wages and Related Paymnents                               28.L    3W        1.
71-Z I =          73  _22 _1
ie preiatior.                                                  .8      79.             9.3
Ims-erest                                                     8,7     8)       81      8.3
Net Earnings                                                  8.6    -1L.    LQ' 9i   sL3s
_.nan ial Position (December 31)               -        -
Current Assets
Cash, Deposits and Receivables                             48h7    70.8    99.9   262.8
Inventories                                               131.9   145.6   147.9   141.9
Other Current Assets                                        4.3      u.9     8.4      6.L
Total Current Assets                                       i14.9   217.3   236.2   311..
Fixed As6ets
Land 4id Buildings                                         24.6    37.6    38.6    40.1
iachinery and Equipment                                    66.5    97.5   100.6   102.5
Work in Progress                                            5.7      4.3     4.3      3.0
Other Fixed Assets                                         10.3      8.3    10.8      8.0
Less:  Depreciation                                       (32.1)  (51.7)  (60.8)  (69.1)
Net Fixed Assets                                              75              93.      BT°
Total Assets                                                259.9   313.3   349.7   395.6
Current Liabilities
Trade Payables                                             39.3    56.3    42.1    46.4
.Short-Term Debts                                          47.4    54.5    94.4   136.5
Others (including current portion of L.T.)                 14.4    16.0    23.5    26.0
Total Current Liabilities                                   101.1   126.8   160.0   208.9
Long-Term Debt                                               95.7    90.0    78.8    68.8
Funds of Enterprise                                          63.1    96.5   110.9   117.9
Total Liabilities                                           259.9   313.3   349.7   395.6
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                            1.8      1.7     1.6      1.5
Long-Term Debt/Own Funds                                    60/ho   48/52  141/59   37/63
1/  The contra-account in current assets and liabilities represents the difference between
invoiced and paid sales at cost.
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1969



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ZMAJ STATEMENT OF PROJECTED INCOME, SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS
OF FUNDS AND SALES REVENUE, 1969-1973
(Millions of ND)
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973
A.  Income Statement,'
Total Sales Revenue (Invoiced)                         286.5   330.2   389.7   421.8   445.7
Operating Costs
Materials, Overheads, General and Tax                189.1   217.7   253.5   273.3   290.8
Wages and Related Payments                            59.9    68.9    81.4    88.1    93.0
249.0    334         .9 362.4   32.
Depreciation                                            10.7    11.6    15.4    17.4    19.5
Interest                                                10.5    11.8    14.7    15.4    14.9
Net Earnings                                            16.3    20.2    24.7    26.6    28.5
B. Sources and Applications of Funds
Sources
Net Earnings                                          16.3    20.2    24.7    26.6    28.5
Depreciation                                          10.7    11.6    15.4    17.4    19.5
Increase in Long-Term
IBRD                                                 -      14.2    14.2       -        -
Yugoslav Banks                                       -        5.0     6.o      -
Zotal Sources                                           27.0    51.0    60.3    44.0    48.o
Applications
Nc.ii Investment
Foreign Fixed Assets                                 -       14.2    14.2      -       -
Local Eixed Assets                                   -        5.o    11.3          -
Iorlking Capital                                    -        4.2      4.2     4.2      -
Total Project                                          -      23 T     29.7      g       -
othfer Fixed Assets                                    9.5      5.5    15.0      9.0      9.0
iotal Assets                                           7      28.9    41T-7    13.2      9.0
Principal Repayments
Existing Long-Term                                   7.2     5.5      5.6      5.7     6.1
del, Project - IBRD                                 -        -        -       1.2      2.-
- Yugoslav                              -        -       -        0.5     1.0
7.2         C    7       7_7      9.
R serve and Collective Funds                           6.3      6.5     6.5      6.5      6.5
Ne1 Addition to 'Working Capital                       4.0    10.1      3.5    16.9    23.0
lo Lal Applications                                     27.0    51.o    60.3    44.o    4Ie.o
Dob"t Service Coverage                                   2.1      2.5     2.7      2.6      2.6
/Earnings are credited to sources the same year making net additions to w.orking capital
appear to be someNhat higher than what might effectively be available in funds that year.
Deferrient of crediting earnings by one year does not lead to a cumulative reduction in
addi-tional viorking capital.
Industrial Projects Department
Janmary r, 1970



ANNEX 2
Page 2
ZMAJ - ZEMUN: PROJECTED BREAKDOWN OF SALES, 1969-1973
(Millions of ND)
1970          1971           1972          1973
Qty. Value   Qty. Value   Qty. Value   Qty. Value
Agricultural Machines (Nos.)
Universal Combine                        700    78      800    90     850    95      900   101
Other Combines                         1,000    55   1,150    67   1,125    69   1,020    67
Combine Attachments and Other
Miscellaneous                          800    16   1,170    22   1,200    23   1,220    24
Agricultural Trailers                  1,027    21   1,150    23   1,200    25   1,300    26
Sub-Total                                 170            202            212           218
Trucks and Trailers (Nos.)
Trucks (3-ton payload)                   300    15      800    41      800    41     800    41
Trailers                                 450    14      500    16     500    16      5GO    16
Sub-Total                                  29             57             57            57
Wheels (c000 nos.)                         672    30   1,826    85   2,006    94   2,213   104
Others (metric tons)                     2,673    56   4,344    46   5,829    60   6,607    67
TOTAL INVOICED SALES                      285            390           423            446
of which: Exports
Convertible Currency                           4             25             25            26
Clearing Currency                             23             23             24            24
Total Export Sales                         27             48            49             50
N.B.  Figures for value and quantity for 1969 are more or less the same in 197C.
Industrial Projects Department
January 5, 1970



