CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 654 YU
Guarantee Agreement
(Industrial Projects - 1970)
BETWEEN
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 30, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 654 YU
Guarantee Agreement
(Industrial Projects -  1970)
BETWEEN
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 30, 1970


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 1970, between SOCIALIST FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Yugoslav Investment Bank (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has
agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to eighteen
million five hundred thousand dollars ($18,500,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The parties to this Guarantee Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modification thereof set forth
in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Guarantee Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual


﻿4
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
the Bonds, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan or the
redemption of the Bonds prior to their maturity, all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement and in the Bonds.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor4and the Bank that
no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan by way of a lien
on governmental assets. To that end, the Guarantor undertakes that, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the
Guarantor as security for any external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the creation of any such lien express
provision will be made to that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on property,
at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase
price of such property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
The term "assets of the Guarantor" as used in this Section includes assets
of the Guarantor or of any agency of the Guarantor, including assets of the National
Bank of Yugoslavia or any other institution performing the functions of a central
bank for the Guarantor.
If any lien shall be created on any assets of any of the Guarantor's political
subdivisions or of any agency of any such political subdivisions as security for
any external debt, the Guarantor, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall
give to the Bank an equivalent lien to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request with
regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part of the Guarantor, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Guarantor, the international balance of payments
position of the Guarantor and the economic and fiscal policies of the Guarantor
affecting the industrial sector.
(b) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time exchange views
through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes of


﻿5
the Loan and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Guarantor shall promptly
inform the Bank of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the
service thereof.
(c) The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the Guarantor
for purposes related to the Loan.
Section 3.03. The principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
and the Bonds shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes,
and free from all restrictions, imposed under the laws of the Guarantor; provided,
however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to taxation of payments
under any Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when- such Bond is
beneficially owned by an individual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
Section 3.04. This Guarantee Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the Bonds
shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Guarantor
on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take or permit any
of its agencies to take any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by the Borrower and the Beneficiary Enterprises of any of the
respective obligations of the Borrower and the Beneficiary Enterprises in the Loan
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements contained, and will take or cause
to be taken all reasonable action which shall be necessary in order to enable the
Borrower and the Beneficiary Enterprises to perform such obligations.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accordance with the provisions
of the General Conditions, its guarantee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered
by the Borrower. The Federal Secretary of Finance of the Guarantor and such
other person or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated as authorized
representatives of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. The Federal Secretary of Finance of the Guarantor is designated
as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿6
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Embassy of the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia
Economic Department
2410 California Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Ambayugoslav
Washington, D.C.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
Section 5.03. In this Agreement any reference to the Federal Secretary of
Finance of the Guarantor shall include a reference to any official for the time
being acting for or on behalf of or performing the duties of the Federal Secretary
of Finance of the Guarantor.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Guarantee Agreement


﻿7
to be signed in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC
OF YUGOSLAVIA
By    /s/ Miodrag Stoiljkovic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice-President


