Dmoument of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY                           )
Report No. 1189-PE
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
APPRAISAL OF THE.IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
PERU
March 15, 1977
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This doemunent bn a resiced distibution nd my be usd by reipints ody In the perfonune ofd
their ociad dutis. Bs cotents mny not otherwise be dilsed without World lank authoriztlon.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Peruvian Soles (SI.)              S/. 1       = US$  0.022
U$1 = SI. 45.0 at the time of appraisal and    S/. millior.  US$  22,222
as used in this report.
Measures
mm                 m millimeter (1 mm = 0.039 inch)
m               = meter (1 m 3.28 feet)
km              =  kilometer (1 km - 0.62 miles)
ha              = hectare (1 ha = 10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres)
1W2- =  square kilometer (1 km2 = 247.1 acres = 100 ha)
m3              =  cubic meter (m3 = 1.31 cubic yards - 264.2 US gallons)
Mtn3            = million m3 (Mm3 = 811 acre feet)
kg              = kilogram (1 kg = 2.2 lb)
m ton or ton    =  1,000 kg = 2,205 lb
ha-m            = hectare meter (1 ha-m = 10,000 cubic meters = one meter
depth of water over one ha)
EC              -  the reciprocal of the electrical resistivity of a saline
solution expressed in reciprocal ohms/cm at 250C.
Abbreviations
RAP             =  Banco Agrario del Peru
DGA             =  Direccion General de Aguas
DGI             =  Direccion General de Irrigaciones
DGP             = Direccion General de Produccion
DGiA y AR       =  Direccion General de Reforma Agraria y Asentamiento Rural
EPCHAP          = Empresa Publica de Comercializacion de la Harina y Aceita
de Pescado
EPSA            =  Emprasa Publica de Servicios Agropecuarios
INP             =  Instituto Nacional de Planificacion
MAG             = Ministerio de Agricultura
MA              = Ministerio de Alimentacion (Food)
ONERN           =  Oficina Nacional de Evaluacion de Recoursos Naturales
OSPA            =  Oficina Sectorial de Planificacion Agropecuaria
9ENAMA          =  Servicio Nacional de Mecanizacion Agricola
SINAMOS,        =  Sistema Nacional de Apoyo a la Movilizacion Social
PERU
Fiscal Year
1 January - 31 December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY .....                             , ................            i
1. THE SECTOR   ..
II. THE SUBSECTOR..                                                           4
III.  THE PROJECT .........................................6
A. The Project Areas.                                                   6
Description of the Project Areas .                .               6
Present Land Use and Production.                                  7
Population and Employment .                   .                   8
Land Tenure . .                                                   8
Agricultural Credit            ..                                 9
Soil Surveys and Land Classification   .            .10
Source and Cause of Salinization   .              .10
Soil Reclamation    ..12
Groundwater Situation and Need for Drainage                      13
Water Supply and Irrigation Requirements                         14
Water Rights                 . ..15
Water Quality                ...16
B. The Project Components .17
General Scope and Purpose of the Project                         17
Improvement of Main and Secondary Irrigation
and Drainage Systems .17
Agricultural Development Credit (On-Farm
Development) .18
Service Centers .19
Consultant Services .19
Operation and Maintenance .20
Feasibility Study for a Stage II Project                         21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in December
1975 to Peru composed of H. Feuerstein, D. van der Sluijs and M. Fireman
of the Bank; W.A. Lucas, Consultant and M. Contijoch, UNDP Fellowship Program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
C.      Project  Costs  and  Financing   ....................                                             22
Cost  Estimates   .................................                                              22
Financing ........................                                                               26
Procurement   .................................                                                  28
Disbursement   ....................................                                              28
Accounts  and  Audit   ...............................                                           30
Environmental  Evaluation   ........................                                             30
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   .                                       .                                        31
A.      Project  Organization   ..............                       ..        ............               31
Special  Project  -  PLANREHATIC   ...................                                           31
Ministerio  de  Agricultura   .......................                                            31
Agrarian Zones and Irrigation Districts                                     .........            33
B.      Implementation  of  the  Project   ...................                                            33
Engineering  and  Supervision  .....................                                             33
Construction  Schedule   ...........................                                             34
C.      Participation  of  Other  Agencies   .................                                            34
Banco  Agrario  del  Peru   .........................                                            34
Ministerio  de  Alimentacion   ......................                                            34
SINAMOS  and  ONERN   ...............................                                            35
D.      Farmers'   Organizations   ..........................                                             36
Cooperatives  and  Farmers'  Associations   ........                              ..             36
Water  Users  Associations   ........................                                            36
V.      MARKETS,   MARKETINGS  AND  PRICES   .......................                                               39
Market Situation ................................. 39
Prices for Economic Analysis .........................                                                    40
Prices  for  Financial  Analysis   ........................                                               41
VI.       AGRICULTURAL  PRODUCTION  AND  FARM  BUDGETS   ....                                  .........            43
Area  Cultivated   ...........     .                    ...........................                       43
Yields   ..........                  .....................................                                43
Cropping  Patterns   ....................................                                                 43
Cost of Production ...................                                                                    44
Production  and  Value   .................................                                                44
Farm  Budgets   .........................................                                                 44



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VII.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ...................................                         69
Producer Benefits ..................,.,.........                               69
Cost Recovery ..................,.,.........                                   70
VIII.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ....................................                          74
IX.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ......................................78
ANNEX  1   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP  -       Project Location  (IBRD 12130)






PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
SUMMARY
THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
1.        Although contributing only 15% to Peru's GDP, agriculture employs
more than 40% of the labor force. In addition, agro-based industries account
for around 30% of employment and 40% of value added in manufacturing. Agri-
cultural output, and especially food production, has lagged behind population
growth (3.2%) for at least the past 15 years. The resulting growth of food
imports has placed increasing pressures on the balance of payments and Govern-
ment subsidies have been a serious drain on the public sector budget and
national savings. Raising the sector's poor performance thus has become
increasingly critical for future economic progress and to provide employment
for the rapidly increasing rural population.
A.   The Resource Base
2.        The country's three major regions are:
(a) the narrow Coastal Zone along the western edge of the country
which encompasses only about one-fourth of the arable land but
produces around two-thirds of the value of agricultural
output. Rainfall is near zero and virtually all cultivated
land is irrigated. This region is highly productive and
commercialized, offers good conditions for a variety of
crops and livestock, and is close to the major urban markets.
Prior to the land reform, summarized below, coastal agricul-
ture consisted of large privately-owned plantations producing
Peru's major export crops, sugar and cotton, as well as of
large rice estates and small truck farms. Rapid mechanization
in the 1960s resulted in increasingly serious problems of
labor displacement and urban migration. The plantations and
large estates have since been converted to worker-owned
cooperatives.
(b) the Sierra, or highland region, which is characterized by
low-productivity, small land holdings and subsistence agri-
culture. Climate, soils, and water availability are poor
and the man-land ratio is extremely high. Commercializa-
tion is inhibited by high transport costs to major markets
and opportunities for non-farm employment are limited.
Cereals, tubers, and livestock are the major products.
Most of Peru's rural population subsists in the Sierra,
often under the most precarious conditions, although
increasing numbers have left the Sierra in recent decades
to crowd into the urban slums of the coast.



(c)  the Selva or jungle region which covers two-thirds of Peru
but currently accounts for less than 10% of total popula-
tion. The region is becoming increasingly important
economically because of oil discoveries. Two Transandean
Highway projects, one financed by the Bank and the other
under consideration by the Inter-American Development
Bank, are expected to contribute further to the region's
development. Nevertheless, because of the difficulties
of transport and frequently unfavorable soil and climatic
conditions, the jungle offers only limited potential for
agriculture with presently known technology.
B.   Agrarian Reform
3.        Agrarian reform in Peru, one of the most ambitious efforts of its
type ever undertaken in Latin America, has dominated the agricultural scene
since the Military Government came to power in October 1968. Since that date
the previous modest process of expropriating some large holdings for allo-
cation to individual smallholders has been replaced by a massive program of
transferring much broader categories of holdings in the Coast and Sierra (but
not the Selva) into worker-owned production cooperatives and other associative
units. In the process the hacienda system has been virtually eliminated. By
the end of October 1975, 7.3 million ha had already been expropriated, of which
6.1 million ha had been adjudicated and assigned to 251,000 families. By the
end of 1976, about 10 million ha were scheduled to have been distributed to
an estimated 400,000 peasant families, or roughly one-third of the rural
population.
4.        The institutional structure of Peruvian agriculture has been dramatic-
ally changed by the agrarian reform program. The results achieved in terms of
production, employment and income distribution have thus far been positive but
relatively small. The best performance has been on those plantations and
estates which had been most efficiently run prior to the reform and which have
kept their former management. Problems of decapitalization and inefficiencies
owing to the lack of managerial experience and technical expertise did,
however, occur. A major current problem in the agricultural sector is the
uncertainty that the land reform has created for the remaining medium-sized
private land-owners who still account for most of the food supplied to the
urban markets. The Government has attempted to assuage their doubts by
issuing certificates of exemption from expropriation, but these "guarantees"
are heavily conditioned. The Government has recently issued a blanket exemp-
tion to private holdings of 15 ha or less. While this increases the security
of small farmers, the move may paradoxically have increased the uncertainties
felt by the owners of larger farms, now limited by law to 50 ha.
5.        One drawback of the agrarian reform is that the process of expro-
priation and structural reorganization has been emiphasized at the expense of
technical assistance and other programs in both the reformed and private
sectors. Long-term investment credit, for example, has been severely con-
strained by the shortage of qualified field personnel in the national Agrarian
Bank. In an effort to attack this and other problems, the Ministry of Agricul-
ture was divided into two ministries in 1975. One of them, the Ministry of



- iii -
Food (MA), was given responsibility for agricultural production programs; the
other, which retained the title of Ministry of Agriculture (MAG), has respon-
sibility for land and water development and agrarian reform. This reorgani-
zation has not yet had significant results, while creating additional diffi-
culties of coordination. At the same time, little has been done to alleviate
the plight of minifundistas who, particularly in the Sierra, live in extreme
rural poverty.
C.   Current Government Policy
6.        The National Development Plan for 1975-78 aims at consolidating the
Agrarian Reform Program initiated in 1968 and at increasing the rate of growth
of agricultural output, particularly of import substitutes. Meat imports have
been significantly reduced through restrictions on consumption and the pro-
motion of alternative foods. In addition, farmers are legally obliged to
devote at least 40% of their arable land to foodcrops. Despite these efforts,
Peru's food imports are likely to continue to grow, at least through the
medium term, since Peru is not well endowed for agriculture.
7.        The Government has recently initiated a nationwide agricultural
production acceleration program under the Direccio'n General de Produccio'n
(DGP) within the Ministry of Food. In this new attempt to respond to the
needs of the country for greatly increased agricultural output, "production
nuclei" are being formed, consisting of farmers committing themselves to the
production of certain agricultural products or crops. Once the production
program proposed by a particular "nucleus" (which may be a farmers' coopera-
tive or may even consist of only one farmer) has been approved and found to
conform to the zonal and national production program and objectives, it is
supplied with the necessary support services, including agricultural exten-
sion, credit, crop insurance and marketing of the production. The emphasis
under the new program is on farm units ranging in size from 3.5 ha to 15 ha;
these receive the most complete production acceleration "package" of services.
D.   Irrigation
8.        Of the total of 3.6 million ha of agricultural land in Peru, about
one-third, or 1 million ha, are irrigated, of which 770,000 ,la are located in
52 small valleys in the Coastal region of Peru. This region, where six of the
ten largest urban centers are located and where 40% of the total population
live, produces about two-thirds of the country's total value of agricultural
output. With precipitation in most of the coastal area close to zero, irri-
gation is essential for agricultural production. In general, where water is
available conditions are favorable for high crop production owing to poten-
tially good soils and near optimal solar radiation and temperature regimes.
9.        Peru's irrigated coastal valleys have for centuries been the primary
source of food production in the country. In modern times much of this area
was cultivated in large holdings. Development of irrigation and drainage
systems, together with on-farm development, was left to private owners with



- iv -
minimal intervention by Government. The irrigation systems are antiquated and
generally inadequate to achieve efficient water management and optimum use of
the land and water resources. Effective drainage systems were never con-
structed, and over a period of many years dissolved salts from soils in the
upper parts of the valleys have gradually contaminated the groundwater. This
saline water has moved downstream by surface or underground flow causing an
excessive accumulation of salts in the lower part of the valleys which,
together with a high groundwater table, has resulted in moderate to severe
waterlogging and salinization of large areas of land; production has suffered
as a result. It is estimated that a total of 150,000 ha, or 20% of all
coastal irrigable lands, are severely affected, with an additional 100,000 ha
affected to a lesser degree. Fortunately the lands may be reclaimed and
restored to their original condition by flooding and leaching if coupled with
adequate drainage.
10.       Facing the problem of scarce land resources, a rapidly growing
population and an unfavorable trade balance, the Government has decided to
initiate a program to rehabilitate once fertile lands in the coastal zone, as
had been recommended in the Bank's 1975 Agricultural Sector Survey Report
(549a-PE). The Government now considers rehabilitation of existing districts
an important means of rapidly increasing agricultural output and of consoli-
dating its agrarian reform program and is therefore now giving greater emphasis
to rehabilitation of existing areas as compared with costlier, new irrigation
schemes. Not only will rehabilitation bring back into full production lands
which, over the years, had to be taken out of production, but it will also
halt further deterioration and reduction of the presently cultivated area and
yields.
THE PROJECT
A.   Project Concept
11.       Bank and FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program staff have worked with Peruvian
officials in formulating the project, which would be the first in a series
of irrigation rehabilitation projects the Government is planning. The project
area would consist of six coastal valleys, namely Mala, Pisco and Canete
in the central coastal zone and Camana, Majes and Tambo in the southern part
of the country. These valleys were selected for the first stage of the
long-term rehabilitation program because their relatively high level of agri-
cultural development, good infrastructure base and adequate water supply--in
comparison with other valleys--make it possible to increase significantly
cultivation and production quickly. The project would consist of:
(a) reclaiming about 19,000 ha of salt-affected and waterlogged
land which would increase both the area of arable land and
agricultural production in the six valleys. This aspect of
the project would directly benefit 4,000 families;



-v -
(b) rehabilitating and constructing main and secondary irrigation
and drainage systems for about 33,000 ha, including the
19,000 ha to be reclaimed. This would improve the delivery
and use of irrigated water and provide some needed drainage
facilities.
(c) improving the presently inadequate operation and maintenance
of existing irrigation systems throughout the six valleys,
covering 68,300 ha and nearly 15,000 farms. Support services
to farmers would also be strengthened with an emphasis on
better water management and land preparation and new
headquarters would be constructed in each valley to serve as
operating bases for all irrigation-related activities; and
(d) consultant services to assist in (i) the design and super-
vision of construction of drainage systems; (ii) the estab-
lishment of adequate operational and maintenance services in
the valleys; (iii) the carrying out of the land reclamation
phase of the project; (iv) the supervision of a program of
groundwater investigation in the Ilala and Pisco Valleys;
(v) the organization of extension and training services in
the project area; and (vi) preparing feasibility studies for
a similar project in other coastal valleys.
The project will also provide support to, and help consolidate, the Agrarian
Reform Program. In this respect, assurances have been obtained from Govern-
ment that the process of agrarian reform in the project area will be completed
during the course of project implementation, in accordance with the existing
laws (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
B.   Cost and Financing
12.       The cost of the project is estimated at US$40.9 million, equivalent,
with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$15.3 million. The Bank
loan would cover US$14.6 million of the foreign exchange costs and US$10.4
million of local costs. The remaining US$0.7 million of foreign exchange
costs will be provided by the Netherlands under a technical assistance agree-
ment.
13.       The Bank loan would constitute about 60% of the total cost of the
project, and would cover about 40% of its local costs.  Local currency finan-
cing is justified in Peru in view of the country's balance of payments posi-
tion and its efforts to mobilize domestic resources. The Netherlands' Govern-
ment will provide the equivalent of US$1.0 million of technical assistance
(US$0.7 million for foreign exchange and US$0.3 million for local costs). The
Government's contribution of the equivalent of US$14.9 million to cover the
balance of the estimated total cost would be met by annual budgetary
appropriations.



- vi -
C.   Market and Production Aspects
14.       Major crops grown in the project area are cotton, together with
maize and potatoes in one basic cropping pattern, and rice followed by beans
in another basic rotation. Although agricultural production systems in the
area are already at a relatively high level of technology, yields except for
rice, are generally low and are reportedly decreasing for most of the crops
due to worsening salinity problems. This trend would be reversed with the
project and the estimated annual incremental net value of production at full
development will be about constant 1975 US$13.2 million. Marketing of the
output would involve no serious problems since transportation and processing
facilities are already available in the project area and since there is a
present as well as long-range need for crops grown in the project area.
D.   Implementation
15.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) would have overall responsibility
for carrying out the project. The Direccion General de Aguas (DGA), a de-
partment in the MAG, would be responsible for planning and final design, pre-
paration of specifications and tender documents, entering into contracts and
supervision of construction. Following the normal procedure in Peru for large
and complex projects, a special project unit known as "Plan de Rehabilitacion
de Tierras Costeras" (PLANREHATIC) has been established under the adminis-
tration of DGA and would be responsible for executing the proposed project and
similar projects in other coastal valleys. The special unit would have auton-
omy and flexibility in managing day-to-day operations and coordinating the
participation of other agencies. These include the Direccion General de
Reforma Agraria y Asentamiento Rural as regards agrarian reform and the
Direccion General de Irrigaciones (DGI) for assisting the special unit on
studies, design and execution of those works for improvement aad construction
of irrigation systems.  PLANREHATIC would also have authority to receive and
expend project funds for civil works, to purchase equipment, materials and
supplies and to carry out other services. It would also have authority, on
behalf of MAG, to arrange for the participation of other ministries or agen-
cies for specific assistance in executing and managing the project.
16.       The Ministry of Food (MA) would give special emphasis to agricul-
tural supporting services, through its Direccion General de Produccion (DGP),
to the production program in the six valleys and particularly in the reclaimed
areas. The Servicio Nacional de Mecanizacion Agricola (SENAMA), under the MA
would participate in providing improved mechanization services in the project
area, particularly in the reclaimed areas, and organizing and managing the
expanded service for operation and maintenance. MAG and MA would coordinate
their efforts in providing for improvement and intensification of supporting
services in the project area, particularly extension assistance under the
production programs administered by DGP, and would enter into an agreement
for organization and management by SENAMA of expanded operation and mainte-
nance services throughout the irrigated areas in the six valleys (Section 3.05
of the draft Loan Agreement).



- vii -
17.        The Banco Agrario del Peru (BAP) would act as a banking agent for
development credit loans to farmers or cooperative associations for on-farm
development, under an agreement to be entered into between the Government and
BAP (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement); execution of such agreement
will be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Section 6.01(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). BAP would grant these loans on the basis of plans and cost
estimates prepared by PLANREHATIC which would contract to have the work per-
formed. The loans would have a term of 20 years including a grace period of
up to 5 years and an interest rate of not less than 10% (Section 3.02 of the
Loan Agreement). This minimum interest rate, although negative at the current
annual price increases in Peru, is expected to be positive over the life of
the loans and is compatible with the need to provide incentives to maintain
production on newly settled small farms.
18.        The project would be executed over six and a half years, 1977-1983,
with 1977 and 1978 devoted to preparing final designs, specifications and con-
tract documents and construction scheduled to begin early in 1979. Work would
proceed on two fronts, i.e., the three northern valleys and the three southern
valleys, on a staggered schedule commencing in one valley on each front with
the other two valleys scheduled to follow at about one-year intervals. Based
on the characteristics of the soils it is estimated that five years could be
required following completion of construction to carry out leaching and re-
establish fertility so as to achieve full production on all the affected areas
in the 19,000 ha to be reclaimed.
E.   Procurement and Disbursement
19.        Contracting for construction of major project works (US$8.2 million),
on-farm development (US$5.2 million), and purchase of major items of imported
equipment (US$5.6 million), would be carried out through international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. For purposes of bid
comparison, Peruvian manufacturers of material and equipment would be entitled
to a preference of 15% or the applicable tariff, whichever is less. Contracts
for construction of service centers, and for purchase of drainage pipe or tile
and minor items of imported technical and office equipment which cannot be
grouped in lots of at least US$50,000 would be done on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local proceddres which are
satisfactory to the Bank. Vehicles and wheeled tractors would not be purchased
with loan funds as under Peruvian law this equipment must be procured from
local assembly plants without competitive bidding.
20.        Since works in the six valleys are to be staggered, it would be
necessary to let contracts on a valley-by-valley basis. This would reduce the
value of the contracts and it is expected that these contracts would be awarded
mostly to local contractors, who are well organized with staff and equipment,
and are fully competent to perform the work.
21.        Consultant services to assist with design and supervision of con-
struction of drainage systems would be provided by the Government of the
Netherlands under a bilateral agreement with the Government of Peru. Addi-
tional consultants to be provided under the loan would be retained following



- viii -
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The average cost of consultant services
to be provided under the loan has been estimated at about US$80,000 per man-
year.
22.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of six years.  The
loan would be disbursed against (i) 60% of the cost for civil works including
buildings; (ii) 75% of development credit loans for on-farm development;
(iii) the foreign cost of directly imported equipment and 80% of the cost for
imported equipment purchased locally; (iv) 90% of ex-factory cost of eligible
equipment manufactured locally; and (v) 100% of foreign expenditures for con-
sultant services or 100% of the salaries of locally recruited consultants.
F.   Cost Recovery
23.       The impact of the project on its beneficiaries has been analyzed for
three farm types considered to be typical for the area. The per capita income,
including family labor, but after project charges and before property and in-
come taxes, would increase in constant 1975 US dollars from US$206 to US$343
for a 3-ha farm, from US$262 to US$565 for an 8-ha farm and from US$337 to
US$840 for a 15-ha farm.
24.       Project charges would be introduced as facilities and on-farm devel-
opment works are completed. Such charges will be sufficient to cover oper-
ational and maintenance costs and will seek to assure reasonable recovery of
investment costs. The extent of investment cost recovery will initially be
determined in the light of socioeconomic studies to be carried out in each
valley and reviewed with the Bank. The charges will thereafter be reviewed
with the Bank at least once every two years to evaluate the effect of changes
in prices on the value of the investment and to make adjustments in these
charges as required (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). For the
purpose of the financial analysis, and on the basis of current operation
and maintenance and investment cost estimates, it has been assumed that
annual incremental development charges in constant 1975 terms would average
US$10/ha/year for operation and maintenance, US$9.24/ha/year for capital
recovery, excluding the on-farm development component, and US$38.22/ha/year
for the on-farm development component, or a total of US$57.46/ha/year in
case the farm invests in on-farm drains and leveling. Such assumed charges
would cover operation and maintenance costs and allow full recovery of invest-
ment cost in 40 years without interest and would represent 23 and 28% of
incremental net farm benefits for small- and medium-sized farms, respectively.
G.   Economic Analysis
25.       The project's principal aim is to increase agricultural production
at low cost and in a relatively short period of time. This will result in
increased earnings and improved living conditions for some 4,000 families
in the area of 19,000 ha of reclaimed land and for another 13,200 families
in the remaining 49,300 ha which would benefit from the project. It is ex-
pected that out of the 4,000 families primarily benefitting from the project



- ix -
investments, about 2,500 families presently have family incomes from the land
of less than US$200 per capita which is considered as the poverty income level
for 1975. Out of the 13,200 families benefitting from minor improvements,
9,000 families are considered to have present incomes from the land below the
poverty income level.
26.       Incremental production of crops, mainly cotton, basic grains and
fruit and vegetables would amount to US$13.2 million annually at full devel-
opment. There would be a net gain of US$11.3 million annually at constant
US dollars in the balance of payments situation at full development, taking
into consideration the increased export of cotton fiber and sugar, the re-
duced imports of basic grains and the increased imports of project investment
goods and farm inputs such as machinery, fertilizers, and chemicals.
27.       The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at approxi-
mately 18%. If investment costs were assumed to increase by 10% and benefits
to decrease by 10%, the project's rate of return would still be a satisfactory
14%.
28.       The project would also have substantial unquantifiable benefits
through assisting in consolidating the Agrarian Reform Program, strengthening
government institutions, and improving the capability to carry out similar
future programs in other valleys.
H.   Conclusions, Recommendations, Risks
29.       Peruvian agricultural performance has been poor in that output has
lagged behind population growth and accelerated production is now critically
needed to reduce food imports and increase rural employment and incomes. The
best current opportunity for the Bank to aid in this objective is the first
agricultural rehabilitation project because of its combined benefits in re-
versing the trend of deterioration of soils and making more effective use of
existing productive capacity and infrastructure in Peru's coastal zone.
Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with operations
of this type.
30.       The most important of the agreed covenants are concerned with
(a) the establishment of water charges sufficient to cover operation and
maintenance costs and to assure a reasonable recovery of investment costs;
(b) ensuring that the agrarian reform in the project area will be completed,
along the lines enunciated in current legislation, during the project execu-
tion period; and (c) ensuring the Government's commitment to improve and
strengthen agricultural supporting services and operation and maintenance
services.






PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR*
General
1.01      Although contributing only 15% of Peru's GDP, agriculture employs
more than 40% of the labor force. In addition, agro-based industries account
for around 30% of employment and 40% of value added in manufacturing. Agri-
cultural output, and especially food production, has lagged behind population
growth (3.2%) for at least the past 15 years. The resulting growth of food
imports has placed increasing pressures on the balance of payments, and,
furthermore, Government subsidies to agriculture and the agrarian reform
program have been a serious drain on the public sector budget and national
savings. Raising the sector's poor performance thus has become increasingly
critical for future economic progress and for providing employment for the
rapidly increasing rural population. This growing need is concurrent with
progress of the agrarian reform which has taken on crucial political signif-
icance as a demonstration of the Government's program for transforming Peruvian
society.
The Resource Base
1.02      Any discussion of Peruvian agriculture must distinguish between the
very different conditions of the country's three major regions: (a) the
narrow Coastal Zone along the western edge of the country; (b) the Sierra or
Highland Zone that separates the coast from the western jungle; and (c) the
jungle (Selva). Coastal agriculture encompasses only about one-fourth of the
arable land but produces around two-thirds of the value of agricultural out-
put. Rainfall is near zero, and virtually all the land is irrigated. The
sector is highly productive and commercialized, offers good conditions for
a variety of crops and livestock, and is close to the major urban markets.
Prior to the agrarian reform, summarized below, coastal agriculture consisted
of large sugar and cotton plantations (major export crops) using mostly wage
labor, large rice estates, and small truck farms. Rapid mechanization in the
1960s resulted in increasingly serious problems of labor displacement and
urban migration. The plantations and large estates have since been converted
to worker-owned cooperatives.
*Based on the April 1975 Report of a Bank agricultural sector mission to Peru
(549a-PE) and the wcrk of a recent agricultural sector updating mission which
is now preparing its report.



-2-
1.03      In contrast, the Sierra is characterized by very low productivity
and subsistence agriculture. Climate, soils, and water availability are poor,
and the man-land ratio is extremely high. Commercialization is further in-
hibited by high transport costs to major markets, and opportunities for non-
farm employment are limited. Prior to the agrarian reform, the land tenure
pattern consisted of (a) large feudal haciendas in which the peasants
(colonos) enjoyed usufruct rights to small plots of land in exchange for
cash rents, labor and/or a share of the crop; (b) the communally owned lands
of the Indian communities; and (c) smallholder cropping. Cereals, tubers,
and livestock are the major products. In the past, Government has given
minimal assistance to farmers in the Sierra even though most of Peru's rural
population subsists there, often under the most precarious conditions.
Although increasing numbers have left the Sierra in recent decades to crowd
into the urban slums of the coast, the predominantly Indian peoples of the
region remain segregated from the economic and political activities of the
country. Very little land suitable for agriculture remains idle, although
some productivity gains are possible.
1.04      The Selva covers two-thirds of Peru but currently accounts for less
than 10% of total population. The region is becoming increasingly important
economically because of oil discoveries. Improved access to the more developed
parts of the country because of two trans-Andean highway projects, one already
financed by the World Bank and the other is under consideration by the Inter-
american Bank, are expected to contribute to the Region's development. Never-
theless, partly because of the difficulties of transport, the jungle offers
only limited long-term potential for agriculture with presently known tech-
nology. The most promising area for development in the jungle region lies
along the lower eastern slopes of the Andes.
Land Reform
1.05      While topography and an overall shortage of good land are the main
factors, the slow growth of agricultural output and the extreme poverty of
Peru's rural masses, particularly in the Sierra, can in part be blamed on the
unequal distribution of land and the feudal land tenure system. The first
land reform law was passed in 1964, but its major result was to create
uncertainty among landowners, with the consequent deterioration of investment
and conservation, the expulsion of many colonos, and the frustration of
peasant expectations. Large-scale land invasions became increasingly frequent.
The land reform launched by the Miliary Government in 1969 has substantially
reduced the amount of land in private hands and eliminated the hacienda or
colonato system. By the end of October 1975, 7.3 million ha had been expro-
priated, of which 6.1 million ha had been adjudicated and assigned to 251,000
families. By the end of 1976, a total of some 10 million ha are scheduled to
be distributed in favor of the estimated 400,000 peasant families, or roughly
one-third of the rural population.
1.06      The institutional structure of Peruvian agriculture has been drama-
tically changed by the agrarian reform program. The results achieved in
terms of employment and income distribution have thus far been positive but
small. The best performance in absolute terms has been on those plantations



and estates which had been most efficiently run prior to the reform and which
have kept their former management. Problems of decapitalization and ineffi-
ciencies due to the lack of managerial experience and technical expertise
were, of course, to be expected. In addition, the cooperative model imposed
by Government planners has in many cases conflicted with the aspirations for
independence of Peruvian peasants. The model was most easily accepted by the
wage labor force of the old coastal plantations, but strikes have frequently
disrupted production there, too, over issues of worker control.
1.07      Coastal plantation workers have improved their income shares with
both increased output and the redistribution of the profits formerly accruing
to the individual or corporate owners. Even as wage laborers, however, these
workers were among Peru's best paid prior to reform. Gains also have been
made by many former colonos in the Sierra livestock cooperatives. They now
share in the profits and no longer pay rent. Although real incomes have also
risen for the former colonos now organized in Sierra crop cooperatives, per-
formance in this sector has been hampered by greater peasant resistance to
collectivization, the poor resource base and the abject poverty of the Indians.
The Incentive to Invest
1.08      A major problem currently in the agricultural sector is the uncer-
tainty that the land reform has created for the remaining medium-sized private
landowners, who still account for most of the food supplied to the urban
markets. The Government has attempted to assuage their doubts by issuing
certificates of exemption from expropriation, but these "guarantees" are
heavily conditioned. 1/ Moreover, all public programs--e.g. credit, technical
assistance--give preference to the reform sector at the expense of services
previously provided the private farmers, and much of the Government's rhetoric
continues to berate the private farmer. Production incentives and possibil-
ities are also hampered by price controls at all levels of distribution.
While, recent price increases for farm products are a step in the right direc-
tion, the marketing system of crops for the domestic market needs improvement,
and the Government's reaction to frequent bottlenecks tends to take the form
of uncoordinated state intervention that complicates rather than solves
problems and further weakens the investment climate.
1.09      A general criticism of the agrarian reform program is that while
it was considered a necessary step too much attention and resources have been
given to the process of expropriation and structural reorganization, at the
expense of technical assistance and other programs in both the reform and
private sectors. Longterm credit for investment, for example, has been
severely constrained by the shortage of qualified field personnel in the
national Agrarian Bank. In 1975 the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) was divided
1/   The Government has recently issued a blanket exemption to private hold-
ings of 15 ha or less. While thereby increasing the security of these
farmers, the move may paradoxically have increased the uncertainties
felt by the owners of larger farms, now limited by law to 50 ha.



into the Ministry of Food with basic responsibility for agricultural produc-
tion programs and with NAG retaining responsibility for land and water develop-
ment and agrarian reform. This has not had much effect in resolving the
problems and has created additional difficulties of coordination. At the same
time, little has been done to alleviate the plight of farmers with very small
farms, who, particularly in the Sierra, represent the most extreme rural
poverty.
Government Policy
1.10      The national Development Plan for 1975-78 aims at consolidating the
agrarian reform program initiated in 1968 and increasing the rate of growth
of agricultural output with emphasis on import substitution. Meat imports
have been significantly reduced through a combination of restrictions on con-
sumption and the promotion of alternative foods. In addition, farmers are
legally obliged to devote at least 40% of their arable land to foodcrops,
regardless of comparative advantage. Nevertheless, despite these efforts,
Peru's food imports are likely to continue to grow, at least through the
medium term since Peru is not richly endowed for agriculture.
1.11      The Government has recently implemented a nationwide agricultural
production acceleration program under the Direccion General de Produccion
(DGP) within the Ministry of Food. In this new attempt to respond to the
needs of the country for greatly increased agricultural output, "production
nuclei" are being formed, consisting of farmers committing themselves to the
production of certain agricultural products or crops. For farms larger than
what is considered to constitute a "family unit" (larger than 3 ha), parti-
cipation through the formation of a "nucleo de produccion" is mandatory;
participation of smaller farms in the production programs is optional.
Farmers who belong to "production nuclei" are to be provided with production-
support services including agricultural extension, agricultural credit, and
access to farm inputs, such as agricultural chemicals, fertilizers, seeds,
machinery, and water. Once the production program proposed by a particular
"nucleo" (which may be a farmers' cooperative or may even consist of only
one farmer) has been approved and found to conform to the zonal and national
production program and objectives, it is given priority to receive required
production inputs and services, including crop insurance and marketing of the
production. The emphasis under the new program is on farm units ranging in
size from 3.5 ha to 15 ha; these receive the most complete production-
acceleration "package" of services.
II. THE SUBSECTOR
2.01      Of the total of 3.6 million ha of cropland in Peru, about one-
third, or 1 million ha, are irrigated, of which 770,000 ha are located in 52
small coastal valleys representing the Coastal region of Peru. This region,
where six of the 10 largest urban centers are located and where 40% of the
total population live, produces about two-thirds of the country's total



- 5 -
value of agricultural output. With precipitation in most of the coastal area
close to zero, irrigation is essential for agricultural production. Maximum
river flows are obtained during the months of December through Miarch when the
average monthly temperatures along the coast are above 200C. This is the main
cropping season for crops such as cotton, rice, and maize. Among second crops
produced are beans, potatoes, garlic, squash, and the like. Sugarcane, with
yields of over 150 metric tons of cane per hectare and a major export crop for
the country, is grown extensively in the northern coastal areas. Where water
is available conditions are generally favorable for high crop production due
to potentially good soils and near optimal solar radiation and temperature
regimes.
2.02      The irrigated valleys along the coast of Peru have for centuries
been a primary source of food production in the country. The irrigated areas
are usually located on the riverine lands in the lower part of the valleys
adjacent to the sea, with water supply from rivers originating on the west
slope of the Andes. In modern times a large part of these lands were culti-
vated in large holdings; development of irrigation and drainage systems,
together with on-farm development, was left to private owners with minimal
intervention by Government. The irrigation systems are antiquated and
generally inadequate to achieve efficient water management and optimum use
of the land and water resources. Effective drainage systems were never con-
structed, and over a period of many years dissolved salts from soils in the
upper parts of the valleys have gradually contaminated the groundwater. This
water has moved downstream by surface or underground flow causing an exces-
sive accumulation of salts in the lower part of the valleys which, together
with a high groundwater table, has resulted in moderate to severe waterlog-
ging and salinization of large areas of previously productive land. It is
estimated that a total of 150,000 ha, or 20% of all coastal irrigable lands,
are severely affected, with an additional 100,000 ha affect,ed to a lesser
degree. Fortunately the accumulated salts are neutral in nature (not alkali)
and the lands may be reclaimed and restored to their original condition by
flooding and leaching if coupled with adequate drainage to dispose of the
leaching effluent.
2.03      In facing the problem of scarce land resources, a rapidly growing
population and an unfavorable trade balance, the Government has decided to
initiate a program involving rehabilitation of these intrinsically fertile
lands in the coastal zones,as had been recommended in the report of the Bank's
agricultural sector mission (549a-PE, paragraphs 54-60). The Government now
considers rehabilitation of existing districts an important means of rapidly
increasing agricultural output and of consolidation and deepening its agrarian
reform program and is therefore giving much greater emphasis to rehabilitation
of existing areas as compared with costlier, new irrigation schemes. Not only
will rehabilitation bring back into full production lands which, over the
years, had to be taken out of production, but it will also halt further
deterioration and reduction of the presently cultivated area and of yields.



-6 -
II    ldTHE PROJECT
A.   The Project Areas
Description of the Project Areas
3.01      There are 52 valleys on the Pacific coast of Peru, all with irriga-
tion development on the riverine lands in the lower part of the valleys,
usually adjacent to the sea, with water supply from rivers originating in
the west slope of the Andes. These lands have been cultivated for centuries;
in modern times irrigation development has been carried out mainly by private
owners on large holdings. The systems are antiquated and inadequate for
efficient use of the land and water resources. Drainage was never provided
and over a period of many years dissolved salts in the upper part of the
valleys have gradually contaminated the groundwater. These salts have moved
downstream by both surface and underground flow causing an excessive accumula-
tion in the lower part which, together with a high water table, has forced the
abandonment of large areas of land for agricultural use. It is estimated that
more than 150,000 ha out of the 770,000 ha of irrigable land in the coastal
zone is seriously affected by salinity.  This has grave implications for
agricultural production since Peru suffers from a shortage of cultivable land
due to the absence of rainfall in the coastal zone, the low productivity in
the Sierra and the inaccessable Selva. Peru is therefore highly dependent
on production from the coastal valleys, particularly the production of food
for internal consumption.
3.02      The project area is located in six valleys along the coastal area
in the south half of the country. Three of the valleys (Mala, Canete and
Pisco) are about 150 km south of Lima in the Departments of Lima and Ica, in
Agrarian Zones IV and V. The other three (Camana, Majes and Tambo) are
located in the southern coastal area in the Department of Arequipa and in
Agrarian Zone VI (Map - IBRD 12130). These six valleys were assigned highest
priority by the Government for the first stage project, taking into account a
number of factors which included: the programs for improvement already
underway in other important valleys, the possibility to increase the area in
cultivation and production in the short term, the high level of agricultural
development at present in the six valleys, and the deficient water supply and
lack of major infrastructure in other valleys which would require long-term
programs and high investment to achieve a noticeable impact on pro(luction.
The irrigable area in the six valleys is about 68,300 ha, all of which is
under cultivation or has been cultivated in the past. Under the project the
total irrigable area would benefit from improvement of operation and mainte-
nance services and expansion and intensification of extension services. About
33,000 ha out of the total area would benefit from improvement or reconstruc-
tion and consolidation of main river intake structures and existing irrigation
systems and construction of primary and secondary drainage systems. About
19,000 ha, comprising those most seriously affected by salinity, would be
reclaimed.  These lands, which are located in 16 selected areas, with two or
three areas in each valley, range in size from 250 ha to 3,000 ha are mostly
situated in the lower part of the valleys near the sea, and cover those lands



-7-
on which the high groundwater table and salinity are having a serious effect
on yields or as regards the types of crops that can be grown, or those lands
which have been abandoned due to excess salts in the soils. With reclamation
these abandoned lands would be available for new settlers. Salinity occurs
to varying degrees throughout the valleys but adequate irrigation combined
with a lower groundwater level keeps the concentration of salts within the
tolerance limits of most crops. The feasibility report for the proposed
project includes more detail on the size and distribution of these areas and
the information on the conditions in each valley and the areas to be reclaimed,
together with maps showing topography, soils classification, salinity levels
and groundwater conditions. A summary table of land areas involved in the
project is presented below:
Table 1
Land Areas in Project
Benefitted by                 Abandoned
Irrigable    Improvements to    To be        Land to be
Valley               Area          Major Works    Reclaimed   Reclaimed  1/
------------------------ ha -----------------------
Mala                      4,800            2,000           1,250          260
Caneta                   24,000            9,200           3,680          525
Pisco                    19,000            4,900           5,370          966
Camana                    6,000            6,800           3,000          952
Majes                     5,900            3,350           3,350          547
Tambo                     8,600            7,000           2,350          839
Total              68,300           33,250           19,000        4,089
/1   Part of 19,000 ha to be reclaimed.
Present Land Use and Production
3.03      The irrigable area in the six valleys comprising the project area
is 68,300 ha. Of this total, 19,000 ha are considered for rehabilitation,
including full recuperation of 4,000 ha which presently are out of production
due to serious drainage and salinity problems, caused by over-irrigation in
the upper valleys and lack of adequate drainage infrastructure throughout
the valleys. Cropping intensity in the 19,000 ha project area varies from
70% in the southern areas to about 125% in the north. Major crops are
Egyptian (long staple) cotton presently grown as a ratoon crop together with
maize and potatoes in one basic cropping pattern, and rice (medium-tall IR-8)



- 8 -
followed by beans in another basic rotation. On a minor scale the area
produces lima beans, garlic, fruits (olives, pears, peaches, grapes, bananas),
sugarcane and alfalfa. Further details are given in Chapter VI herein.
Although agricultural production systems in the area are already at a rela-
tively high level of technology yields, except for rice, are generally low and
are reportedly decreasing for most of the crops due to worsening salinity
problems. The estimated present net value of production in the 19,000 ha is
S/. 179.5 million (US$4 million) using financial prices.
Population and Employment
3.04      Population in the six valleys was about 205,000 in 1970, the year
of the last census, of which about 53,500 or 26% were classified as rural.
The growth rate is estimated at 3.3 to 3.5% p.a. so that the population in
the project area is now estimated to be 242,000.
3.05      Country-wide unemployment and underemployment also affect the
project area. It is generally believed that, in recent years, unemployment
has decreased in the agricultural sector through the employment of more
members of cooperatives and/or laborers but many of these newly employed are
underemployed in their present jobs. However, most of the underemployment is
of seasonal nature and would be reduced by diversification programs being
initiated by the cooperatives.
Land Tenure
3.06      About 21,600 ha out of the 68,300 ha in the six valleys are culti-
vated by production cooperatives of more than 50 ha with about 2,500 members
and an average farm size per family of 7 to 10 ha. The rest of the project
area of 46,700 ha is in individual farms. About 87% of the families and 31%
of the area cultivated is in farms with less than 5 ha and 17,900 ha, or 38%
of the area is in farms of more than 20 ha.  The Government has issued certi-
ficates of exemption from expropriation to private holdings of 15 ha or less
and presently land in farms exceeding 50 ha is being expropriated. Assurances
were obtained from Government during negotiations that the on-going agrarian
reform program for acquisition and settlement of land in excess of 50 ha in
individual holdings would be completed during the course of the project, in
accordance with existing laws and to achieve the objectives of the program.
A summary table of the land tenure pattern in the project area is presented
in Table 2.



-9-
Table 2
Land Tenure Pattern in Pro ect Area in 1975
Farm Size                      Farms                Area              Average Farm
Number   Percent    Ha    Percent             Size Ha
Less than 3.5 ha         11,778        78.3  10,000   14.6                  .8
3.5 to 5.0 ha             1,027         6.8   4,600    6.7                4.5
5.0 to 10.0 ha            1,109         7.5   6,400    9.4                 5.8
10.0 to 20.0 ha             530         3.6   7,800   11.4               14.7
20.0 to 50.0 ha             242         1.6   7,000   10.3               28.9
50.0 to 100 ha /1            86         0.6   6,150    9.0               71.5
More than 100.0 ha A1        78         0.5  26,300   38.6               337.8
Total              14,850       100.0  68,300  100.0                 4.6
/1   Includes cooperatives.
Agricultural Credit
3.07      Agricultural credit in the Project area is provided by the Banco
Agrario del Peru (BAP), the sole public supplier of agricultural credit in the
country. Short term credit is allocated according to crop input needs and can
be considered as adequate. Medium- and long-term agricultural credit funds
are also sufficient through World Bank Agricultural Credit Loan 933-PE, BAP's
own funds and possible follow-on loans by the World Bank and other foreign
lenders. The limiting factor in the past has only been BAP's inability to
handle sufficient subloan requests but this should be improved with the help
of the on-going World Bank Credit Loan and the proposed project. It is the
Government's policy to maintain a very low rate of interest on credit loans to
beneficiaries of the agrarian reform program. The Government takes the posi-
tion that this is an essential investment in agrarian reform to promote an
income incentive and to maintain a level of production on the newly settled
small farms at least equal to the level prior to redistribution cf the land.
Loans at subsidized rates have been accepted policy in the past.
The mission recognized the validity of the Government's policy to provide
as much support as possible to the settlers during the first years of the
transition period since the ability of farmers to pay higher interest rates
would be limited tntil a stage of full production is reached.  A minimum
interest rate of 10%, based on the repayment capacity of the farmers, has been
accepted for the present for development loans; however, it is generally



- 10 -
recognized that this rate will have to be increased in the future. Within the
project this rate of interest would apply to those farms located in the 19,000
ha to be reclaimed and which would be receiving development credit loans for
on-farm leveling, drainage and other works. A majority of these farmers are
or would be beneficiaries of the agrarian reform program with farm size
limited to five ha. The 4,000 ha of abandoned land would also be distributed
following reclamation to new or existing cooperatives in new farms of five ha
or to increase the size of existing small farms to five ha. These loans would
benefit a range of farms from less than 3 ha up to 15 ha, in which about 60%
of the families have incomes below the national poverty level of US$200 per
capita (para 8.02).
Soil Surveys and Land Classification
3.08      Since 1960, the Oficina Nacional de Evaluacion de Recursos Naturales
(ONERN) has carried out semi-detailed soil surveys at a scale of 1:25,000 in
all the major valleys along the coast of Peru, using modified US Bureau of
Reclamation standards to determine the irrigability class for a number of
soil types which occur in these valleys. While the methods and criteria for
land classification were not always consistent, the classifications of lands
in the six valleys in the project area are reasonably accurate. In general,
the soils in these valleys are derived from recent alluvium (with little
profile development and organic content due to the complete absence of rain-
fall), range to the coarser side in texture, are highly permeable and have a
moderately low water holding capacity. Salinity, ranging from slight to
highly saline is found throughout the valleys; however, the critical condi-
tions are concentrated in the lower part of each valley. Natural fertility is
low but the soils are easily managed and the response to fertilizers is good.
Aside from the problems of salinity and waterlogging most of the soils in the
project area are suitable for irrigated agriculture and in fact are producing
good yields on a variety of crops at the present time. With reclamation of
the seriously affected areas (19,000 ha), it is expected that more than 95%
of the lands (68,300 ha) will be restored to Class III or better, since saline
conditions can be corrected and are not a permanent constraint in determining
the land classes. Other factors such as texture, internal drainage, slope,
depth of profile, moisture holding capacity and groundwater conditions are
generally favorable.
Source and Cause of Salinization
3.09      The soluble salts that occur in soils consist mostly of sodium, cal-
cium, magnesium, chloride, sulfate, and bicarbonate. Constituents that ordi-
narily occur only in minor amounts are potassium, iron, carbonate, nitrate,
silicate and boron. The original and, to some extent, the direct source
of almost all the salt constituents are the primary minerals found in soils
and in the exposed rocks of the earth's crust. During the process of chemical
weathering, which involves hydrolysis, hydration, solution, oxidation, reduc-
tion and carbonation, the rock constitutents are gradually released and made
soluble. Most saline soils however occur in areas that also receive salts
from other locations, and water is the primary carrier. Most commonly, the
source of salts is inflowing surface and groundwater, including those used for
irrigation, the salt content depending upon the soils and geologic materials



with which the water has been in contact. Under humid conditions the soluble
salts are carried downward into the groundwater and are transported ultimately
by streams to the oceans. Saline soils are, therefore, practically non-
existent in humid regions. However, in arid regions such as the project area
the leaching and transportation of salts out of the soil may be incomplete, is
usually local in nature and the salts may not be transported far. Lack of
adequate drainage also contributes to the salirlization of soils and may in-
volve the presence of a high groundwater level or low permeability of the soil.
As a consequence, upward movement of water, very slightly to highly saline,
and subsequent evaporation at or near the soil surface results in salt accu-
mulation with deleterious effects on seed germination, crop growth and some-
times on the physical properties of soils.
3.10      The coastal area of Peru in which the proposed project areas are
located is characterized by fairly high atmosphetic humidity year around, but
almost complete absence of rainfall (from none to a few millimeters per year).
Hence although annual free-water evaporation is not very high (about 1.2
meters), there is no leaching of accumulated salts by rainfall. Accordingly
deleterious amounts of soluble salts accumulated wherever salinity control
was inadequate i.e., wherever groundwater levels were high or irrigation
applications are inadequate or both. Groundwater levels tend to be high in
the lower part of the valleys, because of the valley profile and because
much of the diverted irrigation supplies in the upper part of the valleys
percolate into the subsoil during conveyance and field application and
with drainage facilities absent or negligible, gradually move downstream
to the lower part of the valley. Irrigation applications may be ineffi-
cient because of poor land leveling or application techniques leading to
excessive use of water on the higher lands. It should be noted that (a)
only a few hectares if any of these soils are alkali (i.e., high in
exchangeable sodium) owing to the widespread presence of gypsum (calcium
sulfate) and the fact that in most places the soluble salts are largely
calcium and magnesium chlorides and sulfates, and (b) most of the saline
soils are also moderately high to high in boron, more or less in proportion
to the soluble salt content. The effects of excess boron on crop growth
are indistinguishable in most cases from the effects of excess salinity,
and fortunately the necessary remedial measures for their alleviation are
identical.
3.11      There are indications that about half the soils to be reclaimed
under the project are critically affected by salinity ranging from one third
of the lands in Pisco and Camana to five-sixths in Mala. The soil salinity
status in the valleys is shown below in Table 3.



- 12 -
Table 3
Soil Salinity Status
(0 to 30 cm depth)
Area            Slightly          Moderately
Valley        Surveyed           Saline           S a I i n e         Highly Saline
(ha)    (%)       (ha)      (%)      (ha)         (%)
Mala            1,247           205       19       235      19        807         65
Canete          4,060        1,391       34        915      23      1,754         43
Pisco           5,370        3,563       66        897      17        91.0        17
Camana          3,260        2,132       65        492      15        636         20
Majes           3,350         1,791       53       597      18        962         29
Tambo           2,890        1,209       42        328      11      1,353         47
Total    20,177        10,291       51      3,464      17     6,422          32
3.12       It should be noted that the above data represent only surface soil
samples to a depth of 30 cm and these data could be misleading; samples from
the surface layer only tend to minimize the salinity problem where irrigation
is being used and make salinity seem worse than it actually is where the soils
are not being irrigated. Soils with electrical conductivities (EC) of the
saturation extract of less than 8 millimhos/cm at 25 C are listed above as
"slightly saline" (having little effect on the growth of most crops), those
with conductivities 8 to 16 millimhos as moderately saline, and those greater
than 16 as highly saline; these separations are reasonably well related to
present actual or potential effects on crop growth in the project area.
Soil Reclamation
3.13       Since little if any alkali soils occur in the project areas, recla-
mation of the saline soils would require only leaching with water. Efficient
desalinization requires (a) proper land preparation (leveling and bordering)
to permit water control and prevent waste, (b) leaching or the passage of
sufficient water through the soil to dissolve the soluble salts, (c) adequate
drainage facilities, natural or man-made, to keep the groundwater at a safe
depth, and (d) disposal of the saline drainage effluent.  Leaching can be done
by ponding, sprinkling or even by rainfall if it is sufficiently high. How-
ever, ponding is usually more effective and costs less. As almost all of the
saline soils in the area to be reclaimed are moderately to highly permeable
and excess water is available for leaching during the high-flow periods
(January through March), reclamation of the project soils should be done by



- 13 -
ponding. A good rule-of-the-thumb as regards the amount of leaching required
for desalinization is that passage at unit depth of water will reduce the
salininty of unit depth of soil to 20% of its original value, and two units of
water will reduce the salinity to 10% of its original value. That is, 30 cm
of water will reduce the average EC of the top 30 cm of soil from 50 to 10 or
from 20 to 4, and 60 cm of water will reduce the EC of the top 30 cm of soil
form an EC of 50 to 5 and of the second 30 cm of the same soil from 50 to 10,
and so on. In practically all cases, from 1.0 to 1.25 meters of water would
be sufficient to reduce the concentration of salts to a level most crops
would tolerate. It should be noted that once the salinity of the soil is
reduced to an acceptable level, good irrigation practices alone (where drain-
age facilities are adequate) would provide satisfactory salinity control.
Groundwater Situation and Need for Drainage
3.14      It is generally conceded that the groundwater level of irrigated
lands should be more than a meter below the soil surface during the cropping
season, and where there is no rainfall, as in most of coastal Peru, the
groundwater level should be kept low throughout the year. Owing to down-
slope seepage of water from upstream usage, high soil permeabilities, large
irrigation water conveyance losses from canals and ditches, poor water
management practices and virtual absence of drainage facilities, about 80%
of the lands to be reclaimed are underlain by groundwater at a depth of less
than 2 meters (Table 4). Almost half (9,071 ha) of the lands included in the
groundwater and salinity survey (20,177 ha) clearly are in need of drainage
and perhaps half of the lands with a water table between 1 and 2 meters also
would benefit from drainage facilities. Many areas in the six valleys out-,
side the areas to be reclaimed, as in all valleys along the coast, need pri-
mary and secondary drainage systems, not so much to control the groundwater
levels as to discharge the effluent from irrigation into the river in the
lower part of the valleys and hence into the sea. This would eliminate
the reuse of this saline water by intakes downstream, which has collected
disolved salts from soils in the upper part of the valleys. There is also
a need to consolidate the several intakes and primary irrigation canals
into one or two main systems which could deliver fresh water to all lands in
the valleys. Some improvement of this situation would be carried out under
the project; however, a complete reconstruction of irrigation systems and pro-
visions of adequate drainage in the six valleys, as well as in all valleys
along the coast with approximately 770,000 ha requiring the same treatment,
would be a program of such magnitude in time and cost that it must be under-
taken step by step over a period of many years and is clearly beyond the scope
of the present project, which gives highest priority to the reclamation of
only the most seriously affected land.
3.15      In a review of the design criteria for drainage outlined in the
feasibility report, it appeared, on the basis of available field data, that
some modifications should be considered in preparing final designs. Most
of the soils have high to very high permeabilities, and experience elsewhere
indicates that in many places the recommended drain spacings are much closer
than necessary despite the fact that a widely accepted drainage spacing



- 14 --
formula (Houghoudts) was used for calculations. It is recommended that most
spacings for on-farm drains should be doubled, at least in the first stage of
construction, and intermediate drains installed later if it becomes clear that
closer spacings are required. Cost estimates, however, are based on drain
spacings as initially recommended in the feasibility report. Most of the
drainage problems arise from upslope seepage, and in a number of areas it is
almost certain that construction of deep "interceptor drains" across the
prevailing slope would intercept large volumes of seepage water from upslope
and considerably decrease the need for drainage facilities below such drains.
In some of the low lying coastal areas, it would not be possible to lower the
water table sufficently to prevent salt accumulation without pumping drainage
water from collector canals into higher lying lagoons or the ocean, and
drainage pumping stations would be required in Canete, Camana and Tambo.
A summary table of water table depth in the project area is presented in
Table 4.
Table 4
Depth to Water Table
Area
Surveyed        Less than 1 m          1  to  2 m    Greater than 2 m
(ha)          (ha)       (%)        (ha)      (%)   (ha)        (%)
Mala        1,247            568      45          629       51      50        4
Canete     4,060          1,091       27        2,343       57      629        16
Pisco      5,370          1,542       29        1,386       26   2,442        45
Camana     3,260          2,503       76          757       24       -        -
Mejes      3,350          1,434       43        1,499       45      417       12
Tambo      2,890          1,933       67          670       23      287       10
20,177          9,071      45        7,284        36   3,822        19
Water Supply and Irrigation Requirements
3.16      Water supply for irrigation in the six valleys, with the exception
of Pisco, is dependent on the natural flow of the river. Pisco obtains some
benefit from limited storage in lagoons high up in the watershed. Since the
amount available for diversion depends on stream flow, the valleys of Mala,
Canete and Pisco suffer from temporary deficits for double-cropping during
the course of a year, usually during the low flow period from June through
September and variations in flow from year to year. However, due to the steep
slope of the river valleys on the west side of the Andes, it is impractical in
many valleys to provide regulatory storage reservoirs and therefore the only
feasible solution is to provide more efficient diversion and distribution



- 15 -
systems for the irrigated areas and to adjust the types of crops and cropping
schedules to the water availability. The most serious deficits are in Canete,
Pisco and Tambo however, the high average diversion in ha-m/ha in Tambo does
not correlate with the indicated deficit, which is probably unrealistic
because of the poor data on the actual amount of water applied to the land.
It is definite that the three northern valleys of Mala, Canete and Pisco
suffer from a temporary deficit each year and irrigation efficiencies are
probably higher than in the other three valleys due to the necessity of using
the available supply more prudently. The average diversion in Camana, Majes
and Tambo, where the available supply greatly exceeds the requirements for the
arable land area, indicate an overuse of water and a correspondingly low
efficiency. As an example the average diversion in Camana would be sufficient
to meet the annual water requirements of double the 6,000 ha presently irri-
gated in the valleys. The summary in Table 5 indicates the irrigation water
supply and demand:
Table 5
Irrigation Supply and Demand
Average Annual   Area to be    Irrigation   Indicated          Average
Valley    River Discharge   Irrigated         Demand       Deficit    Diverted Supply
(ha-m)           (ha)         (ha-m)        (ha-m)         (ha-m/h)
Mala            10,320          4,800         4,130             138           0.86
Canete         154,500         24,000        45,960          2,700            1.92
Pisco           80,600         19,000        30,530          9,160            1.12
Camana         270,000          6,000        26,000               0          4.33
Majes          270,000          5,900        13,600               0           2.30
Tambo          109,000          8,600        34,400          4,471           3.47
Total of average           68,300       154,620         16,469           2.02
Water Rights
3.17      The General Water Law of 1972 establishes that all waters from what-
ever source are the property of the state and that their control and use for
urban, industrial, agricultural and other purposes must be authorized by the
state. Within Irrigation Districts, following overall authorization by the
state, responsibility for allocation and control of the use of water by the
farmers is vested in the Ministry of Agriculture. Water rights permanently
inherent to the land or an individual landowner do not exist. Each farmer is
required to submit a request for an annual or semi-annual allocation to the
Administrator of the Irrigation District, based on a proposed cropping pattern
and evidence that the land and irrigation faciltiies are in suitable condition



- 16 -
for using the water. The Administrator has authority to approve these requests,
taking into account the estimated water supply for a cropping season in the
valley and the priority for the crops to be grown in accordance with the
national policy for land use under the agrarian reform program. Proposed
cropping patterns must be formulated and approved by the administration of the
Zona Agraria (Agrarian Zone) in which the valley is located, in full consulta-
tion with officials of the Distrito de Riego (Irrigation District) and the
Junta de Usuarios (Water Users' Associations), and these are subject to the
national policy to devote 40% of the land to food crops to meet the country's
needs for internal consumption. Exceptions to this policy are granted only in
cases where the water supply, soils, climatic conditions or other factors make
it more feasible to use a lower or higher percentage of the lands for either
food crops or export crops. In the three southern valleys, a much higher
percentage of the land is used for rice, mainly because of the greater avail-
ability of water and favorable growing conditions, while the deficient water
supply in the three northern valleys makes it more feasible to use a greater
proportion of the land for cotton, which is more tolerant to moisture stress
and short periods of deficiency in water supply. Since administration of both
the Agrarian Zones and the Irrigation Districts, which also involves partici-
pation of the Juntas de Usuarios in the planning process is the responsibility
of the Ministry of Agriculture, correlation of production and operational
policies at the project level are effective and coordinated with national
policy, which reflects the needs and goals for agricultural production in the
country. In general the system appear to work satisfactorily.
3.18      The Water Law also empowers the Ministry of Agriculture to impose
water charges, based on the volume of water used, to cover the costs of ope-
ration and maintenance and recovery of capital investment in development or
improvement works within Irrigation Districts. The administrations of both
the Agrarian Zone and the Irrigation Districts (para 4.03), with the assis-
tance of headquarters staff in the Ministry, jointly establish the level of
the charges (tarifas), and the Agrarian Zone has responsibility to collect
these charges and transfer the monies to the Banco de la Nacion and utimately
to the national treasury. The law also provides that Juntas de Usuarios may
legally borrow and expend funds for specific improvements, protection or
maintenance works and recover these costs by imposing special charges (cuotas)
which are collected separately from the tarifas and remitted to the Banco
Agrario del Peru.
Water Quality
3.19      The quality of stream flow in the upper part of the valleys where
diversions begin is excellent, showing an average EC of 0.36 for 15 valleys,
or about 250 ppm of dissolved salts. However, return flow to the river as
seepage from lands in the upper part of the valleys and subsoil drainage into
irrigation canals farther downstream results in a deterioration of the quality
of water available to the lower parts of the valleys. Measurements in canals
and laterals in the lower parts of the valleys have revealed an EC of 3.1 in
Canete, 5 in Tambo and up to 6 in Pisco; however, there appears to be no wide-
spread crop damage from using these waters. While investigations in the six



- 17 -
valleys on groundwater are limited, there appears to be significant quantities
usable from aquifers in some areas at depths of 10 to 25 meters; however, the
EC from the few tests made to date range from I to 8, indicating that exploit-
ing this source as an additional supply for irrigation would require a compre-
hensive exploration program and very selective development to insure that
water of suitable quality would be developed.
B.   The Project Components
General Scope and Purpose of the Project
3.20      The project would be the first stage in a long-term plan to rehabi-
litate irrigation and drainage systems and reclaim salt-affected lands in the
irrigated valleys along the coast of Peru. The main purpose of this first
stage, to be carried out in six valleys with an irrigated area of 68,300 ha,
would be reclamation of 19,000 ha of the most seriously affected lands
where waterlogging and salinization has significantly reduced the producti-
vity and actually caused abandonment of more than 4,000 ha.  This phase of
the project would directly benefit about 4,000 families, including some 500
families which could be settled on the abandoned 1anee d   following reclamation.
In addition, the project would include the rehabilitation and construction of
main and secondary irrigation and drainage systems for about 33,000 ha, in-
cluding the 19,000 ha to receive on-farm development. This would improve the
delivery and use of irrigation water on approximately 7,000 farms and provide
some needed drainage facilities. The project would also benefit the overall
area by improving operation and maintenance services for the entire 68,300 ha.
The project would provide support and help to consolidate the agrarian reform
program to which the Government has directed its major efforts for improve-
ment in the rural sector during the past seven years. With this program,
due to be completed at the end of 1976, the Government would be in a position
to undertake improvement of physical infrastructure in these valleys, which is
required to increase production and to conserve and protect the land and water
resources vital to the economy of the country. The project would also improve
agricultural supporting services to both cooperative associations and indivi-
dual farmers. A description of the main components follows:
Improvement of Main and Secondary Irrigation and Drainage Systems
3.21      The lands in the coastal valleys have been cultivated with irriga-
tion for centuries and in modern times irrigation development has been carried
out and managed before land reform mainly by private owners on large holdings.
The systems are however antiquated and basically inadequate for efficient use
of both the land and water resources. Drainage systems were not provided, so
that large areas in the lower parts of the valleys now have a high groundwater
table and are either waterlogged or heavily salinized and production has been
markedly reduced in recent years. While complete modernization of the systems
in the six valleys would be beyond the financial capability of the Government



- 18 -
at present, the project would include some improvement, reconstruction or
construction of main works to take care of the most critical needs and to
correct outstanding operational problems. This would include the following:
(a)  construction of 11 new permanent-type river intake structures
to replace temporary structures now being used;
(b)  construction of 340 km of new main and secondary irrigation
canals and rehabilitation of 65 km of existing canals, which,
in part, would consolidate certain of the canal systems and
eliminate temporary intakes;
(c)  construction of 235 km of open drainage canals and rehabili-
tation of 109 km of existing drains;
(d)  construction of four drainage pumping plants for areas to be
reclaimed in Canete, Camana and Tambo; and
(e)  construction of 16 bridges or culverts where main and second-
ary drainage canals cross the Pan-American highway and other
improvements on main highways.
Agricultural Development Credit (On-farm Development)
3.22      On-farm development for reclamation of 19,000 ha would consist of
the following:
(a)  construction of 527 km of open or buried pipe/tile on-farm
drains to lower the groundwater level to a minimum of 1.5
meters below ground surface;
(b)  construction of 44 km of open or pipe collector drains;
(c)  land clearing, leveling (8,000 ha) and preparation, in-
cluding the construction of bunds for the flooding and
leaching process, deep plowing if required and planting
of windbreaks; and
(d) construction of tertiary irrigation canals and structures.
3.23      The on-farm works would be financed by development credit loans to
individual farmers or groups of farmers in cooperatives or other forms of
associations. Under the agrarian reform laws, settlers are obligated to
develop their lands and use them for optimum production. Failure to do this
could lead to the farmers' losing their land, so there is a strong incentive
for the farmers to take advantage of these loans. Funds for these loans would
be provided under the project from both the Bank loan and the Government's
contiibution-.-  These funds would be channeled through the Banco Agrario del
Peru (BAP) as the banking agent and a specific fund for this purpose would be
established. BAP would earn a service charge of not more than 4% p.a. and the



- 19 -
Government would assume the risk on the loans. The Direccion General de Aguas
(DGA) would be responsible for carrying out investigations and surveys, pre-
paring plans and estimates, arranging for contracting the work, and super-
vising construction. BAP would grant loans on the basis of these plans and
DGA's recommendations. Because of the time required by the farmers, a large
proportion being new settlers, to reach a stage of full development following
reclamation of the land, the loans would be for a period of twenty years with
reasonable grace periods of up to five years, which would take into account
the farmer's net income during these years and his ability to begin repaying
the loan, as well as paying for operation and maintenance costs and some part
of the investment costs in project works. In accordance with the Government's
policy to keep interest rates low on loans to beneficiaries of the agrarian
reform program a rate of at least 10% has been proposed (para 3.07). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that the interest
rate on these loans would not be less than 10%. Assurance were also obtained
that Government would enter into a legally binding agreement appointing the
Banco Agrario del Peru as the banking agent to administer the sub-loans to
farmers for on-farm development and that signing of this agreement would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
Service Centers
3.24      The Government had planned to construct small Service Centers in
each of the reclamation units for the use of administrative and technical
staff, both during and following implementation of the projects. However,
with acceptance of the proposal to expand and improve operation and main-
tenance for all of the irrigated areas in each valley (para 3.27), it
would appear more feasible to construct a new headquarters in each valley
which would provide an operating base for all activities carried out by the
Irrigation District, including office space, machinery repair shop and park-
ing yard, and a warehouse for spare parts and construction materials. It
would be possible to expand this headquarters to accommodate the staff of
other offices in the Ministry of Agriculture and other agencies participating
in the project, such as the new Production Zones of the Ministry of Food.
This would serve to concentrate and coordinate all activities bearing direct-
ly on implementation and management of the project. This proposal was dis-
cussed with Government during negotiations and an agreement reached on con-
struction of the new headquarters in each valley.
Consultant Services
3.25      Consultant services would be provided from two sources for several
phases of the project on which the Government requires assistance. An agree-
ment has been negotiated whereby the Government of the Netherlands would
provide consultants to assist with investigations, design and construction of
drainage systems. Under the terms of the agreement, it is envisaged that three
consultants from the Netherlands would be made available under contract for a
period of three years, subject to further extension as required. These three
consultants, one to be assigned to the main office in Lima and one each to
field work in the three northern valleys and the three southern valleys, would



- 20 -
assist with additional field investigations, final design and specifications,
preparation of tender documents, evaluation of tenders, preparation of con-
tracts and supervision of construction of the drainage systems.
3.26      In addition consultants would be recruited under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank for the following activities:
(a) Operation and Maintenance (one or two years from July 1977) - to
assist in establishing an organization for operation and main-
tenance in each of the six valleys and to train local staff
in methods and procedures and also to assist in selecting and
purchasing equipment and training of local staff in proper
operation and maintenance of equipment;
(b) Land Reclamation (two years starting in July 1978) - to
assist with the reclamation of salt-affected areas following
construction of the on-farm irrigation and drainage systems,
with specific emphasis on clearing, leveling and preparing
land; constructing bunds and leaching the soils by flood
irrigation; testing soils and groundwater to determine the
effectiveness of drainage works and reclamation methods;
adopting of suitable crops and cultivation practices; and
using fertilizers maintain proper fertility levels and
obtain optimum production;
(c)  Groundwater Investigations (one year, starting in July 1977) -
to assist with groundwater investigations, particularly in the
valleys of Mala and Pisco, to determine the effect of under-
ground flow on the salination of lands in the lower parts of
the valleys and to evaluate the feasibility of developing
groundwater as an additional source of water for irrigation;
and
(d) Extension Organization and Training (two years, starting in
July 1978) - to assist the Direccion General de Produccion of
the Ministry of Food in organizing of the Production Zones in
each of the six valleys, as envisaged in Law 21169 of October 6,
1975 for establishment of a new national agricultural production
system, specifically to organize the extension services within
the zones and to conduct programs for training of extension agents.
Operation and Maintenance
3.27      In the past operation and maintenance of existing irrigation systems
in the coastal valleys has been left largely to private landowners or loosely
organized groups of farmers. With establishment of the Irrigation Districts
and creation of the Juntas de Usuarios and Comisiones de Regantes, the



- 21 -
situation has improved but the standards of operation and maintenance in these
valleys are still far from what is required to obtain efficient and dependable
operation and to properly maintain and improve the works. Under the project
the Ministry of Agriculture would, for the first time, initiate a program to
provide adequate maintenance services in the six valleys. This would be
achieved by purchasing equipment totaling about US$5.0 million and entering
into an agreement with the Serviclo Nacional de Maquinaria Agricola (SENAMA),
an agency of the Ministry of Food with responsibility for promoting and
providing agricultural mechanization services in the country, to perform the
maintenance work under the technical direction of the Irrigation Districts
and the Direccion General de Aguas (DGA). SENAMA would also carry out small-
scale improvement works for the conveyance and measurement of water deliveries,
and DGA, through the Irrigation Districts and the Juntas de Usuarios, would
initiate a program to improve water use and irrigation practices through
creation of a Technical Service for Irrigation and Drainage. The extension
service for crop production, to be established by the Ministry of Food would
not provide this special service, which is needed to provide technically
trained staff to control and measure water deliveries and to prevent overuse
and waste of water. This service, with technical staff stationed in each
valley, would also work with farmers to train them in better water management
and preparation of their land and on-farm delivery systems so as to achieve
higher efficiencies in water use. The Ministry of Agriculture plans to ex-
pand this service on a national scale as time and resources permit. Optimum
efficiency in water use cannot be achieved until complete modernization
of the irrigation and drainage systems throughout the valleys is carried out;
however, the project, with some improvement of infrastructure and strengthen-
ing of both extension and technical services, is an essential first step in
reaching this long-term goal. A list of equipment to be purchased for opera-
tion and maintenance is presented on page 25.
Feasibility Study for a Stage II Project
3.28      During the course of the project, DGA would continue work on inves-
tigations and field surveys and studies for preparation of a feasibility study
for a Stage II project. It is envisaged at present that the Stage II proj-
ect would include rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems, construction
of drainage systems and land reclamation in the lower Piura valley (36,000 ha)
and rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems, construction of drainage
systems, reclamation of salt-affected lands and exploration and development
of groundwater resources in other valleys to be selected on the basis of
national priorities. Flood protection in critical areas along river channels
should also be considered in these studies. Government is planning to request
a loan from the Bank for the Stage II project, which is expected to be prepared
by DGA with support of the FAO/CP and could be ready for appraisal in CY 1978.



- 22 -
C.   Project Costs and Financing
Cost Estimates
3.29      Cost estimates for thne project are based on estimates in the feasi-
bility report prepared by DGA, dated January 1976, and represent costs as of
the end of 1975. These costs were updated to January 1977 to reflect the
increase due to inflation during calendary year 1976. Unit costs for civil
works used to prepare the estimates are based on past experience for similar
work in the country and on having local contractors do the construction
which would most likely be the case (para 3.32). Costs of imported equipment
are estimated CIF Peru, free of duty and taxes as the purchaser would be a
Government agency.  Costs for equipment which would be purchased locally are
based on on-going prices of local suppliers during 1975; those for local
services for administration, engineering and supervision reflect salary levels
during the last half of 19755 with all costs updated to 1977 by an increase of
40%. The estimates for foreign consultants are based on costs in recent
contracts for these services in Peru and other Latin American countries.
Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% for civil works.  Expected cost
increases during the six and one half year term of the project, from mid-1977
through 1983, are calculated using the rates projected by the Bank. The rates
used for civil works are 9% during 1977-79 and 8% thereafter. For equipment,
the rates are 7.5% during 1977-79 and 7% thereafter. Price contingencies for
local costs were based on the Lndex of international inflation for developed
cotntries whLch Ils estimated to be 8.4% in 1977, 8.0% in 1978-79, 7.5% in 1980
and 7.0% thereafter. This index was used since It may be assumed that the
higher estimated local inflation will be offset by periodic devaluations of
the Peruvian Sol, as has been the case since June 1976 when the rate changed
from US$1.000 = s/. 45 to S/. 65 and the subsequent adjustments. The esti-
mated project costs are presented in the attached Table 6 and an estimated
expenditure schedule In Table 7.



Table 6
PERU                                Page 23
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Project Cost
Local       Foreign       Total
-US$ Million-----------
Project Works
Major Irrigation and Drainage
Structures                                 2.44          0.50         2.94
Main Irrigation Canals                     1.47          0.51         1.98
Drainage Canals (open)                     1.87          1.23         3.10
Drainage Systems (pipe)                    0.18          0.04        0.22
Rights-of-way (land acquisition)           0.18           -          0.18
Service Centers (buildings)                0.35          0.05        0.40
Sub-total                           6.49         2.33         8.82
On-Farm Development
Land Leveling                              1.51          1.17         2.68
On-farm Drains                             1.26          0.32         1.58
Land Preparation                           0.87          0.06         0.93
Sub-total                            3.64         1.55         5.19
Equipment
Administration, Engineering and
Supervision                                0.18          0.38        0.56
Feasibility Study - Stage II               0.05          0.08        0.13
Operation and Maintenance                  0.81          4.42        5.23
Technical Service for Irrigation
and Drainage                               0.07           -          0.07
Pumps and Irrigation Equipment              -            0.33        0.33
Sub-total                            1.11         5.21         6.32
Management and Technical Services
Administration, Engineering and
Supervision                                4.05           -          4.05
Consultant Services                         -            0.54        0.54
Feasibility Study - Stage II               0.88           -          0.88
Netherlands Technical Assistance           0.36          0.67         1.03
Technical Service for Irrigation
and Drainage                               0.46           -          0.46
Sub-total                            5.75         1.21         6.96
Base Cost Estimate                        16.99         10.30        27.29
Physical Contingencies                     1.70          1.03         2.73
Expected Price Increases                   6.96          3.93       10.89
Total Expected Cost of Project            25.65         15.26       40.91
March, 1977



PERU
IRRIGATION REhABILITATION I PROJECT
Estinted Schedule of E.Rendituraa
CaleId-r Ye-rs
1977                       1978                       1979                       1980                        1981      _192                                         1983                      TotAl
Ite                              Local   Foreign   Total   Lcal   Foin   Total   Local   Poreign   Ttal   Local   Fo-ig.   Total   Loca.    Foreign    Totol   Locol   Lorei-c   Total  _Loco    F-oigo   Total   Lo aI   Foreign   m-Tl
-------------------------------____---__-_--___-----------------_---US$ Milli---------------------------------- -
PROJECT WORKS
Major Irrigation Stractures                -              -        -       -         -          0.549    0.113    0.562   0.201    0.042    0.243   0.458    0.0l        0.552   0.714    O.J47    O.061   0.513    0.106    0.618   2.435    0.501    2,936
Main Irrigation Coo..a                     -         -                 -        -         -     0.222    0.07F    0.300   0.310    D.108    0.418   0.476    0.166    0.642   0.131    0.066    0.257   0.274    0.094    0.368   1.473    0.512    1,985
Dran-gSe Canal-  (oope)                     -        -        -        -        -         -     0.167    0.109    0.276   0.309    0.202    0.511   0.532    0.349    0.881   0.383    0.251    0.,34   0.478    0.314    0.792   1.870    1.225    3.095
Dr-inage Canals (pip.)                     -         -                 -        -        -        -        -         -    0.119    0.030    0.149   0.023    0.006    0.029   0.034    0.008    0.042          -         -         -     0.175    0.044    0.219
Rightn-of-W.y                              -         -        -        -        -         -     0.056      -       0.056   0.006       -      0.006   O.C56       -      0.056   0.052        -      0.052   0.011       -      0.011   0.181               0.181
Service Centers                            -         -        -       -         -         -     0.124    0.016    0.140      -        -         -     0.074    0.010    0.084   0.156    0.021    0.177        --                 -      0.355    0.046    0.401
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT
Land Leveling                              _         _           _       _                      0.181    0.141    0.322   0.408    0.316    0.724   0,260    0.202    2.462   0.262    0.204    0.466   0.399    0.310    0.710   1.509    1.173    2.682
On-fam  Drains                             -         -        -        -                  -       -        -         -     0.402    0.103    0.505   0.377    9.096    0.473. 0.126    0.032    0.158   0.352    0.090    0.442   1.257    0.322    1.579
Land PreparatIon                           -                                                    0_072    g.004    0.o76   g.229    0.014    0.243   0.137    0.0L7    0.144         l62.16   .0 0    0._72   0.272    1.017    0.209   0.872    0 .03    0.925
Sub-ttal                              -         -        -       -         -        -      1.371    0.461    1.832   1.984    0.815    2.799   2.393    0.930    3.323   2.060    0.739    2.819   2.299    0.931    3.230  10.127  ,3.876   14.003
EqUIPMENT
Adninintration, EnBi.nering
and Supnrvniion                          0.036       -      0.036   0.077    0.154    0.231   0.068    0.169    0.237        -        -         -       -       0.064    0.064               .         -       -         -        -      0.181    0.387    0.567
Feasibility Study - Stage II             0.031       -      0.031   0.025    0.075    0.100       -        -         -       -        -         -       -         -        -                                             -        -      0.055    0.075    0.131
Oper-tion end Maintenance                  -         -        -        -        -         -     0.345    2.325    2.670   0.465    2.095    2.560                 -             -        -        -             -        -               0.810    4.420    5.230
Te-hoic-l Service                          -         -        -    0.030        -      0.030   0.041       -      0.041      -        -         -       -         -        -        -        -         -       -         -        -      0.032       -      0.072
Pu1pa and Au-illiary Equip-ent,
Irrigation Equip-ent               -                                                    - - - --                                    0.109    0.109      -      0l157    0.157                                                -                               .327
Sob-total                           0.067       _      0.067   0.132    0.229   0.361   0.454    2.494    2.948   0.465    2.204    2.669          -       0.221    0.221      -      0.061      .61      -         -               1.118    5.209    6.327
MANAGODENT AND TECEN1CAL SERVICES
Ad.niojatction, Zngin.er.ng
and Suparvinion                          0.153       -      0.153   0.321,      -      0.321   0,793       _      0.793   0.762       -       0.762   0.673       -      0.673   0.673       -       0.673   0.673              0.673   4.047       -       4.n47
con.ultort Servine.                        -         -        -       -         -        -        -      0.181 0.181         -      0.181    0.181      -      0.11       .11-                         -       -         -        -        -      0.542    0.542
Feasibility Study - Stage II             0.462       -      0.462   0.418       -      0.418      -        -         -       -         -        -       -         -         -       -        -         -       -         -        -      0.8579      -      0.879
N.th-clando Technical Auniata.ne           -         -        -     0.061    0.112    0.173   0.061    0.111    0.172   0.061    0.111    0.172   0.060    0.112    0.172   0.061    0.111    0.172   0.061    0.111    0.172   0.365    0.659    1,034
Te-hbical Service for Iris.tion
and Dr-inage                         _                        -     0.036       -      0.036   0.C36        -     0.036   0.072        _      0 072   0.091   g          0.091   0 109    __         0.12    0.109    _         0.109   0.433        _      0.455
S.b-torol                           0.615       _      0.615   0.836    0.112    0.948   0.890    0.292    1.182   0.893    0.292    1.187   0.824    0.293         1.117   0.843    O.111    0.954   0.843    0.111    0.954   5.746    1.211    6.957
Bass Cost E.tieste                       0.682       -      0.682   0.968    0.341    1.309   2.715    3.247    5.962   3.344    3.311    6.655   3.217    1.444    4.661   2.923    0.911    3.834   3.142    1.042    4.184  16.991   10.296   27.287
Physical Contingencioa                   0.068       -      0.068   0.097    0.034    0.131   0.272    0.325    0.597  0g334    0.331    0.665   0.322    0 144    0.466   0.292    0.901    0.383   0.314    0.105              .415   1.699    1.030    2.729
Tota1 BSen Cant                     0.750       -     0.750   1.065    0.375    1.440   2.987    3.572    6.559   3.678    3.642    7.320   3.539    1.588    5.127   3.215    1.002    4.217   3.456    1.147    4.603  18.690   11.326   30.016
Elpeoted Price I.c-re...                 0.029       _      0.029   0.135    0.052    0.187   0.647    0.698    1.345   1.121    1.120    2.241   1.391    0.703    2.094   1.579    0.565    2.144   2.056    0.798    2.854   6.958    3.936   10.894
T.tal Rxpected Cost of Project           u.779              0,77   1.200    0.427    1.627   3.63S    4.270    7.904   4.799    4.762    9.561   4.950    2.291    7.221   4.794    1.567    6.361   5.512    1.945    7.457  25.648    15.262   40.910
March, 1977



-25-
PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
List of Equipment
Estimated
Operation and Maintenance                        Number    Cost - U $'0O0
Weed burners, wheel mounted, diesel                          6            25
Machines, drainage tile cleaning                             6            20
Tractors, wheeled, 60 hp                                     6            90
Tractors, 200 hp, track type with angle dozer               4            400
Excavators, backhoe, track type, 125 hp                     16         1,800
Graders, wheel type, self propelled, 135 hp,                6            300
12 ft. blade
Loaders, wheel type, 2 cuyd, 100 hp                          6           300
Trucks, dump, 5 cuyd                                       12            240
Trucks, tank, 2000 gal. with sprinkler system                6           120
Trucks, mobil servicing units, with equipment and tools   6              120
Trucks, stake body, 4 tons                                   6            60
Trucks, pickup, 1 ton                                        6            45
Trucks, 2 ton, with 350 gal. fuel delivery tanks             8            80
Vehicles, station wagon, four wheel drive                   6             50
Motorcycles, 125 cc                                         36            30
Tanks, steel, fuel storage, 3000 gal.                       12            15
Shop and servicing equipment including welding            Lot            400
machines, compressors, fuel punps, lubrication
equipment and tools
Spare parts                                               Lot            400
Contingencies                                             Lot            400
Total Estimated Cost



- 26 -
Financing
3.30      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$40.9 million in-
cluding physical contingencies of US$2.7 million and price contingencies of
US$10.9 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$25.0 million for a period of 17
years, including a three and one half year grace period, would finance 60% of
of the total project costs and would cover US$14.6 million of the foreign
exchange component   and the equivalent of US$10.4 million of local currency
financing. Local currency financing of this order is justified in Peru
because of the country's critical budgetary and balance of payments position,
and the relatively low foreign exchange component (35%) of the estimated cost.
The total costs include the equivalent of US$1.0 million (US$0.7 million
foreign exchange component) to be financed by the Netherlands Government for
technical assistance on the project under the bilateral agreement with the
Government of Peru. The Government's contribution of the equivalent of US$14.9
million, covering the balance of the estimated total cost, would be met by
annual budgetary appropriations. Government would be the borrower and carry
the foreign exchange risk. Any surplus funds remaining in the Bank Loan on
completion of the project would be cancelled. The allocation of the proceeds
of the loan to the project categories is presented in Table 8.



Table 8
Page 27
PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Proposed Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Amount of the Loan      % of Expenditure-s
Allocated (Expressed      to be
Category                       in Dollar Equivalent)    Financed
I.  Project Works                          8,000,000              60%
II. Agricultural Credit
(on-farm development)               6,000,000          75% of amounts
disbursed.
III. Equipment, Vehicles and
Supplies                            7,000,000
(a)  directly imported                                   100% of foreign
expenditures.
(b) imported and purchased
locally                                             80%, (representing the
estimated foreign
exchange component).
(c) manufactured locally (other
than vehicles and wheel                             90% of ex-factory
tractors)                                             cost.
IV.  Consultant Services                       600,000          100% of foreign
expenditures or 100%
local costs (pro-
V.  Unallocated                             3,400,000            fessional salary only).
Total                    25,000,000
February, 1977



- 28 -
Procurement
3.31      Contracts for construction of project works (US$8.24 million),
on-farm development (US$5.19 million), and purchase of major items of
imported equipment (US$5.6 million) would be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the "Guidelines for pro-
curement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits". Contracts for construction
of service centers and the procurement of equipment and supplies manufactured
locally including drainage pipe or tile and minor items of technical. or office
equipment and services wou'ld be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures, which are satis-
factory to the Bank. Vehicles and wheel tractors would be excluded from local
procurement with loan funds since under Government regulations these items may
only be purchased from the one local assembly plant for each item and competi-
tive bidding is not possible. The Ministry of Agriculture has agreed to
contract the on-farm development work in one or inore of the saline-affected
areas to the Servicio Nacional de Maquinaria Agricola (SENAMA), an agency of
the Ministry of Food which has national responsibility for mechanization of
agriculture, in order for this agency to obtain experience in the construction
of on-farm drains and reclamation of saline lands. In effect, this would be
a force-account operation by means of a negotiated contract as SENAMA may
legally undertake contract work in the same way as a private firm. Consultant
services (US$0.6 million) to be financed from the loan would be procured follow-
ing procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Consultant services to be provided by
the Government of the Netherlands (US$1.0 million) would be under a bilateral
agreement with the Government of Peru, For procurement of equipment, materials
and supplies under international competitive bidding, domestic manufacturers
in Peru would be accorded preferential treatment in bid evaluation, limited to
15% of the CIF price of imported goods or the actual tariff application,
whichever is lower.
3.32      The location of the project area in six valleys and 16 affected
areas would make it impracticable to perform the work under one or two con-
tracts, so as to maintain a contract value high enough to attract foreign
contractors. Further, the preparation of final designs and tender documents
could not be completed for all the valleys at one time so this work must be
staggered over the first two years of the project implementation period.
For these reasons, it is more realistic to schedule the letting of contracts
on a valley-by-valley basis, which would limit the contract value. It is
expected that these contracts would go to local contractors who have the
capacity to handle the work as the private contracting industry in Peru is
relatively well established, with experienced staff and basic equipment.
Disbursement
3.33      The loan would be disbursed against 60% of the cost for project
works including buildings, 75% of development credit loans for on-farm deve-
lopment, the foreign cost of directly imported equipment and 80% of the cost
for imported equipment purchased locally, 90% of ex-factory cost of goods
and equipment manufactured locally and 100% of foreign expenditures for



- 29 _
consultant services or 100% of the salaries of locally recruited consul-
tants.  An amount of US$3.4 million would be unallocated.  Disbursements
for on-farm development loans would be made agaitst a certificate of ex-
penditure, the documentation for which is not sutmitted for review but is
retained by the Borrower and available for inspection by the Bank during
the course of a project supervision mission. Disbursements would follow
estimated expenditures with a six month lag and the estimated schedule of
disbursement is presented in Table 9.
Table 9
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                            Cumultive Disbursements
and Semester                                 at End of Semester
----- US$ millions ----
1977
June 30, 1977
1978
December 31, 1977
June 30, 1978                                     0.10
1979
December 31, 1978                                 0.30
June 30, 1979                                     1.80
1980
December 31, 1979                                 4.90
June 30, 1980                                     7.30
1981
December 31, 1980                                 9.70
June 30, 1981                                    11.70
1982
December 31, 1981                                13.70
June 30, 1982                                    17.20
1983
December 31, 1982                                19.70
June 30, 1983                                    23.00
1984
December 31, 1983                                25.00



- 30 -
Accounts and Audit
3.34      The Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) would maintain separate accounts
for operations financed under the project. Other Government agencies res-
ponsible for implementing a component of the project would likewise main-
tain separate accounts on their operations, and, at the end of each fiscal
year, furnish the Ministry of Agriculture certified copies of these accounts.
During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a) The Ministry of Agriculture. BAP and other Government agencies partici-
pating in the project would maintain separate accounts for the project and
each project component; (b) certified copies of the accounts of other agen-
cies would be furnished to the Ministry of Agriculture at the end of each
fiscal year; (c) the Ministry of Agriculture and BAP's accounts for the
project would be audited annually by an independent auditor satisfactory to
the Bank; and (d) the audited accounts, together with the auditor's report,
would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal
year. In addition to the conventional financial audit, the auditor's report
should cover matters such as:
(i) that the goods and services have been 'procured from member
countries;
(ii) that the goods have been received or work performed;
(iii)  that payment has been made; and
(iv). that the goods or services are eligible for financing
under the loan agreement and have been used in the project.
Environmental Evaluation
3.35      It is expected that the reclamation of waterlogged and salt-affected
areas would improve environmental conditions in the lower part of the valleys
in the project area. Productive use of these lands would certainly be an
improvement over the rather desolate and discouraging conditions at present.
In the extremely dry climate, there is no problem with mosquitoes and no
evidence of water-borne diseases or bilharzia.



- 31 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization
Special Project - PLANREHATIC
4.01      For large and complex projects, it is notmal procedure in Peru to
establish what is known as a Special Project. In this way full and direct
responsibility for executing the construction stage of a project is concen-
trated in one department of a ministry, which would have the legal and admin-
istrative power to carry out all actions required. This system permits a
certain autonomy in managing the planning, contracting and supervision of
construction and more flexibility and direct authority for taking the required
decisions and actions for day-to-day operations and for coordinating the par-
ticipation of other agencies. In the case of the proposed project, the
Department in the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) would be the Direccion
General de Aguas (DGA) and the Special Project would be known as the "Plan de
Rehabilitation de Tierras Costeras" (PLANREHATIC). The Special Project would
have legal authority to enter into contracts aid expend funds in payment for
completed works, purchase of equipment and materials and supplies, and for
other services from a budget appropriated by the Public Treasury for the
project, with the exception of funds channeled through the Banco Agrario del
Peru (BAP) for on-farm works. However, the Special Project would be respon-
sible for executing on-farm works and requesting payment through BAP.  The
Special Project would also have authority to call on other departments of the,
Ministry of Agriculture or other ministries for specific assistance, as
required, to execute the project, and to work with the Zonas Agrarias and the
Distritos de Riego on matters pertinent to execution and management of the
project, including land settlement, cropping patterns, allocation of water,
project charges, and training local staff for operation and maintenance.
PLANREHATIC, as the name implies, would also continue preparing future proj-
ects in selected valleys along the coast. An organizational chart covering
the participation of all agencies involved in the project is presented in
Chart 16245.
Ministerio de Agricultura (MAG)
4.02      The Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) is the executing agency for the
project. MAG departments that would have direct responsibility for its exe-
cution and management would include:
(a)  Direccion General de Aguas (DGA).  DGA, through a Special
Project Organization (para 4.01), would have primary respon-
sibility for field investigations and surveys, planning and
final design of the proposed works, preparation of specifica-
tions and tender documents, evaluating bids and letting
contracts, and supervision of construction. At the field
level, DGA would execute the project in close collaboration
with administrative staff of the Zonas Agraria (para. 4.03)
and the Distritos de Riego, and further, in consultation



- 32 -
with the Juntas de Usuarios, all of which have offices and
staff in the six valleys. The Distritos de Riego, supervised
by Administraclores Tecsicos, are dependencies of the Zonas
Agrarias anid, working in cicse cooperation with the Junta de
Us-;arios, are responsaci.e for operation and maintenance of
existing irrigetion. and drainage systems and supervising works
for impro-vement arf new construction.  The DGA would also have
responsibil'ity toA work, with the farmers in carrying out the
reclamation ph-se following completion of works and to monitor
the effectiveness of the drainage works and soil leaching
methlods.  The "CA and the Distrltos de Riego would also super-
vise the creation of -:he expanded orgahtizations for operation
and maintenance of all irrigatrion and drainage systems in the
,;alteys;
(b)  Direccion General de Reforma Agraria y Asentamiento Rural
(DOrA       This directorate w4thin the context of the national
policy and program. for agrarian reform and as established in the
organic law for tne agrarian. sector, Law No. 17716, has juris-
dictional authority for management of lands within the
respective Zonas Agrarias and for acti ons to implement the
prograrLi. This includes the selection of settlers and assign-
ment of land to individuals or cooperative associations, plan-
ning for land use and approval of cropping patterns, technical
and managerial assistance to cooperative associations, collec-
tion of project charges and, ir the case of irrigation and
drainage 1..rojects, overall management through the Districtos
da Riego, following completion of im.fprovement programs;
(c)  Direccion General. de Irrigaciones (DCI).  DGI would assist the
Special Froject con studies, 'esign and execution of those ;.orks
for improvement or constructiorn of irrigation systems.  Since
DGA would, have rin.arv resrsfnibility for the Special Project,
DGI would cuoperate arl' provide technical expertise on those
par.s of the pr7c4ct for i&ic>i -it has sp-ecific competence; and
(a)  Sub-Direccion de           d 'e Cd utivcjRiego and the Sul-Direccicn
de Tarifas y Cur;-fa    Tne i'r'w' provides assistance to the
Zonas Agrarias and  iotritos  e Riegc in preparing of cropping
patterns, allocations ci irrigation vater and schieduling of
deliveries, while the latter carries out studies on operation
and maintenance cost o  a-. riodner-- of investment and advises
the Zonas Agrarias on the level of project charges to be assessed
for the use of water.  Tt alsc 'ecrk.s _-  ith BAP to maintain records
of payments by farmers and to inform thne Zonas Agrarias of de-
linquent accounts.



- 33 -
Agrarian Zones and Irrigation Districts
4.03      During the past seven years, the most Lmportant action by the Gov-
ernment to restructure the rural and agricultural sector to achieve a more
equitable distribution of benefits has been implementation of the agrarian
reform program. In order to decentralize administration of this program,
Government divided the country into 13 agrarian zones (Zonas Agrarias) and
gave the zones rather wide authority for management of natural and human
resources including the determination of the size of land holding for both
individual and cooperative groups, selection of settlers and implementing
the settlement of acquired lands, approving plans for land use and cropping
patterns, providing assistance to settlers and other management responsib-
ilities. Under Law 19608 of 1973, MAG was given authority for management of
the zones and empowered to carry out the national policy for agrarian reform
and to plan, direct, control, coordinate, and execute actions, programs
or projects required to achieve the objectives of the program. The Zone
Directors are under the administrative direction of the Minister of Agricul-
ture or his Deputy. Direcciones or Sub-DireccLones in the Ministry provide
administrative and technical assistance and most of the work on agricultural
or rural development is carried out in cooperation with zone management or
Lechnical staff in the zone. Agencies outside the Ministry are also required
to obtain approval from Zone Directors for actions to be taken within a given
zone and to coordinate their activities with other programs planned or under-
way in the zone.
4.04      The irrigated areas in each of the six valleys have been organized
as Irrigation Districts under the administrative direction of the Agrarian
Zone. These districts have responsibility for operation and maintenance of
the irrigation and drainage systems, including allocation and distribution
of water to the farmers, and supervision of improvement and rehabilitation
works and new construction.  The districts also receive technical and manage-
rial assistance from DGA and DGI in the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as
from other specialized agencies of the Government. The Juntas de Usuarios
serve as a governing body for the Districts and are consulted on major deci-
sions relative to management.
B. Implementation of the Project
Engineering and Supervision
4.05      The Direccion de Aguas, through PLANREHATIC, would carry out inves-
tigations, surveys and final design as required to implement the land reclama-
tion phase of the project assisted by consultants provided by the Netherlands
Government.  Surveys and field testing to determine the extent of salinity in
the soils and to delineate the critical areas in each valley, the levels and
salinity concentrations of the groundwater and the natural drainage character-
istics of the areas, taking into account the soil structure, have largely been
completed. The data collected together with photogrammetric maps to a scale



- 34 -
of 1:10,000 and soil classifications performed during the past several years
by the Oficina Nacional de Evaluacion de Recursos Naturales (ONERN), formed
the basis for selection of areas to be reclaimed and for preparation of plans
and cost estimates but additional field investigations would be required for
final design, particularly in the valleys of Mala and Pisco. Detailed surveys
would also be required for layout and design of the irrigation improvement
works. It is expected that DGA would continue with surveys and planning
during 1977 and 1978 so that final designs would be ready for the initial
construction stage early in 1979.
Construction Schedule
4.06      The project would be implemented on two fronts--the three northern
valleys as Front No. 1 and the three southern valleys as Front No. 2.  Actual
construction would be staggered, with work starting first in Canete on
Front No. 1, and then in Mala and Pisco, in that order, at about one year
intervals.  On Front No. 2, wor.k in Camana would be started six months to a
year after that in Canete, with Tambo and Majes scheduled to begin later at
one year intervals.  The project. is planned as a six and.one half year operation
with 1977 and 1978 devoted to investigations, surveys and design and construction
extending from 1979 through 1983. Land preparation and the leaching process in
the areas to be reclaimed is expected to be completed by the end of 1983; however,
depending on the response of some soils and the effectiveness of the leaching
in certain areas it is not likely that all of the 19,000 ha of affected lands
would be restored to full production by that time and an additional one to two
years could be required to improve the soils and re-establish fertility so
that full production could be achieved. A bar chart for the proposed construc-
tion schedule is presented in the Chart 16246.
C.  Participation of Other Agencies
Banco Agrario del Peru (BAP)
4.07      BAP is the only Government supported bank that provides'credit to
the agricultural sector. Under the project, BAP would act as banking agent
for medium- to long-term (20 years) credit to farmers for on-farm development
in the areas to be reclaimed (para 3.23). BAP would also continue to provide
production credit to individual farmers and cooperatives in the project area.
Ministerio de Alimentacion (MA)
4.08      The new .Ministry of Food (MA), created by reorganization of the
Ministry of Agriculture in 1975, has basic responsibility for carrying out
the National Food Plan and increasing food production in the country.  This
involves intervention in a number of activities related to agricultural pro-
duction, including implementation o'f production programs and'organizing the
farmers into production units. The Ministry has established Production Zones



- 35 -
which correspond to Agrarian Zones and it is in the process of establishing
production nuclei whereby groups of farmers, normally producing the same crop
and subject to a controlled cropping pattern, would receive improved services
for credit, extension assistance, improved seeds, fertilizers and machinery.
The Ministry also is charged with the promotion or control of marketing of
food products, storage for critical commodities, operation of existing agro-
industries and construction of new facilities, and controlling prices for both
the producer and consumer. The Direccion General de Produccion (DGP) of the
Mh has primary responsibility for organizing and implementing the production
programs, working through the Zonas Agrarias and farmers' cooperatives or asso-
ciations to establish the production nuclei and to coordinate the participa-
tion of other ministries or Government agencies, particularly the Ministry of
Agriculture, in the program. The DGP, together with the Direccion General de
Apoyo a las Empresas Campesinos oF MAG, is charged with preparation of an
annual national production program and insuring that farmers participating in
the program receive the required supporting services to meet the goals of the
progoram. The Empresa Publica de Servicios Agropecuarios (EPSA), a dependency
f 1AA, has specific responsibility for organizing and administering marketing,
storage and processing aspects and assisting with establishment and administra-
zion of price control policies.  The Servicio Nacional de Mecanizacion
Agricola (SENAIM.A, a dependency of EPSA, is responsibile for providing mecha-
rization services to farmers and carrying out small-scale land improvement
works particularly land leveling. The MA and its dependencies would cooperate
and participate fully in the project and MA would specifically undertake
i:mprovement and intensificatIon of supporting services in the project area,
particularly extension assistance, under the production programs administered
by DGP. The HA would prepare a plan to determine the requirements for exten-
sion services in the project area and submit this plan for Bank review within
12 months of the date of project effectiveness. The DGP would have responsi-
bility to carry out the approved plan and to revise the plan as the project
progresses and the requirements change. The MAG and MA also enter into an
agreement to enable SENAMA to organize and manage the expanded operations and
mkaintenance services throughout the irrigated areas in the six valleys. Tne
agreement covering the participation of SENAMA would also include the execu-
tion of on-farm works in one or more of the affected units and provision of
additional mechanization services in the project areas, especially in the
areas to be reclaimed. Assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiations that the Ministry of Food would improve and strengthen agricul-
tural supporting services in the project area, according to an approved plan
and as part of the new national production program, with adequate budgetary
support and the agreement between the two ministries covering the activities
of SENAI4A would be put in force not later than 12 months following the date
of project effectiveness.
SINAMOS and ONERN
4.09      Two other agencies of the Government at the ministerial level would
have an associative role in execution of the proejct. These are the Sistema
Nacional de Apoyo a la Movilizacion Social (SINAMOS), which is concerned with
community and social development of the beneficiaries of agrarian reform, and
the Oficina Nacional de Evaluacion de Recursos Naturales (ONERN), which is
responsible for investigations and surveys of natural resources, including



- 36 -
soils and water, and general planning for the rational use and conservation
of these resources. In preparation of the feasibility report for tile project,
DGA used data from soil surveys previously carried out by ONERN and would use
the services of this agency in preparing the Stage II project. ONERN had also
previously carried out extensive surveys on the general situation with regard
to salinization in the coastal valleys, the results of which are one basis
for establishing priorities for areas to be included in a national reclama-
tion program.
D. Farmers' Organizations
Cooperatives and Farmers' Associations
4.10      The principal institution of the coastal reform sector is the pro-
ducer cooperative or Cooperativa Agraria de Produccion (CAP), a large-scale
enterprise run by its workers-owners. Management decisions are, at least in
theory, democratically taken. There are also some precooperatives which will
be transformed into CAP's. The Mintistry of Agriculture, through the agrarian
zones and the irrigation districts, provides technical assistance to the coop-
eratives. This is usually in the form of a professional agronomist who in
effect acts as manager of the cooperative. Further, all departments of the
Ministry related to rural or agricultural development provide technical assis-
tance in their respective disciplines. With organization of the production
zones by the Ministry of Food additional extension would be made available.
Also, Central Cooperatives are being established to provide marketing, credit,
processing, accounting, technical and managerial assistance, and other ser-
vices to the new CAPs. Approximately 32% of the agricultural land in the six
valleys is now operated urder the CAP or precooperative form or organization.
Many individual smallhclders irn the rest of the area have formed agrarian
service cooperatives or Cooperativas Agraria de Servicios (CAS) to provide
themselves with input suppl ies, credit, marketinig or other serv-ces.  Agricul-
tural production per se remxrains organized on an individual basis, but crop
selection and cropping patterns must be appro-'ed by the Zonas Agrarias in
accordance with national production Policies.
Water Users Associations
4.11      Within an Irrigation District, water users are organized intc
Coniisiones de Regantes (Irrigators Commissions), which consist of groups of
users in a separate identifiable sector of a project area or those using water
from the same lateral or sub-lateral. T'ese commissions select represelita-
tives to form committees for management of irrigation systems, allocation of
water and assessment of water charges in their particuiar district. A higher
m.anagement level is the Junta de Usuarios (Water Users Association) to which
all landowners belong. The management board oi the Junta is made up of one
or more representatives of each commission, together with Lhe Technical Admin-
istrator of the Irrigationi District and thie Administrator of the Agrarian Zone.
The junta members have a vote on management and operation decisions and are
empowered by law to obtain loans to finance improvement or maintenance works,
to enter into contracts, and to assess charges (cuotas) to repay these loans.
Close cooperation and agreement on all major decisions affecting management of
an irrigation district between the Junta, the Zona Agraria and the Districto de
Riego is mandatory under the law controlling the agrarian reform program.



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
PROPOSED PROJECT ORGANIZATION
National Planning                          Ministry of                                           Agrarian                                   Ministry of
Institute;- INP                       Agriculture -MAG                                        Bak   BAP                                    Food-MA
|Sectorial Plannin "I
| Office -OSPA 
Department for
Agrarian Reform                  Irrigation               Water Resources                                   for Agricultural Services    Agricultural Production
and Rural               Department -DGI              Department - DGA                                             EPSA                        DGP
Settlement - DRGYAR
Special
Project
PLANREHATIC
grar an                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Production
Zones                                                                                                                                        Zones
National Agricultural
Irrigation Districts                                     *}          Zone          |      Mechanization Service
Water User's Associations                             r        l        Offices                     SENAMA
I                 I inin  ------- I,,,,,,,,,,,,,
- ~ ~~~I __                                                                      I_____
Agrarian       Organization and      Surveys, Design and                                Operation                                      Agricultural             rduction
Reform              Management of          Construction of           On-Farm                   and                                         Supporting             Planning and
Program              Cooperatives               Works               Development            Maintenance                                       Services               Marketing
SIsftttiEISENAMA Participation
7A&jr, Coordination at project level.
_  _ _Production and Development Credit
World Bank-16245



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR
ACTIVITY                   _______
1977          1978          1979           1980           1981          1982           1983           1984
ENGINEERING SURVEYS AND DESIGN                      j        _ T    _ 
MAJOR CIVIL WORKS_______                                                       
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT                     _  _    T                     - _    -
GROUNDWATER EXPLORATION
CONSTRUCTION                              I
MAJOR CIVIL WORKS                                                                                                   |
CANETE                          I                         i       - i        -
MALA  |A
CAMANA                                            I  I                m H   -  - _
TAMBO                                                                                         -I
M AJES
SERVICE CENTERS
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT
CAN ETE
MALA
PISCO
CAM AN A
TAMBO
MAJ ES
LEACHING OF SALT AFFECTED LANDS
ORGANIZATION OF EXTENSION SERVICE 
ORGANIZATION OF OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE SERVICE                                                                                      _
FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR STAGE llI   -  -                    I     i
0 PROJECT                                                  _   T-77   l1l1    
World Bank-16246
ao



- 39 -
V. MARKETS, MARKETING AND PRICES
Market Situation
5.01      One of the major obstacles to Peru's development efforts is the
fact that agricultural production over the last five years has not kept up
with the demands of a population growing at a rate of 3.2% p.a. As a result,
Peru has already been forced to import basic grains and meat and dairy pro-
ducts worth US$57 million, US$81 million and US$169 million in the first half
of FY1973, 1974 and 1975 respectively, and this amount will increase if pro-
duction does not at least equal the population growth rate. The Government
is well aware of the situation and in the recent past has provided incentives
to farmers in the form of higher output and lower input prices, but produc-
tion still lags behind demand. The proposed project would assist in closing
the gap by increasing production of commodities for which there is a present
deficiency as well as a long-range need. The n'ational marketing organizations,
EPSA and the Empresas Publica de Comercializacion de la Harina y Aceita de
Pescado (EPCHAP), are active in the project area, and the basic infrastruc-
ture, including grain storage facilities, sugar mills, ginneries, and vege-
table oil plants, is in place and adequate so that no burden would be placed
on the marketing sector as a result of the incremental production resulting
from the project. According to an EPSA study, there is sufficient rice mil-
ling capacity in the project area, although the state of the mills and the
technology used needs to be improved in order to reduce the rather high
breakage percentage.
Cotton. Seed cotton is delivered at the farmers' expense
to the three ginneries in Pisco, Canete and Majes operated
by EPCHAP, the national marketing agency for exports.
EPCHAP sells the fiber and the seeds for the farmers on the
international and local markets and collects ginning costs
and a commission. The seeds are bought by private oil
extraction firms located in Pisco, Canete and Arequipa.
There is no shortage of processing facilities for seed
cotton now and it is planned that the farm cooperatives
will manage the ginneries in the future.
Rice. Presently, rice is produced only in the three valleys
near Arequipa, mainly in Camana, and private plants con-
trolled by EPSA do the milling. Since the on-farm paddy
price is 65% of the consumer price the farmer gets almost
as much for his paddy as the consumer pays for the milled
rice. EPSA pays the processing costs in the form of a
subsidy. According to an EPSA study, there is sufficient
rice milling capacity in the project area, although the
state of the mills and the technology used needs to be
improved in order to bring down the rather high breakage
percentage. It is planned to produce rice for a limited
time during the soil leaching process in the Canete



- 40 -
valley, trucking the paddy to Camana where it would be
milled and sold for consumption in Arequipa, presently
a rice-deficit area.
Maize. Maize is produced in the area all year round for
sale to private intermediaries and private concentrate
processing industries (Purina, Nicollino, and such).
Storage facilities are located in Lima, Ica, Chincha, and
Arequipa. Installed animal feed processing capacity is
presently underutilized so that an increased production
of feed grains (maize and sorghum) could easily be handled.
Beans. There is a shortage of beans (lima beans and frijol)
and chickpeas in the country and in the project area. The
prices are controlled and were increased in July 1975 to
provide an incentive to producers. Because of the shortage,
the project's incremental production would not cause storage
problems and would find a ready market.
Potatoes. Potatoes are produced in the valleys during the
winter season when it is too cold to produce them in the
Sierra. Since they are difficult and expensive to store
during the summer in the coastal area, seed potatoes are
bought each season from the Sierra. The price of potatoes
for consumption and of seed potatoes is controlled by EPSA
and because seed potato prices are high at the moment, EPSA
plans to build additional storage facilities.
Fruits and Vegetables. The project's incremental production
of fruits (mainly bananas, apples, prunes and pears) and
vegetables (mainly garlic and squash) would be marketed fresh
in the project area and in the cities of Lima and Arequipa.
Prospects for the fresh products are good and the project
would also help to provide a more consistent production of
better quality raw materials to processing industries, which
have had difficulties in obtaining reliable supplies at
reasonable prices.
Sugarcane. Sugarcane production would be increased only in
the Tambo valley. The Cooperativa Chucarape operates a sugar-
mill which could easily absorb the additional production.
Alfalfa. Alfalfa would be produced mostly in the Tambo
valley. Because of the general milk shortage in the country,
increased production is badly needed. Most of the crop is.
used green for dairy cattle feeding.
Prices for the Economic Analysis
5.02      The economic price situation for project commodities is expected
to be favorable. Except for the two export crops, cotton fiber and sugar,



- 41 -
all other commodities are import substitutes.  Projections of the interna-
tional commodity prices, furnished by the Bank's Economic Analysis and
Projections Department, were used as the basis for the calculation of farm-
gate prices for the project.  After calculating the equivalent FOB or CIF
prices, allowances were made for local port expenses, transportation and
processing costs to arrive at the economic farmgate prices.  Present and
projected producer prices as used in both the economic and financial analyses,
for all crops that would be grown in the project area, are presented in Table
10.
Prices for Financial Analysis
5.03      Current Government price policy for agricultural products is a
mixture of producer incentives, regulation of marketing margins, "refuge"
prices for producers, and consumer subsidies established in an attempt to
balance two somewhat conflicting goals. On the one hand, Government is
committed to providing a nutritionally adequate diet to low income urban
consumers at the lowest possible cost, while on the other hand, it is com-
mitted to a policy of supporting agrarian reform by establishing cooperative
marketing systems within the existing framework of producer organizations.
The latter policy indirectly implies that the Government will attempt to
insure adequate producer prices.
5.04      In the case of rice, the Government establishes a guaranteed price
prior to harvest (incentive price), basing the figure on estimated average
cost to which is added a "reasonable profit and incentive margin." Prices
of most commodities (fruits, vegetables, and all tubers except potatoes)
are regulated at the wholesale and retail level (regulated prices). Producer
prices are established by open market bidding between producers and whole-
salers. The Government defines "fair" marketing margins as those which are
added to the producer price to establish official wholesale and retail prices.
In additLon, producer prices are tied to the average price for the past week,
thereby effectively reducing the variation of prices over time. In effect,
prices are alLowed to change in response to changes in market receipts but
such movement is greatly restricted. The official objectives of the systet
are to establish fair marketing margins and reduce price fluctuations. There
are controlled prices for potatoes, meat and beans. Refuge prices are
designed to reduce producer losses when market prices fall below average costs
of production. These prices are established after harvest and are clearly a
subsidy designed wholly to augment producers' income on an emergency basis,
a measure that has been used to only a limited extent.



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
1/
Producer's Prices
2/
Economic Analysis                                       3/
End      Mlid                                                          Financial
1975      1976      1977      1978       1979      1980       19$5   Analzsis
----- Soles/metric ton------------------------
Crops
Cotton Fiber            55,395    55,395    55,395    54,135    54,135    54,135       54,135   54,ooo
Cotton Seeds             9,675     9,540      9,000     8,595     8,235     8,235      10,575    3,285
Seed Cotton             24,660    24,570    24,210    23,580    23,355    23,355       24,750   20,340
Rice (paddy)             8,775     9,315      9,585     8,865     8,595     8,235       8,235    9000
Maize                    6,390     5,625      5,625     5,625     5,490     5,310       5,310    8,0110
Potatoes                 4,185     4,185      4,185     4,185    41,185     4,185       4,185    4,185
Beans  (Menestras) .   18,000    18,030    18,G30    18,000    i8,ooo 18,,00 18,0,00   18,000
Alfalfa                    500       500        400       500       500        500        500      500
Fruits  4/               4,950     4,950       ,950     4,950     4,950     4,950       4,950
Garlic (!Jo)            18,000    18,000    18,000    18,000    18,000    18,000       18,000   18,000
Sugarcane                  990       765        855       810       810       810         810      810
Zapallo (Squash)         6,525     6,525      6,525     6,525     6,525     6,525       6,525    6,525
Barnaniks                3,510     3,510      3,510     3,510     3,510     3,510       3,510    3,510
Sorghum                  5,940     5,220      5,310     5,175     4,950     4,815       4,815    6,750
1/ On-farm price equivalent.
~/  Economic prices in 1975 constant soles.
3~/ Prices based on actual prices' December 1975.
1W  Apples, prunes and pears.                                                                                 CD
June, 1976



- 43 -
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND FARM BUDGETS
Area Cultivated
6.01      As a result of improved drainage and irrigation infrastructure
including land leveling, increased efficiency in water use and leaching of
these lands, the cropped area will increase through double cropping from the
present 19,000 ha to 25,200 ha at full development. Overall cropping inten-
sity will thereby increase from about 100% to 133%. It has been assumed that
there will be no change in the cropping pattern in the remaining area in the
six valleys of 49,300 ha which would only receive a limited benefit from
improvement of irrigation and drainage systems.
Yields
6.02      As a result of the project, yields in the area to be reclaimed are
expected to increase steadily, and assumed to reach levels presently obtained
in areas not affected by salinity. For most of the areas and crops, projected
yield levels at full development may be considered conservative estimates for
the following reasons: (a) the system of soil classification adopted by the
DGA tends to place the soils after leaching and desalinization in a lower
capability class than they would otherwise belong; and (b) yields will very
likely be higher than those quoted by DGA, based largely on statistics provided
by the Oficina Nacional de Estudios de los Recursos Naturales (ONERN), as a
result of better maintenance of existing water-control systems and construction
of new infrastructure, together with improved water management practices as a
result of intensification of technical assistance services planned for the
project area.
Cropping Patterns
6.03      Out of the total arable land within the irrigated valleys, less
than 60% is to be planted to industrial crops with at least 40%k under food
crops, including animal fodder crops.  Cotton generally occupies less than
20% of the cropped area. However, variations on this general rule exists.
The proposed cropping pattern at full development is as follows:
Crop                  Area (ha)       % of Total Crop Area
Cottcr,                    5,870                   23
Rice                       5,700                   23
Maize                      4,800                   19
Beans                      3,000                   12
Potatc,s                   2,440                   10
Lima beavns                1,470                    6
Other crops /1             1,920                    7
25,200                 100
/1   Bananas, sugarcane, fruits, garlic, squash and alfalfa.



- 44 -
Cost of Production
6.04      Agriculture in the project area, particularly in the three northern
valleys, is characterized by a high degree of mechanization. Due to the employ-
ment of much labor in addition to the relatively high levels of mechanization
production costs are high. All land preparation, including furrowing is done
by tractor, but hand labor is used for such operations as transplanting of
rice, and weeding, and harvesting of rice, maize, beans and cotton. Although
in the farm budgets it is assumed that the general practice of transplanting
rice would be continued, direct seeding may gradually take over, once land
leveling and water control measures improve. The price of hand labor is
relatively high throughout the project area, ranging from S|. 119 to SI. 149
per man-day. In the farm budgets, an average of S/. 135 per man-day was
used.
6.05      Fertilizer and other agricultural chemicals are commonly used in the
area. However, adaptive research and more intensive technical assistance is
much needed to achieve more balanced levels of fertilizer application. Parti-
cularly in the case of rice where extremely high doses of nitrogen are applied
--close to 300 kg of N per ha in the form of urea--it would be necessary to
determine optimal levels of fertilization under field conditions with improved
irrigation and drainage.
Production and Value
6.06      With the recuperation of presently abandoned lands and increased
yields in the area to be rehabilitated, the major production increases
would be for rice, cotton, maize, beans and potatoes. Under the assumption
that without the project yields would remain stationary throughout the devel-
opment years, this increased production represents an incremental net value
at financial prices of S/. 314.8 million or about US$7.0 million.
Farm Budgets
6.07      It was felt adequate for the purpose of financial analysis to pre-
pare farm budgets for three farm sizes: 3, 8 and 15 ha. The 3-ha model used
for the economic analysis is believed to be representative of the "average"
small farmer in the area, even though it is recognized that a large number of
farms have much less than 3 ha of land and many of these farmers would more
properly be classified as farm laborers ("eventuales"). Farmers with less
than 3 ha normally must augment their income with off-farm employment or as
part-time laborers on larger farms.  Since data on outside income is not
available it was not considered relevant to include a farm budget for farms
less than 3 ha. The basic cropping pattern adopted for the 3-ha model con-
sists of a rotation of rice (IR-8) and beans, attended to a large extent by
family labor. The present cropping intensity is 117%, rising to 125% at full
development. The 8-ha farm model, typical for medium-sized farmers organized
either in production cooperatives (CAP) or service cooperatives (CAS), is
based on cotton, maize and potatoes. Cropping intensity before the project is
100% and at full development 125%. The third model based on 15 ha is thought



- 45 -
to be typical for the larger private farmer with more than 10 ha, growing
alfalfa, cotton, maize and potatoes and, at full development, one-half hectare
of squash.  Present and future cropping intensity is 100 and 117%, respectively.
6.08      The farm models used for the financial and economic analysis of the
project (Tables 11 through 16) are considered to represent "conservative"
cases. Slightly higher cropping intensities and changes in the crop mix,
e.g., by increasing the share of higher value crops, result in corresponding
increases in farm benefits, as illustrated in Tables 17 through 23.
The basic assumptions underlying the farm budget analysis are as
follows:
(a) Cropping patterns at full development will be approximately
the same as present cropping patterns (Table 24);
(b) Yield levels at full development will be approximately equal
to the average yields presently obtained in the upper parts
of the valleys which are not suffering from drainage and
salinity problems. However, initial and maximum yields for
rice were reduced from feasibility report estimates since
they were considered to be unrealistically high, notwith-
standing claims made in official reports and publications.
Yield assumptions are presented in Table 25.
(c) Yields, assumed to follow linear trends, reach maximum levels
in the fourth year after the completion of on-farm works and
improvements;
(d) Present farm inputs for seed, herbi- and pesticides and
fertilizers basically follow rates recommended for the crops
grown in the project area by the Government's extension
service. However, present and future fertilizer rates for
rice were assumed to be much lower. Table 26 gives present
and future fertilizer rates; Table 27 shows fertilizer prices
used in the financial analysis; and
(e) Assumptions on manpower and mechanical power inputs are given
in Table 28. A summary of all non-labor inputs is in Table 29.
In Table 30, average wage levels are given for the six valleys.
6.09      Based on the above assumptions, the incremental net value of pro-
duction for the 19,000 ha project area was calculated as amounting to
S/. 314,765,000 (Tables 31 and 32).



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
3 Ha Farm Budget - Before Project
_     GROSS BNEFIt
Crop                                                  Area        Yield        Price        GyP-1'       Invuts?!       Average        T-tal
Ha       Ton/Ha      Soles/Ton      Soles         Soles         Soles/Ha        Soles
Rice                                                   2.0         4.5         9,000        81,000        17,162         31,919         63,838
Beans                                                  1.5         1.0       10,000        27,000        11,229          10,514         15,771
Abandoned                                              0.25         -           -             -             -              -
Total Cropped Area                                3.5                                                                             79,609
Cropping Intensity: 117%
Soles               Soles         ____o_H_a __    le
Gross Farm Benefit
less:
- Hired Labor3/                                                                  14,850
- Family Labor                                                                   36,450
- Interest4/                                                                      8,640
59,940                                             59.94Q
Net Farm Benefit (before Project Charges)                                                                                               19,669
Project Charges
- Operation and Maintenance                                                                              472
- Debt Service of Development Credit
472                           472
Net Farm Benefit (after Project Charges)                                                                                  6,399         19,197
1/  Gross Value of Production.
2/  Production Costs excluding Labor Costs.
3/  Assumed that total of 55 mandays of hired labor is required per hectare for seedbed preparation, transplanting and harvesting of rice.
4/  Interest on short term and long term production credits unrelated to the Project.
February, 1976



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
3 Ha Farm Budget - Full Development
GROSS BENEFIT
LX.=                                              Area        Yield        Price         GVP-/        Inputs_'         Average         Total
Ha       Ton/Ha       Soles/Ton      Soles        Soles            Soles/Ha        Soles
Rice                                              2.0          6.2         9,000        111,600       10,094             46,353       92,706
Beans                                             1.75         1.5        18,000         47,250       14,051             13,971       33,199
Total Cropped Area                           3.75                                                                              125,905
Cropping Intensity:  125%
Gross Farm Benefit                                                  Soles                              Soles          Soles/a       125,05
less: - Hired Labor3/                                              16,200
- Family Labor                                                39,690
- Interest4/                                                   8,944
64,834                                                            64.834
Net Farm Benefit (before Project Charges)                                                                                             61,071
Project Charges
- Operation and Maintenance                                                                       1, 0S
_ Capital Recovery                                                                                I
- Debt Service of Development Credit                                                             5,160
Net Farm Benefit (after Project Charges)                                                               8,232             17,613        8,232
17,613   52,839
Estimated Present Income                                                                                                              19.197
Incremental Net Income                                                                                                   11,214       33,642
1/  Gross Value of Production.
2/  Production Costs excluding Labor Costs.
3/  Assumed that 60 mandays of hired labor per Ha will be required for seedbed preparation plus transplanting, and for harvest of rice.
4/  Interest on short and long term production credit unrelated to the Project.                                                                       J'
February, 1976



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILMIATION I PROJECT
8 Ha Farm Budget - Before Project
GROSS BENEFIT
Crop                                               Area        Yield        Price   GV      P                  /        Average        Total
Ha       Ton/Ha      Soles/Ton      Soles          Soles           Soles/Ha        Soles
Cotton (Ratoon)                                    3.5          1.2        20,340        85,428        34,570           14,531         50,858
Maize                                              4.0          2.3         8,010        73,692        25,876            11,954        47,816
Potatoes                                           0.5         11.8         4,185        24,692        16,940            15,504         7,752
Abondoned                                          0.5           -           -             -             -                 -             _
Total Cropped Area                            8.0                                                                               106,426
Cropping Intensity: 100%.
Soles                             Soles          Soles/Ha        Soles
Gross Farm Benefit                                                                                                                    106,426
less:
- Hired Labor                                                   7,020
- Family Labor                                                 54,000
- Interest3/                                                   27,720
88,740                                                            88.740
Net Farm Benefit (before Project Charges)                                                                                              17,686
Project Charges
- Operation and Maintenance                                                                        1,080
- Debt Service of Development Credit                                                                -
1,080                          1 080
Net Farm Benefit (after Project Charges)                                                                                  2,076        16,606
1/  Gross Value of Production.
2/  Production Costs excluding Labor Costs.                                                                                                            a
4-.
3/  Interest on short and long term production credit unrelated to the Project.                                                                        Lo
February, 1976



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
8 Ha Farm Budget - Full Development
GROSS BFNFFTT
Crop                                              Area        Yield        Price         GVP-1         Input,,5/         Average        Total
Ha       Ton/Ha       Soles/Ton      Soles         Soles             Soles/Ha       Soles
Cotton                                              3          1.8         20,340       109,836        39,510             23,442       70,326
Maize                                               6          3.7          8,010       177,822        50,214             21,268      127,608
Potatoes                                            1         16.0          4,185        66,960        41,553             25,407       25,407
Total Cropped Area                            10                                                                                223,341
Cropping Intensity: 125%
Soles                              Soles             Soles/Ha       Soles
Gross Farm Benefit                                                                                                                    22  i4T
less:
- Hired Labor                                                 18,630
- Family Labor                                                60,750
- Interest3/                                                  30.150
109,530                                                            109,530
Net Farm Benefit (before Project Charges)                                                                                             113,811
Project Charges
- Operation and Maintenance                                                                        4,800
- Capital Recovery                                                                                 3,392
- Debt Service of Development Credit                                                              13,760
Net Farm Benefit (after Project Charges)                                                                21,952            11,482       21,952
Estimated Present Income                                                                                                               16,606
Incremental Net Income                                                                                                     9,407       75,253
1,/  Gross Value of Production.                                                                                                                        m
2/  Production Costs excluding Labor Costs.                                                                                                            0
3/  Interest on short and long term production credit unrelated to the Project.
February, 1976



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITDTION I PROJECT
15 Ha Farm Budget - Before Project
GROSS BENEFIT
Crop                                              Area        Yield        Price         GVR11         Inputs-          Average        Total
Ha        Ton/Ha    Soles/Ton        Soles         Soles           Soles/Ha        Soles
Alfalfa                                             4          4.0            500       80,000        35,896            11,026         44,104
Cotton                                               5         1.5         20,340      152,550        49,385            20,633        103,165
Maize                                               4          2.3          8,010       73,692        25,876            11,954         47,816
Potatoes                                            2         11.8          4,185       98,766        67,762            15,502         31,004
Abandoned                                            2         -              -            -
Total Cropped Area                            15                                                                                 226,089
Cropping Intensity:  100%
Soles              Soles          Soles/Ha         Soles
Gross Farm Benefit                                                                                                                    226,089
less:
- Hired Labor2/                                                              81,000
- Family Labor (management)4/                                                40,500
- Interest5/                                                                 51,975
173,475                                             173,475
Net Farm Benefit (before Project Charges)                                                                                              52,614
Project Charges
- Operation and Maintenance                                                                       2,025
- Debt Service of Development Credit                                                               -
2,025                           2,025
Net Farm Benefit (after Project Charges)                                                                                 3,373         50,589
0p3
OQ~
1/  Gross Value of Production.
Uo
2/  Production Costs excluding Labor Costs.
3/  By law at least 1 full-time laborer for every 5 Ha of cultivated, irrigated land.
4/  Assume 1 man-year (300 mandays) equivalent.
5/  Interest on short and long-term production credit unrelated to the Project.
February, 1976



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
15 Ha Farm Budget - Full Development
Crp  re  Yel  Pic  /  I 2puts-'  GROSS BENEFITS
Crop                                                Area        Yield         Price         GVP          Inputs2'         Average         Total
Ha       Tons/Ha    Soles/ton        Soles          Soles           Soles/Ha        Soles
Alfalfa                                                4          50            500        100,000       36,780             15,805        63,220
Cotton                                                 5           2.3      20,340         233,910       66,850            33,412        167,060
Maize                                                  5           3.7        8,010        148,185       41,845             21,268       106,340
Potatoes                                               3          16.0       4,185        200,880       124,659            25,407         76,221
Squash                                                  .5        11.5       6,525          37,519        5,802            63,434         31,717
Abandoned                                              _           _           _              _            _
Total Cropped Area                              17.5                                                                               444,558
Cropping Intensity:  117%/
Soles                Soles            Soles/Ha       Soles
Gross Farm Benefit                                                                                                                       444,558
less:
- Hired Labor-/                                                               121,500
- Family Labor (management)4/                                                  40,500
- Interest5                                                                    55,073
217,073                                              217,073
Net Farm Benefit (before Project Charges)                                                                                                227,485
Project Charges
- Operation and Maintenance                                                                         9,000
- Capital Recovery                                                                                  6,360
- Debt Service of Development Credit                                                               25,800
Net Farm Benefit (after Project Charges)                                                                 41,160                           412160
12,422       186,325
Estimated Present Income                                                                                                                  50,589
Incremental Net Income                                                                                                      9,049        135,736             m
fD
1/  Gross Value of Production.
2/  Production Costs excluding Labor Costs.
3/  By law at least 1 full-time laborer for every 5 Ha of cultivated irrigated land.
4/  Assume 1 manyear (300 mandays) equivalent.
5/ Interest on short and long-term production credit unrelated to the Project.
February, 1976



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
3 Ma Farm Budget - Before Project
1                        GROSS BENEFIT
Crop                                               Area      Yield       Price       GVP-1         Inputs2'    Average          Total
Ha      Ton/Ha    Soles/Ton    Soles           Soles       Soles/Ha         Soles
Rice                                               2.5         4.5       9,000      101,250       21,452        31,919          79,798
Beans                                              1.0         1.0      18,000       18,000        7,486        10,514          10,514
Squash                                             0.5        9.5        6,525       30,994        4,413        53,162          26,581
Abandoned                                          0.25         -          -           -            -             -                -
Total Cropped Area                           4.0                                                                          116,893
Cropping Intensity: 133%
Soles                Soles       Soles/Ha        Soles
Gross Farm Benefit                                                                                                             116,83
less:
- Hired Labor3/                                                           18,630
- Family Labor                                                            45,495
- Interest4/                                                               9,248
73,373                                            73,373
Net Farm Benefit (before Project Charges)                                                                                       43,520
Project Charges
- Operation and Maintenance                                                                        540
- Debt Service of Development Credit
540                           540
Net Farm Benefit (after Project Charges)                                                                        14,327          42,980
1/  Gross Value of Production.
_oQO
2/  Production Costs excluding Labor Costs.                                                                                                                  L 
3/  Assumed that total of 55 mandays of hired labor is required per hectare for seedbed preparation, transplanting and harvesting of rice.
4/  Interest on short term and long term production credits unrelated to the Project.
February, 1976



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
3 Ha Farm Budget - Full Development
GROSS BENEFIT
Crop                                             Area        Yield        Price         GVP_'        Inputs          Average        Total
Ha       Ton/Ha      Soles/Ton      Soles         Soles            Soles/Ha       Soles
Rice                                              2.5         6.2         9,000       139,500        23,618           46,353      115,882
Beans                                             1.0         1.5        18,000        27,000         8,029           18,971       18,971
Squash                                            0.5        11.5         6,525        37,519         5,802           63,434       31,717
Garlic                                            0.5         7.5        18,000        67,500        18,431           98,138       49,069
Total Cropped Area                           4.5                                                                             215,639
Cropping Intensity:  150%
Soles               Soles           Soles/Ha        Soles
Gross Farm Benefit                                                                                                                215,639
less:3
- Hired Labor-/                                                           20,250
- Family Labor                                                            65,475
- Interest4/                                                               9.856
95,517                                              95,516
Net Farm Benefit (before Project Charges)                                                                                         120,123
Project Charges
- Operation and Maintenance                                                                      1,800
- Capital Recovery                                                                               1,272
- Debt Service of Development Credit                                                             5.160
8,232                         8.232
Net Farm Benefit (after Project Charges)                                                                              37,297       111,891
Estimated Present Income                                                                                                            42,980
Incremental Net Income                                                                                                22,970       68,911
.v
1/  Gross Value of Production.                                                                                                                      r 
2/  Production Costs excluding Labor Costs.                                                                                                         > m
3/ Assumed that total of 60 mandays of hired labor is required per hectare for seedbed preparation, transplanting and harvesting
of rice.
4/ Interest on short and long-term production credit unrelated to the Project.
February, 1976



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
3 Ha Farm Budget - Full Development
GROSS BENEFIT
Crop                                              Area        Yield        Price         GVP1-       Inputs_' Average                 Total
Ha       Ton/Ha       Soles/Ton      Soles        Soles           Soles/Ha        Soles
Rice                                               2.5          6.2         9,000      139,500       23,618            46,353         115,882
Beans                                              1.5         15         18,000       40,500       12,044             18,971        28,456
Squash                                             0.5        11.5          6,525       37,519        5,802            63,434         31,717
Total Cropped Area                      4.5                                                                                176,055
Cropping Intensity: 150%
Soles             Soles           Soles/Ha        Soles
Gross Farm Benefit                                                                                                                    176,055
less:
- Hired Labor3/                                                                 20, 250
- Family Lab,or                                                                 50, 220
- Interest-                                                                     9,856
80,326                                             80,326
Net Farm Benefit (before Project Charges)                                                                                              95,729
Project Charges
- Operation and Maintenance                                                                        1,800
- Capital Recovery                                                                                 1,272
- Debt Service of Development Credit                                                               52163
Net Farm Benefit (after Project Charges)                                                              8,232                           87
87,497
Estimated Present Income                                                                                                               42.980
Incremental Net Income                                                                                                 14,839         44,517
1/  Gross Value of Production.
2/  Production Costs excluding Labor Costs.
3/  Assumed that hired labor will be required both for seed-bed preparation plus transplanting, and for harvest of rice, totalling
60 mandays of hired labor per Ha or 150 mandays in total.
4/  Interest on short and long-term production credit unrelated to the Project.                                                                        , 0
4a.1
February, 1976



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
8 Ha Farm Budget - Before Project
GROSS BENEFIT
Crop                                               Area        Yield        Price        GVP-          Inputs-           Average         Total
Ha        Ton/Ha      Soles/Ton    Soles          Soles             Soles/Ha         Soles
Cotton (Ratoon)                                     3.5         1.5         20,340       106,785       34,570            20,633          72,215
Maize                                               4           2.3          8,010        73,692       25,876            11,954          47,816
Potatoes                                            0.5        11.8          4,185        24,692       16,940            15,504            7,752
Abandoned                                           o.5          -            -             -            -                  -               -
Total Cropped Area                             8.0                                                                                 127,783
Cropping Intensity:   100%
Soles               Soles             Soles/Ha         Soles
Gross Farm Benefit                                                                                                                      127,783
less:
- Hired Labor                                                                  7,020
- Family Labor                                                                54,000
- Interest3/                                                                  27,720
88,740                                                  88,740
Net Farm Benefit (before Project Charges)                                                                                                39,043
Project Charges
- Operation and Maintenance                                                                         1,080
- Debt Service of Development Credit                                                                  -
1,080                             1,080
Net Farm Benefit (after Project Charges)                                                                                  4,745           37,963
1/  Gross Value of Production.
-m 
2/  Production Costs excluding Labor Costs.                                                                                                               U,
3/  Interest on short and long term production credit unrelated to the Project.
February, 1976



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
8 Ha Farm Budget - Full Development
GROSS BENEFIT
Crop                                                 Area       Yield        Price         GVP11        Inputs           Average        Total
Ha        Ton/Ha      Soles/Ton    Soles          Soles           Soles/Ha        Soles
Cotton                                                 3          2.3       20,340       140,346        39,510           33,612         100,836
Maize                                                  6          3.7         8,010      177,822        50,214            21,268        127,608
Potatoes                                               2         16          4,185       133,920        83,106           25,407         50,814
Total Cropped Area                               11                                                                               279,258
Cropping Intensity: 137.5%
Soles                Soles           Soles/Ha        Soles
Gross Farm Benefit                                                                                                                     279,258
less:
- Hired Labor                                                                  27,540
- Family Labor                                                                 60,750
- Interest/                                                                    31,365
119,655                                              119,655
Net Farm Benefit (before Project Charges)                                                                                               159,603
Project Charges
- Operation and Maintenance                                                                           4'30
- Capital Recovery                                                                                    3
- Debt Service of Development Credit                                                                 13,760                          217952
Net Farm Benefit (after Project Charges)                                                                21,952           17,206        137,651
Estimated Present Income                                                                                                                37,963
Incremental Net Income                                                                                                   12,461         99,688
I/ Gross Value of Production.
2/  Production Costs excluding Labor Costs.
3/  Interest on short and long term production credit unrelated to the Project.
February, 1976



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
15 Ha Farm Budget - Before Project
Area  Yield  Price  GVP-1/  la   GROSS BEIMFIT
Crop                                                  Area       Yield        Price         GVP-         Inputs-           Average          Total
Ha       Tons/Ha       Soles         Soles         Soles           Soles/Ha         Soles
Alfalfa                                                5           40           500        100,000       44,870             11,026          55,130
Rice                                                   6            4.5       9,000        243,000       51,486            31,919          191,514
Beans                                                  6            1.0      18,000        108,000       44,916            10,514           63,084
Abandoned                                              2            -           -              -           -                                  _
Total Cropped Area                               17                                                                                  309,728
Cropping Intensity: 113%
Soles              Soles            Soles/Ha         Soles
Gross Farm Benefit                                                                                                                         309,728
less:              3/
- Hired Labor-                                                                 140,400
- Family Lgy or (management)4/                                                  60,750
- Interest-                                                                     54,344
255,494                                              255,494
Net Farm Benefit (before Project Charges)                                                                                                   44,234
Project Charges
- Operation and Maintenance                                                                          2,295
- Debt Service of Development Credit                                                                 _
2,295                             2,295
Net Farm Benefit (after Project Charges)                                                                                    2,796           41,939
I/  Gross Value of Production.
2/  Production Costs excluding Labor Costs.                                                                                                           X9
3/  By law at least 1 full-time laborer for every 5 Ha of cultivated irrigated land.                                                                    si
4/  Assume 1.5 manyears (450 mandays) equivalent.
5/  Interest on short and long-term production credit unrelated to the Project.
February, 1976



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
15 Ha Farm Budget - Full Development
GROSS BENEFIT
Crop                                              Area        Yield        Price         GVP_ /       Inputs/            AvDage         Total
Ha       Tons/Ha    Soles/Ha        Soles           Soles           Soles/Ha        Soles
Alfalfa                                             5          50           500        125,000        45,975             15,805        79,025
Maize                                              2            3.7       8,010         59,274        16,738             21,268        42,536
Rice                                               6            6.2       9,000        334,800        56,682             46,353       278,118
Beans                                              6             1.5     18,000        162,000        48,172             18,971       113,828
Squash                                             1           11.5       6,525         75,038        11,605             63,433        63,433
Abondoned                                           -            -          -              -             -                 -
Total Cropped Area                            19                                                                                 576,940
Cropping Intensity:  1277%                                                   Soles                Soles           Soles/Ha        Soles
Gross Farm Benefit                                                                                                                    576,940
less:
- Hired Labor3/                                                             182,115
- Family L O or (management) 4/                                              60,750
- Interest-                                                                  56,835
299,700                                             299,700
Net Farm Benefit (before Project Charges)                                                                                             277,240
Project Charges
- Operation and Maintenance                                                                       9,000
- Capital Recovery                                                                                6,360
- Debt Service of Development Credit                                                             25,800
Net Farm Benefit (after Project Charges)                                                              41,160                           41.160
15,739       236,080
Estimated Present Income                                                                                                               41,939
Incremental Net Income                                                                                                   12,942       194,141              m e
_"3
O(D
1/  Gross Value of Production.
2/  Production Costs excluding Labor Costs.
3/  By law at least 1 full-time laborer for every 5 Ha of cultivated irrigated land.
47/  Assume 1,5 man-years (450 man-days) equivalent.
5/  Interest on short and long-term production credit unrelated to the Project.
February, 1976



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Crop Areas
CROP                                       YEAR 0         YEAR 1        YEAR 2         YEAR 3         YEAR 4         YEAR 5
Ha)           (Ha)           (Ha)           (Ha)           (Ha)           (Ha)
Cotton                                           5,191          5,041          5,191          5,191          5,191          5,872
Maize                                            4,078          4,078          4,078          4,078          4,078          4,810
Rice                                             3,316          3,316          4,053          4,053          4,053          5,695
Beans                                            1,872          1,872          1,872          2,824          2,824          3,050
Potatoes                                         1,993          1,993          1,993          1,993          1,993          2,443
Lima Beans (Pallar)                              1,178          1,178          1,178          1,178          1,178          1,476
Garlic                                             353            353            353            353            353            356
Squash (Zapallo)                                    32             32             32             32             32             32
Bananas                                            211            211            211            211            211            211
Fruits                                             422            422            422            422            422            422
Sugar Cane                                         316            316            316            316            316            316
Alfalfa                                             192           192            192            192            192            518
Leaching Rice                                      -            1,536          2,137          2,137          1,612
Leaching Sorghum                                   -              413          1,096            683           -
Leaching Cotton                                    -             -              -               543          1,752           -
TOTAL CROP AREA                            19,154         20,953         23,124        24,206         24,207         25,201
Area under leaching without crop                    -           2,152            130           -              -
TOTAL                                      19,154         23,105         23,255        24,207         24,207         25,200
0 0
.4S
February, 1976



Table 25
Page 60
PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I Z?ROJECT
Present and Future Yields
(Tons/Ha)
Crop                             Present                       Future
Rice                                   4.5                           6.2
Beans                                  1.0                          1.5
Cotton                                 1.5                          2.3
Maize                                  2.3                          3.7
Potatoes                              11.8                         16.0
Garlic                                 6.0                           7.5
Squash                                 9.5                         11.5
Alfalfa                               45.0                         50.0
Fruits                                 5.0                          7.6
Bananas                                4.8                          9.0
Sugar cane                            70.0                         90.0
February, 1976



Table 26
Page I of 2
PERU                                                                           Page 61
IRRIGATION RIBABILITATION I PROJECT
Present and Future Fertilizer Applications (in kg/ha), per Crop, with Present and Future Yields (kg/ha)
(Nu,nbers in parentheses refer to kind of fertilizer.  Rey at bottw_of Table.)
Crop, Valley and Unit                          Y E A R   0                              Y E A R   5                            YEAR   5                          Manure
Fertilizer (by category of                              FROM FASIB-ILITY R        -FORT                                       USED FOR A5RAISAL                  (LMLhe
facser) and Yields                 N         F205    K20       Yield       N          P205       K2      Yield        N     P20S      iCO       Yield          0       5
Cotton - MALA
Cooperatives                      177(1)      -        -       1,385      186(2)      43(3)       -       2,070      190    '50r        -        2,100         .5      2.0
CId iETE                  165(1)      -        -       1,385      186(2)      43(3)        -      2,070      190      50                 2,100         .5      2.0
Cerro Azul - Coops.               165(1)      -        -       1,405    ?28(6)        72(6)       -       2,530-    200       75        -        2,500        1.0      4.0
San Antonio - Coops.              165(1)      -        -       2,065      218(2)+(6) 72(6)        -       2,530      200      75        -        2,500        1.0      4.0
San Francisco - Ind.              165(1)      -        -       1,870      218(2)+(6) 72(6)        -       2,530      200      75        -        2,500        1.0      4.0
PISCO                                                            L 90(2)
Margen Izq. - Coops.              165(1)      -        -       1,525      _28(6)      72(6)       -       2,300      200      75        -        2,500        1.0      4.0
Margen Der. - Sub-unit:
Manrique - Coops                165(1)      -        -       1,350      218(2)+(6) 72(6)        -       2,300      200      75        -        2,500        1.0     4.0
Margen Der. - Sob-unit:
San Fernandito - Ind.           159(1)      -        _         900      218(2)+(6) 72(6)        -       1,500      170     40        -        1,500        1.0      4.0
MAJES                              ~750(2)
Cochate                           119(1)      -        -       1,450       16(6)      41(6)       -       1,850      175      50        -        1,900         .5      2.0
Coriro                            119(1)      -        -       1,600      166(2)+(6) 41(6)        -       1,850      175      50        -        1,900         .5      2.0
Tara                              119(1)      -                1,450      166(2)+(6) 41(6)        -       1,850      175      50        -       1,900          .5      2.0
La Iberia                         119(1)      -        -       1,000      No cotton in yr. 5; yield                  170      40        -                      .5    (2.0)
yr. 4:   1,700
Maize - MALA
Cooperatives                      100(1)      -        -       1,800       98(2)      27(3)       -       3,500      100      25        -        3,000         .5      2.0
CAdiETE                    74(1)       -       -       1,800       98(2)      27(3)        -      3,500      100      25        -        3,000         .5      2.0
Ceco  Azul - Coops                103(1)      -        -       2,300      08(6)       22(6)       -       4,500      100      25        -       4000          1.0      2.0
San Antonio - Coops               103(1)      -        -       3,200      158(2)+(6) 22(6)        -       4,500      100      25        -        4,500        1.0      2.0
San Francisco - Ind.              103(1)      -        -       3,200      158(2)+(6) 22(6)        -       4,500      100      25        -        4,500        1.0      2.0
PISCO                                                            (150(2)
Margen Izq. - Coop.               103(1)      -        -       2,830    t  8(6)       22(6)        -      4,000      100      25        -        4,000        1.0      4.0
Margen Der. - Sub-unit:
Maurique - Coops.               103(1)      -        -       2,250      158(2)+(6) 22(6)        -       3,500      100      25        -        3,500        1.0      4.0
Margee Der. - Sub-unit:                                                    67(2)
San Fernandito - Ind.            74(1)      -        -       1,200       15(6)      38(6)       -       2,200       80      2S        -       2,200         1.0     4.0
MSAJES                                                            120(2)
Cochate                           126(2)      -        -       2,000    t  8(6)       22(6)       -       3,000      100      25        -        3,000        1.0      2.0
Corire                            126(2)      -        -       2,000      128(2)+(6) 22(6)        -       3,000      100      25        -        3,000        1.0      2.0
Beans - CAMANA
Pucchun                                                          660        8.5(6)   22(6)        -       1,350       10      25        -        1,350         -        -
San Jose                       0.5 gal. /ha Bayfolan           1,200        8.5(6)   22(6)        -       1,500       10      25        -        1,500         -        -
La Boya                         at S/.370 p. gallon              660        8.5(6)   22(6)        -       1,500       10      25        -        1,500         -        -
MAJES
Cochate, Corire                    -          _        -         950        9 (6)    22(6)        -       1,200       10      25        -        1,200         -        -
Toran                              _          _        _       1,050        9 (6)    22(6)        -       1,200       10      25        -        1,350         -        -
Ajo (Garlic)  - TAMBO                                                       r201(2)
La Iberia; San Francisco          322(4)      -        -       6,000    t24(6)        60(6)      10(5)   7,500       225      60       10        7,500         -        -
Punta de Bombon                   322(4)      -        -       6,500      225(2)+(6) 60(6)       10(5)   7,800       225      60       10        7,500         -        -
Alfalfa 1/ - TAMBO
La Iberia; Pta. do Bomtbon         15(4)    38(3)    -        45,000       19(4)      45(3)       -      54,000       20      45        -       55,000         -        -
+ 1 lb. Nacco bector (S/.200.)
Pallar - PISCO
Margen Izq. Coops.                 55(1)      -        -       1,000       55(1)      -            -      1,300       25      30        -        1,300        1.0      2.0
Margee Der. - Sub. Unit:
Manrique - Coops.                55(1)      -        -         930       55(1)      -           -       1,300       25      30        -       1,300         1.0      2.0
Margee Der. - Sub. Unit:                                                   (68(2)
San Fernandito - Ind.            57(1)      -        -         750      (15(6)      37                  1,100       25      30        -       1,100         1.0      2.0
May, 1976



Table 26
Page 2 of-2
Page 62
Crop, Valley and Unit                      Y E A R   0                              Y E A R   5                         Y E A R   5                   Manir
Fertilizer (by category of                       FRM FRASISILITY REPORT                                              USED FOR APPRAISAL               (T/ha)
farmer) and Yields              N        P205     K20      Yield      N          PlOs    K?O      Yield       N     PY70,     20      Yield         0      5
Note:              Rice -  CAMANA                  Assume 10 0gN                SSee Note 300(2)                         See Note                            See Note
Assume preset        P'ucchun                     r 290(2)L      -             _ 6,000      14(6)      35(6)              ,000     180     30       -        7,000
yield is 5.6 T/ha    San Jose                       L 290(2)      -      _       9,000    314(2)+(6)  35          -       ,500     180     30       -        7,000-
and year 5 yield of La Soya                          290(2)      -       -      _4,700    314(2)+(6)  35         -      9,000      180     30       -       6,500         -      -
71'                  Co..tMAJES                   .A.s.me 150 KgRN                        250(2)
Cochate                      r209(21-22       _             3,100  l, 14(6)      36(6)     -       5,500     150     25        -       4,500        -
Corire                       I 209(2)|    -        _       3,100    264(2)+(6)  36(6)      -       5,500     150     25        -       4,500        -
Toras                        L 209(2)j    -        -       5,000    264(2)+(6)  36(6)      -       6,000     150     25       -        5,800        -      -
TAMBO                 AAss-e. 150 KgN                          300(2)
La Iberia                    - 290(2>              -       4,000      14(6)      35(6)     -       6,000     150     25       -        5,800        -
San Francisco                   290(2)1            -       5,000    314(2)+(6)  35(6)      -       6,000     150     25                6,000        -
Potatoes  -  MALA                                                       78(2)
Cooperatives                    216(4)     87(3)   -      14,000      47(6)     120(6)    100(5) 15,000      125    100      70       15,500       1.0    4.0
Individual                      190(4)     62(3)   -      14,000    125(2)+(6) 120(6)    100(5) 15,000       125    100      70       15,500       0.5    4.0
CANETE              148(1)                               190(2)
Cerro Azul - Coops.              15(6)     40(6)   -      12,500      38(6)      97(6)     -      17,000     175    150      75       17,000       1.0    4.0
San Antonio - Coops.            163(1)+(6) 40(6)   -      14,000    228(2)+(6)  97(6)      -      17,000     175    150      75       17,000       1.0    4.0
San Francisco - Id.             163(1)(6) 40(6)   -      14,000    228(2)+(6)  97(6)      -      17,000     175    150      75       17,000       1.0    4.0
TAM30               148(1)
All 3 anits 1J                   15(6)     40(6)   -        9,000    228(2)+(6)  97(6)      -     12,000     150    125       70      12,000       1.0    4.0
Zapallo  -  TANWO                 150(2)                               179(2)
Punta de Bombon                  20(6)     50(6)   -        9,500     24(6)      60(6)      -     11,600     200     50        -      11,500       1.0    4.0
Platanos - MALA
Individual  1lt yr.             62(1)      -       -       4,850    140(2)       -         -       9,000      75(2)  -      100        9,000       2.0    4.0
2nd and 3rd yr.     86(1)                               135(1)                                  100      -       80                     -
Fruits - MAJRS
Cochate                          50        30      30      5,000                                             100     60      60        6,000
Corire, Torian                   50        30      30      5,000                                             110     65      65        9,000
S.gaz.ane - TAHWO                                                                                                              7         0O0
S.a  Franc i sO                 125        50      50     70,000                                             160     70      70       90,000
1/ Only in Unit San Francisco are potatoes grown in Year 0.  In other tom  snits, potatoes will enter cropping plans in Year 5, after leaching in Year 1,
followed by 3 years of rice.
Key to fertilizers used
(1)  Aimanlum sulphate, 22% N
(2) Urea, 46% N
(3)  Standard superphosphate (soparfoefato de calio), 20% P205
(44  Amonim  nitrate, 337, N
(5) Potassium sulphate, 50% K20
(6)  Diaaesoism phosphate, 18% N, 46% P205
May, 1976



Table 27
Page 63
PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Fertilizer Prices used in Financial Analysis and in Farm Models
(in Soles/T)
Fertilizer                        Content        Financial Price        Economic Price
Urea                              46% N          10,865.00 j/            10,865.00
arnonium sulphate                 22% N           3,885.00                4,900,00  /
Anmonium nitrate                  33% N           6,365.00                7,400.00 -
Diammonium phosphate              18% N
46% P205       9,600.00               1o,3440.0 0
Triple superphosphate             46% P205        6,750.00                6,750.00
Standard superphosphate           20% P205        3,857.00                3,857.00
(Superfosfato de Calcio)
Potassium chloride (Muriate)      6o% K20         6,ooo.oo                6,000.00
Potassium sulphate                50% K20         6,000.00                6,000.00
Notes:  1   Represents a price of S/. 23.6 per kg of N.
2 Calculated on the basis of N-unit price (220 x S/. 23.6), from
which was deducted 5' to account for greater volume and additional
handling costs.
3/ Based on N-unit price and 5t deduction for additional handling cost.
)y' Based on N and P205 unit prices (S/. 23.6 and S/. l4.7, respectively)
and 5% deducted for additional handling costs.
May, 1976



Table 28
Page 64
PERU
IRRIGATION REHIABILITION I J'ROJECT
Labor and Mechanical Power Requirements for Major Crops
(in Mandays and Tractor hours per ha., respectively)
Y E A R   0                    Y E A R  5
Mandays      Tractor Hours       Mandays      Tractor Hours
Cotton                       63           20                  68            20
>-ize                        50           10                  53           15
Sx'ghw1m                     35           10                  40            13
R ice                       160            15-18             165            18-20
Ll-ans                       40           15                  48            15
Potatoes                     62           15                  66            20
Pallar  /                    50           10                  53            12
Garlic                      120           15                 125            18
Squash                       70            8                  75            10
Bananas                      65           20                  70            24
Fruits                      120           20                 125            25
Sugar Cane                   80           40                  90            50
Alfalfa
Yr. 1                    50            10                  60           10
Yr. 2                    60             -                  70            _
Yr. 3                     60                               70
Yr. 4                     60            _                  70            _
Av. p. year               58            2.5                68             2.5
1/  Lima bean - Phaseolus lunatus var. macrospermus.  ONERN suggests the following
man and mechanical power requirements: 67 mandays and 12 tractor hours per ha;
this is considered high.
/ Peaches, olives, etc.
May, 1976



Table 29
Page 65
ISRRIGATION RERABILrIATION I PROJECT
"Other I.npte":  Seed, Fertilizer (inle. org. maccure and i.oc.lat);
Herbi-and Pesticides; Machinery (lnel. tranep. cost of harvest);
(Soles/Ha)
Y E A R   0                                                Y  E A R    5
Total "Other Iepots"
Seed      Fertilizer       Herbi-and        Machinery         Seed       Fertillzer       Rerbl-asio        Mchinery           Year S         Year S
Pesoicidee                                                    Pesticides
MALA
1.  Cottos (coop)                            750       4,427            1,050            4,000             900        6,219            1,155             4,000            10,227         12,274
2. Mcioe  (coop)                             750       2,610              580            2,000             900        3,728              640             3,000             5,940          8,268
3.  Potatoes (coop)                      30,000        6,877            2,250            3,000          30,000        7,260            2,475             4,000            42,127         43,735
4.  Platono  (private) It year            1,675        2,463           1,005                            2,500        4,970            1,570             8,600
2nd and 3rd year   -          3.030            1.000                               -         5.830 .          I.S60             3.000
Av. por ye-r        558        2,841            1,000            4,000             833       5,543            1,563             4,800              8,399         12,739
CANErE - Cerro AeuL
1.  Cotton (coop)                           525        4,394            1,230            4,000             525        7,822            1,350             4,000            10,149         13,697
2. Maize  (oop)                             600        2,931            1,000            2,000             720        3,728            1,100             3,000             6,531          8,548
3.  Petot.oe  (coop)                     24,000        4,935            3,000            3,000          24,000        9,235            3,300             4,000            34,935         40,535
- Son Antonio
.  Cotton (cooP)                           525        4,391,           1,230            4,000             525        7,822            1,350             4,000            10,149         13,697
5.  MLaice  (coop)                          600        2,931            1,000            2,000             720        3,728            1,100             3,000             6,531          8,540
6.  Potatoes (coop)                      24,000        4,935            3,000            3,000          24,000        9,235            3,300             4,000            34,935         40,535
- Son Prancioco
7.  Co.ttn  (private)                       525        4,394            1,230            4,000             525        7,822            1,350             4,000            10,149         13,697
8. MNise  (private)                          600       2,931            1,000            2,000             720        3,728            1,100             3,000             6,531          8,548
9.  Pototoes (private)                    24,000       4,935            3,000            3,000          24,000        9,235            3,300             4,000            34,935         40,535
ISCO   Margen Iquierdo y Manrique
1, 4  Cotton (coop)                         525        4,394            1,200            4,000             525        7,822            1,350             4,000            10,119         13,697
2, 3  Meie  (coop)                          600        2,931            1,000            2,000             720        4,728            1,100             3,000             6,531          9,548
3, 6  Fallan  (coop)                        400        1,798            1,000            2,000             500        2,031            1,100             2,400             5,198          6,031
- Morgee Derecha: Sn. Fernandito
7.  Cotton (private)                        525        4,252            1,200            4,000             525        6,600            1,350             4,000             9,977         12,475
8.  Maine  (private)                        600        2,246            1,000            2,000             720        4,256            1,100             3,000             5,846          9,076
9. Pallor (private)                         400        1,845            1,000            2,000             500        2,031            1,100             2,400             5,245          6,031
CAMANA - Po..hta, Sa- Jose, La Boya
I. Rice                                   1,080        4,248              120            3,400           1,00        4,689              130             3,900             8,848          9,799
2.  Beans                                 3,380          185              720            3,000           3,380          604              800             3,000             7,285          7,284
MA.4ES - Cochate, Corire, Tor-n
1.  Cotton                                  525        3,058            1,500            4,000             525        5,865            1,650             4,000             9,083         12,040
2.  Rice                                  1,200        3,540              -              3,400           1,200        3,908              130             3,900             8,140          9,138
3.  Maien (Coehate, Corire only)            650        3,474            1,800            2,000             780        3,728            1,100             3,000             7,124          8.608
4.  Fr-its (Cochate)                         -         1,981            1,000            4,000             -          3,962            1,200             5,000             6,981         10,162
5.  Beans                                 3,380          185            1,660            3,000           3,380          604            1,750             3,000             8,225          8,734
6.  Alfalfa             I                                                                                6,000        1,334            3,060             2,000               -           12,394
7.  Freito (Corire end Toran)                -         1,981            1,000            4,000             -          4,332            1,200             5,000             6,981         10,532
TAM1BO                                                                                                   (year 4)      (year 4)         (year 4)          (year 4)                         (yper 4)
1.  Cotton (La Iberia)                      525        3,058            1,200            4,000             525        5,600            1,200             4,000             8,783         11,325
2.  Ajo (La Iberia, Sn. Francisco,
Pta de Bonbdn)                  26,400        7,599              500           3,000          26,400        6,312              550             3,600            37,499         36,862
3. Alfalfa (La Iberia, Pta. de Bonbon)
It year      6,000                         3,060            2,000           6,000                         3,060             2,000
2nd year         -                          4,775              -               -                           4,775               -
3rd and 4th Year         -                           7,805              -               -                          7.805               -
Av. per year           1,500        1,113            5,861              500           1,500        1,334           5,861                500             8,974          9,195
4.  Rice (La Iberia, Sn. Francisco,
Pta. de Boeb6cn)1/              1,080       3,540              120            3,400           1,080        3,908              130             3,800             8,140          8,918
3.  Fototoes  (la Iberia, Pta. de Bonbon)                                                               18,000        8,218            2,200             4,000               -           32,418
6.  Maise (l. Tberim, Sn. Francisco,
Pta. do Borb6n)                                                                                780        3,728            1,160             3,000               -            8,668
7.  Sogar CIen                              -          4,285            I,OO            8,000             -          5,645            1,200           10,000             13.285        16,845
8.  Potatoes (San Francisco)             14,400        4,935            2,000            3,000          18,000       8,218             2,200            4,000             24,335         32,418
9.  Zopallo (Pta. de Bostbn)                300        5,247            1,680            1,600             300        7,455           1,850              2,000             8,827         11,605
1/ Es 5th year only in La Iberia rice.
Llay, 1976



Table 30
PERU                                  Pag-e 66 
IRRIGATION RE_HABIL=IATION I PROJECT
1/
Salaries for Farm Labor
Valley                            Base Salary per Day
Mala                                  S/.  95.00
Caniete                               S/.  90.00
Pisco                                 SI.  80.00
CamanA                                S/. 100.00
Majes                                  S/.  80.00
Tambo                                 S/. 100.00
1/   Total salary, including social benefits, equals base
salary plus 49.25%.
May, 1976



Table 31
Phl3U                                  Page 67
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Incremental Net Value of Production
A. Without Project
Production       Price        GYP       NVP        InLabor
(Tons)      (Soles/Ton)        - - - - - 000's soles-
Cotton         7,786         20,340     158,367   62,946       51,272       44,149
Maize          9,379          8,t010     75,126   21, 220      26,380       27,526
Rice          14,922          9,000     134,298   34,217       28,455       71,626
Beans          1,872         18,000      33,696    9,573       14,014       10,109
Potatoes      23,517          4,185      98,419   14,213       67,525       16,681
Lima beans     1,047         18,000      18,846    4,733        6,161        7,952
Garlic         2,118         18,000      38,124   19,168       13,237        5,719
Squash           304          6,525       1,984    1,400          282          302
Fruit          2,110          4,950      10,444       662       2,946        6,836
Bananas        1,023          3,510       3,591       -33       1,772        1,852
Sugar cane    22,120            810      17,917   10,301        4,203        3,413
Alfalfa        8,640            500       4,320    1,094        1, 723       1.503
595,132  179,494
May, 1976



Table 32
PERU                                        Page 68
IRRIGATION REHAB-LITATION I PROJECT
Incremental Net Value of Production
B. With Project
Production        GVP      Inputs       Labor        NVP        INP?/
(Tons)         - - - - - - - - - - 000ts Soles - - - - - - - -
Cotton          13,506        274,712    77,334        53,905    143,473      80,527
Maize <.         17,797        142,554    40,255       34.,416     67,883     46,663
Rice             35,309       317,781    53,801       126,856    137,124    102,907
Beans             4,575         82,350    24,488       19,764     38,098      28,525
Potatoes         39,088       163,583   101,514        21,767      40,302      26,089
Lima beans        1,824         32,832     8,900       10,561      13,371      8,638
Garlic            2,670        48,060    13,123         6,008      28,929      9,761
Squash              368          2,401       371          324       1,706         306
Fruit             3,210         15,890     4,347        7,121       4,422       3,760
Bananas           1,899          6,665     2,680        1,994       1,991       2,024
Sugar cane       28,440         23,036     5,309        3,839      13,888      3,587
Alfalfa          25,900         12,950     4,763        4,755       3,072       1,978
1,122,814                            494,259    314,765
/  Incremental Net Value of Production.  Net value of production is defined as
Gross Value of Production (GVP) minus farm inputs and labor costs. Financial
prices are used for calculating GVP.
May, 1976



- 69 -
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Producer Benefits (Farm Income)
7.01      The impact of the project on its beneficiaries in the 19,000 ha to
be reclaimed has been analyzed for three farm types considered to be typical
for the area. All farms larger than 3 ha would employ hired labor during the
harvest but the larger farms relatively more per hectare. Assuming an average
of six persons per farm family, the per capita income, including family labor,
but after project charges and before property and income taxes, would increase
in constant November 1975 US dollars from US$206 to US$343 for the 3 ha farms,
from US$262 to US$565 for the 8 ha farm (CAP), and from US$337 to US$840 for
the 15 ha farm. Farmers in the project area but outside the 19,000 ha would
only benefit through better water control with improvement of irrigation and
drainage systems or improved operation and maintenance of the irrigation
infrastructure. The per ha benefits of these minor improvements are very
difficult to quantify and were assumed to be 10% of the net incremental per
ha benefits in the project area of 19,000 ha with major improvements. The
detailed analysis of typical farm budgets from Chapter VI is summarized
below:
Farm Type                              Small           Medium         Large
Size of Farm (ha)                       0-5             5-10          10-50
Number of Farms by Size               2,525            1,300            175
Typical Farm Size                         3                8             15
Area in Each Size (ha)              3,600           10,200          5,200
Percent of Farms in Each Size          63               33              4
Family Labor Allowance With
Project - Soles                 39,690           60,750         40,500
Estimated Net Farm Income -
with project after family
labor allowance and before
project charges - Soles            61,071          113,811       227,485
US$ Equivalent                        1,357            2,529          5,055
Incremental Net Farm Income          41,402           96,125        174,871
(after family labor allowance
and before incremental project
charges - Soles)
US$ Equivalent                          920            2,136          3,886
Incremental Net Income
(Soles/ha)                           13,801           12,015         11,658
US$ Equivalent/ha                       307              267            259
US$ Equivalent/ha After Project
Charges                               249              209            201



- 70 -
Cost Recovery
7.02      The National Water Law empowers the Ministry of Agriculture to
impose water charges, based on the volume of water used, to cover the costs of
operation and maintenance (04M) and recovery of capital investment in develop-
ment or improvement works within Irrigation Districts. The administrations of
both the Agrarian Zone and the Irrigation Districts, with the assistance of
headquarters staff in the Ministry, jointly establish the level of the charges
(tarifas) and the Agrarian Zone has responsibility to collect these charges
and transfer the monies to the Banco de la Nacion and ultimately to the na-
tional treasury. The law also provides that Juntas de Usuarios may legally
borrow and expend funds for specific improvement, protection or maintenance
works and recover these costs by imposition of special charges (cuotas), which
are collected separately from the tarifas by the Banco Agrario del Peru. The
equivalent combined charges (tarifa and cuota) have varied from US$1.29/ha to
US$4.53/ha. The collection rate in the project area is about 50% of the
presently inadequate operation and maintenance assessment. In addition to
water charges, individual farmers pay land rent of 0.6% of the assessed real
estate value in case it falls in the tax bracket of US$3,333 to US$15,555.
Small and medium sized farms pay very little if any real estate taxes. Since
cooperatives are exempt from the real estate tax, only larger farms of more
than 15 ha would be required to pay.
7.03      Project charges would be introduced as facilities and on-farm devel-
opment work are completed. Such charges would cover 0 & M costs and recovery
of investment costs, taking into account the ability of the farmers to pay
these charges and the need to maintain economic incentives. The costs in
constant end 1975 terms are estimated be about US$320/ha for investment
excluding the on-farm development component, and US$10/ha annually for 0 + M
for the entire project area of 68,300 ha. Annual charges in constant end 1975
terms of US$9.42/ha for capital recovery and US$10/ha/year for O+M would
permit full recovery of investment costs excluding the on-farm development
component over a period of 40 years at 0% real interest, with a six-year grace
period. Table 33 presents the estimated annual project charges for farms of
varying sizes and the net annual incremental benefits to be received from the
project.
7.04      On-farm development investment would amount to US$573/ha for the
typical case in which the farmer installed on-farm drains and leveled his
land. Annual loan repayment charges of US$38.22/ha/year in constant end
1975 terms would permit full recovery of the on-farm development component
costs over a period of 20 years at 0% interest, with a five-year grace period.
Annual incremental development charges in constant end 1975 terms would
average US$10/ha/year for 0+M, US$9.24/ha year for capital recovery, excluding
the on-farm development component; and US$38.22/ha/year for the on-farm devel-
opment component or a total of US$57.46/ha/year in case the farmer invests in
on-farm drains and leveling. As shown in the calculations for rent and cost
recovery indices in Table 34, these charges would represent 23% of incremental
net farm benefits for small farms, 28% for medium sized farms and 28% for
larger farms.



71 -
Farmers outside the 19,000 ha area would benefit only from better O+M and
improvement of irrigation and drainage systems. Such benefits which are hard
to quantify, were estimated to amount to only 10% of the incremental net
benefits in the 19,000 ha. Consequently, these charges would represent an
average of 71% of the estimated net incremental farm benefits. This rather
high percentage can be justified for reasons that these farms have a higher
income at the moment since their lands do not suffer from salinity and they
actually cause part of the salinity in the lower located areas by over-
irrigating their lands. Charges each year would be estimated on the basis of
what the farmers could reasonably afford to pay for water out of their net
disposable income. The tarifa would be collected as described before and
would cover the capital recovery for infrastructure investments and the
operation part of the 0+M. The cuota collected by BAP for the Juntas de
Usuarios would cover the maintenance part of the O+M.  BAP would also collect
tie repayments plus interest on the on-farm development credit as a banking
agent but would not bear any repayment risk.
Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations that
sscio-economic studies would be carried out in each valley, in accordance
wh terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and not later than six months
before the completion of project works, to determine the extent to which the
ia'estment in irrigation and drainage systems and other infrastructure works
could be recovered over a period of 40 years and at which annual interest
rate, taking- into account the ability of the farmers to pay such charges while
at: tle same time maintaining a net income adquate to provide an economic
f!centive.  These studies and conclusions would be reviewed with the Bank and
a sy!.tern of charges imposed which would cover operation and maintenance costs
and recover as much as practical of the investment costs. The system of
ilbarges would be reviewed with the Bank at least once every two years to
evaluiate the effect of changes in prices on the value of the investment and to
make adjustments as required in these charges.



PERIl
IRRIGATION REHRABiLITATION I PROJEC.
Annual Project Charges at Full Developmert
Constanit 1975 Soles
7/                                     6/
4/                    5/           Total                 Total             Yearly
3/                Yearly Recovery of       Wearly Recovery of    Yearly 0 '                Yearly         Net Increm-
incremental                          on-farm                 other               on-farm ane           Project        ental
Yearly O+M                         Investment            Investment              other inves-            Charges        Benefits.
2/ No     Charges           Total          Principal             Principal              ment recovery          per ha          per ha
Farm size per                           Area    of       per ha         Yearly O+M          per ha              per ha                of principal             Soles         Soles
family ha 1/                             ha   Families  Soles          Soles  060           Soles               Soles                 Sales '00
1.   Area 19,000 ha
0-5                            3,600   2,525    450              1,620            1,720                   424                                          2,594          13,801
5-10                          10,200   1,300    450              4,590            1,720                   424                                          2,594         12,015
10+                            5,200      175    450                              1,720                   424                                          254168
Subtotal                          19,000   4,000                     8,550                                                          35,036                               12,256
2.  Area  49,300 ha
0-5                           11,000  10.080    450              4,950                                    424                     9,614                  874           1,380
5-10                          17,700   2,440    450              7,965                                    424                    15,470                  874           1,202
10+                           20,300      680    450             9,135                                    424                    17,742                  874           1,166
Subtotal                          49,000  13,200                    22,050                                                          42,826                               12,261
1/ Cooperatives fall into the 5-10 ha category.
2/ It was assumed that the distribution of individual farms is the same in the 19,000 ha area
and the 49,300 ha area.
3/  Depreciation of maintainence equipment not included (in capital investment).
4/ Assuming full recovery of capital cost over 20 years (5 years of grace).
5/  S/. 980.75 million full recovery of capital over 40 years (6 years of grace) (980,750,000   68,003 : 34 = 424).
6/  Farmers in the 49,300 will have only little incremental benefits from the project (estimated as 10% of the net
benefits of the farmers in the 19,000 ha area).  They will pay relatively mttch but it can be justtfied since they cause part of                                                                  >
the salinization in the lower lying areas.
7/  Distribution among farm sizes of total cost of SI. 35,036,000 in 19,000 ha area is not known.
May, 1976



PEH1<
IRJTIhATION REHABIIYTATION I PROJECT
ien' and Cost heecovea Indices
Farrm 3ize                Tota(
15h ha ha            3 ha      Project
soles-----------    Soles-m!i1t
1.  Gross vaLie of farrr prod -ction at farm gate ex sales taxes            315/4186    170,806   50,850
2.  less orod action (cash costs                                           -140,615   - 67,931    6,208
3.  eqzals net cash income fi - 27                                          174,871    102,875   44,642
)4.  less - depreciation                                                      6,126       4,860       608
5.       - imp ted value of family labor                                       0          6,750    3,240
6.       - imputed value of management services 5% of itemri 3                8,7)43      5,l3    2,732
7.       - imp.ted return on own capital                                      3,098       2,430       304
8.       - allowance for risk/uncertainty 10% of net cash income             17,487      10,288    4,)464
9.       - general taxes                                                       0           0         0
10.  equials rent/surDlas                                                    139,417      73,10)4   33,294
11.  rent as a percentage of net cash income /1i0   37                        80%         71%       75%
12. volumetric water charges                                                  39,135      20,872    7,760
13.  benefit taxes                                                              0           0         0
14.  total dixect charges/taxes /12 + 137                                     39,135      20,372    7,760       407.27 (P.7)
15.  rent recovery index /14 * 1J57                                            28%         28%       23%
16.  public sector oAtlays (capital + 0&M)                                                                     ll96.93 (p.V)
17.  cost recovery index /1  4 167                                                                                34r
18.  farmers' income per capita, in project year 10, at full                 186,325      91,859   52,835
development
19.  estimated critical consM3ption level (CCL), same project year
20.  estimated national per capita income, same project year
a/  Items 1 tlirough 17 are incremental, discoanmed values at constant year-prices, or ratios
derived from them.
T:'3
July, 1976                                                                                                             2



- 74 -
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
8.01      Full development would permit improved lrrigation and Lncreased
cropping intensity in all six valleys of the project. As a result, output
per unit of land would increase substantially, and employment and income
would be generated. Incremental production of crops, mainly cotton, basic
grains and fruits and vegetables would amount to US$13.2 million p.a. at
full development using economic prices and the net effect on the balance
of payments would be US$11.3 million p.a. in constant 1975 US$ dollars.
This figure takes into consideration the increased export of cotton fiber
and sugar; the decreased imports of basic grains; and the increased imports
of project investment goods and farm inputs such as machinery, fertilizers,
and chemicals.
8.02      About 4,000 families would benefit from major project investments
such as works to reduce salinization of 15,000 ha and to reclaim 4,000 ha
of formerly abandoned land. It is estimated that the net family income of
these 4,000 families would increase to US$1,357 for 3 ha farms, US$2,529 for 8
ha farms and US$5,055 for 15 ha farms (para 7.01). At the present time about
2,500 of these families have a net income of less than US$200 per capita which
is considered as the poverty income level in 1975.  Another 13,200 families in
an area of 49,300 ha would benefit from other project investments such as
construction of main canal intake structures, improvement of irrigation and
drainage systems and expansion and improvement of services for operation and
maintenance, including the purchase of maintenance equipment. In addition
9,000 families out of the 13,200 families, who have incomes below the poverty
level, would receive some benefit from the project and a better opportunity to
improve their incomes.  However only about 15%O of the project investments
would benefit the rural target group wilth a per capita income below the
national poverty income level.  This income level takes into account the per
capita income in the Sierra, which is lower than in the coastal region.
8.03      The Project would be the first of a series of irrigation rehabilita-
tion and reclamation projects that the Government plans to implement through-
out thie coastal valleys in Peru. The 19,000 ha to be reclaimed or improved
represents about 13% of the total area with severe salinity problems in the
coast. The project would experinient with different methods of desalinization
and reclamation, which would result in a considerable benefit to the country.
8.04      The impact of the project on institutional development would be
considerable, as the several departments in the Mtinistry of Agriculture would
gain experience which would be valuable in carrying out similar projects in
other valleys.  The project would also inLtiate and help to develop on orga-
nization for operation and maintenance of systems, eventually in all the
coastal valleys.
8.05      The economic rate of return of the project over a period of 40 years
is estimated at approximately 18%, using the end-1975 exchange rate, prices



75 -
and wage rates.  In June 1976 the Peruvian Sol was devalued from US$1.00
= S/. 45 to SI. 65, wLth periodic devaluations since that time. These devalu-
ations have slightly over compensated the difference in local and foreign in-
flation rates and therefore the economic rate of return of 18% is considered
to be a conservative estimate. To measure the project's sensitivity to
deviations, several alternatives have been considered:   (a) incremental
benefits increased by 10%, which resalts in a rate of return of 20%; (b)
investment cost increased by 10%, which results in a rate of return of 16%;
(c) application of a shadow wage rate of 70% of the current wage rate which
results in a rate of return of 18%; and (d) Investments increased by 10% and
banefits decreased by 10% result in a rate of return of 14%. None of these
alternatives would result in a rate of return of less than 14%, which is about
equal to the opportunity cost of capital in Peru. The sensitivity tests
Lodicates that there would be little risk involved in the project.
8.06       The main risk of the project could be the availability of govern-
ment's counterpart financing.  While the Government is operating under tight
fLnancial constraints, it considers agricultural rehabilitation to have high
prioritv and is likely to provide the necessary local financing.
8.G7       The economic rate of return of the project was calculated on the
basis of the following assumptLons and adjustments (Table 35):
(a) The investments and operating costs in constant December 1975
prices were assumed to remaLn unchanged throughout the lLfe
of the project.
(b)  The prices f:or cotton, sugarcane, rice, maize, and sorghum
were assumed to follow the projections of the Bank's
Economic Analysis and Projections Department.  After
calculating the equivalent FOB or CIF prices, allowances
were made for local port expenses, transportation costs
withinl Peru, and processing costs to arrive at the economic
farmgate prices.  For potatoes, beans, alfalfa, fruits,
garlic, squash and bananas farmgate prices as used in the
financial analysis were used for economic farmgate prices.
It was assumed that these prices will fcllow the general
inflation and would not change in 1975 constant terms.
The incremental cottonfiber and sugar production would be
used for exports, and production of other products financed
under the project would supply the domestic market.
(c) An amotunit of 4% of the outstandLng loan balance for admin-
istrative and technical services provided to sub-borrowers
for on-farm investments were charged to the project.
(d) Since taxes and tariffs are transfer payments within the
economy, benefits and costs were adjusted to compensate
for them.



- 76 -
(e) With full recognition of the high level of unemployment
and underemployment in Peru and the absence of other
employment opportunities, especially in the project area,
the economic costs of hired and family labor requirements are
charged at current wage rates in the rate of return calcula-
tion. Applying a shadow wage rate of 70% of the current wage
rate in the sensitivity analysis results in an increase of the
economic rate of return of only one percentage point. This is
due to the fact that this is a rehabilitation project and the
main benefit will be increased yields in areas now suffering
from salinity. The additional labor requirements are there-
fore very small.
(f) Farmers in the project area outside the 19,000 ha would only
benefit through better water control with some improvement
to irrigation and drainage systems and improved operation
and maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure. The per
ha benefits of these minor improvements are very difficult
to quantify and were assumed to be 10% of the net incremental
per ha benefits in the project area of 19,000 ha with major
improvements.
(g) In the economic analysis, the project life has been taken as
40 years. It is assumed that full production would be reached
in 1986, following completion of the project work by the end
of 1983.



PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(Soles Milliona)
1       2        3         4        5        6       7      8       9     10    11-40
----------------------------------- Years----------------------------------------
Incremental Gross
Value of Production                                        85.6    179.8   328.1   482.6  478.1  554.0  592.9  592.9
Incremental Costs
Farm Inputs                                                32.1     53.9    98.0   128.3   97.3  104.6  118.9  118.9
Labor                                                      25.3     42.4    77.1   101.0   76.6   82.3   93.6   93.6
Banking Services                                    .8      3.7      5.8      7.8    10.2   10.2   10.2   10.2   10.2
Operation and Maintenance                5.1      10.2     15.3     20.4    25.5    30.6   30.6   30.6   30.6   30.6
Total                             5.1     11.0      76.4    122.5   208.4   270.1  214.7  227.7  253.3  253.3
Investments
On-farm Development                     19.3      72.0     53.1     38.8    70.5
Other Investments              39.5    258.0    230.8    168.9    145.9   131.3
Total                  39.5    277.3    302.8    222.0    184.7   201.8
Net Incremental Benefits      (39-5)  (282.4)  (313.8)  (212.8)  (127.4)  (82.1)  212.5  263.4  326.3  339.6  339.6
Economic Rate of Return:       18.19
1/ Including Incremental Net Benefits of 49,300 ha area
with minor improvements.
June, 1976



- 78 -
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that:
(a) the on-going agrarian reform program for acquisition and
settlement of lands in excess of 50 ha in individual hold-
ings would be completed during the course of the project
in accordance with existing laws and to achieve the objectives
of the program (para 3.06);
(b) the level of interest rates for on-farm development loans
would not be less than 10% (para 3.23);
(c) the Ministry of Agriculture and other agencies responsible
for components of the project would maintain separate
accounts for each component and certified copies of the
accounts of other agencies would be furnished to the
Ministry at the end of each fiscal year; these accounts
would be audited annually by an independent auditor satis-
factory to the Bank, and the audited accounts, together with
the auditor's report, would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the close of each fiscal year (para 3.34);
(d) the Ministry of Food would improve and strengthen agricul-
tural supporting services in the project area, under the new
national production program, with adequate budgetary support
and in accordance with a plan prepared by DGP to determine
the requirements for extension services in the project area,
taking into account progress on the project and the number
of farms to be served. This plan will be submitted to the
Bank for review within 12 months of project effectiveness and
this plan would be reviewed and revised annually taking into
account the progress in carrying out the project. The
Ministries of Agriculture and Food would also enter into an
agreement, within 12 months of project effectiveness,
providing for the Servicio Nacional de Mecanizacion Agricola
(SENAMA) to organize and manage the expanded operation and
maintenance services for all irrigated lands in the six
valleys, to undertake on-farm development work in one or
more of the affected areas, and to provide additional
mechanization services in the project area (para 4.08);
and
(e) socio-economic studies would be carried out in each valley
in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank and not later than six months before the completion of



- 79 -
project works, to determine the extent to which the
investment in irrigation and drainage systems and other
:nfrastructure works could be recovered over a period of
40 years and at which annual interst rate, taking into
account the ability of the farmers to pay such charges
while at the same time maintaining a net income adequate
to provide an economic incentive. These studies and
conclusions would be reviewed with the Bank and a system
of charges imposed which would cover operation and
maintenance costs and recover as much as practical of
the investment costs. The system of charges would be
reviewed with the Bank at least once every two years to
evaluate the effect of changes in prices on the value
of the investment and to make adjustments as required in
these charges (para 7.05).
9.02      The signing of a legally binding agreement between Government and
the Banco Agrario del Peru, satisfactory to the Bank, appointing BAP as the
banking agent for the purpose of making sub-loans to farmers to finance
construction of on-farm development including drainage works, land leveling,
roads and tertiary irrigation systems would be a condition of loan effect-
iveness (para 3.23).
9.03      With appropriate assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$25.0 million, with a repaynent period of 17 years,
including a grace period of three and one half years.



- 30b -
ANNEX i
Page 1
PERU
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
D.E. Horton (IBRD-Consultant) Land Reform and Reform Enterprises in
Peru, Washington, D.C., June 1975, (3 volumes).
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
I.   Feasibility Study
Proyecto Plan de Rehabilitacion de Tierras Costeras (PLANREHATIC)
Ministerio de Agricultura, Direccion General de Aguas, November
1975.
1.   Informe Resumen and Informe Final/Informe Complementario,
January 76
2.   Capitulo I - Antecedentes
Anexo 1        Desarrollo de la Agricultura en la Costa
Anexo 2 & 3:  not prepared
Anexo 4        Servicos del Gobierno
Anexo 5        Tenencia de Tierra y Organizaciones Campesinas
Anexo 6        Derechos de Agua y Tarifa
Anexo 7        Credito Agricola
Anexo 8    : Mercado y Precios
Anexo 9    :  Insumos Agricolas
Anexo 10       Impuestos, Subsidios, Control de Importacion y
Procedimiento de Contrato
3.   Capitulo II - Area del Proyecto
S.C. 1     Valle de Mala
S.C. 2     Valle de Canete
S.C. 3     Valle de Pisco
S.C. 4     Valle de Camana
S.C. 5     Valle de Majes
S.C. 6     Valle de Tambo
Capitulo III - Organizacion y Administracion



- 81 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
Capitulo IV - Estudios para Futuros Proyectos
Capitulo V - Datos Tecnicos y Costas, Planos,
Perfiles y Dibujos
II.   Preliminary draft outline report on the Coastal Valleys Drainage
Project (PLANREHATIC). Draft prepared by FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program, Rome, May 15, 1975.






0 LEE i E ?  #;USe>;>tGHis    A
*. A#C  R ;S -C !.','A\ 
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
1    -   X                     f     *. l    o                         H> o
'"-  'Z                                                                        0 -1 4=                               ;       "      - -   '      (     '
N':        ":-                                                   /               0.1' ;' ;t
/r                                                                        F
AE -R PD                                                  /va i D     ;      
D C;  C  <S OCn(XCI LK                            L) '  C  iA                                                    Er-,                       !-
0~~~~~~~~~,~~N
0  f;  0 3 - 0 =1 i   >0 4MQ,,0 >                                                                             C             i/ 1'  o  
:0    /Q    5                  2                                        LO  AFOO  O    OC    A  t ; .
I                                                                                H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-                    /t*.H   H   H  H  H _'       #%HE>  ROAALS                                                               2 '   :   0>E
.   AGRAIAN   ZONES                                           C~~~~~IA         Mo             leD   A  C  
OEACETRLNAE3  0d 310t%   yvi *t '4                  >'                    12d 
_, 'Ao,g;=  " ''                                                                                         'b      #"-A-  1            '   t-
dl' Cr'Hr7
'A   ,,h.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;V,ADR             
IRRIGATION  RE-HABILITATION   PROJECT
LA  HIBEPL  B       EHHH#SNI~(- Auc~
ASHAALT}L <ROADS,/jj,
RAIWAS                                                      A  HVI_ 
AGRA IANOH,                            D'DZONES                                                         c-
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                  H,,,S                                   .
0                  -v '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
19-              7~~*~I2Z                                               ~I~~H



