77-%3
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1103 PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 20, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF PERU
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi..Ions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BAP" means Banco Agrario del Peru, and includes any
successor thereto;
(b) "Project Area" means an area of about 68,300 hectares
located in the valleys of Mala, Cai"ete, Pisco, Camang, Majes and
Tambo;
(c) "sub-borrower" means a farmer or an association of
farmers to which a sub-loan is made or proposed to be made;
(d) "sub-loan" means a loan to finance a farm development
plan in the Project Area made or proposed to be made to a sub-
borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this
Agreement and to be partly financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
and


﻿- 3 -
(e) "farm development plan" means a plan consisting of on-
farm improvements to be carried out by a sub-borrover and to be
financed in part by means of a sub-loan.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Sectlon 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-5-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through
its Ministry of Agriculture with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative, eco-
nomic, financial and engineering practices and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other re-
sources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out Part B of
the Project the Borrower shall enter into a legally binding agree-
ment, satisfactory to the Bank, with BAP --ppointing BAP as the
Borrower's banking agent for such purpose and providing, inter
alia, for:
(i) the making of sub-loans by BAP in accordance with
the operating policies and procedures set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(ii) the payment by the Borrower to BAP of a service
charge representing the cost to BAP of carrying out
Part B of the Project and not exceeding the equi-
valent to 4% per annum of the outstanding principal
amount of the sub-loans.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the agree-
ment referred to in paragraph (a) hereof in such manner as to pro-
tect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of


﻿the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of such
agreement.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts A.3, A.4, B, C, D and E of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take such action as shall be
required or desirable to complete the application of its Decreto-
Ley No 17716, dated June 24, 1969, to the Project Area not later
than December 31, 1982 or such other date as the Bank shall agree.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause its Servicio'Nacional de Mecanizaci6n Agrfcola to
(i) organize and manage the operation and maintenance services of
the facilities included in the Project; (ii) carry out on-farm
development work in one or more of the salinized and waterlogged
areas included in the Project Area; and (iii) provide such mechani-
zation services in the Project Area as shall be required; all start-
ing not later than a year after the Effective Date or such other
date as the Bank shall agree; and
(b) (i) not later than a year after the Effective Date or
such other date as the Bank shall agree, prepare a plan to deter-
mine the extension services requirements in the Project Area
taking into account the progress made in the carrying out of the
Project and the number of farms in the Project Area; (ii) furnish,
promptly upon its preparation, such plan to the Bank; (iii) give


﻿-8-
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon; (iv) cause
its agency or agencies responsible for the provision of extension
services to farmers to carry out such plan; and (v) annually re-
view such plan taking into account the progress made in the carry-
ing out of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than six months before the completion of
Project works in each one of the six valleys included in the
Project Area, carry out a socio-economic study of each such
valley, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, to determine the extent to which the investment cost of
the irrigation and drainage systems included in Part A of the
Project (the systems) can be recovered over a period of 40 years
and at which annual interest rate taking into account the
ability of the users of the systems (the users) to pay for such
cost and the need to maintain economic incentives for them;
(b) promptly upon completion of each of the studies carried
out in accordance with paragraph (a) above review its conclusions
and recommendations with the Bank;
(c) as the Project works are completed and irrigation and
drainage services become available, charge and collect from the
users such water charges as shall be required to: (i) cover the
operating and maintenance costs of the systems, and (ii) as much
as practicable of their investment cost on the basis of the
results of the review referred to in paragraph (b) above; and


﻿-9-
(d) thereafter, at least once every two years (i) review with
the Bank such water charges taking into account the users' income
and the effect of price changes on the value of the systems
investment; and (ii) promptly make adjustments in such water
charges as required.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included


﻿- 10 -
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as~the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that sub-borrowers have adequate short-term financing
available at appropriate terms and conditions as required for the
carrying out of their farm development plans.


﻿- 11 -
'ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in.
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.


﻿- 12 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained such separate accounts and records as shall be adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in re-
spect of the Project, of BAP and the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause: (i) the accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) hereof for each fiscal year to be audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) to be fur-
nished to the Bank as soon as possible, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified


﻿- 13 -
copies 07 such accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) to
be furnished to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall (i) cause all facilities
included in the Project to be adequately maintained; (ii) cause
all necessary renewals and repairs to be made thereto; and (iii)
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.


﻿ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) BAP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agree-
ment;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that BAP will be able to perform its obligations
under such agreement;
(c) a change in the legislation of the Borrower shall have
occurred vhich shall materially and adversely affect the ability
of BAP to perform its obligations under such agreement; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BAP or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 15 -
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and BAP; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the execution of the agreement referred to in Section 3.02
(a) of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and BAP has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and govern-
mental action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that the agreement referred to in Sec-
tion 3.02 (a) of this Agreement is legally binding on the parties
thereto.
Section 6.03. The date July 20, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Economfa y Finanzas and the
Director General de Cr4dito Pdblico of the Ministerio de Economfa
y Finanzas of the Borrower are designated as representatives of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economfa Y Finanzas
Avda. Abancay
50 Cuadra
Lima, Peru
Cable address:
MINDEF
Lima
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Carlos Garcia Bedoya
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  8,ooo,ooo        60%
(Parts A and F
of the Project)
(2) Sub-loans (Part              6,000,000        75% of amounts
B of the Project)                            disbursed by BAP
(3) Equipment                    7,000,000
(a) directly                                100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) imported and                             80% (represent-
locally pur-                            ing the estimated
chased                                  foreign expendi-
ture component)
(c) locally pro-                            90% of ex-fac-
duced (other                            tory cost
than vehicles
and wheel trac-
tors)


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Consultants' services          600,000       100% of foreign
for Parts C, D and E                         expenditures and
of the Project                               100% of local ex-
penditures (pro-
fessional salaries
only)
(5) Unallocated                  3,400,000
TOTAL       25,000,000


﻿- 21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of


﻿- 22 -
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Ca%j.cry,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) in the case of Category (1), if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will: (a) rehabilitate and construct irrigation
and drainage systems and improve their operation and maintenance,
(b) provide credit to reclaim salinized and waterlogged lands, and
(c) provide agricultural extension services to farmers or farmers
associations, all in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Rehabilitation and construction of main and secondary
irrigation and drainage systems for about 33,000 hectares
1.   Construction of about 11 river intake structures.
2.   Construction of about 340 kilometers of main and secondary
irrigation canals and rehabilitation of about 65 kilome-
ters of existing irrigation canals.
3.   Construction of about 235 kilometers of open drainage
canals and rehabilitation of about 109 kilometers of
existing drainage canals.
4.   Construction of four drainage pumping plants for the
valleys of Can"ete, Camang and Tambo.
5.   Construction of about 16 bridges or culverts at the
intersections of main and secondary drainage canals
and the Pan-American Highway.


﻿-24-
Part B:   Sub-loans
Making of sub-loans to sub-borrowers to reclaim about
19,000 hectares of salinized and waterlogged land, including:
1.   Construction of about 527 kilometers of open or pipe
on-farm drains to lover the groundwater level to a minimum
of 1.5 meters below ground surface.
2.   Construction of about 44 kilometers of open or pipe
collector drains.
3.   Land clearing, leveling (about 8,000 hectares) and pre-
paration for cultivation, including the construction of
bunds for the flooding and leaching process, deep plowing
and planting of windbreaks.
4.   Construction of tertiary irrigation canals and structures.
Part C:   Operation and maintenance
1.   Establishing one entity in each one of the valleys in-
cluded in the Project Area to operate and maintain the
irrigation and drainage systems therein.
2.   Training of personnel in the methods and procedures for
the operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage
systems, and in the operation and maintenance of equip-
ment therefor.


﻿- 25 -
Part D:   Groundwater Investigation
Investigation of the effect of the underground flow on the
salination of lands in the lover parts of the valleys included
in the Project Area, and evaluation of the feasibility of
developing groundwater as an additional source of water for
irrigation.
Part E:   Extension Services
Establishing extension services in the Project Area and
training of extension agents.
Part F:   Service Centers
Construction of one service center in each one of the
valleys included in the Project Area.
Part G:   Feasibility Study
A study to determine the feasibility of an irrigation
rehabilitation project in irrigated coastal valleys of Peru
other than those included in the Project Area.
*              *            e
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 1981
through October 1, 1993                      925,000
On April 1, 1994                                  950,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.50%
More than three years but not
mre than six years
before maturity                          3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          5.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                          7.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                          8.50%


﻿SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for civil works for Part F of the Project, con-
tracts for drainage pipe or tile and contracts for minor items
of technical or office equipment which cannot be grouped in lots of
at least $50,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of compet-
itive bidding advertised locally.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and


﻿-29-
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Peru may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Peru
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Peru equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Peru.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import


﻿30 -
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more and civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:


﻿-31
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's conc-urrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated,the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 32 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿331 -
SCHEDULE 5
Operating Policies and Procedures
1.   Sub-loan Processing
(a) The Direcci'n General de Aguas of the Ministry of Agri-
culture of the Borrower will assist the sub-borrowers
in preparing their farm development plans.
(b) BAP will make a sub-loan for a farm development plan
only after said Direcci6n General de Aguas has approved
such plan.
2.   Terms and Conditions of sub-loans
(a) The outstanding principal amount of each sub-loan will
bear interest at the rate of not less than 10% per annum.
(b) The repayment terms will reflect the payment ability of
the sub-borrower and will not exceed 20 years including
a maximum grace period of 5 years.
(c) Sub-loans will be denominated and repayable in Soles.
For purposes of this paragraph "Soles" means the cur-
rency unit of the Borrower.


