Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 20028 - JO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$34.7 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 1, 2000
Human Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JOD)
US$1.00 = JOD 0.71
Fiscal Year:
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AN            Area Network
BAU           Al-Balqa' Applied University
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CC            Community College
DO            Development Objectives
EA            Environmental Assessment
EU            European Union
FC            Fund Committee
FDC           Faculty Development Center
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GoJ           Government of Jordan
HES           Higher Education Secretariat
HEAC          Higher Education Accreditation Council
HEDF          Higher Education Development Fund
HEC           Higher Education Council
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IT           Information Technology
JUST          Jordan University of Science and Technology
JOD           Jordanian Dinar
MENA          Middle East and North Africa
MIS           Management Information System
MoP           Ministry of Planning
MoE           Ministry of Education
MoHE          Ministry of Higher Education
NCHRD         National Center for Human Resources Development
NCT           National Counterpart Team
NGO           Non-Governmental Organizations
NIC           National Information Center
NSC           National Steering Committee
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development
PMR           Project Management Report
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
RSS           Royal Scientific Society
SA            Special Account
SIL           Specific Investment Loan
UIU           University Implementation Unit
TEVT          Technical Education and Vocational Training
Vice President:           Kemal Dervi,
Country Director:         Inder Sud
Sector Director:          Jacques Baudouy
Sector Manager:           Marlaine Lockheed
Task Team Leader:         Francis Steier



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Higher Education Development Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ...............                                       ....................2
B.  Strategic  Context ................................................................2
2. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ........................................................2
3. Main  sector issues and Government strategy .................................................2..............2
4. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices and long-term
vision  for the sector ................................................................5
C. Project Description  Summary ................................................................6
5. Project components ................................................................6
6. Key policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by the project .....................................7
7. Benefits and target population ...................                              .............................................7
8. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements .............................................................7
D. Project Rationale ...............................................................                                                      10
9. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................ 10
10. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .... 11
11. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .................................................. 11
12. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................ 12
13. Value added of Bank  support in this project .............................................................. 12
E.  Summary  Project Analyses ..............................................................                                              13
14. Economic .............................................................. 13
15. Financial ..............................................................                                                        14
16. Technical ..............................................................                                                        14
17. Institutional ..............................................................                                                    14
18. Social ..............................................................                                                           15
19. Environmental assessment ..............................................................                                         15
20. Participatory approach ..............................................................                                           16
F.  Sustainability  and  Risks ............................................................... 16
21.  Sustainability ...............................................................                                                 16
22. Critical risks ...............................................................                                                  17
23. Possible controversial aspects ...............................................................                                  18
G.  Main  Loan  Conditions ............................................................... 18
24. Project calendar ...............................................................                                                18
25. Other .....................                                                                                                      18
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................ 18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                                                                  18



List of Annexes
Annex 1:     Project Design Summary
Annex la:    Performance Indicators: Baseline and Target Values
Annex 2:     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:     Economic Analysis
Annex 5:     Financial Summary
Annex 6:     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7:     Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8:     Documents in the Project File
Annex 9:     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10:    Jordan at a Glance
Annex 11:    Higher Education Strategy Note
Annex 12:    Al-Balqa' Applied University
Annex 13:    Community College Social Assessment



Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Higher Education Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Human Development Group
Date: February 1, 2000                      Sector Manager: Marlaine Lockheed
Country Director: Inder Sud                 Task Team Leader: Francis Steier
Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Project ID: 69326        Sector: Education  Program Objective Category: N/A
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan  Program of Targeted Intervention: No
Project Financing Data        [X ]Loan    Credit        [] Guarantee  [] Other [
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$34.7 million
Proposed terms:                            [] Multi-currency  [X] Single currency, USD
Grace period (years):    4             [] Standard        []  Fixed       [X] LIBOR-
Variable                           based
Years to maturity:    17
Commitment fee:       0.75%
Front End Fee:        1% of Loan
Financing plan *(US$M):
Source                                                  Local          Foreign        Total
Counterpart                                              27.9             3.6          31.5
GOJ                                                       -                -         15.7
Universities' contribution                                                -          15.8
IBRD                                                                     34.3          34.3
Total:          27.9            37.9          65.8
Borrower: Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Responsible agency: National Center for Human Resources Development
Estimated disbursements *(Bank FY/US$M):    FY00  FY01  FY02  FY03  FY04  FY05  FY06
1.0    4.0    6.0    8.5    9.5  4.0    1.3
Cumulative           5.0   11.0   19.5   29.0  33.0   34.3
Project implementation period: 2000-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 05/15/00
Expected closing date: 12/31/05
* Does not include the Front End Fee of US$347,000 (1% of loan amount).



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (See Annex I for key performance indicators)
The objective of this project is to initiate improvements in the quality, relevance and efficiency of
Jordan's higher education, and to support the Kingdom's program to reform sector governance. The
project would: (i) establish system-wide modem information technology (IT), management information
systems (MIS), and library infrastructure for higher education; (ii) support a Higher Education
Development Fund that would provide grants to public universities for innovative and economically
relevant sub-projects and for improving teaching and learning; (iii) initiate reforms of higher education
governance, including the introduction of formula-based allocation of higher education recurrent
funding from the Government; and (iv) support the rationalization of the community college sub-sector
through the new Al-Balqa' Applied University (BAU). Future Bank support for the sector could include
further reform of its governance, accreditation, and financial frameworks, as well as broadening
improvements in quality and relevance (see Section 4). The project contains specific indicators to track
measures taken and changes made by the Government in reforming the governance framework, as well
as improvements in quality and relevance (see Annex 1).
B: Strategic Context
2. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
CAS document number: 19890 - JO    Date of latest CAS discussion: December 16, 1999
The project will contribute to the sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal of developing a
flexible labor force responsive to rapid changes in the labor market. This will be achieved by assisting
the Government to improve the quality and relevance of education and rationalize public expenditures in
education.
3. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Key structural and institutional features of the sector
Pre-university reforms, initiated in the late 1980s, have yielded nearly universal access at the basic level
and an enrollment rate close to 70% at the secondary level. Combined with rapid population growth, this
has created strong demand for higher education. Twenty-three percent of the 20-24 age group
(approximately 110,000 students, of which half female) were enrolled in higher education in 1999; two
thirds of these attended public institutions while the rest were enrolled in private institutions.
All seven private universities are fee-charging, proprietary or profit-making institutions that cater to
students unable to attain a place in the public universities. Private university enrollments have expanded
by over 26 times over the last 8 years (from 1,300 to more than 35,000 students), reflecting a high level
of unsatisfied demand.
Total enrollments in two-year community colleges (CC), however, have declined (from 41,000 in
1990/91 to 23,000 in 1995/96). Students and employers are dissatisfied with the quality and relevance
of CC training, and employers, now hesitant to hire CC graduates, report that they would more readily
do so if the training delivered contained more practical skills such as foreign languages and computer
training.
About 25% of total recurrent costs are recovered in the public system. Jordanian public higher education
thus stands out in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region for its high enrollment rates, female
participation and cost-recovery, as well as for the presence of dynamic private sector activity.



3
Until August, 1998, the sub-sector had been governed by a 15-member Higher Education Council
(HEC), chaired by the Minister of Higher Education. The Ministers of Education and Planning, the
Presidents of the seven public universities' and prominent businessmen were also members of the HEC.
With the creation in March 1997 of Al Balqa' Applied University (a federation of 21 CCs), MoHE lost
oversight responsibility for community colleges (see below and Annex 12). The recently approved
(August, 1998) Higher Education Law abolishes the Ministry of Higher Education entirely, revises the
composition and responsibilities of the HEC, designates the Prime Minister as its Chair, and creates a
Higher Education Accreditation Council (HEAC).
Main sector issues
Jordanian higher education faces seven broad issues, several of which are addressed by the proposed
project (see Jordan Higher Education Development Study Gray Cover Report, No. 15105 - JO; August,
1996):
Insufficient quality in public higher education
*  Universities lack modem information technology (IT) systems for teaching, libraries, and research.
*  Laboratories and facilities are outdated.
*  Faculty pedagogical practices do not encourage independent thought among students.
*  Faculty incentive systems do not encourage good performance.
*  Weakly regulated private higher education
*  Private universities and CCs have been regulated by MoHE, but the quality control criteria were
limited and restrictive (e.g., student:faculty and student:surface area ratios) and did not provide
incentives to guarantee minimal quality.
Weak economic relevance of the subsector
*  Undergraduate teaching over-emphasizes theory, and curricula and programs of study are irrelevant
to broader economic needs.
*  CC programs are poorly integrated with the local economy, and include programs more appropriate
to universities (e.g., theoretical mathematics) or vocational training centers (e.g., automobile repair)
than to CCs.
*  A 1995 study found that employers see university graduates as lacking appropriate training and that
23% of female university graduates and 12% of male university graduates were unemployed in
1994/95.
*  Graduates of CCs have the highest unemployment rates among job seekers. In 1994/95, 38% of
female CC graduates and 17% of male CC graduates were unemployed.
Inadequate financing andfinancing mechanisms
*  Until 1997 public universities were financed partly through an earmarked customs tax. This is no
longer the case, and universities have not yet established stable sources of funding.
*  Inter-university funding allocations are not transparently determined.
'University of Jordan, Jordan University of Science and Technology (JUST), Yarmnouk University, Mu'Tah
University, Hashemite University, Al-Albayt University and Al-Balqa' Applied University.



4
* Within universities, haphazard budgeting practices provide few incentives for efficiency or quality
improvements. Uncertainty over the amount of Government allocations at the beginning of the year
prevents rational institutional budgeting.
Inefficient governance, policy making and management practices
* No effective policymaking advisory bodies inform the Government on resource allocation or assist
decision-makers in planning system development. The HEC has no technical secretariat to carry out
analytic policy or advisory functions, to guide system development, or to periodically monitor
program quality and performance of graduates.
*  Public universities enjoy substantial autonomy, but this is not balanced by accountability: while they
are allowed to start new programs (and incur capital construction costs) without Government
approval, they are not subject to any form of accreditation.
*  Personnel management, particularly of faculty, is constrained by regulations similar to those in the
civil service: salaries are not linked to performance and once an appointment is made, termination is
very difficult.
*  Universities and the HEC lack modem management information systems (MIS).
Needfor community college reform
-  Until very recently the CC system did not produce graduates with needed mid-level technical skills.
*  Due to a lack of relevance and inappropriate program content, enrollments in community colleges
were declining sharply and graduates of many programs are unemployed.
*  Many CCs were too small (under 200 students) to be efficient.
*  The new Al-Balqa' Applied University that regroups all public CCs did not yet have the institutional
capacity required to carry out needed reforms.
Limited graduate training and research
* Graduate program expansion plans are often irrational. Eighteen new Ph.D. programs were recently
established over a two-year period, each entirely within a single institution, without consideration of
possible duplication at the national level.
*  Insufficient funds are budgeted for research.
Government strategy
In 1988, the Government initiated a basic education reform program. The Bank assisted the
Government in translating the reform into a ten-year implementation program, and provided two
sequential loans (Human Resource Development Sector Investment Loans - HRDSIL I and II). The
first of these has been successfully completed, and the second is ongoing. Over the last few years, the
Government has turned its attention to higher education, in order to address issues of: (i) quality of
learning and relevance to market needs (including applied research and quality assurance of private
higher education); (ii) financing constraints; (iii) governance and management; and (iv) community
colleges.
Given the comprehensiveness of the reform agenda, the government decided to implement the
reform in phases. As the anchor for improvements in quality and governance, in August, 1998,
parliament enacted a higher education law which: (i) restructures the Higher Education Council (HEC),



5
giving it full responsibility for regulating higher education, while abolishing the Ministry of Higher
Education; the HEC's stature, and its accountability to the government are enhanced by the fact that it is
now chaired by the Prime Minister; (ii) creates a Higher Education Accreditation Council (HEAC) to
accredit programs of study in both public and private institutions; (iii) establishes Boards of Trustees
with significant participation from the private sector for every public university; and (iv) creates the
Higher Education Secretariat to implement the policies of both councils (HEC and HEAC).
To bring community colleges into a professionally relevant framework, in March, 1997,
Parliament approved the creation of Al-Balqa' Applied University to regroup all public two-year
community colleges with a four year-college, and gave this university a mandate of applied
technological training.
4. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices and long-term vision for the
sector:
During project preparation, the Bank team held a dialogue with the Government and its
preparation team (the NCT) on possible elements of a long-term vision for the sector, and the role of the
present project in that vision. Project preparation also included groundwork that could be used for future
project preparation.
The discussion of the issues (see sections 3 and 14) highlighted the need, over the long-term
horizon (e.g., ten years), for the private provision and finance of higher education to evolve in a manner
that: (i) contributes to the overall financial sustainability of the sector; (ii) ensures equity, i.e., access of
disadvantaged groups; and (iii) conforms to minimum transparent standards of quality assurance that
apply equally to public and private institutions.
The following lays out a possible sequence of Bank Group operations to help achieve those
aims:
1.    The present project, for which the Government's sector strategy note (Annex 11) provides the
framework, is the first building block of the reform process. It initiates some of the reform requirements
through: (i) support for governance reform; (ii) enhancement of transparency and efficiency of public
recurrent spending through the use of a formula for the inter-university allocation of recurrent funds; (iii)
improvement of basic educational infrastructure (teaching staff, education technology, libraries); (iv)
enhancement of educational quality and efficiency of public investments in new programs through a
competitive funding mechanism; and (v) technical assistance to support the newly created Higher
Education Accreditation Council.
2.    The next phase of Bank operations (to start within the next two years) could support the
following: (i) rationalization of publicfinancing in a way that promotes sustainability (student loans) and
equity (scholarships); (ii) quality assurance for the public and private institutions through the build-up of
the Higher Education Accreditation Council; and (iii) follow-up improvements in university governance
and management.
3.     Follow-up operation(s) could include the following: (i) rationalization of, and support for
research; (ii) improvements in personnel management systems, including incentives; and (iii) direct
support for the private provision (both non-profit and for profit) of higher education, possibly in
cooperation with IFC.



6
C: Project Description Summary
5. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project is the first phase of a long-term reform process. Its objective is to put in place the building
blocks for improving quality, relevance and efficiency, and to initiate governance reform. The project
will: (a) initiate improvements in quality, relevance and efficiency through two sub-components: system-
wide support for essential education infrastructure (IT network, MIS, libraries and faculty training), and
Fund-financed university-specific sub-projects; (b) initiate improvements in governance; (c) support
reform of the CC system to increase efficiency and relevance; and (d) support project implementation
capacity.
Cost incl.           Bank-       % of
Component                        Category       contin-    % of   financing    Bank-
gency    total    WSW)    financ-
________________________________________         ~(US$M)(U$M                       ing
1. Initiate improvements in quality, relevance and  Equipment,     20.7      31.4       8.3       39.8
efficiency through support for:                 Technical
(a) essential infrastructure for inter- and intra-  Assistance,
university information technology networks,     Management
management information systems, modem library
systems and faculty training; and
(b) the Higher Education Development Fund (HEDF),                  35.1       53.4     21.9       62.3
which would allocate investment funding for                                             (1)
university-based (i) academic and entrepreneurial
subprojects, according to specified criteria contained in
the HEDF Operations Manual; (ii) information
technology (IT) proposals; and (iii) Faculty
Development Centers.
2. Initiate improvements in governance through  Technical           2.0       3.1       0.3       15.0
support for the Higher Education Council's Secretariat,  Assistance,
the Higher Education Accreditation Council; and  Equipment,
management and planning at the university level.  Policy,
Institution
Building,
Management
3. Support reform of the community college system    Equipment,     6.3       9.7       3.9       61.1
through the following at Al-Balqa' Applied University:  Technical
governance and management; new programn         assistance,
development; human resources development; and   Policy,
facility and equipment upgrade.                 Institution
Building,
Management
4. Support project implementation capacity      Project             1.6       2.4      0.04        2.6
including staffing and equipment for the Project  management
Implementation Unit and University Implementation
Units.
Total                                          65.8      100.0     34.3       52.2
___ __ ___ __ ___ __   ______________ _  (2)
(1) Of which: IT proposals 6,3; FDC proposals 0.2; Competitive Fund: 15.4
(2) Excludes 1% front end fee
Note: totals may not add up due to rounding.



7
6. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support two key policy and institutional reforms. First, it will enable
transparent resource allocation processes in public higher education - formula-based for recurrent
funding, and competition-based for investments in new programs. Resources will now be allocated on
the basis of objective criteria. The recurrent funding formula will initially be based on student headcount
and per-program student unit cost, and may later include other objectives or policy variables. Sub-
project financing approval under the Fund will be decided according to criteria applied to a proposal's
rationale, objectives, implementation and financing plans, and monitoring arrangements. The second
reform supported by the project is the establishment of a national accreditation system, with identical
criteria for public and private institutions.
7. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: The project will increase the quality and the relevance of education in public
universities and CCs, as well as the efficiency of operations and the effectiveness of sector governance
institutions. Improved quality and relevance are expected to enhance Jordan's human capital and
increase economic productivity, thereby increasing the country's capacity to compete in the global
economy. In addition, the formula-based procedure for determining annual university allocations for
recurrent costs, and a competition-based procedure, under the Higher Education Development Fund
(HEDF) for allocating new program investments, will contribute to more rational and transparent
resource use and thereby improve the sub-sector's allocative efficiency.
Beneficiaries: In the short-term, beneficiaries of the project are students in the eight public
universities and 21 community colleges (70% of which are female). In the medium- and long-term,
employers will benefit, as will students enrolled in the private system (from the creation of the Higher
Education Accreditation Council).
8. Institutional and implementation arrangements (for a detailed discussion, see Annex 6 and the
Implementation Manual):
Project Preparation: The project was prepared by a National Counterpart Team (NCT),
established by the Ministry of Planning (MoP) for that purpose and assisted by a Policy and Human
Resources Development (PHRD) Grant. The NCT was comprised of one senior representative from
each of the seven' public universities and the MoP, the Vice-President of the National Center for Human
Resources Development (NCHRD), and the President of NCHRD as chair ex officio. The NCT received
technical and administrative support from the NCHRD.
Implementation period: The project will be implemented over five years, from 2000 to 2005.
Project Oversight & Coordination: The project will be overseen by a National Steering
Committee, and executed by the NCHRD.
The NSC, appointed by the Minister of Planning, is an expansion of the NCT. It is chaired by
the President of the NCHRD, and includes the Vice President of NCHRD, the Secretary General and one
senior officials of the MoP, the Secretary General of the HEC, and one senior representative from each
IDuring project preparation the seven public universities were the ones mentioned in section B.3 (footnote 1).



8
of the eightl public universities. The NSC will set the overall policy guidelines and direction of the
project. A sub-group of the NSC, called the Fund Committee, will constitute the main body of the
evaluation committee for the Higher Education Development Fund (HEDF). The Fund Committee will
be composed of the five non-university members of the NSC plus four university representatives who
will alternate with the other four for each Round of the Fund.
Project Implementation: To assist the NCHRD in its technical and administrative functions, and
to supplement its capacity for project execution, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be formed and
located at the NCHRD. The PIU will coordinate the activities implemented by the eight universities and
will be the principal agent for implementing the system-wide activities. The size of the PIU will be
determined by the volume of work it will handle when in full operation. When fully staffed, the PIU will
consist of seven members recruited on a competitive basis: Project Manager, Fund Coordinator,
Procurement Officer, IT Officer and Financial Officer to head a three-member finance team. In addition
for IT activities the PIU will be assisted by a standing committee. In addition, each university will
designate a full-time Project Coordinator to head a University Implementation Unit (UIU). The
university Coordinator will report to the university's designated representative on the NSC and will be
assisted by the university's Finance and Procurement Departments. To facilitate the functions of the
UIUs, universities will make available the requisite human, physical and financial resources for effective
project implementation.
Main functions of the PIU with regard to sub-projects funded under the HEDF (see full
description in the HEDF Operations Manual): A typical sub-project will start with the NSC issuing an
annual request-for-proposals (RFP), to which the universities will respond by submitting proposals to the
PIU. The PIU will:
a) prepare lists of peer reviewers from its database according to subject matter and submit to the
Fund Committee for final selection;
b) engage the peer reviewers in the evaluation process;
c) receive the evaluated proposals, summarize the scores and rankings and submit to the Fund
Committee for approval;
d) agree with the universities on a standard grant award contract to be endorsed by the NSC and the
Bank and used in the execution of approved proposals;
e) monitor the Fund's monthly financial commitments based on approved financing and forward
the information to the NSC;
f) obtain NSC authorization for payment of approved financing to the universities;
g) arrange for the procurement of technical assistance for support activities necessary for the
Fund's evaluation and operation;
h) monitor the implementation of activities financed by the Fund; and
i) propose amendments to the HEDF Operations Manual to the NSC.
Accounting,financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The PIU, housed at NCHRD, will
be responsible for handling all project funds, keeping the project accounts and reporting on the project
financial situation including the project's annual financial statements. Project expenditures related to
activities decentralized at the universities' level will be also handled centrally by the PIU, following
procedures, to be agreed with the respective universities. For consolidation purposes, the universities
are responsible to report to the PIU on the financial and procurement status of activities related to the
IThe eighth public university was created in the Summer of 1999: Hussein Ben Tahl University.



9
Fund. The PIU, which will include a three-member finance team, is being established, with the
Financial Officer to be recruited prior to the approval of the Bank's Board of directors. The Financial
Officer will be responsible for establishing the financial function of the PIU including the staffing and
the development of the project financial management system,1 which are planned for completion prior to
loan effectiveness. The Action plan for completing these tasks was agreed during Negotiations and
included in the Minutes of Negotiations; the detailed action plan is given in Annex 6. The Government
of Jordan (GoJ) also plans to appoint auditors for the project accounts shortly after the loan signing; the
auditors will be requested to provide a Management letter regarding the project financial management
arrangements and internal controls before the systems are made operational.
The PIU is planning to acquire an off-the-shelf accounting software (widely available in Jordan)
with a capability of generating project management reports (PMR) for the project accounts and the
regular reporting. It is expected that such PMR will be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis
starting at the end of the quarter during which the first disbursement of the loan proceeds takes place.
Those reports will include, in particular: (i) summary of sources and uses of funds; (ii) summary of
procurement status; and (iii) impact evaluations of sub-projects financed by the HEDF. However, other
components of the PMR would be made available by March 2001, when the GoJ is expected to decided
on whether a PMR-based disbursement will be used for the project. Those reports include: the six
month forecast work program, project budget including disbursements estimates and monitoring of
project implementation indicators. Meanwhile, disbursements will be made using traditional methods of
disbursements.
Project accounts including Statements of Expenditures and the Special Account, will be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit report (in English) which
will also cover a financial and technical audit of the HEDF, will be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of the fiscal year audited, i.e., June 30 of the following year. As part of the audit
report, the auditor will prepare a << management letter» reporting on the internal controls and operating
procedures affecting project implementation and any other matters which should be drawn to the
concerned institutions' management attention.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The PIU will be responsible for monitoring project
progress against agreed indicators. Results will be presented to the NSC and discussed with the Bank
based on the criteria listed in Annexes 1 and I a.
The Bank will supervise the project with three missions the first year, and two missions per year
thereafter. During the first mission, the task of reviewing the project financial management systems will
be undertaken. An Early Implementation Assessment will be carried out within 12 -15 months of Board
approval by the Bank in collaboration with the NSC, the PIU and the universities. A mid-term review of
the project will also be carried out in 2003. The NSC will prepare a detailed report on the achievements
of the project for the mid-term review. In addition, within six months of project closing, the NSC will
jointly prepare with the Bank an Implementation Completion Report. All HEDF financed sub-projects
will be required to carry out impact evaluations as spelled out in the Fund's Operations Manual.
i For the organization of the financial function at the PIU, see Report by Allied Accountants (Artiur Andersen,
Amman) dated February and July 1998 in the Project Files.



10
D: Project Rationale
9. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
Focus on selected issues only. The Government wishes to address sector issues comprehensively
rather than incrementally, and this is reflected in the HEC-approved Higher Education Strategy Note
(Annex 11).
Include private higher education. Support for private as well as public higher education was
rejected due to strong NCT reservations concerning fiscal priorities. The NCT pointed out that private
institutions are highly profitable at the present moment and thus do not need Government subsidies.
However, the project will address quality issues in private higher education through support for the
HEAC.
Focus on universities only. This option was rejected because the two-year post-secondary
training provided in CCs: (i) is significant, comprising 23% of total enrollments; (ii) has significant
potential economic relevance, in that adequately trained personnel with the skills these programs should
teach are in short supply; and (iii) is the focus of a major reform that incorporates CCs into the new Al-
Balqa' Applied University.
Pre-define all investments. This option was rejected because it would not bring about the needed
procedural and operational changes in resource allocation. Pre-determination of investments would not
foster a transparent and competitive process under established criteria for resource allocation.
Set-up an independent HEDF organization. The option of making HEDF a completely
independent body and giving it an independent staff was rejected by the NCT as inconsistent with the
overall management structure of the sector and its likely effect of undermining university commitment to
transparent, criteria-based allocations. As described above, the Fund Committee will evaluate and
decide on funding proposals, basing its decisions on the technical recommendations of the relevant
independent peer review committees.



11
10. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Project description                        Project                        Latest Form 590 Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
(Board Approval Date) Closing    Implementation         Development
Date                   Progress (IP)       Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Expand and improve compulsory and general   Sixth Education Project (Ln. 2378-   OED rating:               S
secondary schools; enhance implementation of             JO)
pre-vocational programs. Strengthen MOE's
institutional capacity in project preparation and  (1/31/84 - 5/31/93)
implementation.
Improve the quality, relevance and cost       Seventh Education Project (Ln.     OED rating:               S
efficiency of education at the primary, secondary      2890-JO)
and tertiary levels; reinforce institution building;  (12/10/87 - 11/30/95)
and strengthen the linkage between
education/vocational training and skilled
manpower demand.
Support the preparation and introduction of  Human Resources Development         OED rating:               S
reform policies and qualitative improvements in  Sector Investment Loan
the areas of curriculum, textbooks, teacher
training, educational technology, school             (Ln. 3106-JO)
construction, vocational training and system       (6/29/89 - 6/30/97)
evaluation, research and development in addition
to institutional development.
Support the Government's ten-year Education     Second Human Resources                S                    S
Reform Program through improvement in        Development Sector Investment
educational quality. The project focuses on              Loan
measures to enhance the teaching-learning
environment including teaching competencies,         (Ln. 3864-JO)
curricula and textbooks, administration and       (3/10/95 - ongoing)
management, and creating a strong institutional
framework particularly in relation to vocational
and technical education, examinations and
national assessment.
Project description                        Project                        Latest Form 590 Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation        Development
Progress (IP)       Objective (DO)
Other development agencies
European Union                              Development of Teacher                   NA                    NA
Preparation Capacity in
Universities.
CIDA (Canada)                               Economic Development Through             NA                    NA
Technical Skills Project (ongoing)
OECF (Japan)                                TEVT in HRDSIL I and 11                  NA                   NA
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
11. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Jordan has had ten Bank-supported projects addressing issues in general education and
manpower development, but the proposed project would be the first in higher education. The following
lessons of implementation, derived from higher education sector work in Jordan, the Bank supported



12
HRDSIL I project in Jordan, as well as ongoing higher education projects in Tunisia, Argentina and
Indonesia, have been incorporated in project preparation and design:
* project design needs to take into account the complex nature of quasi-autonomous universities
and the potential impact of inter-university politics on the project;
* universities need to improve planning and management practices and tools, including
management information systems;
* formula-based finding mechanisms for recurrent spending should be based on student
headcount (enrollments or completions) and differentiated student unit costs, according to fields
of study; and
* short-term technical training programs need to establish strong links with the local economy
(through flexible and responsive curricula, and through the formal inclusion of business
community leaders in college advisory boards).
12. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In 1996, the Government of Jordan requested support for its higher education reform program as
well as a PHRD grant to support project preparation. High officials (H.R.H. Prince Hassan and the
Ministers of Planning and of Higher Education) have publicly endorsed the project during the
preparation process, as did the public university Presidents. Between May and October, 1998, four
seminars, involving representatives of the main higher education stakeholders and chaired by Prince
Hassan, debated the four major issues faced by the system: (i) quality and relevance; (ii) governance
and management; (iii) financing and student aid; and (iv) research and development. In addition, the
Government has demonstrated commitment and ownership by:
•  adopting the conclusions of the Bank's 1996 sector report as the analytic framework for sector
development;
*  establishing the NCT to prepare the project under guidance from the Minister of Planning; and
*  having the NCT prepare a higher education sector strategy note endorsed by the HEC (Annex
i1).
13. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support will bring value added in six areas:
* analysis of cross-sectoral labor markets issues;
* worldwide perspective on analysis of higher education issues (e.g., the Bank's policy study
Higher Education: the Lessons of Experience, presented to the Board in 1994; higher education
projects under implementation in every region);
* specific analysis of Jordanian higher education issues, as demonstrated in the 1996 sector report;
* comprehensive sector perspective. With 10 projects in Jordan's education and training sectors
since 1975, the Bank can help to prioritize sector issues, putting them in a context which ensures
that higher education measures are not adopted which adversely affect the rest of the system;
* translating policy and technical analysis into implementable recommendations; and
* the Bank is for the moment the only major donor involved in the design of comprehensive
higher education reform in Jordan.



13
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
14. Economic (see Annex 4):
Rationale for a public sector intervention. Higher education is presently characterized by a
dominant public system. The present situation would be improved if the public and the private sector
were to co-exist in a framework of market discipline brought about by a transparent and universal
accreditation system for both. The proposed project supports a transition from the present role of the
State to a future one. National economic needs and demographic pressures will lead to an expansion of
higher education, and this will require increasing provision and finance by the private sector. Efficiency
and equity aspects will be crucial in this respect.
From an efficiency point of view, the project will assist the Government to establish a level
playing field for public and private institutions, and will also guarantee transparent information for
students (and their families), the consumers of education, and for employers, the "consumers" of higher
education's output, i.e., graduates. This will be accomplished through an accreditation system using
identical criteria for public and private institutions. The project will also examine equity issues through
the support of studies undertaken by the HEC technical secretariat.
Rationale for a project supporting public institutions only: Excluding direct support for private
institutions at the present stage is justified because: enhancing the quality, relevance and efficiency of
public programs would directly benefit two-thirds of higher education students (the admissions system
ensures that they are in general more qualified academically, and that they also include socially
disadvantaged students); government borrowing for improvements to private universities and CCs, both
of which are for-profit enterprises, would include a substantial subsidy component to the private
proprietors, which is not consistent with the government's overall fiscal priorities or education sector
priorities; due to the autonomy of the public universities covered by the project, implementation of the
resource allocation reforms and other measures will involve considerable ongoing negotiation between
universities and the HEDF and NSC. Including private institutions would complicate this further.
Rationale for the present project. A least-cost analysis provides the justification for specific
investments as currently designed (see Annex 4). A cost-benefit analysis provides the justification for
the project as a whole.
There are two sources of economic benefit. First, gains in the efficiency of public spending
would result from improved sector governance and management embedded in the three first components
of the project. These gains are difficult to estimate.
Second, gains in the labor market would result from improved program relevance. As
enrollments increase in programs with enhanced quality and greater economic relevance, labor
productivity (and possibly graduate employment') is expected to increase. Conservative estimates of the
internal rates of return (IRR) obtained in three different scenarios show that they are greater than 10% if
one assumes only a modest JOD5 monthly average productivity increase for graduates.
Fiscal impact. Total recurrent costs associated with the project are minimal; at US$13.5 million
over the five-year life of the project, they represent 2.1% of projected annual higher education recurrent
costs during that period.
I Including employment rates and speed of employment after graduation.



14
15. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=n/a; FRR-n/a
Total project costs are estimated at US$65.8 million. The foreign exchange component is
estimated to be about US$37.9 million, and local costs including taxes about US$27.8 million. The Bank
loan, in the amount of US$34.3 million,' will finance 52.2% of total project costs and the Government
and Universities will provide financing for the remaining balance (US$15.7 million each). The total
Govermnent contribution (US$15.7 million) is expected to represent approximately 3.5% of projected
Government higher education recurrent spending and less than 1% of total Government higher education
spending during the period.
16. Technical:
The preparation process emphasized knowledge transfer (study tours, domestic seminars on
strategic planning and distance education), consultation and collaboration, and technical expertise.
Expert reports on information technology, MIS systems, faculty development and technological
education are available in the project files (see Annex 8). The project draws from best practice in the
Bank and from international higher education reform experience. In addition, the project supports
technical assistance for critical activities related to governance and management, faculty training and
curriculum development.
Selection criteria in the HEDF Operations Manual will ensure selection of technically sound
sub-projects in later rounds.
17. Institutional:
Executing agencies: The NCHRD is familiar with Bank policies and procedures through its
current involvement in other Bank-funded projects. It is mainly responsible for the research and
development activities under these projects, and for monitoring project implementation by other
agencies. However, the Center is not adequately staffed to support the PIU in its procurement,
disbursement, and financial functions. Therefore, it is necessary to build the PIU's capacity to assume
the implementation responsibilities it will be mandated to carry out, and to ensure satisfactory project
financial management and proper application of the Bank's procurement and disbursement guidelines.
All universities have separate procurement and finance departments headed by directors. A
review of their accounting systems2 indicates their adequacy to keep track of commitments and
expenditures for Project activities. The universities have adequate experience in ICB procurement, and
have the capacity to undertake ICB procurement according to Bank guidelines.
Bank policies and guidelines have been disseminated and all relevant information will continue
to be disseminated during supervision missions. Bank's standard bidding documents and/or simplified
documents were agreed upon during project negotiations for use in the procurement of goods and
services. Training in project implementation, in particular procurement, and monitoring systems and
techniques will be supported under Component 4 (Project Implementation Capacity).
lExcluding 1% up-front fee.
2 (As mentioned above) except for the Hussein Ben Tahl University, for which an assessment was not performed
due to its late entry into the project (Fall 1999). However this university is a forner branch of Mu'Tah University,
which was assessed.



15
Project management: The NCHRD will make available to the PIU other support staff (some on
a part-time or occasional basis), interpreters/translators, computer experts, bilingual (Arabic/English)
secretaries and drivers. The PIU will be provided with adequate office space for its staff and facilities for
file storage, copying, telecommunications (telephone, facsimile, email), information systems (computers
and software), transport, and adequate operating funds. Detailed functions of the PIU and terms of
reference for each PIU member are described in the Implementation Manual. Funding for the PIU will
be shared equally by all universities. Each university will transfer its share to the NCHRD at the
beginning of each project year to ensure that the PIU is adequately funded.
18. Social (see Annex 13):
The Bank's first systematic social assessment in higher education was undertaken for the
stakeholders of Al-Balqa' University Community Colleges (Community Colleges Social Assessment).
The assessment survey, jointly designed by the Bank team and staff from the University of Jordan's
Center for Strategic Studies, had two objectives: first, to establish baseline data on the major
stakeholders' (students and their families, faculty, employers, and community leaders) perceptions about
the new university; and second, to help Al-Balqa's Management design the overall CC reforms entailed
in this project and associated faculty training and relocation arrangements. Survey questionnaires were
distributed to students and faculty, and focus groups and interviews were conducted with students,
faculty, parents, employers and community leaders. Al-Balqa's Management gave constructive feedback
on the survey questionnaires and allowed the assessment team to test them in the field before
finalization. The report was completed and very positively received by Al-Balqa's Management.
Overall, the social assessment findings were fully consistent with the project supported public CC
reforms. Key findings included:
*  families were more willing to spend money on private university tuition for sons than for
daughters, so that girls who were not admitted to a public university were more likely than boys
to attend a CC rather than a private university. Thus, in 1998, seventy percent of CC students
were female;
*  female students usually enrolled in a CC near their home in order to avoid long commuting time;
*  students, faculty and employers were dissatisfied with the quality and relevance of training in
community colleges, and they were all looking forward to the implementation of the new Al-
Balqa' University framework and strategic plan; and
*  employers were hesitant to hire CC graduates, but would more readily do so if CC training
included more practical skills, such as foreign languages and computer training.
19. Environmental assessment:     Environmental Category     [ ] A   [ I B    [X] C
The project is expected to have a positive environmental impact. Through the Higher Education
Development Fund it will support one or more university environmental programs, which will be
coordinated with the Higher Council for Science and Technology's environment program. The project
is rated category C because it will finance neither construction nor infrastructure.  The HEDF
Operations Manual specifies that environmental screening for minor rehabilitation works will be
undertaken by the Jordanian General Corporation for Environment Protection, in compliance with
Jordan's Environment Protection Law # 12 of 1995.



16
20. Participatory approach:
Identificationl    Implementation        Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries/community groups       CON                  IS                  IS
Intermediary NGOs                    N/A                 N/A                 N/A
Academic institutions                COL                 COL                 COL
Local government                     CON                  N/A                N/A
Other donors                         COL                 COL                 COL
RSS                                  COL                 COL                 COL
Employers                            CON                 CON                 N/A
Project preparation relied extensively on consultation and collaboration. In addition to the university
community, local employers, parents and community leaders, the project team has consulted and
collaborated with other donors, including the European Union, the Canadian International Development
Agency and the French Cooperation Agency.
F: Sustainability and Risks
21. Sustainability:
The following factors are likely to be critical to the sustainability of project benefits:
(i) Institutional sustainability. The project will contribute to the overall sustainability of higher education
in Jordan through capacity building at the system and institutional levels. Component 2 would support
enhancement of national and university planning and management capacity. At the national level, the
newly constituted HEC has already been appointed, and its project-supported technical secretariat is
expected to continue performing critical analytic and monitoring functions after project completion.
Sustainability of the HEDF and its implementation structure (NSC, PIU) beyond the project is more
questionable. Allocation of sub-project funds through the HEDF will introduce objective, criteria-based
financing mechanism to the sector. Successful implementation of this mechanism will be critical to the
Government's and stakeholders' desire to make it a permanent fixture in Jordanian higher education
(ii) Financial sustainability. This will depend on overall government revenues during the project
implementation period. Public expenditures on education, all levels combined, were approximately
US$550.0 million in 1996. Total costs of this five-year project (US$65.8 million) translate as an average
annual cost of US$13.2 million per year. This represents about 2.3% of the Government's total annual
education spending. Incremental recurrent costs, estimated at US$13.5 million during the life of the
project, also represent a small share (2.1%) of public recurrent spending in higher education. Financial
sustainability of the sector will be enhanced by the project, which will improve sub-sector efficiency and
channel investment funds toward more cost-effective investments. In addition, project design will enable
substantial cost recovery on the IT investments: with a US$14 per student computer usage fee per
semester recommended by the Bank team, more than 50% of the IT investments would be recovered
during the life of the project.l
I The Bank team had recommended computer fees as follows: JOD 10 for the Fall and Spring semesters, and JOD5 for the
Summer. The University of Jordan has already implemented a more ambitious plan, charging double that for each semester.



17
Finally, the Bank has provided technical assistance to the Government to ascertain the conditions under
which financial sustainability of the sector can be maintained in a framework that guarantees optimal
efficiency and equity, including the upgrade of scholarship and student loan schemes.
22. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to development objectives
Stakeholders reject transparent resource allocation  Modest   Evidence of transparent and
methods.                                                 rational inter-university resource
allocation distribution will be
furnished to the Bank annually
(funding formula).
Higher education leadership, university missions and    Modest   Annual supervision will monitor
policies do not support quality teaching.                 HEC and university strategic plans
and the evolution of project
indicators (Annex la).
Fund sub-projects are not implemented according to  Modest   Sustainability and implementation
approved proposals, and are not sustainable.              capacity are among the approval
criteria (Operations manual);
subsequent years' funding is
contingent on satisfactory
execution of the previous years'
implementation plan.
Technical assistance does not take place as     High      Government guarantee of timely
programmed.                                               TA implementation (Agreed
Minutes of Negotiations). Early
Implementation Assessment to be
carried out within 12-15 months of
Board presentation. Mid-term
review.
Project components to outputs
Academic community does not display sufficient  Modest   Round 1 proposals have already
interest to prepare HEDF proposals.                       been approved for each university;
dissemination of HEDF
Operations Manual to facilitate
proposal preparation according to
criteria.
Selections of Fund sub-projects do not adhere to  Modest   Fund Committee composition has
HEDF Operations Manual guidelines.                        more non-university than
university representatives (5 vs 4);
close supervision.
Overall project risk rating                    Modest



18
23. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Two aspects of the project may be controversial. First, the new and transparent resource allocation
mechanisms for recurrent and investment costs supported by the project may engender opposition.
Although all principal stakeholders are currently in agreement, university presidents whose institutions'
funding declines may resist the new mechanisms. The project mitigates this risk by Govermnent
agreement to provide annual evidence to the Bank that Government university funding has been
distributed among the public universities in accordance with methodology and resource allocation
formula acceptable to the Bank. Second, the exclusion of private higher education institutions from
direct project support may engender resentment among their proprietors. This will be mitigated by
continued public communications from policymakers on the rationale for this exclusion described in
Section 14.
G: Main Loan Conditions
24. Effectiveness:
* A project financial management and reporting system acceptable to the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] Procurement packages for the first year of the project have been submitted to the Bank. Procurement
documents prepared for IT have been reviewed and found to be of satisfactory quality.
[x] The Project Implementation Manual including HEDF Operation Manual was appraised and found to
be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[x] The implementation plans for the 13 sub-projects approved under Round 1 of the HEDF were
reviewed and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[x] The resource allocation formula was reviewed and found satisfactory.
[x] The Ministry of Planning has confirmed the composition of the NSC.
[x] The action plan for the implementation of the HEAC was agreed upon during negotiations.
[x] Selection of key PIU staff (Project Manager, Financial Officer and Procurement Specialist) is
completed (final interviews ongoing).
[x] Appointment of the 8 University Coordinators is completed.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
, Country Director: Inder Sud   ,  f       =
Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Sector Manager: Marlaine Lockheed
Team Leader: Francis Steier      _      _    _    _



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
(See Baseline and Target Values in Annex la)
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators for     Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions
Universities! Higher Education    for Community Colleges
Council
Sector -related CAS Goals:                                                                                                  (Goal to Bank Mission)
*  Address high-level human   *  Increase by 10% the percentage   *  Increase by 10% the     *  Annual tracer studies of    *  Regional peace
resource constraints to national   of B.S. and M.S. graduates employed   percentage of associate  graduating students.      environment sustained.
economic development.        in their fields of study.          degree graduates employed in  *  Institutional annual financial  *  Regional economic
*  Improve efficiency of     *  ratio of administrative staff to  their fields of study.     reports.                       development on track.
public resource use.         academic staff declines from 1999   *  Ratio of administrative    *  HEC annual reports.       *  Macro-economic
baseline to target in 2005.        staff to academic staff does                               and institutional
not increase above 1999                                    framework in place.
ratio (0.85).
Project Development          *  Quality: increased use of new   *  Quality: employer         *  Quality: Independent        (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   teaching methods, educational media  satisfaction with skills of  surveys of faculty; students and   *  Positive economic
Initiate improvements in the  and technology, and imnproved     graduates improved over      employers and review of        growth.
quality and relevance of higher  ratings of faculty teaching by  baseline.                  teaching portfolios.            *  Public funding for
education, the efficiency of  students.                         *  Relevance: increased      *  Relevance: Institutional    higher education
public resource use and sector   *  Relevance: increased        enrollments in new associate   semi-annual reports on       sustained in real terms.
management and governance.    enrollments in new programs       degree programs (from 10,000  enrollments by program.       *  Positive public
supported by HEDF.                in 1999 to 15,000 in 2005).  *  Efficiency: Annual          perception of CCs.
*  Efficiency of public resource  *  Management and            institutional reports on faculty
use: share of expenditures for    governance: BAU/CC           and programs; annual
academic programs increases from  completes organizational     institutional budget reports.
1999 baseline to target.         design and operational policy   *  Governance: Annual
*  Management and governance:    manual by 2003.               institutional, HEC Secretariat
transparent mechanisms used by                                 and HEDF reports.
HEC for allocations of recurrent
resources (formula) and new
program investments (HEDF); time
for student registration reduced by
10% by 2005 from baseline hours in
1999.
- D
O9



Narrative Summary               Key Performance Indicators for  Key Performance              Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions
Universities/ Higher Education   Indicators for Community
Council                        Colleges
Project Outputs:                *  Percentage of faculty and    *  Student/PC ratio        *  PIU progress reports;        (Outputs to Objective)
1. Academic programs and        staff offices with LAN          increases from x in 1999 to   supervision and mission reports.   *  Higher Education
pedagogical methods improved    connections increases from 0% in  y in 2003.               *  FDC evaluations and annual   leadership, institutional
*  Public higher education IT    1999 to 100% by 2000.          *  Competency-based        reports.                        mission and policies
networks (including computer    *  Student/PC ratio increases   student evaluation         *  Impact evaluation reports    support teaching as well
proficiency classrooms)         from 1999 baseline to target in   instruments in place.    from HEDF projects.             as research.
established.                    2003.                           *  Share of students with    *  Independent surveys of     *  Students and faculty
*  University computer          *  Faculty/PC ratio increases   competent English language  faculty, students and employers.   take advantage of
competency courses in place.    from 1999 baseline to 2/1 in 2003  skills increases from 10% in  *  Mid-term review and ICR.    technology training
*  University library system    and 1.2/1 in 2005.              1999 to 50% in 2005.       *  BAU progress reports.        opportunities.
modernized.                     *  All graduating students      *  33 lead instructors with                                *  Structures for
*  Faculty Development Centers  complete required computer      3 months training in                                       faculty reward and
operational in (some) public    competency course by 2003.      technical and pedagogical                                  promotion provide
universities.                   *  Study programs with          skills and industry                                        incentives for better
*  New and improved degree      integrated use of educational   experience.                                                teaching, research and
programs in place.              technology increases to 20% by                                                             community service.
*  Faculty upgraded.            2003 and 60% in 2005.                                                                      *  HEDF grant
*   Student use of electronic                                                              proposals are responsive
library facilities increases by 20%                                                        to guidelines.
in 2003 from 1999 baseline.
*  Percentage of faculty/units
served by FDCs increases by 5%
per year from 2003 to 2005.
*  Number of grants for
creating about 30 new programs
and improving about 50 existing
programs successfully
implemented.
O -



Narrative Summary               Key Performance Indicators for  Key Performance             Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions
Universities/ Higher Education   Indicators for Community
Council                        Colleges
2. Higher education programs    *  Improvements in specific    *  New first-year core     *  Annual university and CC     *  Competitive process
with greater economic relevance  indicators relative to HEDF sub-   program in place in all CCs   reports.                will positively impact all
introduced                     projects [impact evaluations    by 2003.                   *  PIU progress reports;        programs, not just the
*  HEDF-supported projects for   required for all HEDF sub-    *  New second-year         supervision reports.            awarded ones.
improving relevance in place   projects].                  programs introduced in four  *  Mid-term review and ICR.    *  Economic growth
in 7 universities.          *  Increased revenue to        CCs by 2003.               *  HEDF evaluation reports.     leads to increased
universities from Entrepreneurial   *  2-year terminal    (e.g. tracer survey of graduates)    demand for higher
*  CC reform program expanded   University activities.         academic programs closed                                   education graduates.
from 3-college pilot to 7                                  in all CCs by 2000.
colleges.                                                  *  Entry level vocational
programs closed in all CCs
by 2000.
3. Rational resource allocation    *  100% of government       *  Not applicable.         *  PIU progress reports;        *  Acceptance of
methods introduced              allocation for recurrent funding                          supervision and mission reports.   resource allocation
*  Formula for allocating       distributed to universities as per                        *  Mid-term review and ICR      methods by all
recurrent cost financing        formula approved by HEC.                                  *  MIS reports.                 stakeholders.
operational.                    *  Number of proposals                                                                    *  Government
*  HEDF operational.            submitted to HEDF annually;                                                               allocations to
new projects funded per year.                                                             universities remain at or
above FY98 actual
levels in real terms.
* Government
allocations received by
universities on a regular
basis.
*  MIS training/TA
takes place as scheduled.
-
cm
oCO



Narrative Summary               Key Performance Indicators for  Key Performance             Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions
Universities/ Higher Education   Indicators for Community
Council                        Colleges
4. Higher education governance  a  University administrators   *  CC administrators have   *   PIU annual progress reports;  *  Acceptance of
and management strengthened   have on-line availability of data by on-line availability of data by  supervision and mission reports.   governance and
2005.                          2005.                       *  Mid-term review and ICR.    management changes by
*  MIS system operational.      *  HEC Technical Secretariat    *  BAU uses MIS to        *  Impact evaluation reports    all stakeholders.
uses MIS to prepare annual     prepare annual reports,    from HEDF projects.
reports, including analyses and    including analyses and
recommendations.              recommendations.
*  HEAC studies completed and  *  MIS data generated and
basic accreditation procedures in  used in BAU for CC
place (number of committees,   management and planning.
number of reports).
*  Adequate staffmg and skills
mix of university planning and
management units.
*  MIS data generated, and
used, in system-wide and
university management and
planning.
Project Components:             Inputs                         Inputs                     *  Progress reports to NSC.     Optimal equipment and
1. Initiate improvements in     *  Technical assistance.       *  Technical assistance.    *  Disbursements reports       software choices made.
quality, relevance and efficiency   *  Training.               *  Training.               (quarterly).
through:                        *  Equipment; hardware and     *  Equipment, hardware    *  Bi-annual supervision
(a) Installing system-wide:    software.                       and software.              missions.
*  Information technology (IT)    *  Books and materials.      *  Books and materials.
network.
*  Management information
systems (MIS).
*  Modem library system.
*  Training for FDC                                                                                              _



Narrative Summary                Key Performance       Key Performance                 Monitoring and Supervision        Critical Assumptions
Indicators for       Indicators for
Universities/ Higher   Community Colleges
Education Council
(b) Establishing a Higher Education  *  Equipment (video, *  Not applicable.    *  Progress reports to NSC.              *  Interest in academic
Development Fund, which would       computer                                    *  Disbursements reports (quarterly).    community results in
finance:                            hardware and                                *  Bi-annual supervision missions.       sufficient pool of
*  Faculty development centers.     software).                                  *  Mid-term review in 2003               competitors.
*  Education technology          *  Training.                                                                            *  Reviewers evaluate
equipment.                       *  Technical                                                                            proposals strictly on the
*  80 competitively awarded, peer   assistance.                                                                          basis of merit with respect
reviewed grants for academic                                                                                            to the Fund's Operations
programs.                                                                                                                Manual.
*  30 competitively awarded, peer
reviewed grants for Entrepreneurial
University programs.
2. Initiate improvements in      *  Training.          *  Not applicable.       *  Semi-annual project monitoring and    *  HEC responsibilities
governance through support for:   *  Technical                                  supervision                              and methodology
*  HEC Secretariat.                 assistance.                                 *  Mid-term review in 2003               accepted by all
*  Higher Education Accreditation  *  Equipment                                                                          stakeholders.
Council (HEAC).                 (computer hardware                                                                       *  HEC Secretariat and
*  Planning and management at    and software).                                                                          HEAC established by law
the university level.
3. Community College reform:     *  Not relevant.      *  Technical assistance.   *  BAU semi-annual program progress    *  BAU leadership
*  Governance and management.                          *  Training.             reports to NSC.                          maintains focus on
*  Program development.                                *  Equipment.            *  Quarterly disbursement reports to NSC.  relevance, resists political
*  Human resources development.                                                 *  Supervision missions (3 in Yr. 1, 2 in   temptations to expand out
*  Facility and equipment                                                       Yrs. 2-5).                               of BAU mission.
upgrade.                                                                        *  Mid-term review in 2003.              *  BAU funds UIU at
appropriate level of
staffimg and skills.
4. Project Implementation        *  Training.          *  not applicable.       *  PIU semi-annual program progress      *  Strong leadership of
Capacity:                        *  Equipment.                                  reports to NSC.                          NSC.
*  PIU.                                                                         *  Quarterly disbursement reports to NSC.  *  Government funds
*  University project coordinators.                                             *  Supervision missions (3 in Yr. 1, 2 in    PIU at appropriate level
Yrs. 2-5).                              of staffing and skills.  O  ^
*  Mid-term review in 2003.                  _



Annex 2
Page I of 8
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
The project will have four components:
COMPONENT  1:  INITIATE  IMPROVEMENTS  IN  QUALITY, RELEVANCE  AND
EFFICIENCY (US$55.8 million, including contingencies)
This component will have two sub-components: (i) system-wide support; and (ii) a Higher
Education Development Fund.
1.1    System-wide support (US$20.7 million). System-wide support will be provided to an IT
network infrastructure and computer proficiency, library system, management information system, and
faculty training.
Information technology network The project will finance the installation of a robust, standards-based
information technology infrastructure, including hardware, software, and applications; inter- and intra-
university connectivity; and global connectivity through the Internet to provide students and faculty
access to national and global research data and information, and the ability to collaborate electronically
with educators on both the national and global levels.
The network infrastructure will include high-speed fiber optic lines, a mix of shared and switched
network technologies, and various application servers. In addition, the Universities will be linked together
(Inter-University) through a high-speed network using fiber optic cables already in place. The
infrastructure is crucial to the success of other (sub-) components of the project, such as the Library
System and MIS.
The project will also finance the establishment of computer proficiency courses, to be mandated
as a required 3-credit hour course for all undergraduate students, regardless of academic discipline. The
investment includes set-up of computer classrooms, audio/visual equipment, furniture, etc.
Management information systems (MIS). The project will support the design and use of modem
management infornation systems (MIS) that integrate all necessary modules (e.g. educational data,
financial information, physical inventory, human resources) needed in decision-making by the HEC as
well as provide adequate data and system compatibility to link up with the statistical systems of all public
universities. The data provided by the universities will be processed in the HEC Technical Secretariat.
This component will finance the following:
*  computer equipment, printers and software for the HEC Secretariat and work stations for universities;
and
*  training for HEC Secretariat and university staff.
Library system. The project will finance the development of an inter-university library system that will:
(a) increase the overall efficiency of the libraries in the public system; (b) facilitate access to and
exchange of information; and (c) contribute to improvements in education quality and learning methods,
by connecting university libraries to external information systems and electronic sources of learning
material. The project will support:
*  establishing increased automation at each individual library by installing a fully functional Integrated
Library System (ILS) to common standards in each university;
*  linking these together to facilitate resource sharing and the provision of new electronic library
services;



Annex 2
Page 2 of 8
* through the networked ILS and supplementary IT applications, enabling libraries and their users to
access external (international) infonnation sources;
* ensuring that library staff are trained in the effective management and use of the new systems;
* through training of library managers and key staff, raising awareness of the potential role of
university libraries in support of learning, teaching and research, in order to stimulate their
development (e.g. through the Faculty Development programs and proposals for sub-projects to the
Fund); and
*  designing programs (e.g. shared cataloguing, information retrieval and document delivery system)
which would optimize procurement, mitigate waste of resources through unnecessary duplication and
help provide just-in-time access to information for the faculty, researchers and students of Jordanian
universities.
Faculty training. The project will support in-country system-wide training for individuals who will be
assigned as faculty developers in each institution. The objective of this training is to ensure that once
faculty development centers are established, they can be staffed with individuals who have the necessary
skills to plan, deliver, and evaluate appropriate and relevant activities which foster quality teaching and
learning. Specifically, these activities will promote: (a) sound and innovative teaching practices; (b)
improved instructional materials and programs; (c) greater competence in performing academic duties
including teaching, research and service; and (d) a positive attitude toward life-long learning and
professional development.
The training for faculty developers (1-5 from each university) will be offered in two phases by
international consultants in Jordan. This will enable individuals to receive training in phase 1 and to put to
practice acquired skills as co-instructors with the international consultants in year 2. The context of this
practical training will be a series of seven workshops (one by each university) that will be offered to the
academic community at large. The process of peer and faculty mentoring and ways and means of carrying
it out, feedback and formative evaluation, reflective practice, group dynamics, and general principles in
planning and delivering effective interventions will be modeled and practiced during training while
specific content is discussed. The content, among other things, will include course design and teaching
methods, instructional analysis, use of media and technology in instructional contexts, assessment,
teaching and program evaluation, and motivation. This intensive training will be in the form of a
workshop and will be carried out over two full weeks (about 50 hours) each year of the training. In
addition to developing a core of faculty developers, which is the main objective of this sub-component,
the output will be a series of seven well-planned interventions that will benefit the academic community
at large.
1.2    Higher Education Development Fund (HEDF, the Fund) (US$35.1 million). The Higher
Education Development Fund will support improvements in the quality, relevance, and efficiency of
Jordanian higher education. It will do so through three distinct windows: the competitive window of the
HEDF, the Faculty Development Center (FDC) Fund, and the Information Technology (IT) Fund.
Competitive Window of the HEDF. The Fund will make competitively awarded grants for: (a) Program
development subprojects, which will support the creation or upgrading of a small number of excellent
undergraduate and graduate degree programs in priority fields; and (b) Entrepreneurial subprojects,
which will facilitate increased interaction and knowledge transfer between the universities and partners
from the productive sector. Subprojects will be selected through a transparent and objective peer review
process.  The review system will emphasize the relevance of the proposed subprojects to Jordanian
economic and social development, the solution of local and regional problems, and the ability of Jordan
to meet future human resource needs. All subprojects will require a co-financing commitment from the
participating institutions. In addition, the entrepreneurial subprojects will require a minimum 25%
matching commitment of resources from a co-sponsoring firm or organization.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 8
More specifically the following types of activities will be supported by the competitive Fund:
Curriculum and program reform. The HEDF will support development or introduction of
reformed curricula, development of interdisciplinary programs, phasing out obsolete programs, and
consolidation of programs across universities to avoid unnecessary duplication.
The "entrepreneurial university". The project will provide support for proposals submitted by a
university or university faculty jointly with one or more private sector enterprises (the grant will be made
to the sponsoring university or department). This activity is designed to increase the relevance of public
university education to the changing market conditions in Jordan and the neighboring Arab countries and
to enhance the contribution that the universities make directly to national community and business
development. This sub-component would rely on market signals to define opportunities and on
competition to allocate resources. The justification for World Bank financing is that universities and the
private sector are equally wary of each other and neither universities nor private companies will allocate
scarce financial and human resources to experiment with what are perceived as very risky programs. For
Jordan to remain competitive as a country with a major role in educating its youth and an emerging
industrial country in a more liberal environment, relevant, market-driven higher education in the most
comprehensive sense of the word is essential.
This sub-component will support six types of activities selected by the universities from a wide
array of successful activities implemented by universities in industrial countries and from those already
initiated in Jordan. These are: (i) advisory and technical services, (ii) contract research, (iii)
comprehensive service centers, (iv) training, (v) "incubator centers, and (vi) multi-disciplinary centers.
The competitive Fund is expected to award US$15.4 million during the life of the project, in at
least 3 Rounds (including Round 1, the selection for which took place in February - July, 1998). The
selection process will follow a calendar that permits projects to be selected and begin implementation at
the beginning of the academic year (see the "Calendar of Activities"). All funded grants must include
performance indicators at the time of approval; grantees will submit annual progress reports and be
subject to peer evaluation. The progress of the Fund as a whole will be evaluated every year by a panel
of Jordanian and international experts.
The National Steering Committee (NSC) will issue a Request-for-Proposals (RFP) annually for
the first three years of the project. The RFP will clearly specify the number and size of the various
subproject types to be supported in a given round.  Proposals will be sent to several ad hoc peer
reviewers (up to four per proposal, including both international and Jordanian expert specialists) who will
make qualitative comments and provide a numerical score to rank the proposals. A sub-group of the NSC,
called the Fund Committee (FC), will constitute the main body of the evaluation committees for the
Higher Education Development Fund (HEDF). The FC will be composed of the five non-university
members of the NSC plus four university representatives who will alternate with the other four for each
Round. The FC will select the top ranked proposals in each grant category for funding, according to the
amount of resources available for each round. Grant award will vary according to size, in order to create
the broadest competition among disciplines with different characteristics and needs. The Fund will make
grants of between US$75,000 and US$750,000 for investments in laboratory and pedagogic equipment,
visiting professorships, maintenance, technicians, training, and research consumables. The participating
university will provide resources for the staff time, physical infrastructure and student scholarships
required by the subprojects. The university will also commit to provide the resources to sustain the
program after the grant award is finished.
Entrepreneurial subprojects will be judged on additional categories pertaining to the commercial
potential of the expected output, the quality of the interaction of students and professors with their
counterparts in industry, and the ability of the subproject to generate mutually productive relationships



Annex 2
Page 4 of 8
between firms and universities.  The Entrepreneurial subprojects are also expected to enhance the
universities' long-term potential to generate revenues through joint research contracts and the sale of
technical services to private sector partners.
Participation in the HEDF is open to all eight public universities.  Subprojects will be
implemented over a period of 18 to 36 months. The performance of all subprojects will be extensively
monitored and evaluated. This information will be used for larger scale formal impact evaluation of the
HEDF as a whole, which will take place every two years.
The rules and procedures for the three windows of the Fund are defined in detail in the HEDF
Operations Manual. The Manual defines responsibilities of all actors at all stages of the grant process
and identifies the administrators within both the Project Implementation Unit and the universities who
will manage grant implementation. With respect to the competitive window of the Fund, for example,
complete information on any of the topics outlined below is available in the corresponding section of the
HEDF Operations Manual:
Part I:      Objectives
A.    General Objectives
B.    Specific Objectives and Activities Supported by the Fund
C.    Grant Award and Implementation Process
D.    Relation of the Fund to Other Project Components
E.    Activities Financed by the Fund
Part II:     Operating Rules and Procedures
A.    The Generation of Requests for Proposals
B.    Types of Projects
C.    Eligibility Criteria
D.    Pre-qualification Period
E.    Peer Reviewer Selection
F.    Standard Proposal Submission Form
G.    Solicitation of Reviews from Ad hoc Peer Reviewers
H.    Standard Peer Review Criteria and Rankings
I.    Qualitative Comments from Peer Reviewers
J.    Selection of Projects by the NSC
K.    Award Notification and Grant Contracting
L.    Amendments to Grant Contracts
M.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
N.    Financial Management and Financial Reporting Requirements
0.    Monitoring and Evaluation of the HEDF
P.    Administrative Costs and Budget of the Fund
Part III:    Institutional Structure of the Fund
A.    The National Steering Committee
B.    Responsibilities of the Fund Coordinator and of the PIU for the HEDF
C.    University Project Coordinators
Part IV:     Special Considerations
A.    Entrepreneurial Subprojects



Annex 2
Page S of 8
B.    Eligible Expenditure Items for the HEDF
C.    University Co-financing and Sustainability of Programs
D.    Conflict of Interest and Public Disclosure Policy
E.    Safety and Ethics Considerations in HEDF-funded Subprojects
Annex 1:     Performance Indicators for the HEDF
Annex 2:     Standard Proposal Submission Form
Annex 3:     Guidelines for Peer Reviewers
Annex 4:     Standard Submissions Form Supplement for Entrepreneurial Projects
Annex 5:     Supplemental Guidelines for Peer Review of Entrepreneurial Projects
Annex 6:     Calendar of Activities
Faculty Development Center Fund. FDCs will provide professional development activities for faculty to
improve and enhance the quality of their academic performance. The FDCs will place particular emphasis
on activities aimed at improving teaching, courses and curricula, research skills, and will actively
promote the use of new and innovative teaching methods, including ways in which media and technology
could be utilized in instructional contexts to foster deeper learning. In addition, through various
initiatives, they will provide senior administration with data, literature, and ideas that can inform policy-
making and resource allocation that in turn will foster learning and the valuing and rewarding excellence
in teaching. The scope of activities could thus aim at any or all of the following levels: (a) the individual
level, through programs/workshops for and consultations with junior as well as mid-career and senior
staff; (b) the unit level, through advising chairs and deans in matters concerning curricula, in articulating
program outcomes, and in developing criteria for defining good teaching and developing mechanisms to
evaluate it; and (c) the institution level, through providing senior administration with information
concerning trends, best practices, research data and relevant literature.
This sub-component will be financed through a separate non-competitive envelope in the HEDF,
earmarked for the development of FDCs in all seven public universities. Once universities have
appointed, cross-appointed, or seconded staff who have the necessary experience as faculty developers
and/or will take part in the training under Faculty training (Component 1), they are in a position to apply
for funding on the basis of a detailed work plan. Proposals will be submitted to and will be reviewed by
the National Steering Committee (NSC). The NSC will ensure that funds are distributed fairly amongst all
public universities based on objective and transparent criteria. The sub-component will also finance basic
equipment and reference materials for each FDC. (Details provided in the Operations Manual of the
Faculty Development Center Fund).
All FDCs will be evaluated on the basis of performance and monitoring indicators, which will be
clearly articulated in their respective proposals. FDCs will submit detailed annual reports for review by
the university and the NSC. A mid-term and a final external evaluation will be performed by a team
comprising one local and one international expert. Their recommendations will be used for future
planning and development.
Information Technology Fund Once the IT network is established, the project will finance student and
faculty computers and network, professional and end-user training, educational technologies, and human
resources necessary to operate the new investments in IT. All PCs will be networked, with access to file
and print services, as well as direct access to the global Internet. Investments will be made according to
an established Strategic Investments Plan (SIP) for IT, developed by each university. The SIP will
provide for the framework, and the IT budget envelope allocated to each university over the five-year
implementation period of the project will be agreed upon in the Annual Work Plans. The Annual Work
Plans would reflect activities previously undertaken and completed, and the ever-changing technology
environment and market, coupled with a clear justification of how the investments would be applied and
would benefit the education system of each university.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 8
COMPONENT 2: INITIATE IMPROVEMENTS IN GOVERNANCE (US$2.0 million including
contingencies)
Legislation reforming system governance has just been approved by Parliament (see section 3).
This component will strengthen the Government's institutional capacity to implement the needed
governance reform, and the universities' planning and management capacity.
2.1    Higher Education Council Secretariat. Presently the HEC secretariat has no technical
mandate or skills to inform and advise the HEC on policy matters. This component will support such
functions by financing the following measures: (i) technical assistance to help set up the analytical
functions of the HEC Secretariat, which will be undertaken by a Funding Unit, a Policy Advisory Unit,
and a Statistical Unit; (ii) equipment to support these functions; (iii) technical assistance to design student
loan and scholarship schemes to ensure the financial sustainability of the sector, while improving access
and equity; and (iv) local and overseas training of staff.
Early implementation will focus on the set-up of the Higher Education Funding Unit (4 persons)
within the HEC Secretariat. The Unit will be responsible for maintaining the recurrent funding formula,
collecting the agreed information required for the model, identifying and evaluating various alternative
funding arrangements and their effects on universities, and managing the consultative and evaluative
process with the universities themselves. The impact of the new allocation arrangements on the
efficiency of universities will be a key feature of process evaluation.
2.2    Higher Education Accreditation Council.  The legislation just approved by Parliament
envisages the creation of a Higher Education Accreditation Council (HEAC) to promote the process of
accreditation and evaluation of public and private universities and of their programs of study.  The
Secretary General of the HEAC has been appointed. The project will support the technical assistance
necessary to the operational design of the HEAC, through studies, including participation by
stakeholders.
The methodologies for external and self-evaluations of universities and programs will be
developed during project implementation. These methodologies will be based on international experience
of the evaluation of universities as well as the accreditation of study programs. Further steps include: (i)
the designation of the members of the HEAC; (ii) the establishment of disciplinary committees; (iii) the
publication and the circulation of procedures to universities and professors; and (iv) the preparation of an
evaluation calendar for universities and programs.
2.3   Improved Planning and Management Capacity at the University Level. The project will
finance training, technical assistance, and equipment to bring all planning and management staff and
processes in public universities in line with the upgraded practices at the national level, and consistent
with the new accountability of these institutions. Training of university managers, administrators and
selected faculty will include the development of management and financial management, and the
strengthening relations with the private sector.
COMPONENT 3: REFORM OF THE COMMUNITY COLLEGE SYSTEM/AL-BALQA'
APPLIED UNIVERSITY (US$6.3 million, including contingencies)
The Government of Jordan is committed to reforrning the community college system by
establishing Al-Balqa' Applied University and assigning responsibility to this University for the
academic, management, and administrative affairs of all community colleges in the Kingdom. This
component of the project will support the reform process through investment in the following four sub



Annex 2
Page 7 of 8
components: (i) governance and management; (ii) program development; (iii) human resources
development; and (iv) facility and equipment upgrading. (See Annex 12 for additional background)
3.1 Governance and Management. This sub-component will support: (i) technical assistance for the
office of the BAU President through the provision of a seasoned education administrator who would
assist with further development of the BAU organizational structure, working practices, procedures for
the annual planning cycle and preparation of a Policy and Procedures manual; (ii) technical assistance for
a Systems Analyst to assist BAU with an assessment of management information products necessary for
the efficient management of BAU and its associated community college system. The sub-component will
also support the acquisition of hardware and software for the development of a financial, human
resources, and student management information system. Fellowships will be provided for the BAU
System Analyst and local training for MIS users.
3.2 Program Development. BAU has committed itself to a process of program renewal which will
eliminate existing terminal academic programs or entry level vocational programs, and introduce new,
employment driven program streams at the Associate Degree level in the fields of Technology, Business
and Finance, Natural Resources and Applied Social Sciences. BAU will establish a Program
Development Unit (PDU) to manage the program renewal process. The sub- component will support: (i)
the establishment of the PDU through the provision of fellowships for five PDU staff to develop skills in
the formulation of competency-based curriculum; and (ii) technical assistance for a curriculum
development specialist who would establish operational procedures for the unit and guide the curriculum
development process for the first year of the new Associate Degree Programs.
3.3 Human Resources Development (HERD). Reform of the community college system will involve
recruiting and reskilling teaching and non-teaching staff at all levels. This sub-component will support
the three mechanisms set up by BAU to strengthen its teaching staff: (i) adoption of the concept of Lead
Instructors for the sectoral and subsectoral programs that are expected to comprise the Associate Degree
program framework; the investment program will provide fellowships for these Lead Instructors through
focused professional and pedagogical upgrading coupled with short-term attachments to business or
industry; (ii) in-country professional development workshops for all staff in topics relevant to their area
of instruction; technical assistance will be provided for the design and delivery of these workshops; and
(iii) technical assistance for the engagement of expert counterpart instructors in specialized areas relevant
to the new Associate Degree programs.
For non-teaching staff, professional development is required in computer applications, language training,
operation of the MIS, and other discipline specific areas. While all training is expected to be available in
country, its implementation will be based on a system-wide human resources development plan. The
investment program provides technical assistance for an organizational development and training
specialist to prepare the HIRD plan, together with funds for local training.
3.4 Facility and Equipment Upgrade. The proposed BAU Associate Degree programs will build
technical skills and competencies on a foundation of: (i) numeracy; (ii) literacy; (iii) communications; (iv)
computer applications; and (v) English comprehension. Community colleges are not presently equipped
to develop many of these skills. Similarly, laboratories and workshops necessary for the development of
technical competencies are currently either under-equipped or in need of upgrade. This sub-component
will finartce computer laboratories, science laboratories, language laboratories, specialized lab/workshop
equipment, library books and audiovisual equipment.



Annex 2
Page 8 of 8
COMPONENT 4:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION CAPACITY (US$1.6 million, including
contingencies)
This component will support project implementation capacity and will finance the necessary expenditures
as follows:
a) staffing of the PIU for the duration of the project's five-year implementation, consisting of a Project
Manager, a Fund Coordinator, an IT Coordinator, a Procurement Officer, and a Financial Officer to
head a three-member finance team; training and office equipment;
b) administrative costs for the operations of the Fund which include fees for peer reviewers, expenses
related to two evaluation conferences and other expenses related to ad hoc evaluation activities;
c) incremental staffing at the universities for personnel dedicated to the UIUs;
d) support to the NSC, the IT/MIS Committee, the Library Committee and other ad-hoc advisory
committees.



Annex 3
Page I of I
Annex 3
The Hashemite Kindgom of Jordan
Higher Education Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
%      % Total
fUSS W00                Forign    Bag
Local      ForMn         Total    Exchanue  Costs
A 1.QUALITY, EFFICIENCY, RELEVANCE
1. 1.1 System-wid.
1.1.1 ITlnfr.                                              5,874.8      2,711.1     8,586.0        32       14
1.1.2MIS                                                   1,958.7      2,325.0     4,283.7        54        7
1.1.3 Ubray sytem                                          1,922.4      2,994.0     4,916.4        81        8
1.1.4 FOC Stat-up                                             28.0       112.0        140.0        80        -
Subtotal 1.1 Systemwide                                      9,784.0      8,142.1    17,926.1        45       29
2. 1.2 Higher Education Developmen Fund
1.2.1 Acad. & Entr. Prog.                                  5,702.4    15,417.6    21,120.0         73       35
1.2.2 IT Prop.                                             5,934.4      8,197.0    12,131.5        51       20
1.2.3 FDC Prop.                                              111.0       703.0        814.0        86        1
Subtoal1.2HlgherEducationDevelopmentFund                    11,747.8    22.317.7    34,065.5         66       56
Subtotal 1.QUALITY, EFFICIENCY, RELEVANCE                      21,531.8    30,459.8    51,991.6        59       85
B. 2. GOVERNANCE
2.1 HEC Scretat                                                247.6        202.4       450.1        45        1
2.2 AccredItatIon                                               30.0        120.0       150.0        80         -
2.3 Planning & Mgt Univ. level                                 963.9        346.7     1.3106         26        2
Subtoal 2 GOVERNANCE                                            1,241.5       669.1      1,910.6       35         3
C. S. CC REFORM
3.1 Govern. &Mgt                                               447.2      1,287.8     1,735.0        74        3
3.2 Program Dev.                                                22.0        108.0       130.0        83         -
3.3 HR Dev.                                                    147.1       635.4        782.5        81         1
3.4 Fac. &Eq. Upgrade                                          803.0      2,17i.0     2,974.0        73        5
Subtotal 3. CC REFORM                                           1,419.2     4,202.3     5,621.5        75         9
D. 4. PROJECT MGT.                                             1,3`12J        196.6     1,508.5        13         2
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                            25,504.6    35,527.8    61,032.3         58      100
PhWysc Conit cigesS                                           1,237.4     1,317.6     2,555.0        52        4
Pnce ContIngencies                                            1,181.5     1.025.9     2.187.4        47        4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            27,903.4    37,871.3    65,774.7         58      108



Annex 4
Page 1 of 8
Annex 4
Economic Analysis
1.    The proposed project comes at an opportune time in Jordan's development. A full participant in
the Middle East peace process, Jordan is moving into the 21 st century trying to restructure its economy to
compete in the global environment. The speed and effectiveness with which Jordan makes this transition
will be either facilitated or hindered by the relevance of its higher education system - universities and
community colleges . The system must produce graduates that will be responsive to and contribute to a
more competitive and more demanding private sector. A measure of success of the present project will
be a higher education system that more effectively produces graduates who will be more in demand in a
competitive, globally oriented, market.
2.     The objective of the project is to initiate improvements in the quality, relevance and efficiency of
higher education in Jordan, and to support the Kingdom's program to reform sector governance. This
annex examines in turn: (a) the rationale for a project supporting the public higher education sector; (b)
the rationale for this particular project; and (c) financial sustainability and fiscal impact.
A.    Rationale for a project supporting the public higher education sector
3.    In 1990 the Jordanian Government allowed private universities to open, provided they satisfied a
minimum set of "accreditation" requirements from the Ministry of Higher Education (primarily linked to
ratios measuring human and physical capital per student). Since then the combination of strong social
demand, demographic pressures and limited capacity in public institutions, has resulted in a dramatic
growth in private higher education enrollments. The private sector now comprises 7 universitiesl and 10
community colleges (CC); all are for profit institutions, and they enroll about one third of the total
number of students. None of the private universities offers a graduate program (Table 1).
Table 1: Private and public enrollments, 1990/91 - 1995/96
1990/91       1995/96         Change
Universities             39,668         76,626            36,958
Public                 38,344         51,758            13,414
Private                 1,324         24,868           23,544
Community colleges       40,774         22,645           (18,129)
Public                 36,980         12,342          (24,638)
Private                 3,794         10,303           (6,509)
Total                    80,442         99,271            18,829
Source: NCHRD, August 1997
4.    In spite of the existence of this apparently dynamic private sector, a strategic choice has been
made to focus this intervention on the public sector - the 7 public universities, including the 21 public
community colleges part of the Al-Balqa' Applied University (BAU) system. The rationale rests on the
examination of two sets of questions: (i) why a public sector intervention? and (ii) why a project
supporting public institutions only?
The Government has just granted (February 1998) permission for 7 additional private universities to open.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 8
5.     Rationale for a public sector intervention. Higher education in Jordan is presently characterized
by a well-established and dominant public system. The present situation would be improved if the public
and the private sector were to co-exist in a framework of market discipline brought about by a transparent
and universal accreditation system for both. The proposed project supports a transition from the present
role of the State to a future one. National economic needs and demographic pressures will lead to an
expansion of higher education, and this will require increasing provision and finance by the private
sector. Efficiency and equity aspects will be crucial in this respect.
6.     From an efficiency point of view, the project will assist the Government to establish a level
playing field for public and private institutions, and will also guarantee transparent information for
students (and their families), the consumers of education, and for employers, the "consumers" of higher
education's output, i.e., graduates. This will be accomplished through an accreditation system using
identical criteria for public and private institutions. The project will also examine equity issues through
the support of studies undertaken by the HEC technical secretariat.
7.     Rationale for a project supporting public institutions only: Excluding direct support for private
institutions at the present stage is justified because:
*  enhancing the quality, relevance and efficiency of public programs would directly benefit two-thirds
of higher education students (the admissions system ensures that they are in general more qualified
academically, and that they also include socially disadvantaged students);
* government borrowing for improvements to private universities and CCs, both of which are for-profit
enterprises, would include a substantial subsidy component to the private proprietors, which is not
consistent with the government's overall fiscal priorities or education sector priorities;
*  public CCs are closer to being able to produce the skilled labor needed in the economy than are
private CCs and thus need less improvement: private CCs have no mission statement and their
facilities are generally in worse condition than public CCs;
*  high unit costs for technical training would not be met by private tuition, so that improvements to
private CCs would not be sustainable. Without significant ongoing subsidies, improved private CCs
would adopt low-cost, low-quality, low-relevance programs over time; and
*  due to the autonomy of the public universities covered by the project, implementation of the resource
allocation reforms and other measures will involve considerable ongoing negotiation between
universities and the HEDF and NSC. Including private institutions would complicate this further.
B.    Economic analysis of the project
8.     The rationale for this project will be addressed by examining two sets of questions: (a) are the
specific investments envisaged the least costly to achieve their objectives? and (b) is the project as a
whole economically justified?
Least cost analysis
9.     This section examines the sub-components for which benefits could not be easily quantified, in
order to determine whether there is a more cost effective way to achieve their respective objectives. The
discussion will focus on the information technology (IT), management information systems (MIS),



Annex 4
Page 3 of 8
library systems, and faculty development centers sub-components, as well as on the competitive window
of the Higher Education Development Fund (HEDF).
10.    Information technology. The IT infrastructure2 will be installed by outside suppliers based on a
competitive bidding process. The computers will be purchased from the private sector through a
competitive bidding process also. Currently students and faculty have access to the computers and the
Internet through business centers and service providers (there are three major network suppliers in
Jordan), or through patronizing the Internet Cafe. Building an inter- university IT network and providing
access to the global Internet will result in economies of scale.
11.    MIS. The MIS systems designed to date by individual universities are rudimentary and largely
incompatible. There are two alternatives to implement this intervention: either each university develops
its own system or the universities work together and build a common one. In order to develop a national
system, the NCT and the Bank have agreed on the latter approach.
Table 2: Options to Design and Develop MIS
1. Design and develop MIS "in-house" (consortium of the 8 universities)
Advantages                                            Weaknesses
Motivates national IT staff and ensures    Takes 5 years or more
"ownership" Best fits needs
Rapid know-how transfers from consultants  Slow implementation: the 8 universities are delivered the first student
information system in years 2 and 3 of the project
Costs uncertain - software development (TA, training, workshops) US$
2.5 million
Possible in-house maintenance              Difficult to contract out maintenance
Needs qualified and available staff in the universities
2. Design and develop MIS through a private firm
Advantages                                            Weaknesses
Professional work                          Needs a precise contract
Guarantee of time and results              No immediate delivery
Payment on delivery                        Less staff motivation
Fewer university staff involved            No in- house maintenance
Costs of software probably higher than option 1: at least
US$5.0 million necessary for design and training
3. Buy and adapt commercially available software
Advantages                                            Weaknesses
Fast installation                          Cost higher than option I (est. US$3.5 million)
Delivery of first sub-system in I year     Potential large, long and costly adaptations required
Delivery of total system in 2 years        Maintenance by the vendor compulsory
Few staff involved, know-how transfer less
2 Including high speed fiber optic lines, shared and switched ethernet technologies and various application servers.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 8
12.   The NSC has decided that a thorough review of the three options would take place early during
implementation, and that a decision would be made within a year as to which one would yield the greatest
benefits to the system.
13.   Library systems. The system will be installed by private contractors on a competitive bid basis
and the successful supplier of equipment and proprietary software will be responsible for maintenance. It
was deemed that it would not be cost-effective to contract separately for maintenance and equipment and
software suppliers. Installation of the infrastructure and equipment will be done in concert with the IT
sub-component of the project.
14.   Faculty development centers. The objective of a faculty development center (FDC) is to enhance
the academic performance of the faculty. There are two alternatives - either to equip and staff individual
FDCs in each university, or establish one or two central facilities to be used by all universities. There are
two advantages of having one FDC per university: (i) the use of the facilities would increase (versus a
central, commonly used facility), and (ii) the services provided would be more responsive to each
university's faculty needs. This is because there is considerable diversity in the cultures of the 8
universities. Their missions and areas of concentration differ, and so do their needs for faculty
development. Each FDC would have a different clientele, different needs and different priorities.
Therefore, even if the total cost is greater for 7 centers than for one or two, the objective of the project
would best be accomplished with 7 separate FDCs.
15.   Higher Education Development Fund. By the very nature of the BEDF competitive window, sub-
projects approved for funding can be expected to be more cost-effective than projects approved without
competition. The key to this reason lies in the peer review process. All proposals received will be graded
by the Peer Review Committees, and only proposals judged good or excellent will be funded.
Furthermore it is expected that, as the HEDF gains experience and recognition in the country, competition
for funding will grow stronger. Peer review committees and the NSC will take into account such factors
as the likelihood that the project will achieve its stated objectives, the likelihood that its actual
achievements will be socially or economically important to Jordan, as well as to the scientific and
technological community in general, and the degree to which educational and training benefits are to be
expected from the project. The successful introduction of such an open peer review process for these
decisions will be one of the major accomplishments of the project.
Cost-benefit analysis
16.   There are two sources of economic benefit. First, gains in the efficiency of public spending
would result from better trained planning and management staff, and from improved practices and
systems. These are difficult to estimate.
17.   The second source is linked to labor market gains. As enrollments increase in programs with
enhanced quality and greater economic relevance, labor productivity (and possibly graduate
employment3) is expected to increase. Table 2 summarizes the IRRs for the project for various assumed
I Including employment rates and speed of employment after graduation.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 8
scenarios. The sensitivity analysis suggests that, starting with a very low 5 JD per month productivity
gain differential,4 the IRR is 10% or greater.
Table 3: Internal Rates of return (%)
Productivity Gain              A                       B                      C
(JD/month)
2                                              3                       5
3                      4                       7                       8
4                      7                       9                      10
5                      10                      11                     12
6                      11                      13                     14
7                      13                      15                     15
8                      15                      16                     17
9                      16                      17                     18
10                     18                      19                      19
Assumptions: beneficiaries are students entering higher education in 1999 through 2008, i.e. graduating
from 2003 through 2012. The sensitivity analysis revolves around the assumption made concerning the
number of years after graduation that the productivity differential is attributed to the project:
A: differential through 2018, i.e. 15 years after the first cohort's graduation
B: differential through 1023, i.e. 20 years after the first cohort's graduation
C: differential through 2028, i.e. 25 years after the first cohort's graduation
18.    Further analysis could be conducted by simulating employment gains, or the differing effects of
the project on university enrollments and those of community colleges. With respect to the latter, the
project will not result in an increase in university enrollments. By comparison, the reputation of a CC
education has been very low, and social demand for this type of training has been steadily declining since
1991. The BAU strategic plan, adopted in early 1998 (see Annex 12) - through its emphasis on applied
degrees, the creation of Associate Degree programs, and the improvement of the quality of course
offerings - has already resulted in a reversal of this trend, as CC enrollments in the Fall of 1998 were
10% higher than the previous year. Furthermore, as CC programs can produce the type of mid-level
technical graduates that employers seek (see Community College Social Assessment), employers are
expected to offer substantially more job opportunities to CC graduates than before. Aggregate CC
enrollments and graduate employment rates are therefore expected to increase. Ceteris paribus, the IRR
can be expected to be higher for the CC than for the university component.
C.    Financial sustainability and fiscal impact
19.    Financial sustainability. IT represents an important portion of total investment costs, but there
will be substantial cost recovery associated with it, as a US$14 computer usage fee will be charged each
student per semester. Counting the partial enrollments during the summer semesters, total revenues thus
4B y comparison, monthly earnings for unskilled workers is around 50 JD.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 8
generated for the 7 public universities are expected to be US$12.4 million during the 5-year life of the
project. Therefore, of the total IT investment costs of US$25.3 million, almost half would be recovered
during the life of the project. This revenue will be available after project implementation to contribute to
financial sustainability.
20.    As for the system's financial sustainability as a whole, considering the demographic and socio-
economic pressures to expand enrollments, and the limited public resources, a key question becomes
whether current financing arrangements for higher education can sustain the projected levels of
enrollment growth now under discussion in Jordan. The NCT has provided the Bank with enrollment
projections for the next five years which anticipate 5% annual increases in undergraduate enrollments in
public universities, and annual increases of under one percent for graduate students. Are these
projections likely, or even feasible?
21.    To address this question, different policy scenarios have been simulated. These scenarios involve
five year projections of changes in the level of 3 key policy parameters: public funding (including student
aid), tuition, and internal efficiency gains achieved.
22.    The policies the Government adopts in the future will have a large impact on the growth of
enrollments in both public and private universities. For example, ceteris paribus additional funding by
the Government would lead to higher growth of enrollments in public universities and perhaps some
slowing in the growth of private universities.   Similarly, increased tuition would permit higher
enrollment growth if Government allocations remained at current levels and if there were enough students
and their families willing and able to pay these higher charges. Answering this set of questions on the
level of future demand also depends critically on whether student aid is increased to allow students and
families to pay the higher tuition and fees.
23.    One way to address this issue of how projections and policies will interact in the future is to ask
the following questions: What would be the projected rate of enrollment growth under a combination of
government policies for university allocations, tuition, and student aid, assuming that the resources per
student remain constant over time? And how would those projections be affected if some internal
efficiency gains were achieved resulting in reduced costs per student? That is, with no reduction in
quality (assumed by maintaining spending per student constant in real terms), what enrollment growth
would result from the projected levels of funding, tuition, and efficiency gains?
24.    To arrive at these projections the following simplifying assumptions have been made: that there is
sufficient demand for higher education in Jordan at the levels of tuition projected here, that funding of
student aid will be commensurately increased to support higher tuition, and that the student aid funds are
included as part of the Government funding levels.
25.    Table 4 addresses this question through a spreadsheet analysis of the estimated effects of these
three policy variables upon future enrollment levels. The analysis could be done for an infinite number of
policy scenarios; they have been arranged in Table 4 around the level of public spending, ranging from a
30% real decline to a 25% real increase during the 5 year period.



Annex 4
Page 7 of 8
Table 4: Enrollment Growth Projections under Different Policy Scenarios
Policy Scenarios                         Public University Enrollment Growth
(Five Year Percentage Changes)           (Average Annual Percentage Growth)
30% real decline in government funding, no real
growth in tuition, and no efficiency gains                   -3.9
Same as above with 10% efficiency gains                      -2.0
5% real decline in government funding, 25%
real growth in tuition, and no efficiency gains              1.4
Same as above with 10% efficiency gain                       3.3
No real increase (0%) in government funding,                 3.5
20% real growth in tuition, with 10% eff. gains
10% real increase in governmentfunding, 5%                   3.5
real growth in tuition, with 10% eff: gains
10% real increase in government funding, 10%                 3.9
real growth in tuition, with 10% eff: gains
10% real increase in governmentfunding, 15%                  4.3
real growth in tuition, with 10% eff: gains
10% real increase in governmentfunding, 20%                  4.6
real growth in tuition, with 1O% eff: gains
10% real increase in governmentfunding, 25%                  5.0
real growth in tuition, with 10% eff: gains
20% real increase in government funding, 5%                  4.6
growth in tuition, and 10% efficiency gains
Same as above, with 10% growth in tuition                    5.0
25% real increase in government funding, 10%                 4.6
growth in tuition, 5% efficiency gains
Same as above, 5% growth in tuition, 10%                     5.2
efficiency gains
Same as above, with 10% growth in tuition and                5.5
10% efficiency gains
26.   The above simulations suggest that, in order to achieve the high enrollment growth rates
envisaged by the NCT during that period, public funding should actually increase, by at least 20% in real
terms over the period. Considering the expected growth of GDP over the next 5 years (10% globally
resulting from less than 2% annual average), such a scenario would be highly unlikely unless deeper cuts
in public spending were made elsewhere. Assuming instead a 10% real increase in public higher
education spending (and 10% increase on overall efficiency gains), the range of possible annual
enrollment increases is 3.5% (for 5% growth in tuition) to 5% (for 25%) growth in tuition. Considering



Annex 4
Page 8 of 8
that tuition in public universities is high by international standards, this 25% growth in tuition is highly
unlikely, unless it is accompanied by effective student loan and scholarship programs. Further studies
will be required to ascertain the feasibility of such schemes, and they will be supported by the project.
27.   Fiscal impact of the project. The project is expected to have two types of fiscal benefit. The first
is related to gains in efficiency of public spending. The quantification of these benefits is not attempted
here. The second source is related to increased tax receipts caused by higher earnings, personal and
corporate. The government will not immediately recoup its investment from increased personal income
tax returns due to the present rate structure. Corporate tax returns could increase if worker productivity
and corporate profits increase; this is not analyzed here.
References
Barr, Nicholas. 1993. The Economics of the Welfare State. Stanford University Press.
Hanna, Nagy K. 1991. The Information Technology Revolution and Economic Development. World
Bank Discussion Paper No. 120.
University of Jordan Center for Strategic Studies and World Bank. 1998. Jordan: Community Colleges
Social Assessment (Project files).
World Bank. 1997. World Development Report: The Role of the State.
World Bank. 1998. World Development Report: Knowledge and Information for Development.



Annex 5
Page I of I
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Higher Education Development Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(US$ million, 2000 base year)
Implementation Period                  Operational Period
2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   Total   2006    2007    2008
Project Costs
Investment Costs        1.2   22.6  11.6    8.5   8.0    0.4   52.3         -       -       -
RecurrentCosts          0.5    1.8   2.8    3.1   3.3    2.0   13.5    2.0          2.0     2.0
TOTAL                   1.7   24.3  14.4   11.6  11.3    2.4   65.8
Financing Sources
(% of total Project Costs)
IBRD (amount)           0.5   15.0   7.6    5.8   5.2    0.3   34.3
IBRD (%)               29.4   61.7  52.8   50.0  46.0   12.5   52.1
Counterpart (amount)    1.2    9.3   6.9    5.9   6.1    2.1   31.4    2.0          2.0     2.0
Govemment (%)          70.6   38.3  47.2   50.0  54.0   87.5   47.9  100.0   100.0   100.0
Of which:
GOJ (amount)                                                       15.7
Universities                                                      15.8
(amount)
TOTAL (°)             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Note: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 11
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
A. Procurement
Procurement Responsibilities and Guidelines
I.    The Loan will finance goods and equipment, including books, periodicals and information
technology systems (IT) and the required technical assistance under the HEDF as indicated in Table
A. System-wide procurement will be the primary responsibility of the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) located at the National Center for Human Resources Development (NCHRD). NCHRD is
familiar with the Bank's procurement guidelines through its current responsibilities for other Bank-
funded projects. Procurement at the university-level will be the responsibility of the University
Implementation Units (UIU), with technical support and training in procurement being provided by
the PIU as well as the universities' finance and procurement departments. A Jordan Information
Technology Committee (JITC) will be established to decide on technical specifications for IT.
Procurement under this Loan will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and Credits" January 1995, revised January and August 1996 and
September 1997 and for "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" -
January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD) will be used for all procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and with
modifications acceptable to the Bank, also for National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Simplified
documents will be prepared by PIU under the Project and apply to National and International
Shopping (NS/IS) and small-value consulting contracts.
Goods
2.    The procurement of IT equipment and other goods with an estimated contract value above
US$350,000 equivalent will be procured using ICB procedures and documents, as well as
advertisements in "UN Development Business" and at least two national newspapers. Bidders will be
subject to post-qualification in accordance with the Bank's SBD for "Procurement of Goods"
(January 1995). For IT equipment, specialized bidding documents will be prepared by PIU for review
and clearance by the Bank; pre-qualification may be used for IT procurement, in accordance with the
specialized bidding documents. Bid evaluations will be submitted on the Bank's Standard Bid
Evaluation Form "Procurement of Goods and Works" (April 1996). Goods, including supplies at
estimated contract values between US$100,000 and US$350,000 per procurement, up to an aggregate
amount of US$10.0 million equivalent, will be procured using NCB procedures and documents, as
well as advertisements in at least two national newspapers. The procurement of goods below an
estimated contract value of US$100,000 equivalent per procurement, up to an aggregate amount of
US$2.0 million, will follow NS/IS procedures, using simplified documents and procedures for
soliciting, receiving and evaluating competitive quotations from a minimum of three capable national
or international suppliers. Incidental goods and supplies below a cost of US$5,000 per purchase, up to
an aggregate amount of US$400,000, will be purchased directly from the nearest source. The
indicated aggregate amounts will not include the procurement of goods under the competitive window
of the Higher Education Development Fund (HEDF).



Annex 6
Page 2 of 11
Services
3.    To the maximum  possible extent, consultants for technical assistance, including the
preparation of training programs and advice in accreditation, university planning, training seminars
and financial management will be selected competitively. For consultancies above an estimated
contract value of US$50,000 equivalent, the selection method will be Quality and Cost- Based
(QCBS). For other consultancies, the selection method will follow the Quality-Based ( QBS),
Consultants' Qualifications-Based (CQ) and Single-Source (SS) Selection methods, depending on the
nature of the terms of reference which will precede all selections. The Bank's Standard Request for
Proposals - "Selection of Consultants" (July 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999) will be
used for all consultancies above an estimated contract value of US$50,000, and in simplified form,
with modifications acceptable to the Bank, for all other consultancies. Short-term, low-cost contracts
will be awarded on the basis of Terms of Reference (TOR) and the Bank's Sample Contract for
Consulting Services - "Small Assignments".
Prior Review (Table B)
4.    All TOR and the first three contracts for goods, irrespective of the estimated contract value,
will be subject to the Bank's prior review, in accordance with the applicable guidelines. Thereafter,
all procurement of goods subject to ICB procedures and all procurement of IT equipment based on
specialized bidding documents will be subject to prior review. Contracts with individual consultants
in excess of US$50,000 equivalent and with consulting firms in excess of US$100,000 equivalent, as
well as all single-source contracts, will be subject to prior review. All contracts for conducting
seminars will be subject to prior review. These prior review thresholds will equally apply to HEDF.
The prior review process will cover about 70% of all contracts to be awarded. All other contracts will
be subject to post-review on a random basis, during supervision missions and annual audits.
Procurement Planning and Monitoring
5.    Table C details the procurement information and review. The initial Procurement Plan shown
in Table E is system-wide and integrated into the Project Implementation Plan. It covers IT
Infrastructure, MIS Development and Community College Reform. It will be monitored and updated
by PIU on the basis of its monthly consolidated reports to NSC and its periodic progress reports to the
Bank. An Implementation Manual has been prepared to guide and organize all procurement activities
to be carried out by PIU and the UIUs. It will provide consistent system-wide procurement procedures
and form the cornerstone of the Project Launch Workshop and subsequent training activities.
B. Disbursement (Table D)
6.    The loan will be disbursed against the categories shown in Schedule 1 of the Loan
Agreement.
C. Documentation for Withdrawals
7.    Withdrawal applications for contracts valued at US$350,000 for goods, US$100,000 for
consulting firms, and U$50,000 with individual consultants and US$50,000 for seminar activities will
be presented with full documentation for disbursement.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 11
D. Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
8.    Disbursements for contracts valued less than US$350,000 for goods; less than US$100,000
for consulting firms; and less than US$50,000 for individuals; and contracts less than US$50,000 for
seminars and training will be made on the basis of SOEs. During negotiations the Bank team was
assured that supporting documentation will be maintained by the PIU and be made available for
review by Bank supervision missions.
E.    Special Account (SA)
9.    To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government will establish a SA
at the Central Bank of Jordan under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank will,
upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$2.0 million to the SA. Initially, the allocations
will be limited to US$1.0 million. The full allocation could be claimed when disbursements reach
US$8.0 million. Applications for the replenishment of the SA will be submitted on a monthly basis or
when approximately 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs first. The
replenishment application will be supported by a bank statement of the SA and a reconciliation bank
statement of the SA against the Bank's records. The minimum amount for applications for direct
payment or special commitment will be 20 percent of the authorized allocation of the SA.
10.   Disbursements would initially be made using the Bank's traditional disbursement procedures
(as described above). It is expected that by March 2001, the project financial management system will
be able to generate project management reports, in conformity with the Bank's PMR required formats,
at which time the GoJ will decide whether a PMR-based disbursement will be used for the project.
11.   Project accounts, including the SA and the use of SOEs, will be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the "Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982)". The annual audit
report (in English) which will also cover a financial and technical audit of the HEDF and will include
a separate opinion on disbursements against SOEs and on the Special Account will be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year audited, i.e., June 30 for the following year. The
separate opinion will mention whether the SOEs submitted during the audited year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawal applications. As part of the audit report, the auditor will prepare a "management letter"
reporting on the internal controls and operating procedures affecting project implementation and any
other matters which should be drawn to management's attention.
12.   The MoP authorizes payments from the loan. The President of the NCHRD and/or his
designated alternate will have signatory authority on the Project Special Account for expenditures
eligible for financing under the Loan. The MoP will make payments from the GOJ budget for the
counterpart contribution financed by the Government. All claims for payment under the Project are
made through the PIU.
13.   The PIU will be responsible for all matters concerning the preparation of withdrawal
applications and the replenishment of the Special Account.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 11
Table A: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
Intenatonal    National
Compe0ttive   Competitive   Local   Consulting
Bidding      Bidding   Shopping   Services        N.B.F.              Total
A. Goods and Equipment
Books/Periodicals                    0.021            -     0.01            -            -                     0.04
(0.015)               (0.010)                                             (0.03)
Technology equipment                 16.83          9.1        -            -            -                     25.9
(12.3)       (6.6)                                                      (18.9)
B. Fund                                 15.8           3         -          2.1            -                     21.1
(11.6)       (2.3)                  (1.5)                                (15.4)
C. Technical Aesisbnce
Seminar                                  -            -        -            -          1.9                      1.9
Consultancy                              -            -        -            -          3.3                      3.3
D. Recurrent Coats
Salarles                                 -            -        -            -          4.2                      4.2
Operating costs                          -            -        -            -          9.3                      9.3
Total                                   32.7         12.2      14.1          2.1         18.7                    65.8
(23.9)       (8.9)    (10.3)        (1.5)           -                    (34.3)
Note: Flgures In parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD



Annex 6
Page 5 of 11
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value            Procurement         Contracts Subject
Category            (Threshold)                Method                  to
Prior Review
1. Goods
> US$350,000            ICB, advertisement in UN    First three
Development Business and  contracts
technical publications of    regardless of
wide international       value.
circulation              Subsequently, all
ICB contracts
US$100,000-           NCB
US$350,000
<US$100,000             National/International
Shopping
< US$5,000            Direct purchase
3. Services
* Firms           > US$100,000             QCBS                     TORs, short-list,
RFP
and draft contract
< US$100,000            QCBS, CQ, SS             TORs only
* Individuals      > US$50,000             QCBS                     TORs, short-list,
RFP and draft
contract
< US$50,000            CQ, SS                   TORs only
* Seminars         > US$50,000             QCBS                     TORs, short-list,
RFP and draft
contract
< US$50,000            QCBS                     TORs, short-list,
RFP and draft
contract
QCBS: Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
CQ: (Selection based on) Consultants' Qualification
SS Single-Source Selection
RFP: Request for Proposals



Annex 6
Page 6 of 11
Table C: Procurement Information and Review
1. Country Procurement Assessment Report: November 1999
2. General Procurement Notice in Development Business: February 2000 (anticipated)
Procedure                     Threshold per contract       Total per category
(USS)                   (in US$ '000)
3. Method
Goods
- ICB                           > 350,000                     25,483
- NCB                             100,000 - 350,000           20,332
- Shopping                      < 100,000                      2,816
- Direct purchase                 < 5,000                        500
Services
- QCBS                           > 50,000                      7,000
- QBS, CQ, SS                    < 50,000                      12,555
4. Prior review
- Goods                     First 3 contracts, irrespective
- Information systems        of value. Subsequently all
ICB contracts.
Consultants                                                       NA
- Firms                           100,000
- Individuals                      50,000
Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                   Amount in US$       % ofExpenditures to be
financed
1. Goods                                       32,000,000  100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
2. Consultants' services (including               500,000  100%
training, seminars)
3.Fee                                             347,000  Amount due under Section
2.04 of the Loan Agreement
4. Unallocated                                   1,853,000
TOTAL                  34,700,000



2000                                                          2001
ID   0   Task Name                         Duration   Jan I Feb Mar Apr May Jun  Jul Aug Sep  Oct Nov Dec  Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun  Jul Aug Sep  Oct
I       Project Management                  90 days
2            RecruIment of key staff        30 days
3            Complete staffing of PIU       60 days
4
5        IT Infrastructure                 240 days
6            B Sidding process              90 days
7            Delivery & testing of equipmemn   150 days
9        TA. toHEC Secretariat             280days
10           TA. selectl6n process           30 days
11           Carry out of T.A. work         250 days
12
13       Training for Faculty Centers       60 days
14           First tranche                  60 days
15   __                         _      __                   
16       MIS                                30 days
17           Project managers selection      30 days                                                    -
18   l       System analysts selection       30 days                                                    -
19 _.  
20       Library systems                    150 days
__           _ _    _   _ ___           . _   _'V
21           P preparation of specifications  60 days                       _
22           Design systems                  90 days                                                          _ -_
Task                                  Summary                                Rolted Up Progress                                      o
Project: Activilyjyr                Split              ....,              Rolled Up Task                         Extemal Tasks                     _| 
Date: Tue 12t21199                  Progress                              Rolled Up Split                        Project Summary
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone <
Page 1



2000                                                          2001
ID  I    TaslRName                         Duration   Jan  Feb Mar Apr May Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  O   Nov  Dec             Feb I Mar I Apr I May I Jun I Jul I Aug I Sep I Oct
23_
24       Community Colleges                460 days                      -
25           Facility & equip. upgrade     450 days
26               Bidding process             90 days
27   _           Equip. install & testing  360 days                                                                __
28           Llbrary res. & AV equip.      290 days                       ...
29   MR          Bidding process            90 days
30               Equip.install & testing   200 days              _.
Task                                  Summary                _              Roiled Up Progress                                       xrX
Project: ActiMty Iyr                Split                                 Rolled Up Task                         External Tasks
Date: Tue 12/21/99                  Progress                              Rolled Up Split           .            Project Sunmary
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone  )
Page 2



Annex 6
Page 7 of 11
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PROCUREMENT CERTI1FICATIONS
1.   PARTI - FINANCL4L MANAGEMENTSYSTEM
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the review
was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system as
required by the Bank under OP/BP 10.02.
My review was based on the findings of Allied Consultants (a subsidiary of Andersen Consulting).
The consultants' work, which included visits to the NCHRD and the universities, was based on the
Bank's guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of
the project's accounting system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system,
selection of an auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to
be submitted by the borrower in support of Withdrawal Applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial management
system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of
the project (PMR) as required by the Bank for PMR-Based Disbursements.
The inadequacies found in the system are summarized in the PAD, and the attachment describes the
agreed action plan by the Borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:
Financial Management Specialist
(FMS-OPR)                                                 ______
Nabil Shehadeh, MN   P      Date



Annex 6
Page 8 of 11
Financial Management System with Bank's PMR features
Action Plan and Timetable
With the assistance of Allied Accountants (Arthur Andersen), an assessment of the existing
financial management systems of NCHRD and seven public universitiesl was undertaken. The
findings and recommendations are reported in Allied Accountants' reports dated February and July
1998 (kept in the Project Files). It is important to note that a number of weaknesses were found in the
financial capacity of NCHRD, in particular, the set-up of the Accounting Department is not geared to
handle the financial management of the project.  Therefore, to assist NCHRD, a Project
Implementation Unit will be established.
This action plan will be undertaken beginning immediately to ensure that the project will
operate in a sound financial management environment. Completing date of each activity is shown in
parenthesis.
1.    Staffing of the finance team in the PIU2 (Financial Officer: February 2000 - Finance team:
2nd quarter of 2000)
The recruitment of the Financial Officer is the primary and firstaction to be taken.
It is a condition of Board presentation, and will be completed by February 2000. Once
recruited, the Financial Officer will set out procedures to establish the project financial management
systems (FMS) and will participate in the recruitment of other members in order to fully staff the
Finance Team by the end of the second quarter of 2000.
2.     Development of the project FMS including a computerized Project Management Accounting
System (PMAS) (May 2000)
Based on the project documents (PAD, Loan Agreement and Implementation Manual), the
Financial Officer will establish the project FMS, including accounting, financial reporting, and
auditing systems. The FMS will have a computerized project management accounting system
(PMAS) to track project resources and expenditures and to generate quarterly financial management
reports.
An off-the-shelf accounting software with a capability of generating project management
reports for the project accounts and the regular reporting would be purchased. Documentation of the
FMS will also be undertaken.
I University of Jordan, Yarrnouk University, Jordan University of Science and Technology, Mu'tah University, Hashemite
University, Al-Albayt University, Al-Balqa' Applied University.
2 PIU staffed witi qualified personnel.



Annex 6
Page 9 of 11
3.    Auditing arrangements (Independent auditor assigned: May 2000)
The accounts and financial statements of the project will be audited by an independent auditor
and will be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the close of GOJ's fiscal year, i.e. June 30.
Appointment of the auditor is expected to be completed by May 2000. The auditor is required to give
an opinion on the adequacy of the FMS, including the internal controls.
4.    Loan effectiveness condition
Agreements have been reached regarding the following actions to be completed before
effectiveness:
o Establishment of the FMS, including a computerized PMAS.
o Assignment of an independent auditor
o Certification of the FMS by the auditor
5.    Reporting in conformity with the Bank's PMR
The FMS will continue to be developed in order to enable the project to generate project
management reports, in conformity with the Bank's PMR required formats. It is expected that this
action could be achieved by March 2001.



Annex 6
Page 10 of 11
PART II: PROCUREMENT/CONTRACT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project. The objective
of the review was to determine whether the procurement/contract management system adopted by the
project conforms to the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects.
My review was based on visits and interviews of the procurement entity of the University of Jordan
and of NCHRD and on assessment of their past performance in ongoing Bank's projects and during
project preparation.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate procurement/contract
management system that can provide the appropriate data on major procurement and contract
management (PMR-Section 3) as required by the Bank.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system, together with an agreed
action plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:
Portfolio Manager                                                 /
Procurement Specialist
rW-h LiRey, I@ITB  /Date
*Ii'



Annex 6
Page 11 of 11
PROCUREMENT ASSESSMENT
As agreed between the Borrower and the World Bank's appraisal mission, procurement will be
undertaken and handled by both the NHCRD and the universities. Mr. Christian Rey, Procurement
Accredited Officer, participated in the technical negotiations, and during extensive meetings with
procurement staff at the NCHRD and in all the universities, was in a position to assess their
procurement knowledge and organization. During other missions he was also able to assess the
performance of the University of Jordan through real cases of procurement managed by them for
ongoing projects.
*  Current situation:
NCHRD: this entity has already worked successfully in procurement for goods, civil works and
consultant services for two ongoing Bank financial projects and has prepared a complex procurement
document for the purchase of a computerized network for universities (condition of Board
presentation). The staff in charge of procurement has a good understanding of the Bank's procedures.
University of Jordan: they have a strong and well established team in charge of procurement for the
whole university and have developed a strong capacity in terms of procurement process, filing and
reporting. They are involved in procurement of goods, civil works and consultants, and strictly follow
the Bank's procedures.
Universities: The consulting firm in charge of assessing the financial management capacity has
reported that the procurement units are in place in each university and that practices are in accordance
with international procurement standards. Furthermore, all universities procurement persons were
involved in technical negotiations with the Bank's team and received detailed explanation on Bank's
procedures and guidelines.
0 To be improved:
At NHCRD and at the university level, the reporting of procurement should be improved through the
evelopment of computerized tables for the management of all procurement processes and the follow
up of contracts. These tables will be developed and finalized during the project launch workshop with
the Bank's procurement officers.
The procurement/contract management system will be part of the computerized project financial
management system, which will be established by May 2000.



Annex 7
Page I of I
Annex 7
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Processing Schedule
Project Budget (US$'OOO)                        Planned              Actual
328 1               5082
Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      16                   19
First Bank mission (identification)             02/17/97             02/17/97
Appraisal mission departure                     05/02/98             06/30/98
Negotiations                                    10/13/98             11/21/983
Planned Date of Board Presentation              06/16/98             02/29/2000
Prepared by: A national team comprised of representatives of the eight public universities and a
representative from the Ministry of Planning, and chaired by the President of the National Center for
Human Resources Development.
Preparation assistance: Japan PHRD Grant 029653 (U$415,000), managed by the Bank.
Bank team
Marlaine Lockheed (Education Sector Manager), Francis Steier (Task Team Leader), Christian Rey,
Patricia Maughan, Dung-Kim Pham, Bassam Ramadan, Alia Achsien, Genevieve Menan, Kaliope Azzi
(MNSHD); Michael Crawford, Lauritz Holm-Nielsen (LCSHD); Elena Galliano (MNSED); Ghassan
Alkhoja (FPDVP), Hans-Jurgen Gruss, Mohammed Al-Sheikh, Mustafa El-Erian, Karen Hudes
(LEGMN); Hannah M. Koilpillai, Andrina Ambrose (LOAEL).
Consultants
John Atkins, Waddah Barkawi, Robert Davies, Serge Goursaud, Edgar Harrell, Arthur Hauptman, Roger
Pearson, Alenoush Saroyan, Quentin Thompson, George Za'Rour.
Bank review
Procurement, financial management: Fred Krantz, Nabil Shehadeh (MNAVP)
Peer reviewers: William Experton, Jamil Salmi (LCSHD); Christopher Shaw (Hanoi, Vietnam)
I Component 3 and Social Assessment were not in the project at the time of task and budget planning.
2Additional mission was required, and project documents needed updating, when the Government requested Bank
financing 6 months after the initially scheduled Board presentation.
3 Concluded on January 17, 2000.



Annex 8
Page I of I
Annex 8
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Jordanian Reports
• NCHRD: Graduate Tracer Survey, 1998
* NCT: Report on May, 1997 Study Tour
* Allied Accountants: Financial Management in Public Universities and NCHRD (February &
July, 1998)
C. International Expert Reports
• Alkhoja, Ghassan: Information Technology and Connectivity (February, 1998)
4 Atkins, John: Budget Setting and Implementation in Jordanian Public Universities
(November, 1997)
* Bielec, John: Strategic Planning and Management (February, 1998)
*  CIDA: Al Balqa'Applied University Strategic Planning Report (February, 1998)
a Davies, Robert: The Library System (February, 1998)
•  Desnos, Jean-Francois: Management Information Systems (February, 1998)
* Goursaud, Serge: Peer Review on Fund Sub-project (Round 1)
• Harrell, Edgar: The Entrepreneurial University (February, 1998)
a  Hauptman, Arthur: Financing Higher Education in Jordan (July, 1998)
•  Pearson, Roger et al: Investment Programs for the Renewal of Community College Programs
(July, 1998)
3 Saroyan, Alenoush: Improvement of Teaching; Faculty Development (February, 1998)
• Thompson, Quentin: Governance, Management and Funding (July, 1997)



Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Jordan
Operations Portfolio
(as of July 31, 1999)
Differernce Bet.-en
expected
Original Amount in US5 Millions              and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                  disbursements af
Project ID    Year                Borrower                  Purpose
IBRD     Cancel.      Undisb.  Orig          Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 54
Active Projects
JO-PE-5319      1993   GVT                         HEALTH II                       20.00         0.00        10.97       8.48           -.22
JO-PE-5322      1994   TELECOMM. CORP.             JORDAN TELECOMM                 20.00         0.00         5.70       5.71           0.00
JO-PE-5321      1995                               TA FOR AGRICULTURE               6.60         0.00         1.55       1.57           0.00
JO-PE-5307      1995   GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN        HUMAN RES. DEVT. SIL            60.00         0.00        24.88      15.88           0.00
JO-PE-35995     1996   GOVERNMENT                  EXPORT DEVELOPMENT              40.00         0.00        12.18       4.79           0.00
JO-PE-5323      1997   GOJ                         HOUSING FINANCE/URBA            20.00         0.00         9.97       4.54           0.00
JO-PE-52297     1998   GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN        TRAINING & EMPL.                 5.00         0.00         4.75       0.00           0.00
JO-PE-49581     1998   GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN        COMMUNITY INFRA.DEV.            30.00         0.00        27.86       4.86             .46
JO-PE-35997     1998   GOVERNMENT                  SECOND TOURISM DEVEL            32.00         0.00        30.23       5.43           0.00
JO-PE-48521     1999   GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN        AMMAN WATER & SANITA            55.00         0.00        53.24       1.24           0.00
JO-PE-39749     1999   GOV                         HEALTH SECTOR REFORM            35.00         0.00        35.00       0.00           0.00
Total                                                                             323.60         0.00       216.33      52.50             .24
Active Projects       Closed Pro3ects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 107.25            1,465.86            1,573.11
of which has been repaid:                    .76              643.94              644.70
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 322.83              833.05            1,155.88
Amounc sold                      :                 0.00               11.53               11.53
Of which repaid               :                0.00               11.53               11.53
Total Undisbursed                :              216.33                11.14             227.47
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (AMPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly
Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Jordan
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Ju1-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
0                    Pella                  0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1987/90/93/95         Al-Hikma                2.58    0.00    2.70    0.00    2.58    0.00    2.36    0.00
1994                  Al-Keena Paper          5.71    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.71    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Indo-Jordan            28.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   28.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  MODAL                   3.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.54    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Zara                   15.00    3.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    2.97    0.00    0.00
1997                  BTC                     4.00    100    0.00    0.00    4.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  El-Zay                  5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Jordinvest              0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
1998                  JHTC                   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  JVC                     5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  MAICO                   0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     .50    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  78.83    7.91    2.70    0.00   73.83    7.38    2.36    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equty  Qusi  Partic
1998                  AIHC                    0.00    3.17    0.00    0.00
1999                  JORDAN LIFE             0.00     .74    0.00    0.00
1998                  JVC                     0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00    3.91    0.00    8.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 02101/00



Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
Jordan at a glance                                                                1/00
M. Eat   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North   middle-
Jordan     Africa  income       Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (miltions)                        4.6       285      908                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1,520     2,050     1,710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       6.9       588     1,557
Average annual growth, 192-98
Population (%)                                         3.3       2.2       1.11
Labor force (%)                                        4.5       3.0       1.5     GNP                              Gross
Most recnt eatate fatest yVw avalable, 199248)                                     capita                          primary
Poverty (% of poptdation below nab'onal poverty line)
Urban populaton (X of total popufation)                73         5S       58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       71         67        68
tnfant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               29         49        38
Child mainutriton (% of children under 5)              10         14        ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 98         81        75
illiteracy (% of population age 15+                   1t3         38        14
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populatfon)  94         96       103           Jordan
Male                                                 94        103      105               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               95        89       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     1988      1997      199S8
Economic ratlos*
GDP (US$ billions)                           2.6       6.0       7.0       7.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP               33.8      23.5      26.7      25.0
Exports of goods and servkces/GDP           34.1      45.1      51.2      49.2                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  -13.6      1.5      3s.        3.8
Gross national savings/GDP                   22.0     18.5      27.1      25.1
Current account balance/GDP                 -11.0     -4.7       0.4       0.1     Domt           A
Interest payments/GDP                         1.2      5.0       5.1       5.8        mestic                    Investment
Total debtGDP                                45.7     95.4     106.5    104.3      Savings    +
Total debt service/exports                    6.3     30.9      16.6      16.4
Present value of debtUGDP                      ..       ..    103.9
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..    132.3
Indebtedness
19781-8  1988-98     1997      1998   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 6.1       4.5      1.3       2.2       3.2         -     Jordan
GNP per capita                      1.7       0.4     -2.2       0.5       0.4               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       7.3       8.0      1.1       6.2       3.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1988      1997      1998      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  11.3      6.9       3.5       3.0      0
Industry                                    24.0      22.8      26.0      25.7      0
Manufacturing                              10.2     10.1       14.0      13.8    40
Services                                    64.7      70.3      70.5      71.3     20
0
Private consumption                         83.5      71.8      69.8      69.5    -20 .   93   94   95          as
General government consumption               30.1     26.7      26.6      26.7               -     GD1       t  GDP
Imports of goods and services                81.5     67.1      74.3      70.3    _
(average annual-growth)                  197848  1988-98        1997     1998      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   7.5     -0.2     -15.0      -7.5    30
Industry                                      5.5      6.6       1.7       0.0    25
Manufacturing                               2.2      7.8       4.4        1.5    20
Services                                      6.0      3.5       2.3       1.3    is IX
Private consumption                          6.7       4.5       3.9       5.2        
General govemment consumption                 5.5      5.2       7.0       5.7     0 -
Gross domestc investment                      1.2      6.9     -14.0       1.0     s      93    M    95   9s   97   Os
Imports of goods and services                4.7       8.2      -1.0       8.5                Exports        Imports
Gross natonal product                         5.7      5.1       0.5       3.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Jordan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            19178    1988     1997      1998     Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumer prices                             7.1      6.7       3.0      3.1      -
Implicit GDP deflator                      -4.8      4.5       3.7      3.7    4
Government finance                                                              2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             a I                      ,
Current revenue                            30.8    30.9       32.8     32.2            93   94   ss   99   97   98
Current budget balance                       ..      1.3       2.7      0.2                 GDP deflator    e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                   -14.2    -9.0       -3.1     -6.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1978    1988      1997      1998     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         297    1,016     1,834    1,810    s,ooo
Phosphates                                 53       80       256      241
Other minerals                             64      204       190      197    4*
Manufactures                               81      385       757      772    3.000
Total imports (cifl                       1,501    2,724     4,102    3,839    2.000
Food                                      287  461   761  751                        J    IJI
Fuel and energy                           153      351       528      355     1c000
Capital goods                             528      585       916      832        o
9 93 94     9 96   7 9
Export price index (1995=100)                93      81       104        99
Importpnceindex(1995=100)                    96      95       114       104                *E)pOrts     HImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    97      86        91        95    _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1978    1988      1997      1998     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               869    2,432     3,572    3,636      2
Imports of goods and services             1.982    3,766     5,186    5,200      o
Resource balance                         -1.113   -1,334    -1,613   -1,565      2                           97  98
-4-
Net income                                   28    -307       -209     -138     -8
Net current transfers                       805    1,361     1,851    1,712    -;
Current account balance                    -281    -281        29         9    -12
-14
Financing items (net)                       404     -47       675       248    -18
Changes in net reserves                    -123     328       -704     -257    -18
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)       967     434      1,962    1,409
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)            0.3      0.4       0.7      0.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978    1988      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 1998 debt (USS m ill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1,167    5,756     7,426    7,715
IBRD                                        0     414       749       721                          A.721
IDA                                        53      79        65        63             5B 637
F: 1,502 ~~C 450
Total debt service                           91    1,040      909       898
IBRD                                        0      78       116       110
IDA                                         1       2         2         2
D. 831
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                           280     359       293
Official creditors                        164     -46       258       236
Private creditors                          79     463        -32       30
Foreign direct investment                   0       0       180        94
Portfolio equity                            0       0       181       216                 E: 4,058
World Bank program
Commitments                                49      71        62         5     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               6      66        94        36     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Prncipal repayments                         0      43        71        66     c - IMF                    G - Short-terrn
Net flows                                   6      23        23       -30
Interest payments                           0      36        47        46
Net transfers                               5      -13      -24       -76
Development Economics                                                                                            1/3/00



Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
JORDAN
Higher Education Strategy Note
(Approved by the Higher Education Council in June 1998)
The Higher Education (HE) Sector plays a vital role in the economic, social, political, and cultural life of
the country. The mission of the sector aims at:
1. Promoting the HE institution to provide sound professional education at University and College
levels to meet the needs of the job market.
2. Creating the right environment for the students at the institutions and ensuring the success of
graduates in terms of enhancing their job prospects and professional status.
3. Enabling the institutions to facilitate services to the community at the national and regional levels.
4. Enhancing and supporting goal-oriented research activities that are in line with the national
development plans.
I.    Admission Policy
1. The General Secondary Examination (Tawjihi), held at the national level, and an aptitude test
shall determine the admission of students to the Jordanian public universities. However, the HEC
will annually decide on the weight given to each test for admission purposes.
2. Admission of students to the various specializations/programs will be on a competitive basis with
special provisions for socio-economic factors, (i.e.: demographic and geographic factors).
3. Admission to the Jordanian public universities will continue under the single/unified application
form to be processed by the Unified Admission Bureau of the HEC.
4. Each public university will set the number of students to be admitted based on its capacity while
maintaining quality.
5. Public universities will resume their policies goveming the admission of graduate students
H.    Public Finance Resource Allocation
6. The govemment will annually allocate public resources to public universities for recurrent
spending as per a transparent funding formula that takes into account each university's particular
circumstances, actual needs, size and composition of the student body, as well as undergraduate
and graduate course offerings. (Refer to funding formula for specific elements of formula.)
7. In line with university mission and national policies, all public investment funding will be shared
by universities on an increasingly competitive basis, taking into consideration economic and
social feasibility of university subprojects.



Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
8. When determining undergraduate tuition, actual unit costs of each field of specialization should
be taken into consideration.
9. The government will devise and implement a mechanism to provide need and merit-based
scholarships as well as loans for students.
m.   Program Priorities
10. Universities will be encouraged to establish inter- and multi-disciplinary programs both at the
graduate and undergraduate levels within and among universities that meet national economic
needs.
11. New graduate education programs, and the upgrade of existing ones, will be supported by public
funds so long as they are related to issues of entrepreneurship, management, the environment,
continuing education, and other economically relevant needs. Full coordination and consultation
among universities will be a prerequisite for Government support. This will help avoid wasteful
duplication of similar prograrns and limit the number of graduates in disciplines not needed by
the country or in fields unaccommodating to a larger number of graduates.
IV.   Interaction Between Universities and the Services/Production Sector
12. Public research funding will promote applied strategic and thematic research. This will be
enhanced by the interaction between universities on the one hand, and the services/production
sector on the other hand.
V.    Accreditation and Quality Control
13. Public universities are autonomous and accountable to the Higher Education Council and the
Govermnent for use of public funds.
14. The Higher Education Accreditation Council, when established, will be charged with the mandate
to periodically accredit all institutions of higher education (public and private) and their
programs. This will enhance their quality and internal and external efficiency.
VI.   Future Development
15. The establishment of any new university will be closely linked with the social and economic
development needs of the local community and the labor market, as well as the present
population rate in the country as well as the projected growth in the future, in close consultation
with the HEC.
16. Incentives will be introduced to attract highly qualified faculty and staff to work in Jordanian
universities.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 7
Annex 12
AL-BALQA' APPLIED UNIVERSITY
1.    This note provides background information and rationale for the third component of the project,
aiming at reforming the community college sub-sector through support for the new Al-Balqa' Applied
University (BAU). Section I provides a brief summary of the history and trends in the community
college sub-sector of tertiary level education in Jordan. This includes information on the Government's
efforts to rationalize Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) and the resultant
establishment of BAU.
2.    Section II summarizes the development directions to be pursued by BAU as the result of the
preparation and ratification of a strategic planning exercise.
I     BACKGROUND
3.    In the early 1950s, Jordan established a network of two-year teaching training colleges to counter
the rapidly increasing enrollment in the primary and secondary school system. In 1981, the designation
of Teacher Training College was changed to Community College to facilitate the introduction of
additional non-university-career oriented education and training.
4.    In addition to the 11 public community colleges under MoHE, there were 13 colleges in Jordan
operated by other government agencies, 2 by UNRWA and, in 1996, 18 colleges operated by the private
sector (all of them for profit institutions). Table 1 provides a profile of the 11 MoBE colleges in the
Kingdom for the academic year 1995/96.



TABLE 1
1997 COLLEGE ENROLLMENT BY PROGRAM FAMILY
(Colleges under MOHE)
COLLEGE         ACADEMIC   EDUCATIONAL   AGRICULTURAL             MEDICAL    ADMINISTRATIVE   COMPUTER            APPLIED        SOCIAL      ENGINEERING   TOTAL
PROGRAMS       PROGRAMS         PROGRAMS          SUPPORT        & FINANCIAL       PROGRAMS        ARTS          WORK        DISCIPLINES
PROFESSIONS      DISCIPLINES                    PROGRAMS   PROGRAMS    PROGRAMS
Ajiun College          363                30            30               25              244               58            64             98                        912
Princess Alia          433                72                                             386               87            47            128                       1153
College
AL-Karak College       393               201                             27              398               92                           31                       1142
Al-Hu'on College                            2           56                                59               62            98                           513         790
Amman College                                                                            588               92                                                     680
Amman College                                                                                                           159                          1008        1167
for Engineering
Technology
Irbid College         1017                173                            44              420               96           191                                      1941
Ma'an College          215                                                               179               64                                                     458
Al-Salt College         84                153           53              117              404               46           110                            32         999
Al-Tafielah                                                                                                72                                         277         349
College
Al-Zarqa College       155                              44              125              450               86            36                            24         920
Total               2660                631           183              338            3128              755           705            257            1854       10511
_ >_



Annex 12
Page 3 of 7
BOX 1
Community Colleges Trends, 1990/1991-1995/1996
Community college enrollments almost halved between 1990/1991 and 1995/1996. For the first time
in six years, however, college enrollments slightly increased between 1994/1995 and 1995/1996.
While the public share of college enrollments increased by 21.5% between 1990/1991 and 1995/1996,
the private sector share concurrently decreased by 21.6%.
Since 1990/1991, women's share of community college enrollments increased by 10.2% reaching
64.9% in 1995/1996. The trend has been accentuated, as female enrollments now represent more than
70% of the total.
Six program specializations experienced declining enrollments. The academic program was most
dramatically affected, reflecting an overall enrollment loss of 14, 963 between 1990/1991 and
1995/1996.
The total number of faculty shrank from 1,838 in 1990/1991 to 1,509 in 1995/1996. Notably, such
losses were restricted to other government and private colleges. Women's faculty share increased by
3% from 26.2% to 29.3% for this same period.
Source. Jordan - Education, NCHRD, August 1997.
5.    In 1993, the Government and the Bank undertook an assessment of the TVET sector preparatory
to the formulation of the second Human Resources Development Sector Loan (HRDSIL II). Within the
sector, a series of issues was identified under the generic headings of relevance, quality and efficiency.
In the context of the community colleges, the following specific concerns were identified as contributing
to system inefficiency:
a.    Centralized control of all programming leading to rigidity and lack of responsiveness to
specific community needs or opportunities.
b.    An absence of mechanisms for employer input into program or curriculum design
resulting in an overall program framework bearing limited relevance to employment and the
economy.
c.    Study plans for the respective specializations having breadth but primarily information
based as opposed to being competency based, resulting in graduates having few employability
skills.
d.    An absence of mechanisms for conducting tracer studies to provide indicators of program
relevance or graduate success.
e.    An absence of a regular program review process resulting in the delivery of instruction
with technologically obsolete content.
f.    A faculty profile with a low level of industrial experience and no opportunity for regular
interaction with the productive sector.



Annex 12
Page 4 of 7
g.    Physical plant which was becoming rapidly dated and in need of maintenance or upgrade.
6.    The foregoing factors contributed to a high level of unemployment experienced by community
college graduates, as reflected in Annex la.
7.    Embedded within the HRDSL II was the CIDA-funded Economic Development Training Support
Project (EDTSP) project. This project was designed to address systemic inefficiencies in the TVET
system by facilitating: (i) coordination of the various program providers under the umbrella of a common
strategic plan; (ii) improving linkages between training providers and employers; (iii) strengthening the
management capacity of the respective providers; and (iv) improving the capacity to design and deliver
industrially or sectorally relevant programs using a competency-based approach to instruction and
associated learning resource materials.
8.    As a result of the efforts of the EDTSP project, a strategic plan was formulated with input from
all TVET providers (see Project Files). While there was broad subscription to the principles of the
strategic plan, difficulty was experienced in the identification of an effective or acceptable coordination
mechanism suitably empowered to introduce the necessary organizational and operational change.
9.    Following significant levels of internal reflection, the Government reached a conclusion that
operational change was unlikely to be achieved within the prevailing administrative framework. The
further need to strengthen the whole continuum of applied education in Jordan led to the establishment,
by Royal Proclamation, of BAU and the assignment of responsibility for renewal of the community
college system to this university.
10.   The mandate and aims of the university are reflected in BAU 1997 Law, No. 13, Articles 6 and 7
as follows:
BOX 2
Article 6
The University aims at serving the Jordanian community in particular and the Arab community in
general with all possible means; the most important of these are:
a) Providing university and college students opportunities in applied vocational, technical and
academic fields to fulfill the needs of society, while caring for a general education and
concentrating on quality and level.
b) Carrying out, encouraging and developing scientific research.
c) Developing technology and its service in the community.
Article 7
a) The University comprises university colleges at Bachelor levels and public community colleges
belonging to all government departments whether existing now or to be established, except those
colleges belonging to the Jordanian Armed Forces.
b) The University undertakes the supervision of private community colleges in Jordan in academic,
educational and technical matters according to a by-law that is issued for this purpose.
c) The University is considered the legal and actual successor of all university and community
colleges stated in paragraph (a) of this Article. Therefore, all their revenue and assets be they
transferal or non-transferal, as well as their rights will resort to the University. On the other
hand, it will carry all their commitments.
d) The University colleges are established, canceled and joined to others upon a decision of the
Board and passed according to a proposal submitted by the Council of Deans.



Annex 12
Page 5 of 7
11.   Subsequent to the passage of the law (March 1997) BAU has made progress on a number of
fronts. These include: (i) establishing a basic organizational framework; (ii) initiating new applied
degrees in Information Technology and Geomatics; (iii) initiating preliminary steps to undertake a review
of community college programming; (iv) undertaking a financial review and introducing associated
administrative procedures; and (v) preparing by-laws which address finance, purchasing and works,
teaching staff, degree granting and administration.
12.   In addressing its development directions BAU has continued to work closely with the EDTS
Project in a number of key areas of particular relevance to the Higher Education Development Project,
these include:
* The implementation of three program development pilot projects in the fields of electromechanical
engineering technology, environmental technology and information technology. These pilots are
intended to develop institutional capacity in the process of formulating employment driven
competency based programming.
* Participation in the "industry interface" component of the EDTS Project. This component is intended
to build institutional capacity in ensuring program relevance through the inclusion of industry
participation in governance, advisory committees, employability skills definition, labor market
prediction, contract training, industry driven research and other related issues.
e Provision of technical assistance from the EDTS Project to undertake a strategic planning exercise
and project preparation for component 3 of the HEDP.
These activities provide the foundation upon which the HEDP will be implemented.
II    BAU STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS
13.   BAU recognizes that its future success will be dependent upon the early establishment of
credibility with business and industry, with students, and with college faculty and staff. BAU believes
that this credibility can only be built on well founded academic programs, graduates with employment
related competencies, and an effective management structure to support program design and delivery.
14.   Consequently, the strategic plan takes a program driven approach and selects renewal of the
program framework within the eleven public community colleges, together with the development of the
associated institutional management and administrative infrastructure, as its strategic priorities. Within
the five-year planning horizon, academic links will be established with community colleges operated by
other government departments. Full integration of these colleges will not occur until the BAU
management and administrative infrastructure is fully operational, and the related financial resources
transferred.
15.   Within this context, BAU has adopted the following strategic goals:



Annex 12
Page 6 of 7
(a) Education Program Goals
*  To formulate and deliver a suite of Applied Degree programs at the Baccalaureate, Masters, and
ultimately at the Doctoral level, which respond to national economic or social development priorities.
These degree programs will be delivered by BAU.
*  To formulate and deliver a suite of employment driven Associate Degree programs of international
standard which reflect the current and future manpower needs of Jordan and the region. These
programs will be delivered by the BAU Community College system.
*  To design employment driven Baccalaureate level programs for Associate Degree Holders with an
articulation mechanism which includes professional experience in its acceptance criteria. These
degree programs will be formulated in partnership with business and industry, and delivered
collaboratively between the Community Colleges and Al-Balqa' University.
*  To develop a capability within each BAU Community College to identify, formulate and deliver
community, business and industry response programming.
*  To progressively eliminate all non-employment related academic programs, and all entry-level
vocational training from the BAU community college Program framework.
*  To develop an accreditation mechanism which will preserve the academic integrity and quality of all
programs delivered by BAU and all public and private Community Colleges in the Kingdom.
(b) Governance, Management, Finance and Administrative Goals
*  To establish a govemance and management structure for BAU which reflects and supports the two
primary program streams of academic education and employment or career driven education.
*  To develop a committee structure which ensures participatory decision making, and the sharing of
information, by those charged with responsibility for achievement of the respective strategic
directions.
*  To formulate an Al-Balqa' Applied University Policy and Procedures Manual which details the roles
and responsibilities of the respective committees or functional units within the organizational
framework, and outlines the operational practices to be adopted.
*  To design a rank and salary structure for teaching staff of BAU and the Community Colleges which
reflects and values those elements which are essential to professional growth and standing in the
academic field from the University perspective, or the combination of academic and experiential
learning from the business and industry perspective.
* To formulate a human resource development plan for BAU which will support effective and efficient
achievement of the strategic objectives.



Annex 12
Page 7 of 7
*  To formulate budgetary procedures and a resource allocation model for the University and
Community Colleges which encourages entrepreneurialism and efficiency within all functional areas
of the organization.
* To adopt a system wide approach to the administration of programs, students, financial, physical, and
human resources.
* To develop a comprehensive Management Information System which will provide users at the central
and local level with information products which will facilitate effective management decision making
and efficient administration of the organization.
* To identify and capture all possible administrative efficiencies to ensure a focus of available
resources on BAU education programs.
The Al-Balqa' Applied University Strategic Development Plan builds on the foregoing strategic goals and
further details the program framework, organizational structure and financial/administrative structure
necessary for their achievement. The following paragraphs outline the approach to be adopted.
16.   Education Program Framework.  The BAU program framework will include two distinct
pathways, an academic pathway: and an employment pathway.
17.   Secondary school graduates will have two options to pursue applied higher education, dependent
upon their interest and academic standing. They may enter either the University stream, and pursue a
Bachelor of Science degree which provides the foundation for subsequent graduate studies and curiosity
driven research, or alternatively, enter the Community College stream and pursue an Associate Degree
which leads to employment, coupled with the opportunity to pursue studies leading to the award of a
Baccalaureate degree later in their career.
18.   Associate Degrees delivered by Community Colleges will incorporate three components. Firstly,
a generic skills component of Arabic and English Communications, Mathematics, Computer
Applications, and for technical students, Applied Science.  Secondly, a component which builds
functional knowledge and understanding in the chosen sector of study. Thirdly, a component which
builds specific employment related competencies in the application of skills and knowledge acquired.
Program structure and duration will be determined as a result of graduate profiles developed in
partnership with business and industry but are expected to range from two to three years. Graduates are
expected to exit into employment although a small percentage of academically oriented high achievers
may be permitted entry to the University BSc Program.
19.   Bachelor of Technology, Bachelor of Applied Arts, or Bachelor of Applied Science programs are
intended to provide holders of an Associate Degree with the opportunity for future professional
development and academic advancement, following an initial period of employment in business and
industry. These programs are expected to be the equivalent of a further two years of study and will
include advanced instruction in the respective fields of commerce or technology, coupled with studies
which will support career growth. These may include marketing, human resources management,
planning, contract law or operations research.



Annex 13
Page I of 8
Annex 13
Community College Social Assessment
(Executive Summary)
I.    Objectives and Methodology
1.    During preparation of component 3 of the project, a social assessment was conducted for the
community college (CC) sub-sector of Jordanian higher education. The assessment survey was jointly
designed by the Bank team and staff from the University of Jordan's Center for Strategic Studies, and it
received the full cooperation from the Management of Al-Balqa' Applied University (BAU). It aimed at
ensuring that the objectives of the component and the interventions supported by the project would
address the actual needs of students and  other stakeholders (instructors, students' families and
employers) with respect to employment opportunities, quality of educational offerings and other relevant
factors. More specifically the assessment aimed at:
*  evaluating the main needs of students, including those of vulnerable groups (women, poor families,
etc..);
*  establishing indicator baselines on perceptions of the current higher education system, on the degree
of satisfaction of beneficiaries and on expectations of major stakeholders  (students, parents,
instructors, employers, and community leaders) on the new BAU system; and
•  providing BAU management with a framework to support the design of needed reforms, such as the
preparation of learning programs in vocational, technical and applied academic fields, to better meet
the country's economic needs; the support of research and the application of technology as a service
to the community; faculty training and relocation; etc.
2.    Data for the social assessment were gathered through quantitative (questionnaire) and qualitative
techniques (in-depth interviews and focus groups): a sample of 360 students from 9 public community
colleges was drawn using geographical representation, gender composition, and fields of specialization as
criteria. At the request of the NCT, data on ethnic groups were not disaggregated at this stage of the work.
However, the social assessment team recommends that this be done in the future.
3.    In addition, 150 instructors from selected community colleges as well as 150 employers from the
private sector were interviewed. Qualitative information was gathered through focus groups with parents
and in-depth interviews with employers from the public and the private sector.
II.  Scope of Work
4.    The Social Assessment aimed at:
*  determining the reasons for dissatisfaction among students, e.g., feelings of being excluded from career
opportunities, grim prospects for a successful future, etc.;
*  understanding the reasons behind students' widespread desire to attend a university rather than a
community college;
*  assessing the degree of discontent among community college instructors, who perceive themselves as
employees in "second class" institutions, and assessing their desire to strengthen community colleges;



Annex 13
Page 2 of 8
* assessing the relationship between higher education and employment, and the extent to which public and
private sector skills demands are met by the available current educational programs.
m. Summary of Major Findings.
5.     The Social Assessment validates the fact that Jordanians value university education above almost
all other social values, and continuously strive to achieve the highest possible level of credentials. This
results in a situation where access to public post-secondary education becomes almost exclusively an
academic performance; and access to private post-secondary education a function of economic capacity.
6.     Three factors seem to drive the aspiration to obtain a university degree: higher social status, better
reputation, and the need to overcome a sense of insecurity. The university status also serves as a dowry
substitute for young females and provides a power symbol for certain families and clans. In addition,
expectations about economic and social returns play a vital role in families' decisions on fields of study and
degrees in higher education.
7.     Female children, in general, remain subject to traditional, historical, societal definitions resulting
in priority being given to male children in terms of access to post-secondary education. Higher education
is nevertheless valued for females, more for social than for economic reasons. Prevailing expectations are
that women will not be lifelong participants in the workforce. Women, therefore, are channeled into what
are commonly labeled "female" occupations. However there are constraints inhibiting the use of public
transportation by women, or their living away from home.
8.    In the past, Community Colleges have not been proactive in portraying a positive image of their
program offerings. Colleges have not engaged in recruitment, promotion, marketing or other information
dissemination activities with the public at large nor within the secondary school system. Consequently,
student perceptions prior to enrollment in Community Colleges have largely been shaped by family and
are largely negative when compared with universities.
9.     Students' and parents' perceptions regarding programs imply a low level of confidence in the
linkage between college programs and the labor market, particularly in important areas such as computer
applications and language skills. Students have a low level of expectation on finding employment
following graduation.
10.    Students and parents consider the physical infrastructure of colleges to be poor compared to that
of universities; and laboratory and workshop equipment is seen as outdated.
11.    Students hold generally negative perceptions regarding extra curricula activities within their
college experience. These views are supported by instructional staff.
12.   Instructional staff hold broadly negative views regarding their status and recognition within the
post-secondary academic community. Reasons for the dissatisfaction include low salary levels, the rank
structure, few opportunities for professional development or research, and a low level of professional
recognition. Instructor/student relationships nevertheless remain professional and positive.
13.    Employers perceive college programs to provide a low level of instruction or skill development
relevant to the workplace.



Annex 13
Page 3 of 8
14.    Employers perceive college graduates to have academic knowledge only, therefore prefer to
employ university graduates as being "better educated."
15.   Employers indicate a need to provide graduates with significant levels of on-the-job training
before they become economically productive. They endorse the need to increase the level of applied
training and support the concept of work terms or cooperative program models.
IV. Recommendations
16.   The social assessment team has formulated a number of recommendations, both in terms of the
project as well as that of the national policy-making.
17.    Effective policy reforms in higher education and the modemizing of community colleges should
involve: (i) accurate market analysis that integrates gender and is relevant to today's needs vis-a-vis
economic and human resource development and; (ii) a policy framework that considers arts and science
streams, regional differences, and gender. Moreover, policy reforms that yield improved outputs from
community colleges and take into account women's role and their integration into Jordanian professional
fields are crucial for the success of the higher education system.
18.   To achieve these goals, the following activities need to be performed:
*  Undertake tracer studies identifying subjects with higher demand and ground for strengthening relative
courses and programs in the colleges. These studies should also assess fields of study that have become
obsolete in the private sector.
*  Introduce computer and foreign language courses in each program to help enhance students' skills and
provide better employment opportunities.
*  Disseminate and advertise to all relevant parties - students, employers and faculty members - the
development of an enhanced system of community colleges that: (i) introduces new opportunities such as
new specialization and more modem academic programs; (ii) is able to utilize inputs in order to
overcome difficulties associated with employment, and; (iii) provides opportunities for easier access to
highly competitive universities (through the "bridge" system or simply by providing more qualified
college graduates), which can become an attraction for students.
*  Formulate a strategy of promotion and communication targeting employers and updating them on
changes currently undertaken, such as the introduction of systematic computer and foreign language
training as a basic requirement in each program.
*  Provide clear information on the "bridge" system  and access into  universities, e.g.: reforming
community colleges into institutions that provide diplomas in technical and applied education.
*  Introduce a rewarding career path for community college instructors based on teaching skills, links with
public and private sectors and ability to set up contacts with industries, and obtaining contacts for
students seeking applied experience.
*  Involve students and instructors whenever changes are introduced. Introduce a Human Resources
Development Plan that generates economic and professional incentives for instructors that strive toward
positive impact on students' training.



Annex 13
Page 4 of 8
* In order to contribute to their personal growth, provide greater incentives to students by introducing
extra-curricular activities on college campuses that help develop a sense of collectivity and cohesion
among students.
19.    Linkages between the social assessment findings, the recommended policy framework and
investments supported by component 3 are summarized in the table below:
1.0    ACCESS TO HIGHER EDUCATION
Social Assessment                 Social Assessment    Implied Policy       Investment Program
Findings                          Recommendations      Objective             Linkage
The Social Assessment validates the    Social Assessment  Maximize equitable    The proposed
fact that Jordanians value university    recommendations  access to post-   investment program
education above almost all other social  arising include:  secondary educationai addresses the social
values, and continuously strive to                      opportunities linked   aspirations of
achieve the highest possible level of    * Encouraging more   to employment  Jordanians by
credential.                       broadly-based access   demand, and the    upgrading Community
to post-secondary    creation of national    College program
This results in a situation where access  education through the   wealth.   offerings from a
to public post-secondary education  window of community                     Diploma to an
becomes a function of the singular  college programs                        Associate Degree with
criterion of academic performance; or   which have a strong                 the potential for
alternatively, access to private post-   labor market linkage.              subsequent studies at
secondary education a function of the    * Recognizing and                  the applied degree
criterion of economic ability.    supporting the linkages                   level. National
between employment                        economic
These criteria tend to mitigate against  driven post-secondary              development
those in the lower socio-economic  education programs                        objectives are served
groups and do not promote entry into   and poverty                          through a focus on
those program areas which relate most  alleviation.                         employment linked
directly to employment and the                                              programming in the
creation of national wealth.                                                four primary areas of
technology, business
and finance, resources
and applied social
sciences.
The wide geographic
distribution of
colleges, together with
more liberal
acceptance criteria,
supports a more
equitable access to
post-secondary
educational
opportunity and the
implied policy
objective.



Annex 13
Page 5 of 8
2.0         GENDER
Social Assessment            Social Assessment      Implied Policy    Investment Program
Findings                 Recommendations           Objective           Linkage
Female children, in general, remain    While the social mores  Promotion of  A high percentage of
subject to traditional, historical,  surrounding females in  gender equity in the  females are currently
societal definitions resulting in  Jordan are liberalizing, the  workplace.  enrolled in terminal
priority being given to male children   policy environment needs             academic programs
in terms of access to post-secondary  to remain cognizant of                 with no linkage to the
education.                       issues which mitigate    Equality of access   employment
against mobility and access  to all post-  marketplace. Under
Higher education is nevertheless  to post-secondary        secondary         the BAU Strategic
valued for females, primarily for  education and employment. opportunity.    Plan, these programs
social as opposed to economic                                                will be dropped and
reasons.                         Consideration should be                     replaced with
given to ensuring a balance                employment driven
Prevailing expectations are that  between regional, gender,   Provision of   programming in
women will not be lifelong       and program streams with   support services,   technology, business
participants in the workforce. In  future demands of the labor which facilitate  and finance, resources
consequence, women are channeled   market.                mobility and       and applied social
into what are commonly labeled                            participation in   sciences. The newly
"female" occupations.                                     post-secondary     introduced programs
opportunity for   will provide equal
There exist some constraints for                          females.           opportunity for males
females who use public transport                                             and females.
and/or living away from home.
The proposed program
structure of a common
first year available at
all community colleges
followed by
completion at
designated centers in
the north, center or
south of Jordan
imposes a requirement
for mobility on some
students entering their
specialization of
choice. BAU will
need to consider the
impact of this
approach on female
._______________________________________ _  IIstudents.



Annex 13
Page 6 of 8
3.0        INTERNAL PERCEPTIONS OF COMMUNITY COLLEGE PROGRAMS
Social Assessment       Social Assessment         Implied Policy         Investment Program
Findings            Recommendations              Objective                Linkage
In the past, Community  Social Assessment        The Social Assessment    The proposed investment
colleges have not been  recommendations include:  measures the perceptions   program provides
proactive in portraying a                        of stakeholders in the   resources to implement the
positive image of their  *Design and             Community college system  recently completed Balqa
program offerings.      implementation of an     prior to widespread      Applied University
Colleges have not engaged  information dissemination   understanding of the  Strategic Plan.
in recruitment, promotion,  program targeted at  mission, mandate and
marketing or other      secondary school teachers  programs of Al Balqa   Investment program
information dissemination  and students, parents,  Applied University.    components which address
activities with either the    community leaders and  Consequently, the findings  internal perceptions
public, or within the   employers. This program   reflect perceptions relating  relating to Community
secondary school system.   would articulate the  to the college system    college program include:
Consequently, student   strength of the new BAU    operated by M.O.H.E.
perceptions prior to    programs and their                                * A revision of the
enrollment in Community  linkages to employment    The internal perceptions    program framework which
colleges have largely been  and the economy.     imply the urgent need for   upgrades core programs
shaped by family and are    * Ensuring the integration  broadly based assessment  from Diploma level to
largely negative when   of program planning and    of public policy as related   Associate Degree level
compared with           review processes with the  to the staffing, program  with further articulation
universities.           national labor market    framework, funding and    possibilities to pursue an
information system      administration of the    Applied Degree or MBA.
Student and parent      focused on maintaining a   community college      * Reformulation and
perceptions regarding   measure of equilibrium in  system. This reassessment redevelopment of core
programs imply a low    graduate supply with     took place with the      programs in competency-
level of confidence in the   employment market   establishment of Al Balqa   based format.
linkage between college    demand.               University and is now    * Investment in computer
programs and the        This would include the   being implemented within  labs and language labs
employment marketplace,  introduction of regular  the framework of the    with significantly
particularly in important   tracer studies.      recently completed      increased emphasis on
areas such as computer                           strategic plan.          those skills.
applications and language   * Upgrading of community                      * Upgrading of science and
skills. Students have a low  college programs together                    technology labs to current
level of expectation of  with physical                                   technological applications.
finding employment      infrastructure to ensure                          * Investment in libraries
following graduation.   greater relevance to the                          and other learning resource
formation of employability                       materials.
Students and parents    skills. Particular emphasis                       * A major program of
consider the physical   should be placed on                              faculty upgrading to
infrastructure of colleges   enhancing computer and                       achieve technological
to be poor when compared  language skills.                                currency in their respective
to universities and that                                                 fields, together with a
laboratory or workshop   * Formulation of a faculty                       parallel program of
equipment is dated.     development program with                          professional development
a corresponding promotion                        in pedagogical techniques.
ladder.
Students hold generally  * Development of a
negative perceptions    student support services
regarding extra curricula   program including the
activities within their  appointment of a Dean of



Annex 13
Page 7 of 8
3.0         INTERNAL PERCEPTIONS OF COMMUNITY COLLEGE PROGRAMS
college experience. These  Students to facilitate
views are supported by   student organizations,
instructional staff.     cultural, athletic and other
non academic activities.
Instructional staff hold
broadly negative views
regarding their status and
recognition within the
post-secondary academic
community.
Dissatisfactions include
low salary levels, the rank
structure, few
opportunities for
professional development
or research, and a low
level of professional
recognition.
Instructor/student
relationships nevertheless
remain professional and
positive.



Annex 13
Page 8 of 8
4.0        EMPLOYER PERCEPTIONS OF COMMUNITY COLLEGE PROGRAMS AND
GRADUATE EMPLOYMENT EXPECTATIONS
Social Assessment       Social Assessment         Implied Policy        Investment Program
Findings            Recommendations             Objective                 Linkage
Employers perceive      Introduce work experience  Consolidate integration of  Loan processing will be
college programs to     into college level       Community college        contingent upon
provide a low level of  programs.                programming into the     endorsement by the Royal
instruction or skill                             national labor capital   Committee of an
development relevant to                          formation system.        organizational structure
the workplace.          Ensure program content                            which incorporates
which builds employment  Ensure the production of   sectoral and program
Employers perceive      related competencies.    accurate labor demand   advisory committees into
college graduates to have                        data.                   the program development
academic knowledge only,                                                  and review process. This
therefore prefer to employ                       Provide continuing support will enhance relevance of
university graduates as  Build close linkages    for applied education and   all programming.
being "better educated."    between college      allocate resources for
administration and      continuous technical     Loan resources will be
Employers indicate a need  instructional staff with  upgrading or industrially   provided for a
to provide graduates with  local                 based professional      comprehensive
significant levels of on-    employers.          development for          redevelopment of
the-job training before they                     instructional staff.     programs built on
become economically                                                       employer articulated
productive. They endorse                                                  graduate competencies.
the need to increase the
level of applied training                                                 Loan resources will be
and support the concept of                                                provided to significantly
work terms or cooperative                                                 enhance the acquisition of
program models.                                                           computer application and
foreign language skills.
The program progression
from Associate Degree to
Applied Degree, with an
intervening period of work
experience, will serve to
build close
industry/college linkages.






IBRD 29234
350                                                            37°                            3&                             390
-'   ,''        .-'''0                                                         -.--
33                                                                                                           z                                                 33-
. 7 ba, ,   os
I ALRun  /A          ' j.\                  7-
<               MolsnetsHo[f     MAFRAK
-32°                     $>AsSal           Amm,            -                                               0y                                                   32°
'        ii" -2                                   Shishus          ~          --    ..
-, ,;A MSz,~'el,     /      A M M A N
. \ A t'kfo<arsk               / \.   ,)          \aToAl-fJa
-31'                                                                                                                                                           31K AKf r-  -       
I J @<ATaflohBY    /              /
KTF'ILAH              /            '    Oai 
',t,sh.bdlyohO /4 /
j/  Sho,,bo<;                              
) (Petra                     Alt       AI 
Moon                    .0/,?                                            /
30°~~~~~~~S' o an Noqb                                                   ,,JORDAN30
(C            AdDs/                                                                            *        NATIONAL CAPITAL
C J j~~~~~~~~~~/                                               °                            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
Aqoho~                                                                           _______EXPRESSWAYS
~~--                     -        -  Af                                                        -uawaa ROADS
zOAnssir ~~~~~~~~~RAI LROADS
29'~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-29°~ 2s                              50           75 MILES                                       -h           PERENNIAL RIVERS AND STREAMS                 29'
0      25       50      75      100      125 KILOMETERS                                       '     INTERMITTENT STREAMS AND WADIS
This map wo's produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                        -~--~           GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
The boundaries, colors, denominations and onyother information shown
on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group. any                                 --INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
judgment on the legal status of any territory, or ony endorsement or
acceptonce of such boundaries.
353                              363 37'                                                             38'                               309
DECEMBER 1 997



