Report No. PID8774
Project Name                     Jordan-Higher Education Development
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Higher Education
Project ID                       JOPE69326
Borrower                         GOVERNEMENT OF JORDAN
Implementing Agency              NCHRD (National Center for
Human Resources Development)
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 24, 2000
Appraisal Date                   July 1, 1998
Board Date                       February 29, 2000
Initial PID                      August 10, 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background
Key structural and institutional features of the sector
- Pre-university reforms, initiated in the late 1980s, have yielded
nearly universal access at the basic level and an enrollment rate
close to 70t at the secondary level.   Combined with rapid population
growth, this has created strong demand for higher education. Twenty-
three percent of the 20-24 age group (approximately 110,000 students,
of which half female) were enrolled in higher education in 1999; two
thirds of these attended public institutions while the rest were
enrolled in private institutions
- All seven private universities are fee-charging, proprietary or
profit-making institutions that cater to students unable to attain a
place in the public universities. Private university enrollments
have expanded by over 26 times over the last 8 years (from 1,300 to
more than 35,000 students), reflecting a high level of demand
unsatisfied by public universities.
- Total enrollments in two-year community colleges (CC), however, have
declined (from 41,000 in 1990/91 to 23,000 in 1995/96). Students and
employers are dissatisfied with the quality and relevance of CC
training, and employers, now hesitant to hire CC graduates, report
that they would more readily do so if the training delivered
contained more practical skills such as foreign languages and
computer training.
- About 25t of total recurrent costs are recovered in the public
system. Jordanian public higher education thus stands out in the
Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region for its high enrollment
rates, female participation and cost-recovery, as well as for the
presence of dynamic private sector activity.
- Until August, 1998, the sub-sector had been governed by a 15-member
Higher Education Council (HEC), chaired by the Minister of Higher
Education. The Ministers of Education and Planning, the Presidents
of the seven public universitiesi and prominent businessmen were also
members of the HEC. With the creation in March 1997 of Al Balqa'
Applied University (a federation of 21 CCs), MoHE lost oversight



responsibility for community colleges. The August 1998 Higher
Education Law abolished the Ministry of Higher Education entirely,
revised the composition and responsibilities of the HEC, designated
the Prime Minister as its Chair, and created a Higher Education
Accreditation Council (HEAC).
2.      Project Objectives:   The objective of this project is to initiate
improvements in the quality, relevance and efficiency of Jordan's higher
education, and to support the Kingdom's program to reform sector governance.
The project will: (i) establish system-wide modern information technology
(IT), management information systems (MIS), and library infrastructure for
higher education; (ii) support a Higher Education Development Fund that will
provide grants to public universities for innovative and economically
relevant sub-projects and for improving teaching and learning; (iii) initiate
reforms of higher education governance, including the introduction of
formula-based allocation of higher education recurrent funding from the
Government; and (iv) support the rationalization of the community college
sub-sector through the new Al-Balqa' Applied University (BAU). Future Bank
support for the sector could include further reform of its governance,
accreditation, and financial frameworks, as well as broadening improvements
in quality and relevance.
3.      Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank support will bring value added in six areas:
- analysis of cross-sectoral labor markets issues;
- worldwide perspective on analysis of higher education issues (e.g.
the Bank's policy study Higher Education: the Lessons of Experience,
presented to the Board in 1994; higher education projects under
implementation in every region);
- specific analysis of Jordanian higher education issues, as
demonstrated in the 1996 sector report;
- comprehensive sector perspective. With 10 projects in Jordan's
education and training sectors since 1975, the Bank can help to
prioritize sector issues, putting them in a context which ensures
that higher education measures are not adopted which adversely affect
the rest of the system;
- translating policy and technical analysis into implementable
recommendations; and
- the Bank is for the moment the only major donor involved in the
design of comprehensive higher education reform in Jordan.
4.      Project Description
The project has 4 components. They will:
1.      Initiate improvements in quality, relevance and efficiency through
support for:
- essential infrastructure for inter- and intra-university
information technology networks, management information systems,
modern library systems and faculty development; and
- the Higher Education Development Fund (HEDF), which will allocate
investment funding for university-based (i) academic and
entrepreneurial subprojects, according to specified criteria
contained in the HEDF Operations Manual; (ii) information
technology (IT) proposals; and (iii) university based Faculty
Development Centers.
-2-



2.      Initiate improvements in governance through support for the Higher
Education Council's Secretariat, the Higher Education Accreditation
Council, and management and planning at the university level.
3.      Support reform of the community college system through the following
at Al-Balqa' Applied University: governance and management; new program
development; human resources development; and facility and equipment
upgrade.
4.      Support project implementation capacity including staffing and
equipment for the Project Implementation Unit and University
Implementation Units.
5.      Financing
Total (US$ millions)
Government                               15.7
Universities                             15.8
IBRD                                     34.3
Total Project Cost                       65.8
6.      Implementation
a) Implementation period. The project will be implemented over five
years, from 2000 to 2005.
b) Project Oversight & Coordination. The project will be overseen by a
National Steering Committee, and executed by the National Center for
Human Resources Development (NCHRD).
The NSC has been appointed by the Minister of Planning. It is chaired
by the President of the NCHRD, and includes the Vice President of
NCHRD, the Secretary General and one senior officials of the MoP, the
Secretary General of the HEC, and one senior representative from each
of the eight2 pubic universities. The NSC will set the overall policy
guidelines and direction of the project. A sub-group of the NSC,
called the Fund Committee, will constitute the main body of the
evaluation committee for the Higher Education Development Fund (HEDF).
The Fund Committee will be composed of the five non-university members
of the NSC plus four university representatives who will alternate
with the other four for each Round of the Fund.
c) Project Implementation: To assist the NCHRD in its technical and
administrative functions, and to supplement its capacity for project
execution, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be formed and
located at the NCHRD. The PIU will coordinate the activities
implemented by the eight universities and will be the principal agent
for implementing the system-wide activities. The size of the PIU
will be determined by the volume of work it will handle when in full
operation. When fully staffed, the PIU will consist of seven members
recruited on a competitive basis: Project Manager, Fund Coordinator,
Procurement Officer, IT Officer and Financial Officer to head a
three-member finance team. In addition for IT activities the PIU
will be assisted by a standing committee. In addition, each
university will designate a full-time Project Coordinator to head a
University Implementation Unit (UIU). The university Coordinator
will report to the university's designated representative on the NSC
and will be assisted by the university's Finance and Procurement
Departments. To facilitate the functions of the UIUs, universities
-3 -



will make available the requisite human, physical and financial
resources for effective project implementation.
d) Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. The PIU,
housed at NCHRD, will be responsible for project accounts and for
project financial reporting and auditing, following systems and
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Project funds and cash
disbursements for all project activities, including those which are
decentralized for execution at the university level under the Fund,
will be handled centrally by the PIU. At the institutional level,
each university will be responsible for reporting to the PIU on the
Fund's activities for consolidation purposes.
e) Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. The PIU will be responsible
for monitoring project progress against agreed indicators. It will
submit to the NSC quarterly progress reports, summarizing all
financial transactions and physical accomplishments as well as the
work plan for the next six months. These reports will be
consolidated and forwarded by the NSC to the Bank semi-annually.
7.      Project Sustainability
The following factors are likely to be critical to the sustainability of
project benefits:
a) Institutional sustainability. The project will contribute to the
overall sustainability of higher education in Jordan through capacity
building at the system and institutional levels. Component 2 would
support enhancement of national and university planning and
management capacity. At the national level, the newly constituted
HEC has already been appointed, and its project-supported technical
secretariat is expected to continue performing critical analytic and
monitoring functions after project completion.
Sustainability of the HEDF and its implementation structure (NSC,
PIU) beyond the project is more questionable. Allocation of sub-
project funds through the HEDF will introduce objective, criteria-
based financing mechanism to the sector. Successful implementation
of this mechanism will be critical to the Government's and
stakeholders' desire to make it a permanent fixture in Jordanian
higher education.
b) Financial sustainability. This will depend on overall government
revenues during the project implementation period. Financial
sustainability of the sector will be enhanced by the project, which
will improve sub-sector efficiency and channel investment funds
toward more cost-effective investments. In addition project design
will enable substantial cost recovery on the IT investments.
Finally, the Bank has provided technical assistance to the Government
to ascertain the conditions under which financial sustainability of
the sector can be maintained in a framework that guarantees optimal
efficiency and equity, including the upgrade of scholarship and
student loan schemes.
8.      Lessons Learned from past operations/in the country sector:    Jordan has
had ten Bank-supported projects addressing issues in general education and
manpower development, but the proposed project would be the first in higher
education. The following lessons of implementation, derived from higher
education sector work in Jordan, the Bank supported HRDSIL I project in
- 4 -



Jordan, as well as ongoing higher education projects in Tunisia, Argentina
and Indonesia, have been incorporated in project preparation and design:
- project design needs to take into account the complex nature of
quasi-autonomous universities and the potential impact of inter-
university politics on the project;
- universities need to improve planning and management practices and
tools, including management information systems;
- formula-based funding mechanisms for recurrent spending should be
based on student headcount (enrollments or completions) and
differentiated student unit costs, according to fields of study; and
- short-term technical training programs need to establish strong links
with the local economy (through flexible and responsive curricula,
and through the formal inclusion of business community leaders in
college advisory boards).
9.      Program of Target Intervention (PTI) -N-
10.     Environment Aspects (including any public consultation): The project is
expected to have a positive environmental impact. Through the Higher
Education Development Fund it will support one or more university
environmental programs, which will be coordinated with the Higher Council for
Science and Technology's environment program. The project is rated category
C because it will finance neither construction nor infrastructure. The HEDF
Operations Manual specifies that environmental screening for minor
rehabilitation works will be undertaken by the Jordanian General Corporation
for Environment Protection, in compliance with Jordan's Environment
Protection Law # 12 of 1995.
Contacts:
Task Team Leader
Francis Steier
MNSHD
Middle East and North Africa
H9-121
Telephone: (202) 473-2404
Fax: (202) 477-0036
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
1 University of Jordan, Jordan University of Science and Technology (JUST),
Yarmouk Univesity, Mu ' Tah University, Hashemite University,
Al-Albayt Universtity and Al-Balqa' Applied University.
2 The eighth public university was created in the summer of 1999: Hussein
Ben Tahl University
Jordan - Higher Education Development Project Project Information Document
- 5 -



