Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4539-JO
Loan Agreement
(Higher Education Development Project)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 8, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4539-JO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 2000, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the 
“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
“Bank”).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the “General Conditions”) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
Page  2
meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories 1 and 2 set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
“Higher Education Council” means the Council established, as of September 
1, 1998, pursuant to the Higher Education Law No. 6 for the year 1998;
(d)
“Implementation Manual” means the manual, dated December 21, 1999, 
setting forth the managerial, financial, administrative and environmental policies and 
procedures for the execution of the Project, and the eligibility criteria for 
selection, financing and implementation of Subprojects; as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank;
(e)
“NSC” means the National Steering Committee established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning decision dated November 28, 1998, and 
to be maintained pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(f)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established in the Borrower's 
Ministry of Planning and to be maintained by the Borrower for implementation of the 
Project, referred to in Paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(g)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
“Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(i)
“Subproject” means, individually, a specific project to be carried out 
under Part A.2 of the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
Implementation Manual, and the term “Subprojects” means, collectively, more than one 
Subproject.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
four million seven hundred thousand United States dollars ($34,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
Page  3
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, educational, economic, financial and environmental practices and in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, not later 
than September 1 of each year, commencing September 1, 2000, an estimate of the 
counterpart funding required to be provided by the Borrower out of its own resources 
for the Project during the subsequent year; and (ii) taking into account the comments 
of the Bank, ensure that adequate financing arrangements are made prior to January 1 
of each year to cover the counterpart funding required for the Project activities to 
Page  4
be implemented during such year.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project, and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and separate accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and a 
report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
Page  5
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than March 1, 2001 
or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the period 
covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have established and certified by an 
independent auditor the financial management system, referred to in Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
P. O. Box 555
Amman
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  6
21319 JO
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s/ Taleb Rifai 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
 32,000,000
100% of foreign expenditures, 
100% of local expenditures (ex- 
factory cost); and 85% of 
local expenditures for other 
items procured locally
(2)
Consultants' 
   500,000
100%
Services (including 
training)
(3)
Fee
   347,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Page  7
Agreement
(4)
Unallocated
 1,853,000
TOTAL
34,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts not 
exceeding three hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($350,000) equivalent; (b) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms not exceeding one hundred thousand 
dollars ($100,000) equivalent; (c) contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants not exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent; and (d) 
contracts for training not exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent, 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its 
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
Page  8
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to US$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of US$8,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
Page  9
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of US$4,250,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve the quality, 
relevance and efficiency of its higher education sector and support its program to 
reform sector governance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of Education Quality, Relevance and Efficiency
(1)
Carrying out essential infrastructure improvements for information technology 
networks, management information systems, modern library systems and related faculty 
training through the provision of equipment, technical assistance services and 
training.
(2)
Improving existing and undertaking new educational and applied research programs 
through the financing of priority Subprojects, including the upgrading of existing 
facilities and the provision of equipment, technical assistance services and training.
Part B:
Institutional Reform
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Borrower’s Higher Education 
Council Secretariat and Higher Education Accreditation Council, and the Borrower’s 
Page  10
planning and management capacity at the university level, through the provision of 
equipment, technical assistance services and training.
Part C:
Reform of the Community College System
Improving the governance and management of the Borrower’s Balqa’ Applied 
University, development of new educational programs at the community colleges of said 
University, development of faculty and staff at the community colleges of said 
University, through upgrading of equipment and provision of necessary technical 
assistance, materials and training.
Part D:
Strengthening Project Implementation Capacity
Strengthening the capacity of the NSC, the PIU and university units for 
implementing the Project through the provision of equipment and training.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
October 15, 2004
  880,000 
April 15, 2005
  905,000 
October 15, 2005
  935,000 
April 15, 2006
  965,000 
October 15, 2006
  995,000 
April 15, 2007
1,030,000 
October 15, 2007
1,060,000 
April 15, 2008
1,095,000 
October 15, 2008
1,130,000 
April 15, 2009
1,165,000 
October 15, 2009
1,200,000 
April 15, 2010
1,240,000 
October 15, 2010
1,280,000 
April 15, 2011
1,320,000 
October 15, 2011
1,360,000 
April 15, 2012
1,405,000 
October 15, 2012
1,450,000 
April 15, 2013
1,495,000 
October 15, 2013
1,540,000 
April 15, 2014
1,590,000 
October 15, 2014
1,640,000 
April 15, 2015
1,695,000 
October 15, 2015
1,745,000 
April 15, 2016
1,800,000 
October 15, 2016
1,860,000 
April 15, 2017
1,920,000
TOTAL
      34,700,000 
____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Page  11
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the “Guidelines”) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost ten million dollars 
($10,000,000) equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed ten million dollars 
($10,000,000) equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed two million dollars 
($2,000,000) equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost less than five thousand dollars ($5,000) equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed four hundred thousand dollars 
($400,000) equivalent, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
Page  12
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) the first three contracts, irrespective of the method of 
procurement or the type of goods, (ii) all contracts related to the purchase of 
information technology equipment, and (iii) all contracts for goods to be procured 
pursuant to the provisions of Part B, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the “Consultant Guidelines”) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services under Subprojects, estimated to cost less than one hundred thousand 
dollars ($100,000) equivalent per contract for firms, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Subprojects, estimated to cost less than one hundred thousand 
dollars ($100,000) equivalent per contract for firms, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for teaching, research and peer review shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 
Page  13
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
NSC
1.
(a)
For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination of the Project, the 
Borrower shall maintain the NSC for the duration of the Project.
(b)
The functions of the NSC shall include, inter alia:
(i)
responsibility for setting and monitoring the overall policy 
guidelines for 
Project implementation;
(ii)
ensuring the proper application of the Implementation Manual;
(iii)
reviewing with the Bank, at such intervals as the Bank shall 
request, the 
Implementation Manual, and, based upon such reviews, 
updating the same as may 
be agreed by the Bank; and
(iv)
review and approval of the annual work plans for the Project, 
including the 
budget for the operation of the PIU.
2.
NSC shall establish, not later than September 1, 2000, for the purposes of 
reviewing and approving the Subprojects, The Fund Committee with composition and term 
of reference acceptable to the Bank.  Thereafter, the Fund Committee shall review and 
approve the Subproject in accordance with the Implementation Manual.
PIU
3.
(a)
For the purpose of ensuring the proper implementation of the Project, the 
Borrower shall maintain the PIU with organization, staffing and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
The functions of the PIU shall include, inter alia: (i) to assume the 
day-to-day responsibility for coordinating overall Project implementation; (ii) to 
prepare annual work plans, including operations and budgets; and (iii) to maintain the 
financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
Subprojects under Part A.2 of the Project
4.
The Borrower shall cause the PIU:
(a)
to ensure that Subprojects are prepared, appraised, decided upon and 
carried out in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Implementation Manual; 
and
(b)
to prepare and furnish to the Bank through NSC:  (i) not later than 
August 1 in each year, a report on the processing of Subprojects during the preceding 
twelve (12) months; and (ii) following the completion of each Subproject, an impact 
evaluation of such Subproject, in such detail and of such scope as the Bank shall have 
specified.
5.
(a)
The Borrower shall cause the NSC to enter into agreements, satisfactory 
to the Bank, with universities that are selected for the purposes of carrying out 
Subprojects, providing, inter alia, for: (i) the institutional and operational 
arrangements to be undertaken by said universities for the preparation and the 
carrying out of the Subprojects; and (ii) their obligation to carry out the 
Page  14
Subprojects with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
managerial, administrative, engineering, procurement, environmental and financial 
practices as set forth in the Implementation Manual.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the NSC shall not amend or fail 
to enforce the provisions of the agreements referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this 
Paragraph.
Annual Reviews
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that NSC:
(a)
maintains policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 
and 9.07 (a) of the General Conditions, furnishes the following reports, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request:
(i)
semi-annual reports on the progress achieved in the implementation 
of the 
Project; and
(ii)
not later than August 1 of each year a report integrating the 
results of the 
semi-annual progress reports, including a review of 
performance indicators and 
setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof during the 
subsequent year; and
(c)
reviews with the Bank, not later than September 15 of each year until 
completion of the Project, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the reports 
referred to in subparagraph (b) (ii) hereof, and, thereafter, takes all measures 
required to ensure the efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said reports 
and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Mid-term Review
7.
The Borrower shall ensure that NSC:
(a)
prepares, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnishes to the Bank, not later than June 30, 2002, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Paragraph 5 above 
during the period preceding the date of such report; and
(b)
reviews with the Bank, not later than September 30, 2002, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (a) above, and, 
thereafter, takes all measures necessary to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, taking into consideration the 
conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Reform Actions
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than June 1, 2000, furnish to the Bank a time-based action plan 
for operationalizing the Higher Education Council Secretariat, referred to in Part B 
of the Project;
(b)
promptly thereafter, implement said action plan with due diligence and 
efficiency based on the Bank’s recommendations thereon; and
(c)
implement the action plan for operationalizing the Higher Education 
Accreditation Council in accordance with the agreed upon timetable.
9.
Commencing in fiscal year 2000, the Borrower shall provide evidence to the Bank 
that government funds for public universities have been distributed among its public 
Page  15
universities in accordance with a methodology and a resource allocation formula 
acceptable to the Bank.
