Page  1
February 7, 2001
H.E. Jawad Hadid
Minister of Planning
Ministry of Planning
Post Office Box 555
Amman
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Re:
Loan No. 4539-JO
Amendment to the Loan Agreement for the Higher Education 
Development Project 
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (the "Loan Agreement") relating to the Higher 
Education Development Project (the "Project") between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
(the "Borrower") and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
("IBRD"), dated June 8, 2000.  We also refer to the Borrower's request, dated December 
14, 2000 to amend the Project description to allow for the financing of the Global 
Distance Learning Center under the Project.  Accordingly, the Loan Agreement is hereby 
amended as follows:
1.
Under Section 1.02 the following new definitions are introduced as definition 
(j) and (k) respectively:
"(j)
"Procurement Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
among the Bank, the Borrower and the University of Jordan (as hereinafter 
defined), with respect to the provision of services by the Bank to the 
Borrower in support of the implementation of Part A.3 of the Project; and
(k)
"University of Jordan" means the University established by the 
Royal Decree dated September 2, 1962."
2.
Under Schedule 2 a new Part A.3 is introduced and shall read as follows:
"3.
The equipping and operation of the Jordan Global Distance Learning 
Center through the provision of goods, equipment and consultant services."
3.
All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement that have not been amended 
hereby shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Amendment.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
Director
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa
AGREED:
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s/ Jawad Hadid
Authorized Representative
Date:
April 3, 2001
Page  2
