Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3060-2 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Second Community Nutrition Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 22, 2006  
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3060-2 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated November 22, 2006, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MADAGASCAR (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). 
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to six 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,800,000) 
(
“Credit”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program. To this end, the Recipient shall carry out Parts A and D of the Project 
through the Prime Minister’s Office acting through PCU, and Parts B and C 
thereof through MINESEB, MINSAPF, ONN and CNN in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
Antananarivo 101 
Madagascar 
BP 61 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
MEFB 
   22489 
  (261) 
20 
22 
345 
30 
Antananarivo 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
   Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
By: 
/s/ Narisoa Rajaonarivony 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Nils 
O. 
Tcheyan 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the nutritional status of children 
under three, primary school children, and pregnant and lactating women, and ensure 
long-term sustainability of nutrition outcomes by improving the quality and quantity of 
food intake by children at home. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Community Nutrition Program
1. 
Carrying out of a program of growth promotion and monitoring, including a 
census of all children under five, periodic weighing of such children, provision of 
counseling to mothers on the nutritional status of children and advice based on the 
respective children’s needs, and referral as need be of severely malnourished children to 
health facilities. 
2. 
Carrying out of a program of cooking demonstrations, including efforts to teach 
mothers how to prepare recipes and demonstrate the nutritional value of food ingredients 
and the best ways to conserve them, and provision of counseling on child care, food 
selection and preparation and other nutrition-related subjects. 
3. 
Distribution of vitamin A capsules to children under five years old and lactating 
mothers within the first six weeks of delivery, and of Mebendazole or Albendazole and 
iron tablets twice a year to children under five years old. 
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services and material support to implement 
community-based activities, including review of the nutrition situation of the village, 
identification of solutions and design of feasible and sustainable activities, and provision 
of small grants to finance non-income generating activities sponsored by communities 
and designed to address nutrition- and hygiene-related issues (Welfare Fund). 
5. 
Organization of a competition to reward the most dynamic nutrition centers, in 
terms of progress achieved in the implementation of the community nutrition program, 
and activities undertaken to develop nutrition, child care, sanitation or agriculture. 
Page  7
-
6
-
6. 
Provision of training to community nutrition workers (ACN) and social workers 
in technical matters related to nutrition, and in communications techniques, and to NGOs 
in food management and distribution, and provision of IEC materials.  
Part B
:
School Nutrition Program
1. 
Distribution of iron/folate tablets to enrolled primary school children in 
accordance with the national treatment protocol issued by MINSAN/PF.  
2. 
Distribution of Mebendazole or Albendazole tablets to children between five and 
fourteen years old, whether enrolled or not, in primary schools, to be preceded by 
information and sensitization campaigns to be organized at national and regional levels.  
3. 
Carrying out of a campaign to promote good nutrition and hygiene, through 
messages relating to children’s daily lives, including the provision of pamphlets, written 
materials and lectures, to be delivered by teachers to children during regular classes and 
to parents during formal and informal meetings.  
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services and material support to implement 
school-based activities, including identification of activities designed to improve nutrition 
and hygiene in the school environment, and provision of small grants to finance non-
income generating activities designed to address nutrition- and hygiene-related issues. 
Part C
:
Support to institutionalization of the National Nutrition Policy
1. 
Supporting medical treatment of severely malnourish children. 
2. 
Training of selected Ministries to develop and execute nutrition activities in 
compliance with their mandate. 
3. 
Design, implementation and management of an information system by ONN to 
monitor and evaluate nutrition activities carried out by institutions involved in the 
provision of nutrition services, as well as the National alimentary and surveillance system 
that would include a nutrition status early warning system. 
4. 
Technical assistance for the preparation of legal texts and operational procedures 
for ONN and CNN, as well as training and establishment of an information management 
system. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Part D
:
IEC Training, Evaluation and Management
1. 
Design, implementation and monitoring of an IEC and training strategy for the 
community and school nutrition programs.  
2. 
Management of a management information system for the monitoring and 
supervision of all activities carried out under the Project. 
3. 
Project coordination and management. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 30, 2008. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in 
the Project Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if such 
amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.  
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain the PCU to be responsible for the overall 
coordination of the execution of the Project, including: (i) management of 
procurement and disbursement activities, and preparation of annual and quarterly 
progress reports, audits, and work plans and training programs, under the Project, 
and (ii) monitoring of the achievement of objectives of the Project, and 
evaluation of the impact of the activities thereof.  
(a) 
PCU shall be assisted, in each of the six Provinces forming part of the 
Recipient’s territory, by a Provincial PCU, to which PCU shall delegate 
responsibility for execution and coordination of the Project. 
(b) 
PCU shall be headed by a National Project Director, who shall be 
assisted by an Administrative and Financial officer, an internal auditor, 
an accountant, a procurement specialist, an officer responsible for 
monitoring of operations, a technical officer and a computer specialist. 
(c) 
Each Provincial PCU shall be headed by a Provincial Project Director, 
who shall be assisted by a Provincial Administrative and Financial 
Officer, an accountant, and several regional operations officers (one by 
region). 
(d) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the higher level positions of PCU and 
Provincial PCUs, which are referred to in this paragraph, shall be kept 
filled at all times by appropriate officials, having qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference which shall have been communicated 
to, and deemed acceptable by, the Association. 
Page  10
-
9
-
3. 
(a) 
Subject to the authority of the PCU, a Provincial PCU shall, in its 
respective region, execute Parts A and D of the Project, in collaboration 
with one or more local NGOs. 
(b) 
Where, in any region, a village community has decided to elect a ACN 
and to provide a location for a community nutrition center, the Provincial 
PCU shall vest responsibility for all nutrition activities in the center in 
the ACN, as well as responsibility for the promotion of community-
based activities designed to improve nutrition, hygiene and sanitation in 
a
social worker to be recruited by a local NGO. 
4. 
ONN will ensure proper coordination and supervision of all nutrition activities 
within the Recipient’s territory and CNN will be responsible for the supervision 
of the implementation of nutrition policies and strategies and will propose news 
strategy reforms. 
5. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, not later than September 30 of each year, submit to 
the Association, for review and approval, proposed annual work plans 
and budget for the forthcoming fiscal year, giving details of proposed 
budgetary allocations and disbursement estimates, proposed procurement 
activities, and such other particulars as the Association may require. 
(b)  
The Recipient shall submit to the Association, for review: 
(i) 
not later than 45 days after the end of a quarter, quarterly 
progress reports on the status of the Project; and 
(ii) 
reports as needed on the award of contracts under the Project. 
6. 
Grants to be financed under Part A 1 of the Project shall be subject to terms and 
conditions, and eligibility criteria acceptable to the Association and shall not 
exceed $500 each. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project Report shall 
Page  11
-
10
-
cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than one month after the end of the period covered 
by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:   
 
(i) 
by June 2008, the rate of underweight children from zero to three 
years of age, in the Project areas, is 20% or less.  
 
(ii) 
by June2008, 1,700,000 children under 3 are enrolled in the 
growth monitoring and promotion program; 
 
(iii) 
by June2008, 670,000 children and 430,000 lactating women 
receiving vitamin A supplementation; 
 
(iv) 
by the completion of the Project, CNN and ONN are operational; 
(v) 
by the completion of the Project, the National Nutrition 
Monitoring and Evaluation System is implemented; and 
 
(vi) 
by the completion of the Project, 3,000,000 school-aged children 
every year will have gone twice through a deworming process. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Page  12
-
11
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. 
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding
 
(b)  
Procurement from UN Agencies
 
(c) S
hopping
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Single Source Selection
 
(b) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the 
Consultant guidelines for the selection of Individual 
Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance 100% of Eligible 
Expenditures (goods, drugs, works, consultants services, training, operating costs 
and grants). 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2008. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 1and November 1: 
 
commencing May 1, 2017 to and including 
November 1, 2026 
1% 
commencing May 1, 2027 to and including 
November 1, 2046 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  15
-
14
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
The terms defined in the Original Financing Agreement (as hereinafter defined) 
have the respective meaning therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the 
following meaning:
 
1. 
“CNN” means Conseil National de Nutrition, the Recipient’s National Nutrition 
Council established pursuant to Decree N0. 2004-1071. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
4. “ONN” 
means 
Office National de Nutrition
,
the Recipient’s national Nutrition 
Office established pursuant to Decree No. 2004-1072. 
5. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for the 
Second Community Nutrition Project, between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated May 7, 1998 as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit 
No 3060-MAG). 
6. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 19, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
 
