Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12641
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
PLAYAS HYDRO POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1953-CO)
DECEMBER 29, 1993
Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tbe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit         =   Colombian Peso (Col$)
US$1.00               =   Col$ 47.30 (1980 appraisal
assumption of average)
US$1.00               =   Col$ 44.00 (December 1979, used in
project costs estimate)
US$1.00               =   Col$ 142.31 (1985 average)
US$1.00               =   ColS 502.26 (1990 average)
US$1.00               =   ColS 754.54 (1992 ave. Jan.-June)
us$1.00               =   100 US¢
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
meter (m)                   =   3.28 feet
kilometer (km)              =   0.62 miles
square kilometer (sq km)  =   0.39 square miles
cubic meter (cum)           =   35.3 cubic feet
cubic meter per second    =   35.29 cubic feet per second
(cumecs)
1 kilovolt (kV)             =   1,000 volts (V)
1 kilowatt (kW)             =   1,000 watts (W)
1 Megawatt (MW)             =   1,000 kilowatts
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)       =   1,000 watt-hours (Wh)
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)       =   1,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)   =   1,000,000 volt-amperes (VA)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EPM             -   Empresas Publicas de Medellin
ISA             -   Interconexi6n Electrica S.A.
EEEB            -   Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
CORELCA         -   Corporaci6n Electrica de la Costa AtlAntica
CONPES          -   Consejo Nacional de Politica Econ6mica y
Social
JNT             -   Junta Nacional de Tarifas
IADB            -   Inter-American Development Bank
CHEC            -   Central Hidroelectrica de Caldas
CVC             -   Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional del Valle del
Rio Cauca
ICEL            -   Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
NPD             -   National Planning Department
MME             -   Ministry of Mines and Energy
MOF             -   Ministry of Finance
FISCAL YEAR
Fiscal year = Calendar year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 29, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Colombia
Plavas Hydro Power Proiect (Loan 1953-CO)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Colombia - Playas Hydro
Power Project (Loan 1953-CO)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Region. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The US$85.0 million loan to Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM), the
power company serving Medellin, (the sixth such loan), contributed to the
construction of a 200 MW hydroelectric power generation scheme urgently needed
to alleviate power shortages.  Inadequate project preparation, particularly
geological investigations resulted in major construction problems causing two-
and-a-half years delay in completion and large claims from contractors.
Eventually the project was successfully cormmissioned and is delivering its share
of electricity. A substantial portion of the loan was canceled ($18 million) due
to lower than estimated costs.
The cost underrun was due to lower than anticipated inflation and
overestimation of the scope of underground works.  The main lesson is that
complete technical preparation, particularly geological investigations and
detailed designs, should be prerequisites for final processing of loans by the
Bank for these types of projects.
The PCR gives a thorough account of project preparation and
implementation and draws appropriate conclusions. Overall, the project outcome
is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as likely, and its institutional
impact as partial.
A recent study of ten years of Bank lending to the power sector ln
Colombia obviates the need to audit this project.
aThs document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PLAYAS HYDRO POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1953-CO}
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ........................................................i
Evaluation Summary .............................................ii
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...............                                            1
Project Identity .....................................                                        1
Background ...........................................                                        1
Identification,  Preparation  and Appraisal ............                                     4
Project Implementation ...............................                                      11
Project Results ......................................                                      13
Project Sustainability ...............................                                      14
Bank's Performance ...................................                                      14
Borrower's Performance ...............................                                      15
Performance of Consultants ...........................                                      16
Performance of Contractors and Suppliers .............                                      16
Project Relationships ................................                                      17
Project Documentation and Data .......................                                      17
Conclusions and Lessons Learned ......................                                      17
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...........                                           19
Project Implementation ...............................                                      19
Executing Agency .....................................                                      20
Financial Analysis ...................................                                      21
Bank Performance .....................................                                      23
Lessons Learned ......................................                                      23
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..............................                                           24
Related Bank Loans ...................................                                      24
Project Timetable ....................................                                      26
Loan Disbursements ...................................                                      27
Allocation of Loan Proceeds ..........................                                      28
Project Implementation ...............................                                      29
Project Costs and Financing ..........................                                      30
Project Results ......................................                                      32
Status of Covenants ..................................                                      34
Use of Bank Resources ................................                                      37
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'di
ANNEX
Financial Statements 1980-1991 .......................       38
Performance and Financial Indicators 1980-1991 .......        44



COLOMBIA
PLAYAS HYDROPOWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1953-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Playas Hydro-
power Project in Colombia. The hydroplant was commissioned in October 1988,
about two and a half years later than anticipated in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR). Since its commissioning the Playas hydropower plant has
operated normally.
The Project was partially financed with Loan 1953-CO for US$85
million (approved March 3, 1981). The Borrower is the Empresas Publicas de
Medellin (EPM) a municipal corporation of the city of Medellin. The closing
date of the loan was March 31, 1991, about three and a half years later than
the original foreseen date. US$18.11 million of the loan proceeds were
cancelled as a result of project cost savings. The rest of the proceeds were
fully disbursed. The last disbursement was on August 2, 1991.
The draft of this report was discussed with the Borrower and its
comments are set forth in Part II of this PCR.
The Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy Operations Division,
Country Department III prepared Parts I and III of the PCR based, among other
sources, on the Issues/Decisions Paper, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
and the Guarantee Agreements, records of the World Bank and of the Borrower
and interviews with Borrower's staff in Medellin and at the project site.






-ii-
COLOMBIA
PLAYAS HYDROPOWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1953-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
1.        The loan for the Playas Hydropower Project was the sixth loan to
EPM and the fifteenth loan since 1970 to Colombia's Power Sector. It helped
finance a project consisting of: (a) a 200 MW hidroelectric power scheme at
Playas on the Nare River in Colombia's Antioquia Province; and (b) terms of
reference and studies for environmental protection of the Nare River Basin,
the economic cost of power rationing, and formulation of a strategy for EPM to
absorb two of ICEL's subsidiaries.
Imolementation Experience
2.        The project was estimated at appraisal to cost the equivalent of
US$362.3 million, including financial charges during construction. Final cost
of the project -- US$302.2 million -- was about 17 percent below project cost
estimated in the SAR. World Bank financing for the project amounted to US$85
million, the proceeds of which were fully disbursed, except for US$18.11
million of savings which were cancelled. IADB provided financing amounting to
US$85 million of which US$11.3 million was cancelled, while EPM's contribution
from its own resources was US$77.9 million. The balance was financed through
foreign commercial bank loans.
3.        Albeit with a two and a half years delay, caused mainly by
construction problems and delays in project design's preparation, the Playas
Hydropower Scheme was successfully commissioned in October 1988. At appraisal
the project was not fully prepared and the project's final designs were not
completed. As a result, it took more than a year and a half before
construction started. Although there were not enough exploratory drilling to
confirm the geological features at the project site, the Bank agreed to
finance the project based on EPM's good technical and managerial record in
previous projects. In the event, location of the caverns for the powerhouse
and the tailwater surge tank had to be shifted in position because of rock
jointing. Despite this change, while construction was proceeding at this new
location, a major fault across these underground works was discovered,
requiring special support means. This problem delayed considerably the
completion of the power scheme and prompted the contractor to present claims
which were finally settled for about US$7 million. Fortunately the joint
actions of EPM's Project Management Unit, the consultants, and the contractors
were instrumental in solving successfully the difficulties encountered during
project construction.



- iii-
Proiect Results
4.        In spite of the initial difficulties, the project successfully
achieved the objectives established at appraisal. The recomputed rate of
return -- 14.8% -- although slightly lower than the 15.5% calculated at
appraisal, it is still above the opportunity cost of capital in Colombia,
estimated at 10-11%.
5.        EPM's performance during project implementation and since its
commissioning has been satisfactory, both financially and operationally. In
fact EPM stands currently, probably as the only well managed electric power
utility of Colombia's Power Sector. As in some of the other previous EPM's
projects financed by the Bank, this one had a good project management and
institutional impact, reinforcing the organization and financial independence
of the different services provided by EPM, and enhancing the technical,
administrative and managerial skills of its personnel.
Sustainability
6.        The main results of the project (i.e. the physical facilities
implemented and the institutional strengthening) have provided, and will
continue to provide, tangible direct benefits to EPM and its customers, and
also to the Colombian society at large. Nevertheless, it is important to
mention two factors of risk to the sustainability of these benefits. One is
the low level and inadequate structure of tariffs that affects EPM's finances
and causes an inefficient use of electricity. This is a chronic problem in
the Colombian power sector in general, but in the case of EPM it has become an
accepted policy at municipal level. The other factor is the structural and
financial crisis that is affecting at the present the Colombian power sector.
Although the central Government is moving in the right direction and has
proposed a new legislation for a comprehensive reform of the sector, detail
design of the new framework, approval of the required legislation by the
Congress, and the implementation of the changes will take time.
Lessons Learned
7.        The following lessons stems from implementation of the Playas
Project:
(a) Project Preparation: Before undertaking
appraisal of a project of the nature of Playas,
the Bank should satisfy itself that the project
has been adequately prepared. The project
designs should be reviewed by a panel of
experts made up of independent specialist in
the main technical disciplines involved, before
bid documents are issued.
(b) Timing of Loan: Hydroelectric projects with
major underground construction require usually
extensive geological field investigations and
careful design. It would be best to firm up
loan proposals for such projects only when the



-iv-
detailed designs are well advanced and bidding
documents for major contracts are ready.
(c) Last but not least, one very important lesson
is that the success of a project depends more
than any other factor on the ability and
experience of the people and the institution
involved in its implementation. A case in
point is EPM that was, and it still is, perhaps
the best managed electric power utility company
of Colombia, despite the rather poor
performance of the sector in general.






COLOHBIA
PLAYAS HYDROPOWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1953-C0O
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Proiect Identity
Project Name         Playas Hydropower Project
Loan Number          1953-CO
RVP Unit             Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
Country Department III
Country            :Colombia
Sector             : Electric Power
Loan Amount        :US$85 million
Amount Disbursed  sUS$66.89 million
Amount Cancelled  :US$18.11 million
Year of Approval  t Fiscal Year 1981
Borrower           : Empresas P1iblicas de Medellin
2.        Backaround
2.01      Bank Lendina to the Sector.  Since 1970, the Bank has supported the
development of Colombia's power sector with 15 loans for over US$1.9 billion'.
The ninth Bank loan to the sector since 1970, Loan 1953-CO (November 6, 19811
US$85 million) to Zmpresas Pfablicas de Medellin (RPM), helped to finance the
Playas Hydropower Project, which is the subject of this Project Completion
Report'.
2.02      Electric Power Sector Oroanization and Recent Develouuents.
Regulation of the electric power sector ham been the responsibility of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME), which is in charge of formulating the
national policy for power generation, transmission and distribution.
Regarding investment priorities, it has shared responsibilities with the
National Planning Department (NPD), the Ministry of Finances (MOF) and
Interconexi6n Bl6ctrica S.A. (ISA), a generating and transmimsion utility,
which owns and operates the National Interconnected System, and of which the
1. The Inter-American Development Bank (IADB), tho other uultilateral source of foreign financing for the
sector, contributed another simitr amount in 22 loans.
2. Up to 1981 the Bank had made 6 loans, totaling USS345 million, to EPM for electric powr generation (250-
CO in 1959, 282-CO In 1961, 369-CO In 1964, 874-CO In 1973, 1868-CO In 1980 and 1953-CO In 1981). In 1964
the Snk extondd another Loan to EPM for USS164.5 milLion (2449-CO) for the Rio Grand Nultipurpo
Project, involving powr generation and water supply. In addition, In 1980, it extended a loan (USS44
mllion) to EPM for pert of its tclecomunication expwnsion and Isprove_ nt proorm.



-2-
shareholders are the main Goverment-owned electric power utilities3 and the
two largest municipal utilities4.  ISA is in charge of defining the generation
and bulk transmission expansion program. After approval by DNP and the
National Economic and Social Policy Council (CONPES), this would become the
National Power Expansion Program.
2.03      Some of the problems that ISA faced came from the tendency of ISA's
shareholders to introduce their projects's preferences at an early stage in
ISA's planning process. This caused some difficulties in the proper
assessment of the cost to the economy of the shareholders' preferences and a
transparent choice of the most advantageous solutions. ISA's operating rules
for the interconnected system were also somehow affected by the short term
generation dispatch requirements of its shareholders.
2.04      Towards 1989 the Government realized that the power sector needed
an organization to coordinate the regulating functions exercised by the MME,
the MOF and the DNP, and to some extent by ISA and the Junta Nacional Tarifas
(JNT), the Government's tariffs setting board. An Energy Board (Comisi6n
Nacional de Energia - CNE)5 was therefore set up to carry out this
coordinating function.
2.05      Late in 1990 the oceanic phenomena know as "El Niflo" appeared in
the Pacific Ocean. The appearance of this phenomena generally gives way to
major climatic disturbances along the West Coast of South America and heralds
periods of drought in Colombia. The intensity of this phenomenon, coupled
with the non optimal use of the water stored in the hydro power plants'
reservoirs6 and thermal plants availability problems, became critical at the
end of 1991. Early in 1992, when the water stored in the power plants'
reservoir hit a low of 17% of their composite capacity7, it became apparent
that power rationing was required. Faced with a potential failure of the
power system the Government imposed in early March 1992 drastic power
rationing of up to eight hours per day (Currently it is foreseen that power
rationing may have to be extended till mid-1993). It is also important to
note that some overestimation had been made of the Colombian power system
generating capacity'.
3. Instituto Colombiano de Energia El6ctrica CICEL), Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional del VaLLe del Cauca
(CVC), and Corporaci6n El6ctrica de la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA).
4. Empresa de Energia El6ctrica de Bogoth (EEEB) and Empresas PuibLicas de NedeLifn (EPH).
5. In the proposed Electricity Law, the CNE is converted into a Department of hNE.
6. The cost of power rationing used in running the operation dispatch programs was taken as CotS 28 per kWh
(about USS 0.05) of unserved energy. Later on, when it became apparent that the power system was on its way
to more serious problems it was raised to ColS 300 per kWh (USS 0.50), a tenfold increase.
7. In fact a ten-year review of actual stored water indicated that it has never exceeded 70% of the
reservoirs' composite capacity.
8. It is interested to note that this position -- of surplus capacity in Colombia's power sector -- was
shared by the Bank. See on this subject the Report No. 8893 from the Operation Evaluation Department
mColombia -- The Power Sector and the World Bank -- 1970-1987", dated June 28, 1990.



-3-
2.06      Faced with the serious operational, financial and managerial
problems of the power sector the Goverment has lately introduced to Congress a
draft of an Electricity Law9 aiming at restructuring the sector and allowing
private sector participation in electricity generation, transmission and
distribution. The passing of this Electricity Law by the Congress is unclear
at present.
2.07      By 1991 the installed capacity in the power sector's generating
facilities was 8,356 MW of which 78 percent was hydroelectic and 22 percent
thermal, while peak demand war 6,300 MW. As indicated in the preceding
paragraph the effective available capacity is much lsen and, due to the
current drought, and to unavailability of a large part of the thermal units,
stands presently at only 5300 MW. In 1990 of 34,000 GWh generated by the
power sector only 76 percent ended up as sales to consumers due to
transmission and distribution losses of 22 percent and station use of 2
percent. This high level of losses is well above what is experienced in most
Latin American countriesl°
2.08      Residential electricity sales represent 48 percent of total sales.
This relatively high percentage is due basically to high use of electricity
for cooking, encouraged by low residential tariffs, particularly for low
income customers". The Government in partially tackling this problem by
promoting the use of natural gas through extension of gas lines into low
income neighborhoods.
2.09      Between 1970 and 1980 electric energy demand for the whole of the
power sector grew rapidly at an average of 10 percent per year. In the
following ten-year period it grew at a much slower rate of 5.7 percent per
year on average. It is likely that this slowdown in the growth of electricity
demand has been caused by the electric power rationing that took place in the
years 1980 and 1981, the 1980's general slowdown in economic growth, and
tariff increases exceeding inflation, which might have forced a more rational
use of electric power in the productive activities.
2.10      The financial situation of the power sector has reached a critical
stage, which will further deteriorate am a consequence of the current power
rationing. In 1990 the sector as a whole obtained a net income from
operations of just 4.9 percent over net fixed assets in operation, and
sustained a net loss of 4.3 percent over net worth'2. In the same year,
against a debt service of US$1,870 millions, internal cash generation attained
only US$700 million leaving a cash deficit of US$1170 million.
9. Proyecto de Ley No. 1271/92 ... por et cusl so establtcc *l r6gimen pere lc gen.raci6n, interconexi6n,
tranmsmsidn y distribuci6n de *loctricidad en et torritorlo nacional, August 27. 1992.
10. Considering 29 countries from Latin America wnd the Caribbean, only four (Haiti, Dominican Republic,
Horiduras and Panmi) exhibit higher level of power Losses. In Iresil and N6xico power losses are around 13
percent, whAit in developed countries, they represent only something Like 8 percent of total genration.
11. Currently in Colombia, eLectricity tariff Level depends on six categories of relative incom levl,
defined by neighborhoods, in such a way that high-income areas cross-subsidize low-income residential
customers.
12. Exposici6n de Motivos, Proyecto de Ley El6ctrica, Ninisteric de Nine y Enrrgfa, August 1992.



-4-
2.11      EPM's Facilities and  Market.  EPM's market comprises essentially
the metropolitan area of Medellin (population: 3.0 million inhabitants) and
the provinces of Antioquia and Choc6. The Medellin area is the second largest
nucleus of industrial and commercial activity in Colombia. Most of the supply
to Antioquia's municipalities and all supply to Choc6's ones is done through
block sales to distribution utilities (Empresa Antioqueia de Energia and
Electrificadora del Choc6). EPM also market block supplies of electric power
to the interconnected system by way of ISA. EPM is an autonomous corporation
of the Municipality of Medellin organized in 1955. It presently provides
electricity, telephone, and water and sewerage services. These three areas of
EPM are operated as financially independent departments with separate
accounts. EPM's installed generating capacity at the time of the Playas
project was 979 MW. Additionally by investing in ISA plants (Chivor, San
carlos, Jaguas), EPM had obtained rights to a portion of their generating
capacities (in 1979: 480 GWh and 80 MW). Peak demand in 1979 in EPM's system
was 745 MW; in 1988 it reached 1,226 MW, while in the SAR it was forecasted
1547 MW. Peak demand in 1991 was 1,340 MW. Energy demand'3 was forecast at
appraisal to grow at an average 8.3 percent per year, from 3.867 GWh in 1979
to 7,943 GWh in 1988. In fact it grew up much more slowly at an average of
only 5.4 percent per year reaching 6,698 GWh in 1988. By 1991 energy demand
had only reached 7,285 GWh at an annual average growth rate in the past five
years of just over 4 percent per year.
2.12      Role of the Bank.  In broad terms the role of the Bank in
supporting Colombia's power sector went through three phases during the past
two decades. In the 1970s, the emphasis was in interconnection and on ISA's
role, for which it was envisaged a virtual monopoly of building and operating
all major generating capacity additions to the interconnected system. In the
1980s, the Bank's emphasis shifted to distribution and village electrification
and to issues associated with individual utilities, with sector issues being
dealt with in a somewhat indirect manner. Only lately, towards the end of the
1980s, the critical condition of the power sector was recognized and the stage
was set up with a Power Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2889-CO; approved 12/87)
for a new phase in the Bank's role, focusing on broad sectoral issues (a
thorough analysis of the Bak's role in the Colombian power sector can be find
in the OED's report No. 8893 entitle "Colombia - The Power Sector and The
World Bank, 1970-1987", June 28, 1990). Dispite this background the relations
between EPM and the Bank were special and very possitive. This came as a
result of the high tecnical and managerial level of EPM's personnel and the
good administration and financial management of the institution.
3.        Identification, Preparation. and Appraisal
3.01      Background.  The stiff power rationing that started in 1980 and
lasted through 1981, as well as the prospects of further high power demand
growth, convinced 1PM of the need to proceed as expeditiously as possible with
implementation of the Playas Project. This 200 MW hydroelectric project'4 had
been studied preliminary in 1972-73 at pre-feasibility level by ISA's
13. Erwrgy supply to the system (gross energy demand less station use and transmission losses).
14. The original capacity was 240 NW, but was later reduced after ISA completed an overaLL system study.



-5-
consultants INTEGRAL S.A. (Medellin). The project is one link in the cascade
development of hydropower on the Nare River Basin in the Department of
Antioquia.  Given the perceived urgency to start the project's construction,
ISA decided to leap over the feasibility stage of studies" and to proceed
inmediately with the design of the project.  The design studies were entrusted
in 1979 by ISA to the Colombian consultants SEDIC LTDA (Medellin). SEDIC
completed the design studies in July 1980. As will be discussed later on, the
decision to go ahead with the project at a design stage with not enough site
investigations for the underground powerhouse lead to important difficulties
during construction and delayed the completion of the project.
3.02       In 1979, there was a major shift in Power Sector's policies and
instead of ISA maintaining its role as the main power generation utility
(aside from operating the interconnected bulk transmission system), ISA's
shareholders were entrusted with the carrying out of the power generation
expansion program'6. Implementation of the Playas Project was therefore taken
over by EPM. In July 1980 EPM requested the assistance of the Bank in
financing the Project'7.  Simultaneously a request for financial support of
the Project was adressed to IADB. The project was described as a 200 MW
hydro-electric power scheme with an estimated firm energy productibity of
1,450 GWh per year.
3.03       Issues and Decisions.  Appraisal of the Playas Project was carried
out by a joint Bank - IADB mission in September-October 1980. Prior to
appraisal a number of issues were raised concerning Bank's participation in
this project's. Concerns were raised in the Bank regarding the paucity of
geological investigations. Against this position, there was the view that the
project was located in one of the most thoroughly-studied geological areas of
Colombia (site of the San Carlos and Jaguas developments) the Antioquia
Granitic Batholith. This batholith presents generally excellent rock
conditions but can be affected by faulting in the vicinity of major tectonic
faults'9.
3.04      There were also sector issues (agreed early in 1980) that needed
satisfactory resolution before appraisal could be carried out. The principal
sectoral issues were:
15. Nevertheless, in July 1980 SEDIC presented EPH with a report entitLed 'Playas Hydroelectric Project.
Design of Main Works, Feasibility Studies", which contained a review of existing information and of work
previously performed as well as, the additionaL investigations undertaken to define the project. It shoud
be noted that these feasibility studies were performed simuLtaneousLy with the design studies.
16. This shift in poLicy is known as the "Acuerdo de CaLl. The Acuerdo resulted from the recognitionby the
(ate 1970's of impending power shortfalls and the view that ISA has over-comitted itself with the
construction of two Large hydro projects (Chivor II and San CarLos), whereas the experienced regional and
municipal utiLities had available impLementing capabiLities.
17. Letter of EPH's General Manager (Mr. Diego CaLLe) dated August 4, 1980.
18. Memo of Acting Director, EG4 to Vicepresident, Project Staff, dated September 26, 1980; Memo of Power
Adviser, EG4 to Vicepresident, CPS, dated January 5, 1981; and Memo of Vicepresident, LAC, to Executive
Vicepresident, dated September 18, 1980.
19. A major tectonic feature in the project area is the BaLseadero. Fault to which is associated a system
of lesser discontinuities on the batholith mass.



-6-
a)   That contrary to the objective of the Bank to
build up ISA as the sole owner and constructor
of hydro projects, ISA's shareholders decided
to assume direct ownership of ISA's immediate
generation development plan, defeating in
effect the original objetive of timely
national-scale sharing of investments and
benefits.
b)   That the large arrears of ISA's shareholders in
their payments to ISAI, reflected in ISA's
arrears to its contractors on works underway,
had reached a critical level.
Giving EPM's track record with the Bank it was considered that resolution of
these issues should not be a condition to the Bank participation in Playas and
for loan approval, and that the Bank could better address resolution of the
sector's problems, including the major issue of the future of ISA and its role
in the sector, through a potential loan for the large Guavio Project, which
was scheduled at the time for late FY81. Nevertheless, the Issues/Decision
Paper (dated November 3, 1980) stated that through dialogue with the
Government and power sector officials the concept of voluntary dependence upon
a mutually-owned central agency (ISA) to facilitate least-cost expansion and
operation of the national system, was clarified to all parties concerned. As
a result of this dialogue, an agreement was reached in October 1980,
subsequently ratified by ISA's Board, that:
a)   as a long-term principle, ISA would own
sufficient plants to have direct control of at
least 33% of overall sector generation
capacity;
b)   with respect to ownership of four hydroelectric
facilities in the 1984-88 Program, individual
ISA's shareholders would build and own the
Guavio (1,000 MW), Betania (500 MW) and Playas
(200 MW) plants;
c)   ISA will acquire and maintain ownership of all
trunk transmisssion lines in the interconnected
system; and
d)   ISA, as the future national dispatch agency
(facilities were at that time under
construction), would operate the inter-
connected system at minimum cost.
3.05      Regarding the issue of overdue accounts owed to ISA by its share-
holders (except EPM) for capital contributions and energy purchases, it was
stated in the Issues/Decision Paper that in the immediate preceding two months
20. By Jwne 1980 total arrears were of CoLS 2,684 miLLion; equivaLent to USS 57 million.



-7-
the Government and the sector had taken actions designed to overcome this
problems by end of 1980 for the entities involved, except for ICEL's
subsidiaries (13 Electrificadoras). ICEL's capital contribution to ISA, which
are normally paid by the Government, had been brought up-to-date, but its
electrificadoras' energy accounts had not improved. It was stated,
furthermore, that the National Social and Economic Council (CONPES) was
considering proposals formulated by DNP and ISA's Board to eliminate
electrificadoras' arrears to ISA.
3.06      The Loan Committee's comments on the Issues/Decision Paper enquired
about two main points:
a)   the type of documents that would formalize
ISA's direct ownership of capacity and energy;
and
b)   the status of overdue payments to ISA from its
shareholders.
It was explained2l, that normally, agreements among ISA's shareholders were
recorded in Board Resolutions and in the past these have been binding
agreements. With respect to overdue payments, it was stated that acceptable
progress had been made and it was emphasized that EPM was the only shareholder
that had been up to date.
3.07      Pro-ect Obietives.  The project's objectives were to assist EPM to
meet incremental electric energy demand in the metropolitan area of Medellin
and the provinces of Antioquia and Choc6, while supplying any surplus to the
interconnected system, mainly to assist the North Atlantic coast, which at the
time depended solely on thermally generated power, and which was in the
process of been connected to the interconnected system. The project was
supposed also to encourage EPH to assist ICEL's restructuring by absorbing
ICEL subsidiaries (Antioquia and Choc6) in close geographic proximity to
Medellin. Concomitant with these objetives, the project was geared to
strengthen EPM's revenues needed to ensure sufficient internal cash generation
for investment.
3.08      Prolect Description.  The Playas hydropower project had been
identified since the early 1970s as one of the potential schemes to develop
the hydroelectric potential of the Nare, Guatape and Samana rivers in South-
western Antioquia. The Playas Project is located upstream of ISA's San Carlos
Project-, then under construction, and downstream from the points where the
Nare river is diverted through EPM's existing Guatap6 plant and ISA's Jaguas
plant then under construction. It constitutes an essential link in the
development of the Samana River Basin. It was designed to operate under a
gross head of 190 m and to generate an average of 1529 GWh per year of which
1452 GWh would be firm energy and 77 GWh secondary energy. Plant factor
21. Memo of Division Chief, LC2, to Files, dated November 10, 1980.
22. "HydroeLectric Development of the Nare, Guatap6 and Samana Rivers", INTEGRAL LTDA., Jure 1970, in
Spanish.



-8-
would, thereby be quite high, at 0.87. The project's main works are as
follows:
-    infrastructure, which includes 40 km of roads
to replace roads inundated, 4 km of access
roads, a bridge over the Guatape River and a
two-lane, concrete-paved access tunnel to the
underground power station;
-    an homogeneous earth dam having a volume of
about 3.9 million cum, 65 m high and a crest
length of 450 m at elevation 985 m.a.s.l.
(meters above sea level) and with an ungated 60
m wide concrete spillway, 385 m long, capable
of accommodating a discharge of 2,800 cumecs;
the dam creates a reservoir with storage
capacity of 85 million cubic meters (cum) of
which 47 million cum are live storage, with a
surface of about 1,000 ha;
-    a concrete-lined diversion tunnel about 700 m
long connected to a cut-and-cover culvert 140 m
long, designed for a flood of 1,570 cumecs,
together with a diversion dam later
incorporated in the main dam;
-    a power intake in the reservoir leading into
the headrace tunnel in which the main sliding
gates are located in a circular well about 600-
m from this intake;
-    a concrete-lined headrace tunnel 4 km long and
6.15 m in diameter connecting into 188-m long
pressure shaft and penstock manifold to the
turbines; a restricted-orifice 224-m high surge
tank is located at the downstream end of the
headrace tunnel;
-    three caverns: one for the underground power
house, 55 m long, 18 m wide and 30 m high; one
for the transformers in the alignment of the
power house cavern; and a tailrace surge tank
45 m long, 42 m high, and 12 m wide;
a tailrace tunnel, 924 m long and 6.15 m
equivalent diameter horseshoe tunnel ending up
in a short discharge channel leading into the
Guatap6 River;
-    three vertical-shaft 68 MW Francis turbines;
360 rpm under a 187 m net head and a discharge
of 42 cumecs, directly coupled to 71.9 MVA, 60
Hz generators at 13.8 kV;



-9-
three 3-phase 82.7 MVA step-up transformers
13.8/230 kV and one reserve transformer;
a 230 kV substation with main and transfer
busses fed from the transformers by way of 230
kV solid-insulation cables lodged in a vertical
shaft;
-    a control building adjacent to the entrance of
the access tunnel to the underground power-
house;
-    a 55 km long 230 kV transmission line linking
the Playas power station with the Guatap6 and
the Oriente (Rionegro) substations.
In addition, the project scope included: (a) consulting services for final
design, engineering and construction supervision of the works; (b) a Board of
Consultants for general assistance and supervision of the works; (c) the
preparation of terms of reference for a study of environmental protection of
the basin; (d) a study to determine the economic cost of power rationing; and
(e) a study to define the steps necessary to be taken to absorb the
Electrificadoras of Antioquia and Choc6 into EPM's system and a related plan
of action.
3.09      Status of Proiect Design.  At appraisal the project studies had
only progressed to the stage of preliminary designs. Final designs were
foressen to be completed by end of 1981 for the two major contracts, i.e. the
dam and the underground works. As indicated in paragraph 3.03 field
investigation at the site of the underground works had not been done at the
time of appraisal and in fact were never done, since it was thought that the
location of these works in the Antioquia Batolith guaranteed good rock
conditions. Besides this belief, there was the pressure to proceed as soon as
possible given the power rationing taking place at the time and the perceived
power shortfalls to meet forecast demand in the late 1980s. Although concern
was voiced in the Bank about the likelihood of encountering problems during
excavation of the underground works, IADB as cofinancier of the project
engaged the services of an expert geologist (Mr. W.L. Swiger -- USA --) to
assess the project's readiness and the correctness of unit prices. Except for
some changes in the location of the portals for the discharge tunnel and the
access tunnel, this expert considered the project design satisfactory from a
geological standpoint and the cost estimate reasonable and conservative.
3.10      Proiect Cost Estimate. Fundina and Implementation Schedule.  The
project cost was estimated at appraisal at the equivalent of US$229.2 million
in December 1979 prices including physical contigencies of US$28 million (14%
over base-line cost of US$201.2 million). Adding price escalation estimated
at US$82.2 million (36%) and interest during construction amounting to US$50.9
million the project funding requirements reached US$362.3 million. The total
foreign cost was estimated at US$227.7 (63%), while local cost was figured up
at the equivalent of US$134.6 million (33%).



-10-
3.11      Financing of the project cost, including interest during
construction, was foreueen as follows:
Source of Funds                 US$ million
IBRD (Loan 1953-CO)                  85.0               23
IADB (Loan 70-IC-CO)                 85.0               23
EPM                                 140.2               39
Other Sources                        52.1               15
Total Project Funding               362.3              100
3.12      The Bank loan war geared to cover foreign costs of river diversion
works and dam, as well as the cost of consultant services. IADB would be
funding the underground works. The power plant equipment was proposed to be
financed with suppliers' and commercial banks' credits. EPM's own resources
would be covering mainly local costs.
3.13      It was foreseen at appraisal time that project implementation would
require 62 months (five year and two months) from the time of issuance of the
bid documents for construction of access roads and bridge over the Guatap6
River (January 1981). The project was therefore expected to be completed and
commissioned by February 1986. This implementation timing was based on a
schedule of target dates for completion of the bid documents for the
underground works contract, which was on the critical path. The 40 months
construction schedule for these works was considered reasonable. Overall, the
implementation schedule was rather optimistic. It is interesting to point out
that in judging the risks of not meeting the target for project commissioning,
the SAR did not expected any risk for the underground works since they were to
be located in the well known Antioquia Batholith, while it considered that the
diversion of the river could run the risk of having a delay of one year, if
the diversion tunnel was not completed by end of 1983, before the onset of the
rainy season.
3.14      Envinronmental and Resettlement Issues.  Since the Playas hydro
scheme would be largely underground, the environmental impact was thought to
be relatively minor and would originate principally in the reservoir and
tailrace works. The area to be affected was to cover about 1,400 ha, of which
1,000 ha would constitute the surface area of the reservoir. It was therefore
a rather small area, which furthermore was unsuitable for agriculture and
owned substantially by absentee landlords. Only about 50 families were to be
displaced. EPM's experience in handling resettlement aspects of its project
was considered adequate. Here reference is made to the study financed by IADB
under the project, to identify the causes of pollution and siltation in the
Nare river reservoir and to make recommendations to alleviate these problems,
while providing terms of reference for implementing the recomendation and for
follow-up studies to be completed, e.g., actions to be taken to protect the
health of the population and to rehabilitate deforested areas and areas
unsuitable for agriculture which were nevertheless used, albeit, at marginal
profit for this purpose.



-11-
3.15      Prolect Loan Documents.  In February 1981, representatives of the
Bank, the Government, and EPM completed negotiations for the Playas Hydropower
Project.  On March 3, 1981 the Executive Directors approved Loan 1953-CO
(US$85 million) to help finance the Project. The Playas Project Loan
Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement were signed 8 months later on November
6, 1981. The agreements reached during negotiations, which were incorporated
in the Loan Agreement, were superseded in large measure by those incorporated
in the Rio Grande Multipurpose Project Loan Agreement (Loan 2449-CO, US$164.5
million, June 1984). In Part III of this report are listed the pertinent
covenants with their status of compliance. The Playas Loan was to be repaid
in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per
annum. The closing date was stipulated as June 30, 1987. It was also
stipulated that the loan effectiveness should not be later than March 9, 1982.
4.        Prolect Implementation
4.01      Effectiveness.  As indicated in para 3.14, loan signing was delayed
eight months. This was due to the need to obtain Congressional approval for
raising the foreign borrowing level available to Government. Date of Loan
effectiveness was June 21, 1982. By itself, this delayed effectiveness did
not adversely affected commencement of the procurement process for the project
since, as will be pointed out further along, there was considerable delays in
completing the design work on the project and in preparing the bid documents.
4.02      Procurement.  The project designs were delayed about one year
compared to SAR forecast. Most of this delay originated in changes in the
project design involving the relocation of major components of the hydropower
scheme such as the spillway, the underground powerhouse and tailwater surge
caverns, as well as the step-up substation due to geological problems (see
paragraph 4.08). Partially, the delay can be attributed to lack of appropiate
coordination within EPM in the initial stages of the project implementation,
because the Project Management Unit (PMU) was organized about one year later
than scheduled.
4.03      Although the procurement process went up generally with few
difficulties, obtaining final approval for contracts was, nevertheless, a
lengthy and cumbersome process. If the contract value was higher than Col$200
million (about US$4 million at end-1981 exchange rate), it had to be approved
by Antioquia's Administrative Tribunal, the provincial authority in charge of
controlling public debt. In addition, contracts involving external financing
had to be approved by the office of Cr6dito Pfiblico of the MOF, which is in
charge of controlling public debt autorized by Congress. As a result,
sometimes the period between issuing bids and awarding contracts took as long
as 14 months3.
4.04      Arranaements for Construction and Procurement.  Construction of the
project was organized in to two main civil works contracts -- dam and
spillway, and underground works -- and supply contracts for powerhouse
equipment, step up trnasformers, 230 kV cables, and substation. In addition,
23. Field supervision report dated December 3, 1981.



-12-
a number of smaller contracts were awarded for access roads, bridges and
construction camps, as well as a supply and erection contract for transmission
lines.
4.05      Proiect Manaaement and Enaineering Services.  As indicated in
paragraph 4.02 above, the project's implementation was managed by a PHU. This
unit, when finally set up, carried out efficiently all aspects of project
management including difficult negotiations on claims raised by the under-
ground works' contractor.
4.06      All construction design work was performed by SEDIC, which had been
in charge of preparing the bid-level designs for the project. During
construction of the hydropower scheme these consultants also produced the
designs for the important modifications that the project required. On the
other hand, construction supervision was entrusted to INTEGRAL, which had been
involved in the feasibility study of the scheme. Additionally, INTEGRAL at
completion of the project prepared the as-built drawings and a detailed report
on the project's implementation.
4.07      Throughout the project's construction the PHU was assisted by a
Board of Consultants (BOC) made up of internationally-known experts2' in the
main technical disciplines required by the project. This assistance was
conducted by means of 8 visits to the project site between 1983 y 1987. The
BOC prepared in each case an analytical report covering each portion of the
works examined and their recommendations on the more important design and
contruction aspects of the project.
4.08      Construction Problems.  Unfortunately, the misgivings expressed by
some of technical staff when the Bank loan was under consideration (paragraph
3.03), regarding the degree of project preparation, particularly the lack of
exploratory drilling for the underground works, did materialized. When work
was proceeding in driving the headrace tunnel's excavation it was found that
the batholith rock mass presented jointing in such a strike orientation that
it would be unfavourable to the stability of the underground caverns. It was
therefore necessary to rotate the center line of these caverns about 45
degrees. In addition, both caverns were shifted sideway about 76 meters. All
this required also changes in the access tunnel, the tailwater discharge
tunnel, and the downstream adit for the excavation of the headrace tunnel.
Furthermore, once excavation of the powerhouse cavern started a fault was
found that expanded downwards to about 25 meters wide. The presence of this
large discontinuity in the rock mass necessitated major stabilizing measures.
These measures involved rock bolting with long anchors to the cavern sidewall.
from concrete walls constructed gradually as excavation work was proceeding
downwards. Originally it was planned to excavate simultaneously the tailwater
surge tank cavern, but since the rock wall separating it from the powerhouse
cavern was also affected by the large discontinuity, this task had to be
delayed until excavation of the powerhouse cavern was completed and the rock
wall separating both caverns was thouroughly strengthened with long rock
bolts. These construction problems delayed equipment manufacturing and
24. Mr. Chun Y. Li (USA), expert in design and construction of earth dams ,Who had advised EPH on several of
its projects; Mr. Rayfond P. Benson (USA), rock mechanics expert; and Mr. James W. Libby, expert In Large
construction systems



-13-
erection by about 13 months and resulted in claims by the contractor that,
when finally settled, amounted to about US$7.0 million.
4.09      In retrospect, there is here a clear case of insufficient project
preparation, caused apparently by too much haste in preparing the bid-level
designs before having completed the feasibility studies and without having
done a throurough geological investigation by means of exploratory drilling
coupled with geophysical prospecting such as seismic refraction or crosshole
underground radar.
4.10      Prolect Implementation Timetable. Costs and Funding.  Overall
implementation of the Playas Project took seven years from start of access
roads in October 1981 to complete commissioning of power station in October
1988. In the SAR, project implementation was expected to require only four
and a half years from August 1981 to February 1986. Therefore, carrying out
the project took about two and a half years more than anticipated at
appraisal. The basic two reasons for the considerable time overrun were: (a)
the cumbersome and lengthy contract processing procedures to which EPM is
subjected by Colombia's and Antioquia's contracting legislation; and (b) the
construction problems encountered in the underground works. Whichever were
the problems that arose during project implementation, it is quite clear that
the timetable estimated at appraisal was somewhat optimistic. In fact, Bank-
wide's implementation profiles for hydroelectric projects of the same nature
of Playas runs for periods of not less than seven years.
4.11      The final cost of the project was the equivalent of US$302.2
million including US$67.1 million in interest during construction compared to
US$362.3 million estimated at appraisal. The basic reason for the large
underrun in project cost is the very large provision in the SAR for price
escalation -- US$82 million --, that did not materialized during project
implementation. In fact, in the case of the underground works, which were
carried out by a Japanese contractor were negative. In part III of this
report is shown a summary comparison of the original project cost estimate as
per the SAR with the actual project expenditures of the Playas Project. In
the case of the underground works contract there was undoubtelly a substantial
overestimation of the contract cost judging by the result of the bidding.
This contract was estimated at US$73.1 million, while the winning bid was for
slightly more than half of that figure (US$39.8 million), four of the bids
submitted were for less than US$50 million, and only two of the thirteen
tenders received were for more than the estimated contract value.
4.12      Due to the considerable saving achieved in project cost, funding of
the project changed significantly during project implementation with the net
result that EPM cancelled US$18.11 million from the Bank loan and US$11.3
million from the IADB loan. In Part III of this report appears a tabulation
of the sources of funds for the project as foreseen in the SAR and as actually
made available.
5.        Proiect Results
5.01      The project achieved its main objective, which was to meet the
incremental electric energy demand in the metropolitan area of Medellin and



-14-
the provinces of Antioquia and Choc6. The studies component also achieved
their objetives, which were essentially: (a) to better equip EPM to deal with
environmental concerns on the Nare river basin; (b) to prepare EPM for
absorbing the Electificadora de Antioquia; and (c) to establish the economic
cost of electric power rationing. This last study was actually carried out by
EEEB.
5.02      It is interesting to note that although the project completion was
delayed, its power input into EPM's or the interconnected systems was not
required by early 1986 as foreseen at appraisal because of the lower than
expected power demand growth. Here we have a very common case in projects of
this nature, where the power demand growth is somehow overestimated and the
project implementation is viewed optimistically too short. As has happened
with other projects in the last decade, demand growths were usually lower than
anticipated, compensated by longer project implementation periods than
foreseen originally.
5.03      The recomputed internal economic rate of return using the SAR's
methodology is 14.8 percent compared to 15.5 percent in the SAR. The IERR was
computed, as done in the SAR, for the entire EPM's power expansion program
(generation, transmission and distribution) up to 1989, which includes the
Playas Project. Revenues from power sales were taken as proxy for benefits.
The calculation of operating expenses and revenues was extended for 40 years,
reflecting thus, the probable useful life of the investments.
6.        Proiect Sustainabilitv
6.01      The major benefit realized from the Playas Project is the badly
needed additional supply of electric power to EPM's power market and to
Colombia's national interconnected system. The added supply, which came at a
time when it was not suspected that the power system would be subjected
shortly to widespread and deep power rationing, at least is helping to
maintain the standard of living of the urban population in the second largest
metropolitan area in Colombia and in Antioquia's rural areas, as well as the
industrial base of Medellin. These benefits will endure for all the useful
life of the project, which would be not less than 40 years.
6.02      The second benefit is the revenue accrued to EPM from the sale of
electricity produced at Playas. This benefit, of course, depends on
maintaining an adequate level and structure of power tariffs during the life
of the project. A positive resolution of the actual structural problems of
the Colombian power sector is also a requirement for the sustainability of
project results. Given EPM's excellent track record it is likely that the
benefit will be maintained without major difficulties if the conditions are
adequate.
7.        Bank'e Performance
7.01      Bank participation in the project was in general satisfactory.
Although some concerns were raised regarding the geological conditions and
insufficient level of field investigations during project preparation, the



-15-
Bank decided to go ahead with the project. Some of these concerns proved to
be right during project implementation. It is worth mentioning also that the
excellent track record of EPM in dealing with projects financed by the Bank
contributed to the early decision to support the project although some
technical concerns still existed. The Staff Appraisal Report provided
suitable information for project supervision, although it lacked a more detail
analysis of the sectoral issues, particularly ISA's problems, the level and
structure of tariffs and the financial situation of the sector.
7.02      During the period of project implementation security problems arose
in Colombia in general and Medellin in particular. These problems affected
the level of project supervision in 1986-1987, although the project had only
minor problems during these years. The Bank role in the project was
facilitated by EPM's management and technical personnel. The Project
Management Unit (PMU) was always Bupportive and gave full cooperation to the
Bank's teams during project preparation and supervision. The Bank played a
constructive role in assisting EPM to carry out the project to its completion.
8.        Borrower's Performance
8.01      At project's appraisal EPM was still far from having prepared
adequately the Playas Project. There was apparently considerable haste in
presenting the project to the Bank for financing. In retrospect EPM should
have taken more time in preparing the project, particularly by complete and
throurough exploratory drilling to ascertain the nature of the rock mass into
which underground works would be located.
8.02      EPM was also slow in organizing a PMU for the project, which could
have been partially the cause of some of the delay experienced in project
completion. On the other hand, it is a credit to PMU's personnel to have
shepherded the project through all the construction difficulties, without
running into cost overruns and to have settled contractors' claims in a
judicious and workmanlike manner. On the other hand, the project could have
benefited by the introduction of a Project Management System (PMS), which
EPM's just presently is considering for Porce II.
8.03      During project implementation and up to 1991 the financial
performance of EPM's power department has been generally satisfactory. This
is reflected in the following financial indices:
Year        1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991
Return on Net Fixed Assets  6.8 6.5  7.6 10.6 8.8 11.3 11.1 13.8 9.3  7.2 9.0 10.0
SeLf-Financing Ratio  54  55  42  34  25  30  22  40  47 N.A N.A  37
Debt Service Coverage  1.5  1.7 1.6  1.5  1.2  1.3  1.2  1.5  1.1  0.9  1.0  1.3
Debt/Equity Ratio    40  27  27  30  35  48  55  56  47  52  44  45
Operating Ratio       62  63  62  53  59  52  56  50  56  62  68  64
Current ratio       4.2  4.1  2.8 2.1  1.7 2.1  1.4 2.2  1.6  1.1  0.2  0.5
Account Receivables (days)  73  84  88  66  80  37  33  32  25  21  21  24



-16-
The evident progress in reducing the account receivable is noticeable. More,
if it is taken into account, that for the last few years, account receivables
in arrears are wholly owed by governemental customers.
8.04      Concerning operation performance, EPM's power department has also
been satisfactory, except for energy losses which are still relatively high
given the compact nature of EPM's power market. The following indices reflect
EPM's operational performance:
Year        1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991
Energy Losses tX)     22  17  22  21  22  23  21  15  19  19 N.A  19
Customers per Enmtoyee    191  189  175  159  158  155  162  165  176  175  169  174
GWh soLd per Employee    2.24 2.26 2.05 1.92 1.90 1.82 1.91 2.00 2.10 2.07 2.01 1.86
9.        Performance of Consultants
9.01      The performance of SEDIC, the design consultant for the Playas
Project, was in general terms satisfactory. It is clear although that during
the design stage the decision to understake underground works of the magnitude
planned at Playas without proper exploratory drilling coupled with geophysical
investigations proved to be not quite right. There is also the fact that
significant changes were needed in the powerhouse's and tailwater surge tank's
caverns designs because the rock jointing was unfavorable vis-a-vis the
original orientation. However, SEDIC's performance during construction of the
project was in general satisfactory by proividing adequate technical support
to PMU in solving construction problems.
9.02      The construction supervision consultant, INTEGRAL, performed
creditably during project implementation and commissioning. Although the
performance of both consulting firms was generally satisfactory during
construction of the project, there were some areas of design which perhaps
should have required more attention from the part of the consultants. It
would be certainly helpful if organizations like EPM would encourage the
consulting firms to improve their quality and cost control systems.
10.       Performance of Contractors and Suppliers
10.01     The two main contractors -- for the dam and spillway, and for the
underground works -- performed their task in a satisfactory manner. In
dealing with the difficulties encountered in the excavation of the power-
house and the tailwater surge caverns, the contractor for the underground
works carried out the difficult tasks required to overcome the problems in a
workmanlike and efficient manner.
10.02     As to the suppliers, all the firms performed satisfactorily, except
for the supplier of the bottom outlet control equipment, which was one year
behind schedule. This forced EPM to eliminate the bottom outlet facility at
the dam in order not to delay any further the completion of the project.



-17-
11.       Proiect RelationshiDs
11.01     From the Borrower the Bank received very close cooperation during
appraisal. This cooperative attitude established early in the project cycle
and all through EPM's relations with the Bank since 1959, made possible to
resolve the many complications that normally occur during implementation of a
project of the nature of Playas.
11.02     The Bank relations with IADB was particularly cordial, to the point
that field appraisal was carried out by a joint mission. The SAR was also a
cooperative venture where certain chapters were prepared by staff from each
bank.
12.       Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01     The SAR was generally a comprehensive document although, ex-post,
it seems that more time could have been used in project preparation.
Nevertheless, it provided a useful framework for the Bank and EPM during
project implementation and for the preparation of this PCR. Supervision
reports gave generally good indications of the project status at any time and
of any major incident during project implementation. These reports together
with the review of the project files at the Bank headquarters and at EPH's
offices in Hedellin provided the basic information for judging the project
results. Particularly useful has been the project completion report prepared
by EPM.
13.       Conclusions and Leasons Learned
13.01     Conclusions.  Although the Playas Project was insufficiently
prepared when appraised and when tendered, and ran into construction
difficulties during implementation, it was finally completed below cost
estimate, albeit after a two and a half year delay. This delay was caused in
large measure by the lack of proper field investigations to support the
project design. In retrospect, the Bank failed to require adequate project
preparation before committing itself in the financing of the project. The
Borrower itself should have given more thought to the likekihood of
encountering serious unforeseen problems during construction of the project
because of poor geological data. All in all, the Bank should have delayed
considerations of the project until at least complete designs were available,
and preferably after bidding documents had been completed.
13.02     The project was successful in achieving its goals of adding
generating capacity to EPH's power system, more or less at a time when it was
needed.
13.03     Lessons  Learned:  The principal lessons learned from
implementation of the Playas Project can be summarized as follows:
(a) Project Preparation: Before undertaking
appraisal of a project of the nature of Playas,
the Bank should satisfy itself that the project



-18-
has been adequately prepared. The project
designs should be reviewed by a panel of
experts made up of independent specialist in
the main technical disciplines involved, before
bid documents are issued.
(b) Timing of Loan: Hydroelectric projects with
major underground construction require usually
extensive geological field investigations and
careful design. It would be best to firm up
loan proposals for such projects only when the
detail designs are well advance and bidding
documents for major contracts are ready.
(c) Last but not least, one very important lesson
is that the success of a project depends more
than any other factor on the ability and
experience of the people and the institution
involved in its implementation. A case in
point is EPM that was, and it still is, perhaps
the best managed electric power utility company
of Colombia, despite the rather poor
performance of the sector in general.



-19-
COLOMBIA
PLAYAS HYDROPOWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1953-CO}
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Unofficial Translation)
Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EMP) is in agreement with the
opinions and conclusions presented by the Bank in Part I, "Project Review from
Bank's Perspective". We would, however, like to mention certain points, in
order to highlight EMP's overall performance:
1.        Proiect ImDlementation
EMP would like to draw your attention to the particular
circumstances it encountered at the start of the Playas project, which caused
delays and shortcomings in the execution of the project. ISA was initially in
charge of and responsible for project execution and had contracted the project
design studies out to SEDIC LTDA., based on the prefeasibility studies it then
had. It was not until the end of 1979, following the Cali Agreement, that EPM
took over responsibility for the project, being expected to continue the
project implementation program based on the design studies, which, as stated
above, had already been contracted out and were in process of execution.
EPM agrees with the Bank's positive assessment of the success of
the Playas project. It also emphasizes that the technical changes made were
the result of the additional information obtained on the geotechnical
conditions of the project site in the course of construction and on the
configuration of the systems and electromechanical equipment during their
manufacture.
Although the changes made did not negatively impact the
implementation program or project costs, but on the contrary actually helped
to optimize the design, we share the Bank's opinion - and consider it
essential for future projects - that the prefeasibility, feasibility and
design phases be taken to a sufficient degree of detail so that changes during
construction can be kept to a minimum.
The Playas project was completed approximately one year behind the
original schedule, primarily on account of the delays in starting on the
design studies and in securing financing because of the transfer of
responsibility for the project from ISA to EPM.
In addition to the unexpected difficulties encountered during
construction, other factors causing the delay were:



-20-
the complicated and protracted procedures required to obtain legal
approval of contracts involving major disbursements;
-    the relatively long time taken to complete the project design and
the subsequent bidding process.
In an effort to overcome these problems, EPM will continue to work
on improving its internal bidding, contracting and monitoring procedures, and
also on the handling of its external relations, especially with the Colombian
authorities. With regard to authorization of contracts, EPM is looking for
ways to reduce the time needed to obtain this authorization, but some of the
formalities involved are unavoidable given the fact that EPM is a public
corporation at the municipal level.
2.        Executing Agency
A major achievement during construction was the administrative
reform approved in 1981 by the Board of Directors and brought into effect in
1982, with decisive support from the Bank in pushing it through. This reform
basically consisted in converting the Technical and Operations Departments
into three Departments, i.e. the Water and Sanitation Department, the Energy
Department and the Telecommunications Department.
Each of these departments was put in charge of the respective
system and the management of its development or expansion, thereby assigning
the appropriate importance and autonomy to each service. Adjustments were
made to the rest of the organizational structure in keeping with this
principle.
Under the new set-up, units were created to be responsible for each
of the generating system expansion projects in progress at the time.
The concept of integrated programming and control for each project
was also adopted and the organization was assigned the necessary human and
technical resources to be able to perform both the technical and
administrative functions involved. The Playas Division was established in
this way and reports to the Energy Department.
The organizational structure for the project introduced a new
element, i.e. a review to be performed by a panel of experts composed of
external advisers specializing in the pertinent technical fields, in order to
stress the technical quality aspect and proper risk management. This panel
acted in an advisory capacity vis-&-vis the project management.
On completion of the Playas project, the organizational structure
of the executing agency, known as the Playas Division, was dismantled and the
experience acquired by its staff was put to good use by assigning them to
operating areas elsewhere in EMP and by maintaining a core unit to organize
the Porce II project.
Generally speaking, the administrative and technical staff
responded well to the needs of the project and the Bank, at all stages of the



-21-
project, from preparation through to completion. The experience gained at all
levels of the organization had a multiplier effect for other projects, both in
the Energy Department and in the other departments.
3.        Financial Analysis
3.1.      Cost.  The actual cost of the Playas project was US$302.2 million,
which is a 20% underrun, in U.S. dollar terms, compared with the SAR figure of
US$362.3 million.
The international market situation at the time the contracts were
awarded worked to EPM's advantage and enabled it to obtain good prices,
resulting in lower dollar costs and an unused IBRD loan balance, through which
it was possible to purchase the vehicles and radio equipment that the Bank had
recommended in order to improve EPM's vehicle fleet and communications.
It is important to note that the US$4.3 million surplus included in
the partial waiver (US$18.11 million) concerning the amounts that could be
financed out of the proceeds of IBRD Loan 1953-CO was the outcome of a change
in IBRD's policy on reimbursing EPM for payments made in pesos out of its own
funds and eligible for financing from the loan; this change consisted in
applying the exchange rate on the date on which loan funds were utilized for
the conversion into dollars, rather than the rate on the actual date of
payment, as was done until May 1989.
Although the Bank states in its report (paragraph 4.11) that the
basic reason for the underrun in project cost was the large provision in the
SAR for price escalation (US$82 million), which (according to the Bank) did
not materialize during project implementation, we would like to clarify that
the table on Project Costs and Actual Funding of Part II, which compares the
SAR figure with the actual cost, does not show any provision for escalation
because the investment amounts are expressed in current prices, thus
incorporating the price variation component in each item.
With regard to the Bank's comment that one of the project's
objectives was "to prepare EPM for absorbing the Electrificadora de Antioquia"
(paragraph 5.01) we would like to clarify that, in fulfillment of this
objective planned as part of the restructuring of the power sector, EMP
provided technical, administrative and financial advisory services, in keeping
with the bylaws of EADE. EMP also provided it with capital whenever EADE'S
financial situation so required to enable it to meet the demand in its
service area.
3.2       Financial Aspects. During the project execution period EPM's
financial performance was generally satisfactory, as noted by the Bank in its
review. EPM always posted a profit, which has shown a clearly rising trend in
recent years.
With respect to tariffs, the steps begun during the preceding
decade clearly contributed to EPM's financial soundness. Decree No. 2545 of
1984, which established the unified tariff structure, and Resolution No. 86 of
1986, which implemented it, were issued at a time when electric power tariffs



-22-
were in a state of total anarchy. These measures resulted in considerable
progress in terms of the conceptual framework of tariff management, although
the adjustment program instituted by Resolution 86 proved insufficient in
light of the sector's financial needs.
In any case, the tariff adjustments made in the eighties resulted
in increases of more than 7% p.a. in real terms, which, in comparison with GDP
growth during that period (3.5% p.a. on average), is indicative of the
magnitude of the effort.
As regards EPM, the tariff adjustments of the last decade resulted
in coverage of the long-run average incremental cost (LRAIC) by the average
tariff for residential service improving from 30% through 1980 to just over
51% in 1991. In the non-residential sector the tariff exceeds the LRAIC by
about six points, as compared with 60% coverage in the early eighties.
The present difficulties have to do with the dismantling of the
subsidies to lower-income users. This problem cannot be solved by tariff
adjustments exclusively, because this would mean drastically restricting
access to electric power service for these users. Colombia is therefore
developing a large-scale residential natural gas distribution program, which
will provide a lower-cost energy source. The present adjustment program
envisaged in Resolution 90 of 1990 would make it possible to raise residential
tariffs to adequate levels in relation to LRAIC.
Throughout the project implementation period EPM was managed in
accordance with principles of austerity and cost rationalization. In keeping
with the cost management policies, important programs to reduce power losses
and keep them under control were started during the decade; these proved
successful, despite the tariff increases which, in other parts of the country,
generated higher non-technical losses.
As of 1987 power losses have been below 20% and efforts to control
them as much as possible are continuing. The Energy Loss Division (now the
Energy Conservation and Control Division) was established in 1989, and its
work has been a significant factor in bringing about the declining trend in
the loss indexes, thereby complying with the goals set by the National
Government.
The analysis of debt service coverage, which fluctuated between 1.7
and 1.1 during 1980-8, fell to 0.9 in 1989-90, then rose again to 1.3 in 1991,
points up the size of the repayments started during that period, relating not
only to the Playas project but also to the Guadalupe IV and Riogrande
projects, also under construction. There was additionally the impact of the
sharp devaluation of the Colombian peso (and also the depreciation of the U.S.
dollar in some years vis-&-vis other currencies owed by EPM) on debt servicing
in foreign currency and investments in ISA that are included in this
indicator.
A recovery in this indicator became apparent as of 1991 and present
expectations are that this will continue in the short and medium term, thus
putting EPM in an increasingly favorable position for debt servicing.



-23-
4.        Bank's Performance
The Bank's role in the project was satisfactory, the suggestions
made during its supervision missions were implemented and our requests for
extensions of the disbursement deadlines were favorably received.
Although some Bank loans have certain unfavorable features in terms
of interest rates and currency fluctuations, they continue to be a favorable
option for EPM for financing projects with a long useful life.
During the implementation of this project EPM had a direct and
personalized relationship with the Bank, which was helpful when it came to
making adjustments in the loan. Towards the end of the eighties this
relationship was impacted by the hardening of Bank policies toward Colombia's
power sector, which was reflected in the way the problems were handled on a
sectoral basis. EPM must maintain and develop its presence vis-a-vis the Bank
and insist on receiving the differential treatment warranted by its special
administrative and financial characteristics.
5.        Lessons Learned
EPM has taken decisive steps to improve project preparation and to
avoid the mistakes identified in the preparation of the Playas project. It
now has a complete project management unit responsible for preparing and
managing the Porce II Hydro Power Project.
In order to avoid any unexpected geological problems in the
excavation of the cavern included in this project, an exploratory gallery is
being built so that the rock conditions can be checked out at the project
site. EPM has also hired the services of a panel of high-level independent
experts to provide advisory services for the design of this project. EPM will
continue to follow this practice for all its major projects in the future.
In order to improve its financial performance, efforts must be made
with the Bank to find mechanisms to shorten the long time intervals between
the negotiation of a loan, its effectiveness and the first and last
disbursement, with a view to minimizing commitment fee costs, and to extend
grace periods so that repayments do not begin such a long time prior to a
project's entry into operation. This would undoubtedly improve cash flow and
put EPH less at risk.
Finally, we feel that the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) should not
be the main parameter on which a project's final evaluation is based, because
it results in the emphasis being placed more on the negative, i.e. delays and
differences, than on the positive, i.e. the project's achievements. The
evaluation should also be done in a more timely fashion.



COLOMBIA
PLAYAS HYDRO POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1953-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
----------------------------------
1. Related Bank Loans
Amount      Year                        Dis-
(in USS      of                       bursement
mill-       Apro-                       as of
Number and Title               ion)          val       Borrower      12/31/92                         Purpose
1. 38-CO: Achicaya Hydro-electric          3.53        1950      CVC/CHIDRAL      100X       Anchicaya units 1 and 2 (2 x 12 MW hydro)
2. 39-CO: La Insula Hydro-electric          2.6        1950         CHEC           100X      The Insula units 1 and 2 (2 x 10 MW hydro)
3. 54-CO: Labrija Hydro-electric            2.4        1951        LABRIJA         100X      Palmas units 1 and 2 (2 x 4.4 MW hydro)
4. 113-CO: Anchicaya Yumbo Power            4.5        1955        CHIDRAL         100%      Anchicaya unit 3 (20 MW hydro) and Yumbo unit
1 (10 MW thermal)
5. 215-CO: Yumbo Extension                  2.8        1958        CHIDRAL         100%      Yumbo unit 2 (10 MW thermal)
6. 217-CO: La Esmelalda                     4.6        1959         CHEC           100%      La Esmeralda units 1 and 2 (2 x 13.3 MW hydro
7. 225-CO: Guadalupe                        12         1959          EPM           100%      Guadalupe units 1 and 2 (2 x 45 MW hydro) and
Troneras unit 1 (18 MW hydro)
8. 246-CO: Bogota Power                    17.6        1960          EEEB          1002      Laguneta unit 4 (18 MW hydro) and Zipaquira
unit 1 (33 MW thermal)
9. 255-CO: Yumbo III Calima I Power         25         1960      CVC/CHIDRAL       100%      Yumbo unit 3 (33 MW thermal) and Calima units
1 and 2 (2 x 30 MW hydro)
10. 282-CO: Second Guadalupe                22         1961          EPM           100X      Troneras unit 2 (18 MW hydro) and Guadalupe
units 3, 4 and 5 (3 x 45 MW hydro)
11. 313-CO: Second Expansion                50         1962         EEEB           100%      Zipaquira unit 2  (37.5 MW hydro) and Colegio
units 1, 2 and 3 (3 x 50 MW hydro)
12. 339-CO: Power Expansion                 8.8        1963      CVC/CHIDRAL       100%      Calima units 3 and 4 (2 x 30 MW hydro)             l
pi
13. 347-CO: Cospique Power                   5         1963      ELECTRIBOL        100%      Cospique units 2 and 3 (2 x 12.5 MW thermal)    D
14. 369-CO: Nare                            45         1964           EPM          100%      Guatape units 1, 2, 3 and 4 (4 x 70 MW hydro)  0
15. 537-CO: Third Expansion                 18         1968          EEEB          100%      El Colegio units 4, 5 and 6 (3 x 5) MW hydro    ,
and Canoes (1 x 50 MW hydro)



1. Related Bank Loans (Continuation)
Amount      Year                        Dis-
(in US$      of                      bursement
mill-       Apro-                       as of
Number and Title              ion)          val        Borrower      12/31/92                        Purpose
_______ -------   _                                          _ __ ___       _ __           ---------------------------------------------
16. 575-CO: Power Interconnecticn          18         1968          ISA          1002       Central Sysrem Interconnpcrion (230 kV trans-
mission line ead Substation)
17. 681-CO: Chivor Hydroelectric          52.3        i970          ISA          100Z       Chivor 1 (4 x 125 nfydrc)
1h. 874-CO: Guatape 11 Hydroelectric       56         1973          EHM          :30Z       Guatape 11 units I, 2. 3 and 4
(4 x 70 NW hydro)
19. 1582-CO: Sar Carlos 1 aydro Power    126          1978          ISA          i 0fz      Sar Carlos I t4 x 155 MW hydro)
20. 1583-C0: 530kV Interconnection         50         1978      SOVELNMENT       100Z       500 kV Interrccnnection Central Systeni
Atiant,c System
21. 1628-CO: Mesitas HydroelectrIc Po-w'e  84         1978.        EEEB          ]002       El Paraiso 3 x 90 Ml,7; La Guaca 3 x 100 MW
pumping 3 x 10 MHP; Sesqul le dam strengthenin
22. 1725-CO: San Carlos II Hydro Power   72           1979           ISA         100t       San Carlos II (4 x 155 MW hydro)
23. 1807-CO: Bogota Power Distributlon   87           1980         EEEB           100Z      Bogota distribution                                       (3
24. 1868-CO: Guadalupe IV Hydro Power    125          1980           EPM          100%      Guadalupe IV (3 x 71 NW hydro)
25. 1953-CO: Playas Hydro Power            85         1981           EPM         100%       Playas (3 x 67 lf5W hydro)
26. 1999-CO: Village Electrification       36         1982        CORELCA         100%      Atlantic coast village electrification
27. 2008-CO: Guavio Hydro Power            359        1982         EEEB           100%      Guavio (5 x 200 MW hydro)
28. 2401-CO: Power Development Finance   170          1984           FEN         100%       Power development finance
28.2       1984           FEN          1002      Power development finance (Cofinancing)
29. 2449-CO: Rio Grande Multipurpose    164.5         1984           EPM          802       Rio Grande Hydro (3 x 100 MW hydro)
30. 2634-CO: Bogota Distribution II        171        1986          EEEB           802      Bogota Distribution I1
31. 2889-CO: Power Sector                  300        1988      GOVERNMENT        100Z      Power Sector Adjustment
0
II



-26-
2.   Proiect Timetable
lItm                       Date                    Date
Planned                Actual
Identification                     8/77                   6/79
Preparation                        6/80                   6/80
Appraisal Mission                  9/80                  10/80
Loan Negotiations                  1/81                   2/81
Board Approval                  3/12/81               3/12/81
Loan Signature                  8/12/81               11/6/81
Loan Effectiveness               3/9/82               6/21/82
Loan Closing                    6/30/87               3/31/91
Project Completion                 2/86                  10/88



-27-
3.   Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in million of US$)
Bank Fiscal Year                 Estimated        Actual          Actual as % of
and Semester                  Cumulative    Cumulative             Estimated
1981-1982
December 31, 1981                    1.4             0.0                   0
June 30, 1982                        8.1             0.0                   0
1982-1983
December 31, 1982                   18.1             0.0                   0
June 30, 1983                       27.1             7.2                  27
1983-1984
December 31, 1983                   38.0             8.8                  23
June 30, 1984                       47.9            13.6                  28
1984-1985
December 31, 1984                   57.8            16.9                  29
June 30; 1985                       68.5            17.6                  26
1985-1986
December 31, 1985                   77.3            24.9                  32
June 30, 1986                       81.5            30.1                  37
1986-1987
December 31, 1986                   84.3            36.0                  43
June 30, 1987                       85.0            39.7                  47
1987-1988
December 31, 1987                   85.0            41.7                  49
June 30, 1988                       85.0            43.2                  51
1988-1989
December 31, 1988                   85.0            43.2                  51
June 30, 1989                       85.0            49.2                  58
1989-1990
December 31, 1989                   85.0            52.8                  62
June 30, 1990                       85.0            61.5                  72
1990-1991
December 31, 1990                   85.0            62.6                  74
June 30, 1991                       85.0            63.6                  75
1991-1992
December 31, 1991                   85.0            66.9                  79
June 30, 1992                       85.0            66.9                  79
Date of Final Disbursement: August 2, 1991.



-28-
4.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds (in USS)
Category                     Original                     Actual
Allocation                Disbursements
1. Civil Works for                51,000,000                  36,286,372
Part A of Project
2. Materials and Equipment        16,000,000                  24,417,307
(excluding turbines &
generators) & Ancillary
Servicse for Part B of
the Project
3. Consulting Services for         9,000,000                   6,162,742
Parts A, B and C of the
Project:
(a) Foreign Consultants
(b) Local Consultants
4. Unallocated                     9,000,000
Fund                                -                          19,906
TOTAL                         85,000,000                   66,886,327'
1. A total of USS18,113,673 was cancelled from the Loan at the request of the Borrower.



-29-
5.   Proiect Implementation
COLOMBIA
Empresas P§blicas de Medellin
Plavas Hydro Power Proiect (LOAN 1953-CO
SAR
Item                   Estimate               Actual
ivil Works
Access roads, bridge           7/82                12/82
Access tunnel                  7/82                12/83
Diversion tunnel              11/83                12/84
Dam and spillway               2/86                 9/87
Underground works,
substation                   2/86                4/88
EauiDment
Turbines, generators           2/86                10/88
Transformers                   2/85                 6/87
Gates, valves                 10/83                12/84
Substation, line              12/85                 9/87



-30-
Page 1 of 2
6.      Proiect Cost and Financina
COLOMBIA
EmDresas Pfiblicas de Medellin (EPM)
Plavas Hydro Power Prolect (Loan 1953-CO)
Prolect Cost
(USS million)
--Apraisal Estimate--'   --------Actual--------
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreian  Total   Piff.
Land                               4.5      -        4.5       9.2     -        9.2   104.4
Access roads                       0.4      0.5      0.9       6.0     0.1      6.1   577.8
Infrastructure                     7.5      2.4      9.9      16.9     0.4    17.3    74.8
Dam and Spillway                  28.7    34.9    63.6        36.7    25.9    62.6    -1.6
Underground Works                 33.3    39.8    73.1        23.1    29.7    52.8   -27.8
Subtotal                    74.4    77.6   152.0       91.9    56.1   148.0    -2.6
Turbines                           0.1      6.4      6.5       1.2     6.6      7.8    20.0
Generators                         0.2      8.6      8.8       1.1     6.1      7.2   -18.2
Electrical Equipment               0.6      6.5      7.1       4.9     6.5    11.4    60.6
Mechanical Equipment                1.3     4.2      5.5       2.2     4.9      7.1    29.1
Transmission Line                  -        -        -         2.0     1.9      3.9      -
Communication Equipment            -        -        -         1.8    12.2    14.0       -
Subtotal                     2.2    25.7    27.9       13.2    38.2    51.4    84.2
Engineering & Adm.                15.2      6.1    21.3       35.3     0.4    35.7    67.6
Studies                            -        0.1      0.1       -       -        -        -
Base-Line Cost                    91.8   109.5   201.3    140.4    94.7   235.1    16.8
Phisical Contingencies            11.0    17.1    28.1         -       -        -        -
Subtotal                    102.8   126.6   229.4    140.4    94.7   235.1         2.5
Provision for Escalation          31.8    50.2    82.0         -       -        -        -
TOTAL PROJECT COST          134.6   176.8   311.4    140.4    94.5   235.1   -24.5
Financing Charges                          50.9    50.9        5.7    61.4    67.1    31.8
TOTAL COST         134.6   227.7   362.3    146.1   156.1   302.2   -16.6
1. November, 1980 prices.



-31-
Page 2 of 2
6.   Proiect Cost and Financina (Continuation)
COLOMBIA
EmPresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM1
PlaYas Hydro Power Proiect (Loan 1953-CO)
Prolect Financina
(US$ million)
---------SAR ---------    --------Actual-------
Sources                   Local  Foreian  Total    Local  Foreian  Total
IBRD Loan 1953-CO                 -      85.0    85.0        -      66.9    66.9
IDB Loan 70                       4.0    81.0    85.0        -      73.7    73.7
Suppliers and Banks               -      52.1    52.1        -      40.1    40.1
Bank of Tokyo                                             -      30.0    30.0
Rade Koncar                                               -       4.1      4.1
Oster                                                     -       6.0      6.0
Local                           130.6     9.6   140.2    146.1   (24.6)  121.5
FEN - FONAVI                   -       -        -        43.6     -       43.6
EPM Internal Funds           130.6     9.6   140.2    102.5   (24.6)   77.9
TOTAL      134.6   227.7   362.3    146.1   156.1   302.21
1. IncLudes USS 67.1 miLLions of financing charges.



-32-
Page 1 of 2
7. Pro-ect Results
A. Economic Impact
Appraisal       Estimated
Estimate.         Actual
Internal Rate of Return                     15.5%            14.8%
Underlving AssumPtions
1.   The benefits and costs have been calculated using Colombian pesos of
December 1979. The investment costs in generation, transmission and
distribution, and general plant during the construction period 1979-1988,
expressed in current Colombian pesos, were translated to constant end-1979
pesos using internal and external deflator indexes for the local and foreign
components. A similar calculation was done for the operation and maintenance
costs and for the energy purchases (or sales) from ISA.
2.   In calculating the internal rate of return, a similar methodology has
been used to that in the SAR, evaluating the return on investment as the
discount rate equalizing the present values of the stream of benefits and
costs associated with EPM's 1979-1988 expansion program, of which the Bank
Project Playas is part and cannot be reasonably segregated.
3.   A re-investment, after 30 years of usual life, for the electro-mechanic
components of the generating plant and for transmission and distribution was
incorporated in the calculations.
4.   As a proxi for the benefits, revenues derived from incremental sales to
the system and ISA, coming from the Project, based on annual averages rates
were used.
5.   The calculation was extended for 40 years after commissioning of the
project in 1988, which is considered the probable useful life of the Playas
plant.
Comments:
1.   Based on the aboved mentioned considerations, the recomputed internal
rate of return of the Project is 14.8%, compared to 15.5% estimated in the
SAR. This recomputed figure although slightly lower than the estimated in the
SAR compares, nevertheless, favorably with the opportunity cost of capital in
Colombia, estimated to be 12%.
2.   The rate of return on the investment has been calculated using the
tariffs to value the benefits; in this sense, the calculation does not take
into consideration the consumers' surplus.



-33-
C O L O H B I A
Playas Hydro Power Project (Loan 1953-CO)                    Page 2 of 2
Economic Evaluation - Internal Rate of Return
(VaLues in Miltions of Cotombian Pesos)
Genera- Transm.  Gener.  0 & M   Purch.   Total        Sates       Sates    Totat         Net
Year   tion   & Dist.  Ptant   Expen.   ISA     Costs     EPH system   to ISA    Sates        Benefit
1980    386      308     306     196      83     1279         283.0   569.0    852.0          -427.0
1981    1327    403      269     312      49     2360         422.0    297.0      719.0      -1641.0
1982    1656     890     322     358       0     3226         672.0   326.0    998.0         -2228.0
1983    2471     922     367     449       5     4214        1054.0   190.0   1244.0         -2970.0
1984    2130    1030     273     510     484     4427        1361.0       0.0    1361.0      -3066.0
1985    2071     618     289     563     725     4266         1793.0   435.0   2228.0        -2038.0
1986    1862     808     299     641     730     4340        2480.0   170.0   2650.0         -1690.0
1987     859     790     287     682     910     3528        3228.0   307.0   3535.0             7.0
1988     653     875     302     738    1353     3921        3548.0   248.0   3796.0          -125.0
1989       0       0       0     902    1434     2336        3980.0   311.0   4291.0          1955.0
1990       0       0       0     946    1475     2421        4493.0   335.0   4828.0          2407.0
191        0       0       0     923     994     1917        4985.0   750.0   5735.0          3818.0
192        0       0       0     923     994     1917        5035.0   750.0   5785.0          3868.0
1993       0       0       0     923     994     1917        5387.0   870.0   6257.0          4340.0
1994       0       0       0     923     994     1917        5710.0  1009.0   6719.0          4802.0
1995       0       0       0     923     994     1917        5824.0  1029.0   6853.0          4936.0
1996       0       0       0     923     994     1917        5940.0   1029.0   6969.0         5052.0
1997       0       0       0     923     994     1917        6059.0   1029.0   7088.0         5171.0
1998       0       0       0     923     994     1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0          5171.0
1999       0       0       0     923     94      1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0          5171.0
2000       0       0       0     923     994     1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0          5171.0
2001       0       0       0     923     94      1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0          5171.0
2002       0       0       0     923     994      1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         5171.0
2003       0       0       0     923     994     1917        6059.0   1029.0   7088.0         5171.0
2004       0       0       0     923     994      1917        6059.0   1029.0   7088.0        5171.0
2005       0       0       0     923     994      1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         5171.0
2006       0       0       0     923     994      1917       6059.0  1029.0   7088.0          5171.0
2007       0       0       0     923     994     1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0          5171.0
2008       0       0       0     9Z3     994     1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0          5171.0
2009       0       0       0     923     94      1917        6059.0   1029.0   7088.0         5171.0
2010       0       0       0     923     994     1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0          5171.0
2011      77    308        0     923     994     2302        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0          4786.0
2012     265     403       0     923     994     2585         6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         4503.0
2013     331     890       0     923     994     3138         6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         3950.0
2014     494     822       0     923     994     3233         6059.0   1029.0   7088.0        3855.0
2015     426    1030       0     923     994     3373         6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         3715.0
2016     414     618       0     923     94       2949        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         4139.0
2017     372     808       0     923     994     3097         6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         3991.0
2018     172     790       0     923     994     2879         6059.0  1029.0    7088.0        4209.0
2019     131     875       0     923     994     2923         6059.0   1029.0   7088.0        4165.0
2020       0       0       0     923     994      1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         5171.0
2021       0       0       0     923      94      1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         5171.0
2022       0       0       0     923      94      1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         5171.0
2023       0       0       0     923     994      1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         5171.0
2024       0       0       0     923      94      1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         5171.0
2025       0       0       0     923     94       1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         5171.0
2026       0       0       0     923     94       1917        6059.0  1029.0    7088.0        5171.0
2027       0       0       0     923     994      1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         5171.0
2028       0       0       0     923     994      1917        6059.0  1029.0   7088.0         5171.0
Rate of Return x    14.8X         bPV a 3706.0 for 12.00X



-34-
Page 1 of 3
8.     Status  of  Covenants
COLOMBIA
Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM)
Plavas Hvdro Power Proiect (Loan 1953-CO)
Compliance with Loan Covenants
Section                          Br00  8Fief Description                     Status of Cmptliance
A. PROJECT COVENANTS
3.02 (a)    EnpLoyment of Consultants for the design and supervision    Complied
of the Project
3.02 (b)    Employment of ConsuLtants for the study of referred to in   Complied
Part C (3) of the Project (Etectrificadoras Antioquia y
Choco)
3.03 (c)    To carry out the study referred to in Part C (3) of the          Complied
Project by December 31. 1982
3.04        Measures to ensure that the Project is carried out with          Complied
regard to ecologicaL and envirorvnental factors.
3.05        Insurance of imported goods to be financed by the Loan           Complied
3.06 (a)    EPM to furnish to the Bank contract documents.                   Complied
3.06 (b)    EPH to monitor the progress and maintain records of the          CompLied
Project.
3.06 (d)    Preparation of a Report after completion of the Project.    Complied
3.07        Acquisition of Land required for the Project.                    Complied (see also 5.12)
4.04 (b)    EPH to require that its dams, reservoirs banks and               Complied (Indepenient
earthworks be periodically inspected,                           consultants in charge of
l_________________________________________________________       inspection)
B. FINANCIAL COVENANTS FOR LOANS 1868, 1953, AND 2449-CO.
5.01 (a)    The borrower to operate each of its departments                  Coffplied
independently from one another and with separate
accounting records.
5.01 (b)    To maintain separate accounts of expenditures from loan          Complied
account in statements of expenditures and enable Bank's
representatives to examine such accounts and statement
5.02 (a)    Borrower to use independent auditors acceptable to the           CompLied (see also (b)(ii)
Bank for the yearly audit of:                                   below)
(i) Accounts and financial statements.
l________   (ii) Special Account for each project
5.02 (b)    Send audited financial statements of the previous year by   Complied
(i)    May 31 of each year
5.02 (b)    include in audited report a separate opinion on the              EPH started to incorporate a
(ii)    expenditures and records of the project special account         separate audit opinion of the
project and special accounts by
l ________  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   end-1985
5.02 (c)    furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the          Not fully complied
l________  project Special Accounts



-35-
Setio         :            -      grIef DescriptlZ- -io      :        ~         t~  o  }-~% -::-
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..           . , .   . .. . ..   .       .. .
5.03        Not later than 3 months after each calendar year furnish    Patlally complied.  Early years
Bank with a report showing the Borrower's performnce of    of project (till 1984/ not fully
the previous and following years.                               complied)
5.04        Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower          CompLied
shall not dilute the security of the Bank loan provided
by the Borrower assets.
5.05        Without the Bank's consent, the Borrower shaLL not sell         Complied
all or substantially dispose of all of its Power ofr
WSS's assets or of all or substantially all of the
property included in the project.
5.06        Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree the Borrower           Complied
shall not incur any debt for any of its Departments
unless the debt service coverage test of any such
department shall be no less that 1.5
5.07 (a)    Except as the Bank and the Borrower with the concurrence
of the Guarantor shall otherwise agree, the Borrower,
shall obtain anual rates of return of no less than:
(i)  For its Power Department                                   Partially Coeplied
7% in 1984                                               Net
10% in 1985                                               Net
12% in 1986                                               Marginally not mt
10% in 1987 and after                                      1987 mt, 1988-1990 not mt
(ii) For its WSS Department (included in Ln. 2449-CO)           Not complied
1.1X in 1984
2.5X in 1985
3.5X in 1986
5.51 in 1987
6.0X in 1988
5.2X in 1989 and after
5.07 (b)    Send to the Bank within the first two months of each            Complied
(i)    quarter, quarterly rates of return (ROR) progress
reports.
5.07 (b)    If not in compliance, the Borrower shall indicate               Not fully compifed.  EPM argued
(ii)    measures to be taken in the following quarter to meet the   that lower than required ROR was
convenanted ROR's                                               not affecting the financial
l_____________________________    soundhms     of  company  operation.
5.08        The Borrower shall Increase its tariffs by no less than         Partially complied.  Local
(a) for Its Power Department: 2.21 per month until              Inflation nd devaluation of
December 31/1988 and 1.81 per month thereafter                  ColS affected the expected
outcome of their action.
(b) for its WSS Department:  1.81 per month until
December 31/1988 and 1.5X per month thereafter
5.09        Bank concurrance wilt be sought before the borrower              CompLied
undertakes any capital expenditure unrelated to the
operations of any of its Departments.
5.10 (a)    The Borrower shall not commit itself to increase its             Complied
generating capacity by more than 100 MW unless:
(i)   it has afforded the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to comment;
(1i)  such Increase is part of the Mational Power
Expansion Progrm of ISA approved by the Bank; and
(iil) The Borrower has obtained suitable financing;



-36-
Seetion                          8rief Description                         Status of Compliance
5.10 (b)    For investments other than the above, in the Project, or    Complied
in the Power and WSS's investment programts; Bank
concurrence shaLl be obtained when suchs investments will
exceed 1% of the net current value of the Borrower's
fixed assets in operation.
5.11        The Borrower shall not allow the transfer of funds             Complied
between any of its Departments unless they are surplus
funds and transfers are made as formal Loans on
commercial terms and conditions.
5.12        The Borrower shall obtain financial resources for its WSS   ColS1,200 million were included
Department for Col. S 1,200 million (one thousand two          in the USS200 miLlion loan from
hundred million) for the carrying out of the project           IDB to EPM.  Part of these funds
during 1984 and 1985.                                          were used for Section 3.07
l_       _                                               _         __  _    requirement.
C. PERTINENT CONVENANTS OF GUARANTEE AGREEMENTS BETWEEN GOVERNMENT AND IBRD FOR LOAN AGREEMENTS 2449,
1953 AND 1868-CO
2.02        The goverrnment to provide or enable Borrower to be             CnIpLied
provided with sufficient funds to carry out the project
and in particular those funds referred to in section 5.12
f loan agreement 2449-CO.                                                          
3.02        The goverrnment shaLl enable Borrower to set and maintain    Ccaplied
tariffs at levels sufficient to comply with agreed rates
of return and minimum tariff increases indicated in
sections 5.07 and 5.08 of loan agreement.
3.03        The government shall provide all facilities to Borrower         Not fully complied.  Import
to insure the timely procurement of goods and services         licenses by INCOMEX and customs
for the project.                                               clearance delayed the
l __________  I_________________________________________________            procurement    of    imported    goods.



-37-
9. Use of Bank Resources
A. STAFF INPUT
(Staff Weeks)
Staff input in carrying out the various tasks through the project cycle
from appraisal in FY81 to the preparation of the project completion report in FY93
were as follows:
Task                 Input
Appraisal            15.7
Negotiations          0.7
Supervision          58.4
Total           74.8
B. MISSION DATA
Staff
Weeks   Perfor-    Type of
Month     No. of       No. of          in    mance        Problems
Type of Mission          Year       Weeks      Persons'      field   Ratinc2    Status3
Appraisal               10/80         3        1PE,lFA          6
Supervision I            9/81         2           1PE           2         2          0
Supervision II           4/82         2         lE,lFA          4         2          0
Supervision III         11/82         1           1FA           1         2          0
Supervision IV           9/83         1           IPE           1         2          T
Supervision V            4/84         1           1PE           1         2          F
Supervision VI          11/85         2        1PE,lFA          4         2          0
Supervision VII          9/86         2        lPE,lFA          4         2         M,O
Supervision VIII         5/88         3      1PE,lFA,lE         9         1
TOTAL                                                    32
1. PEz Power Engineer; FAz Financial Analyst; E= Economist
2. 1=Problen-free or minor problems; 2= Moderate probLems; and 3= Major ProbLems
3. F= Financial; M= Managerial; T= TechnicaL; and O= Other



cOLAA
S3RI58   P0LICM  Da IIL.LID
PAYAS  260 POI    7WecT - LOAN 1953-CO
CMPhlSO CO  ACTUAL AN)D ?O6WT    7CM  STATTS  (1940-1991)
(in  UM4  osu of Current Col$)
1980-                      -1961 -                     ------1962-----               -----1963-----                 ---1964-----
Vrria-                                                      Varia- Vaai-                  Varia- Vri-
SAL  Actual  tion S           SAl  Actual  tios X           SAL   Actual  tion S          SAU   Actual  tio  S          SAL   Actual  tion Z
OPUATIDG DATA
Sales Own Systm  (Wh)                    3566    3558         0         3908    3709       -5         4240    3942       -7         4600    4190        -9        4990    4368       -12
rengy Export (Import) ISA (GKh)           580      542       -7           55       44     -20          (37)    548   -1561            29       25      -14        (258)   (769)    206
Per Export (Import) ISA (1W-TYer)    123            92      -25          (17)     27    -259          (160)       4    -103         (276)      27    -110         (366)   (155)    -60
Av. Tariff Increase  19K Systm (S)           0       0                    39       26     -34           44       32     -26           44       39      -12          32       27      -14
Ay. Tariff UK System (Colc/kWS)          99.7   105.0         5        139.0   132.0       -5        200.1   174.0      -13        266.2   241.0       -16       381.1   307.0       -19
Aw. Zrgy Tariff IS& (ColcIdjh)           79.5    59.9       -25         63.5   414.6      553        129.0    67.3       -32       159.0    72.6       -54        192.0   125.9      -34
Av. Por Tariff ISA (llolS-ear)           1.67    1.76        -6         2.42    2.44        1         3.01    1.53       -49        1.53    3.70       142        4.49    4.67         8
OPURATID REVENUE
Exrgy and Capacity Sales                 4092    4073         0         5426    5197       -4         7966    7320        -6       12050   10215       -15        16522   11646      -30
Otbor Islo_m                                 6       7      -13           10        a     -20           12        9      -25          15       15        0           17      21       24
Total Operating lvemue                   4100    4060         0         5436    5205       -4         7976    7329        -8       12065   10230       -15        16539   11667      -29
OF DATI;O Wxs
Generation                                170      162       -5          212     242       14          266      299       12         322      421       31         464      540       16
Trandeiios                                 59       64        8           74       79       7           93      132      42          115      154       34          161     191       19
Distribution                              109      11$        6          142      144       1          181    10        -1          227      293       29         279      370       33
Genral Plant-Operation                     188     208       11          232     310       34          296      357      20          366      423       16         443      510       15
General Plt-Aministration                 616      647        5          799     748       -6         1036    1254       21         1343    1521        13         1696    2072       22
ISA'r Chartee                             182      162        0          235     228       -3          245      321      31           10      176    1660            0      169
mmIcipal Contribution                     210      216        4          264     264        a          366      367        0         571      519       -9          766     650      -17
AOrtizatiOn (Studies & Training)             0       0                    13        0    -100           48        0    -100           76       13      -83           93      11      -66
Depreciation                              961      943       -2         1361    1241       -9         1718    1601       -7         2250    1935       -14        2646    2365       -17
Total Operating tzpeuses                 2497    2542         2         3332    3276       -2         4273    4531         6        5260    5455         3        6770    6696         2
Operating Income                         1603    1538        -4         2104    1929       -6         3705    2798       -24        6785    4775       -30        9769    4769       -51
Otber InOme set                           650      612       -6          478      667      61          753    1027       36          799      622        3         1246     702      -44
Net Incom  before Iuterest              2253    2150        -5         2582    2796        6         4458    3825       -14        7584    5597       -26        11015    5471      -50          10
9,
Interest During Construction                       134                            162                           483                           783                          2071                   $
Losee  Interest Chaged to Operation       711      841       16          699      631      -8         1160    1144        -1        1570    1193       -24         1664    1122      -33          0
net Incom   after Intereet               1542    1309       -15         1663    1965       17         3298    2681       -19        6014    4404       -27         9331    4349      -53          0
-----------------------------------------------------------------------          __---- __----------------------------------------------------------------------      _   _- ______ ______-_----
OD



COLUOMIA
EIPRESAS PUDLICAS DE IKLLIII
PLATAS 11D1O IWU PIDJCT - Lt0U 1953-Co
CMPAISI 0F ACrUL AND FORWAST 7UCU   STAT S   (1960-1991)
(in Millions of Current Col$)                                                       (Continuaticn)
-----1985-----                -----195--                     -----1987-----                 -----1986-----                  1989       1990       1991
Varn-                          Vane-                         Varia-                         Varia-
SAl  Actual  tion Z           SAR   Actual  tion Z           SAI   Actual  tin X            SAZ   Actual  tic  X         Actual    Actual    Actual
OP!ATNG DWAA
Sales 0wn Syet_ (GVb)                     5412    4544      -16         5$49    4684        -17        6365    5294       -17         6903    5525       -20         5764       6036       5622
ergy Izport (Import) ISA (Ch)             (346)   (415)      20          520    (366)   -171            (171)    (47)    -73           (707)   (945)      34          (42)        (56)      527
Por Kport (IWport) ISA (W-Iear)   (276)   (212)    -23                   (157)   (164)       17         (315)   (273)    -13           (465)   (356)    -27          (375)      (3175)      (257)
Av. Tariff Iere... KM  Systm (Z)           26       37       42           23       33       44           13       27     110            13      25       69           29          32        44
Av. Tariff KM  System (ColeIkWh)         479.5   420.0       -12       548.3   559.0         -2       643.1   711.6         11       727.9 U66.3          22       1143.0    1504.0    2165.0
Av. hergy Tariff ISA (Colo/kWb)          229.5   221.5        -3        266.5   525.1        96        310.0  3973.1    1162         356.0   417.7         17       12931      12426         165
Av. Poer Tariff ISA (Kol$-Tear)           5.37    5.64         9         6.28     7.33       17         7.26    9.24       27         6.40   11.69        39        15.26      20.23      29.43
hergy Sale                               23952   16908       -29        3326    24025       -26        38276   33225      -13        44467   41376        -7        55195      76121    117502
Otber Incme                                 20       29       45           23       31       35           27       47       74           30       93     210           141       647        1383
Total Operatng  Reveu                    23972   16937       -29       33311   24056        -28      35803   53272        -13        44497   41469        -7        55336      76768    118l45
OPURATINO ESIES
Generation                                 543      788       45          742      632       12          646    1043       23          964    1452        51         2569       5400       4456
Trenmissic                                 207      220        6          236      319      35           269     311        16         309      363       25          549        610        1160
Distribution                               338      449       33          397      545       37          466     706       52          547      992       61         1323       1599       2276
General Plant-Operatic.                    527      575        9          612      991       62          710    1339       69          624    1664       104         2391       3331       3348
General Plet-At Uinistration              2093    2623        25        2481    4841         96        2964    5485        65         3543    6816       149        11300      16621      29029
ISA's Charges                                0       14                     0      190                     0     325                      0     351                   641        656       1193
lecipal Cotribution                       1136      994      -13         1560    1328       -15         1779    1685        6         2030    2416        19         3164       4260       6706
Aortization (Studies & Training)           149       22      -65          136       25      -62          101      23      -75            73      39      -47            0           0          0
Depreciation                              4105    3135      -24         4737    4297         -9        6929    551$       -20         7960    7235        -9        12319      15970      21U63
Total Operating 2X_*es                    9096    8620       -3         10901   13388        23        14064   16637       18        16230   23370        44        34476      44867      70031
Operating Ineom                          14674    6117      -45        22410   10668        -52       24239   16635       -31        26247   16099       -36        20$60      29901      48854
Otber Income Net                          1701    1625         7        2404    2340         -3        3072    3475        13         3437    4517        31         3560       2693      15792
let Income before Interest               16575    9942      -40        24$14   13008        -46       27311   20110       -26        3166    22616       -29        24420      32594      6446       P
Iter.. DurtM Ceostructio.                        3069                           3579                           5246                           6125                  1976       3233       4636
Less. Interest Chargod to Operation   2624    1851          -29         3187    4507         41        3847    5767        49         3650    8341       129        15418      21446      24029
N)
Net Inmes after Interest                 13951    8091       -42       21627    8501        -61       23444   14343       -39        26034   14275       -49         9002      11126      40617       0
_____________________________________________________--     _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________-N



COLM8 IA
DIPRESAS P0BLICAS DE MEDELLIN
PLATAS IYDTO POWER PROJECT - LOAN 1953-CO
COPARISON OF ACTUAL AND FORECA ST BALACE SHTS (1980-1991)
(in Millions of Current Col$)
-----1980-----               -----1981----                 -----1982-----                -----1983-----               -----1984----
Varia-                       Varia-                        Vari-                         Varia-                       Varia-
SAP   Actual  tion X         SAR   Actual  tion I          SAL   Actual  tion I          SAR   Actual  tion 2         SAR   Actual  tion 2
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Plant in Operation                     33985   33855        0        43571   43642        0        58096   55583       -4       74260   69030        -7      110388   85914      -22
Lass Accumulated Depreciation           7367    7506        2        10570   10840        3        14719   15150        3       20060   19704        -2       26719   27057        1
Net Plant                              26618   26349        -1       33001   32802       -1        43377   40433       -7       54200   49326        -9       83669   58857      -30
Work in Progress                         959    1576       64         5136    4173      -19        13505    9739      -28        27497   16485      -40       24560   29548       20
Total Fied Assets                      27577   27925         1       38137   36975       -3        56882   50172      -12       81697   65811       -19      108229   88405      -18
Investusnts in ISA                      1862    1852       -1         2936    2955        1         4315    3501      -19        6587    4309       -35        8920    5447      -39
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                           1203     809      -33         514    1216      137          755    1716      127          962     980        2        2795    1120      -60
Accounts Receivable                       682     817       20          905    1228      36         1328    1807       36         2008    1921       -4        2755    2650        -4
Inventory                                 279     307       10         371      433      17          486      727      so          627    1272      103         796    1903       139
Otbhr                                     163     229       40          207     151     -27          260      174     -33          320     247      -23         387      518       34                        1
0
Total Current Assets                     2327    2162       -7         1997    3028      52         2829    4424       56         3917    4420       13        6733    6191        -8                        I
Other Assets                              920     698      -24         893    1116       25          959    1483       55         1215    1704       40         1621    1950       20
TOTAL ASSETS                           32686   32637         0       43963   44074        0        64985   59580       -8        93416   76244      -18      125503  101993       -19
EQUITY liD LIABUILITIES
Equity
Capital *ad Acsu:4lated Surplus         6203    5637        -9        8029    7601       -5        11568   10282      -11        17864   14687      -18       27495   19036       -31
Grants                                    -65     318    -589         -422      611    -245          123      761     519         1294    1025      -21        3270    1164      -64
levaluaticon Resrve                    16208   16993         5       22862   23394        2        30452   31425        3        39561   36154       _9       49859   43900      -12
Total Equity                           22346   22948         3       30469   31606        4        42143   42468        1        58719   51866      -12       80624   64100       -20
Long-Ters Debt                          8910    9180         3       11532   11733        2        20171   15513      -23        31241   22260      -29       40609   34311      -16
Currant Liabilities
Accounts Payable                           63     366      481          179     628     251          304    1425      369          378    1878      397          383    3048      696
Interest Payable                          185       0    -100          278        0    -100          461        0    -100          722       0    -100          931        0    -100           d
Other Currant Liabilitiss                 259     143      -45         331      107     -68          416      174     -58          477     240      -50         608      534      -12         gm
Total Current Liabilities                 507     509        0          788     735       -7        1181    1599       35         1577    2118       34         1922    3582       86   
Other Liabilities                         923       0    -100          1174       0    -100         1490        0    -100         1879       0                 2348        0    -100
TOTAL EQuITY  ID LIABILITIES           32686   32637         0       43963   44074         0       64985   59580       -8        93416   76244      -18       125503  101993      -19
_--------------_ ---------------------------------------------------------- _     _     _     _     _     _      _     _     _     _     _     _     _--_-  _     _     _     _     _  __  __-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-_--_--_-  _--_--_     _--_--_--_--_     _--_-  _     _--_--_--_--_--_--_-



COflClEA
DOPRESAS PUBLTCAS DE IEDLLIUI
PLAYAS EYDtO POWER PROJECT - LOAN 1953-CO
CQGPARISOU OF ACTUAL AIND FORECAST HILASCI SBDITS (1980-1991)
(in Millions of Current Col$)                                                    (Continuation)
 ----1985-----              -----1986----                  -1987__                   -----1988
VAria-                       Varia-                       Varns-                       Varia-        1989      1990       1991
SAR   Actual tion X          SAR   Actual  tion I         SAR   Actual  tion I         SAR   Actual  tion I       Actual    Actual   Actual
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Plant in Operation                   130641  121125       -7       195202  155819      -20      224131  200024      -11      257037  349206       36      456549    624468    798935
Lees: Accumulated Depreciation        35366   36390        3        45054   48611       8        58291   66497       14       74412   93044       25      130768    188986    262996
Net Plant                              95275   84735     -il       150148  107208      -29      165840  133527      -19      182625  256162       40      325781    435482    535939
Work in Progress                       37787   38503       2           92   59503   64577           46   91739  199333            0   51036                 70930    117750    165504
Total Fixed Assets                    133062  123238      -7       150240  166711       11      165886  225266       36      182625  307198       68      396711    553232    701443
Investents in ISA                      13130    6768     -48        20089    8526      -58       34024    8875      -74       51037   12766      -75       27623      48443     38450
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                          5489    5144       -6        8661    4984      -42       12124    7564      -38        16915   10695     -37         5471     -5740      8203
Accounts Receivable                     3990    1745      -56        5550    3479      -37        6383    4839      -24         7414    5693     -23         4913     12985      12987
Inventory                                995    2586     160         1214    3342      175        1481    4889      230        1807    4959      174         6238      8014     11083
Other                                    460    1513     229          533     884       66         618    7345    1089           717    2310     222         2306         0         0
Total Current Assets                   10934   10988        0       15958   12689      -20       20606   24637       20       26853   23657      -12        18928     15259     32273
Other Assets                            3298    2316     -30        10791    2755      -74       16824    3273      -81       23690    3883      -84         6094      9111     17855
TOTAL ASSETS                          160424  143310     -11       197078  190681       -3      237340  262051       10      284205  347504       22       449356    626045    790021
EQUITY ALD LIABILITIMS
Equity
Capital and Accualated Surplus        41833   26035      -38        63946   34536      -46       87998   48379      -45      116791   62654      -46        71656     98642    136140
Grants                                  3845    2227     -42         5036    2987      -41         861    4303      400       -3129    5722    -283          7267      9206     11558
AvalutiCou Reserve                    64083   43290      -32        77422   42473      -45       98442   47154      -52      121659   86310      -29       126238    185842    283927
Total Equity                          109761   71552     -35       146404   79996      -45      187301   99836      -47      235321  154686      -34      205161    293690    431625
Long-Term Debt                        45700   66520       46        45191  101489      125       43736  151110      246       41566  177875      328      225060    298038    328854
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                         277    3069    1008           50    5911   11722           41    1798    4285           41    2848    6846          4102      3713      5226
Intereat Payable                        1044    1358      30         1029    2085      103         967    3177      229         913    3617      296        3930       6622      6974      10
0)
Other Current Liabilities                742     811       9          893    1200       34        1051    6130      483        1238    8478      585        11103     23982     17342     t
Total Current Liabilities               2063    5238     154         1972    9196      366        2059   11105      439        2192   14943      582        19135     34317     29542      b
0
Other Liabilities                       2900       0    -100         3511       0    -100         4244       0    -100         5125        0    -100            0         0         0      Fb 
TOTAL EQUITY AID LIAIILITIES          160424  143310     -11       197078  190681       -3      237340  262051       10      284204  347504       22      449356    626045    790021
---------------------------------------------------   ----------      ------------      --------------------------------------------------------  -----      ------------      ------------------



OUflIA
.UA incas u   J
PIAUS  TD PO       JP    t -   1.0LO   1953-CO
Ct*mism Of ACTUAL An OSUCAS? $OUNCES An hIYLICATS Or you (1980-1991)
(in 31m11M     of aarrmt CeU$)
1    -195119219_--984-----                        -----1992-----                -----1993-----                -----1994-----
ria-                         v ri-                         Tari -                        varia-                        T rit-
"a   Actual  tim  K           56    Actual  tis I            Ml  Actual  tion 2           S.I   Actul  ti                $AR   AXctual  tie S
D  So
net  com  Befe Intrest                   2253    2150       -3         2562    2796         2        4435    3825       -14         7584    5597      -24        11015    3471      -50
Depreciation                              981     943       -2         1361    1241        -,         1718    1801       -7         2250    1935      -14         2848    2345      _17
inortiattm  (Stuit.. & Training)            0        0    VIA            13        0    -100            48       0    -100            78      13      -83           93       11     -08
lucre.. In Roger"s Accmnt.                 82     202      226          408      598       44         443      549       24         339      715      112          270    1383      412
Gross lnternl Cas  Generation          3276    3295        1         4364    4633         4        8487    5975       -10       10249    8263       -19        14224    9230      -35
DMt IECS
Amrtisatim                               1369      90      -50          1802     God      -41         2949    1411      -45         4633    2775      -40         6122    3457      -44
Interest                                    0     441    VIA              0      631     11/             0    1144    V/A              0    1193    U/A              0    1122    VIA
Total Debt Service                     1368    1531       12         1802    1527       -15        2949    2755        -7        4433    3971       -14         6122    4579      -25
In,etate in I1                           567     595        5         1074    1103         3         1379     544      -60         2272     50$      -64         2333    1138      -51
Net lateral Caib Generation            1341    1169      -13         1458    2003        35        2339    2674        14         3344    3464        4         5771    3513      -3s
DC4
Gdlupe IT                                   0        0    M/A           560      550       -3         3085    2195      -29         5188    3298      -34         2504    4331       73
IUD - Plaa                                  0        0    V/A           176        0    -100          2962     123      -98         3190    2572      -19         4778    3505      -27
Other                                     934      997        7         1419    1056      -25         1671    1439      -23         1384     648      -37           70    2554    3594
Total Berr1le                           938     997         7        2145    1608       -26         7915    3757      -53         9740    6738      -31         7350   10422       42
TOTAL SOUC                               2277    2168       -5         3853    3811        -1        10257    6431      -37        13064   10220      -22        13121   13935        8
COSTIUT1 P?O06M
Guadaue IT                                293      502       71        2422    1384       -47         4$90    2523      -46         8979    3$76      -44         3385    5011       46
IRLD - play"s                              23        0    -100          494      254      -49         4314    1022      -76         5080    3478      -31         8732    3358      -50
General Plant                             241      245        3          122     274      125          111     535      382          136     543      299          253      410      62
Otber                                     625      626      -24         1026    1023        0          503    1334      166          217    2084      060          260    3872    1211
Total Construction Progra              1382    1378        0         4264    2937       -31         9812    5416      -45        12392    9961      -19        10650   12449        17
Interest Durin  Cmtructim                   0      134    NIL              0     162    M/A              0     483    U/A              0     763    U/A              0    2071    3/A             P
lucre  (Doereaa) In V. Capital            595      654      -27        -611      512    -1I4           439     532       21          692    -544    -179          2471    -565    -124
TOtAL hPLIC*3                            2277    2146        -5         3853    3811       -1        10257    6431      -37        1308    10220      -22         13121   13935        6
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________----



COLO8MIA
EtPRESkS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
PLAYAS HYDRO POWER PROJECT - LOAN 1953-CO
CONPARISON OF ACrUAL AND FORECAST SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS (1980-1991)
(in MillfonD of Current Col$)                                                  (Continuation)
-----1985 -----               -----1986 -----               -----1987 ----                -----1988-----                  1989       1990       1991
Varis-                        Varia-                        Vari-                         Varia-
SAR   Actual  tion 2          SAR   Actual  tion X          SAR   Actual  tion Z          SAX   Actual  tion 2        Actual    Actual    Actual
INTEBUL SOURCES
Net Incom Before Interest               16575    9942       -40       24814   13008       -48        27311   20110      -26        31684   22616       -29       24420      32594      64646
Depreciation                             4105    3135       -24        4737    4297        -9         6929    5518      -20         7960    7235        -9       12519      15970      21863
Amortization (Studios & Training)          149      22      -85          136      25      -82          101       25     -75            73      39      -47            0          0         0
Increase in Reserv Accounts              -887      946    -207        -6532    3016    -146         -4793    3299    -169          -5299    5143    -197          6050       9870      15611
Gross Internal Cash Generation        19942   14045      -30        23155   20346       -12        29548   28952       -2        34418   35033        2        42989      58434    102120
DEBT SERVICE
Amortization                             9084    4499       -50        10272    9922       -3         9612   22154       130        9913   16582        67       29462      35239      48722
Interest                                    0    1851    P/A               0    4507    N/A              0   -2145    N/A              0    8341    N/A          15418      21466      24029
Total Debt Service                     9084    6350       -30        10272   14429       40         9612   16910       76         9913   24923       151       44880      56705      72751
Investments in ISA                       4210    1320       -69         6959    1759      -75        13935      349     -97        17013    3891       -77       14856       4964          0
Net Internal Cash Generation           6648    6375        -4         5924    4158      -30         6001   11693       95         7492    6219       -17      -16747      -3235      29369
BORROIINGS
Guadalupe IV                              253    6870    2615              0    4540    N/A              0    7617    N/A               0    5174    N/A           2328          0         0
I7ID - Playas                            5319    3803       -29         1333    7766      483            0    8851    N/A               0    5858    N/A          4781       5135       2849
otbhr                                        0    4510    N/A              0    2345    N/A              0    4405    N/A               0    3502    N/A         23697      21254      40400
Total Borrowings                       5572   15183       172         1333   14651      999            0   20873    N/A              0   14534    V/A          30806      26389      43249
TOTAL SOUICS                            12220   21558        76         7257   18809      159         6001   32566      443         7492   20753       177        14059     23154      72618
CCSnTDCTION PIOUM
Guadalupe IV                               718    2663      271          664    3862      482          641    6009      837          412    5093    1136           2669          0         0
23RD - Playas                            6894    6752        -2          816    8126      896            0    4770    N/A               0    4122    N/A          2622        313          0
General Plant                              192     901      369          221    1447      555          252    1040      313          288    1659       476         3829      8758       3369
Other                                      356    4768    1239           441    4110      832          547    5461      898          678    7661    1030          10499     30952      42626
Total Construction Program             8160   15084        85         2142   17545      719         1440   17280    1100          1378   18535    1245         19619      40023      45995      10
Interest Durin  Construction                 0    3089    N/A              0    3579    U/A              0    5246    N/A               0    6125    N/A           1976      3233       4836    %Q
Increase (Decrease) in W. Capital        4060    3385       -17         5115   -2315    -145          4561   10040      120         6114   -3907    -164         -7536    -20102       21787
TOTAL APPLICATIRS                        12220   21558       76         7257   18809      159         6001   32566      443          7492   20753      177        14059     23154      72618      0
---------------------------------------------------------------------___     ------__ --------------------------------------------------------------------___------       __------------------
ODX



DGPLAS FULICtS DE tLLIN
PATAS RIDRO SCUD PRWJCT - LOW  1953-CO
CUP=AIS W  OF ACTL AD IOENCAST FUFCO(AIC  AND WIECIAL  MICATURS (1960-1991)
-----1960-----                 -----1961-----                  -----1962-----                 -----193-                        -194-----
Vari-                          Varia-                         Vari-                           Var-                           Varia-
SAl  Actual  tion I             UA    Actual  tie  I           SSI   Actual  ticO  I          SAR   Actual  tioD 2            5AA   Actual  tios t
CAPACm  (oW-T.r)
tport (import) - ISA                        123       92      -25           (17)     27    -259           (160)      (4)    -9t          (276)   2691   -1075            (3U6)   (155)    -60
3IKR   (Cwb)
z.port (Itort) - ISA                        560      542       -7           55       46      -13           (37)   534    -1561             29       25      -14          (256)   (766)    205
rrgsy Billed In Own Syet.a                 3566    3558         0         3908    3709         -5         4240    3942        -7         4600    4190        -9         4990    4368       -12
Loees (as   of ergy billed)                  23       22       -4            20       17     -15            20       22       10           20       21        5            19       22       16
rmer of Custonrs (000)                      293      297        1           305     314         3          317      331        4          330      346        5           343      364        6
rmb.r of tploy-ee                          1916    1599       -17         1979    1705       -14          2046    1922        -6         2124    2181         3          2302    2301         0
Cuntcs re per Employee                      152      191       26           154     169       23           155      175       13          155      159        3           149      156        6
Deeray Sales per Eployee  CWh)             1U60    2225        20         1975    2175         10         2073    2051        -1         2166     1921      -11         2166    1696       -12
RATE OIP IrETU
Operatin  Income (lCol$)                   1603    1536        -4         2104    1929        -S          3705    2796       -24         6765    4775       -30         9769    4769       -51
Dealued Not Averagt Aseets in
Operation (ICol$)                        22763   22639         -1        29609   29576        -1         36166   36616        -4        46767   44660        -6        66933   54092       -22
Rate of Return (2)                          7.0     6.6        -3          7.1      6.5       -6           9.7      7.6      -22         13.9    10.6       -24         14.2      *6.      -36
FINNCIAL OCLI6TIClS
Coverage Ratio                              1.6      1.5      -17           1.6     1.7         6          1.6      1.6      -11          1.9      1.5      -21           2.3      1.2      -46
Self Utie t IRatio (Z)                      100       54      -46           36       55       45            28       42       50           36       34       -6            61       25     -59
Debt-Equity Ratio                            29       40       38           27       27         0           32       27      -16           35       30      -14            33       35        6
Current Rtlo                                4.6      4.2       -9          2.5      4.1       64           2.4      2.6       17          2.5      2.1      -16          3.5       1.7     -51
Recelvabls/lRawemuae  (2)                    17       20       16            17      24       41            17       25       47           17       19       12            17       23       35
--



CCU"IA
EMLUAS PULICAS Dg IN.LIN
PIAAS 11DIf POWhR PROJECT - LOAN 1953-CO
CIpAtSCN Of ACTUAL AM FOECAST  MOsMC  AMD FIANCIAL INDICATORS (1980-1991)
(Continuation)
-1985 -----               -----196 -----                -----197 -----                -----198$----                   1989       1990      1991
Varm-                         Vari-                         Varia.                         Varia-
SAR   Actual  tion 2          SAU   Actual  tion I          SU    Actual  tion 2           SAR   Actual  tion Z        Actual    Actual    Actual
CAPACITY (il-Tear)
Export (aport) - ISA                     (276)   (212)    -23           (157)   (114)      17         (315)   (273)    -13          (485)   (356)    -27           (375)      (375)     (257)
E     (GUb)
Export (Iport) - ISA                     (346)   (420)       21          520    (368)   -171          (171)    (47)    -73          (707)   (945)      34           (42)       (56)      527
Energy Billed In Own System              5412    4545       -16        5869    *884       -17         6365    5294      -17         6903    5525      -20         5764       6036       5822
Losses (as 2 of eersy billed)              19       23       21           19      21       11           18       15     -17           18       19        6           19         18        19
Nlber of Custamrs (000)                   357      387        8          371     414       12          386     441       14          401      467       16          493       520        546
Number of Eployees                       2380    2499         5        2445    2552         4         2518    2668        6         2594    2654         2         2811      3070       3133
Custmrs per Zploye                        150      155       3           152     162        7          153      165       8          155      176       14          175        169       174
Energy Sal.. per Employee (Iih)          2274    1855      -18         2400    1914       -20         2528    1984      -22         2661    2082      -22         2051       1966       1858
RATE OF RETURN                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1
Operating Iuncme (NCol$)                14874    8117      -45        22410   10668       -52        24239   16635      -31        28247   18099      -36        20860      29901      48854
Revalued Net Average Assets In
Operation (UCol$)                       89469   71796      -20       122708   95969       -22       157990  120367      -24       174229  194845       12       290792    380631    485710
Rate of Return (2)                       16.6    11.3      -32         18.3    11.1       -39         15.3    13.8      -10         16.2      9.3     -43           7.2       7.9       10.0
FINANCIAL OSLICATIORS
Coversge Ratio                            1.8      1.3     -28           1.9     1.2      -37          1.5     1.5        0          1.3      1.1     -15          0.9        0.9        0.9
Self Finacing ratio (Z)                    89       30     -66          290       22      -92          440      40      -91          580       47     -92         N/A        MIA          37
Debt-Equity Ratio                          29       48      66           24       55      129           19      56      195           15       47     213           52         50         43
Current Ratio                             5.3      2.1     -60          8.1      1.4      -83         10.0     2.2      -78         12.3      1.6     -87           1.1       0.4        1.1
Leceivablos/Rev*nues (2)                   17       10     -41            17      14      -18           17       15     -12           17       14     -18            12        17         11
OD
0E
OD



