Document of
The World Bank                  FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2953-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
PLAYAS HYDRO POWER PROJECT
February 10, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1979         Average Calendar 1980 (Estimated)
Currency Unit  - Peso - Col$               US$1   =  Col$47.274
US$1           -  Col$42.587               Col$1 -  US$0.02115
Col$1          =  US$0.02348
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            2       3.281 feet (ft)       2
1 square kilometsr (km )       0.386 square mile (mi3)
1 cubic meter (m )          =  35.315 cubic feet (ft )
it                    =264.2 gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t. metric;1,000 kg) =  1.100 short toni (sh. togs)
1 kilowatt (kW)             -  1,000 Watts (10  kW = 10  W)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)       m  830.3 kilocaiories (kgal)
1 Megawatt (MW)             =  1,000 kW (106 kW - 109 W)
I Gigawatt (GW)             =  1,000 MW (10  kW - 10  W)
6
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)       =  1,000,000 kWh (10  kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)             -  1,000 Volts (V)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CORELCA  =     Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
CVC      -     Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Valle del Rio Cauca
DNP      3     Departmento Nacional de Planeacion
EEEB     -     Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
EPM      =     Empresas Publicas de Medellin
ICEL     =     Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
ISA      -     Interconexion Electrica, S.A.
JNT      =     Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Publicos
PIN      =     Plan de Integracion Nacional
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
PLAYAS HYDRO POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM)
Guarantor:          Republic of Colombia
Amount:             US$85 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayment in seventeen years, including four years
of grace at 9.6% interest per annum.
Prolect
Description:      The project would assist Empresas Publicas de Medellin
(EPM) in providing required electricity service to
facilitate continued industrial and commercial growth
in Medellin and its environs. It would also enable EPM
to increase further the supply of hydroelectricity to
rural areas in Antioquia, in substitution for unreliable
and expensive power generation from small local diesel
plants. In line with Government efforts to reduce the
use of non-renewable energy resources, the project would
provide additional power and capacity to the national
system, thereby making hydro-based energy available in
the North Atlantic region which now depends entirely
upon thermal generation. The project consists of:
(a) 65-meter sarthfill dam with a volume of about
1.9 million m , including a spillway with a 2,800 m3/sec
discharge capacity, tunnels and underground penstock;
(b) a 200 MW underground power station with three Francis
turbines and three generators of 67 MW each; (c) a sub-
station and 1 km of 230-kV transmission line to link with
the San Carlos-Guatape line; and (d) studies to:- (i) assist
in determining actions necessary to ensure adequate environ-
mental protection of the Playas reservoir; (ii) provide a
least-cost plan for power rationing in the event of need;
and (iii) determine the feasibility of EPM's acquiring
the Electrificadoras of Antioquia and Choco, and to assess
the works needed to bring their systems up to adequate
standards. Tariff measures provided for under the project
would continue to support the Government's objective of
sound sector financing. Furthermore, the abovementioned
study of the Electrificadoras would complement recent
Government initiatives to strengthen sector organization
and efficiency. The project is subject to the risks
associated with civil works in difficult terrain. How-
ever, all appropriate safeguards have been provided for
and the project is expected to be carried out as scheduled.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



- ii -
Estimated Cost: I/
Local   Foreign    Total
(US$ million equivalent)
Civil Works
Infrastructure                               14.0       5.0      19.0
River diversion                              13.4      14.8       28.2
Dam and spillway                             15.3      20.1       35.4
Underground works                            31.7      37.7      69.4
Subtotal                                74.4      77.6     152.0
Equipment
Turbines and generators                       1.4      10.6       12.0
Hydro mechanical equipment                    0.2       8.6       8.8
Electrical equipment                          0.6       6.5       7.1
Subtotal                                 2.2     25.7       27.9
Engineering, Administration and Studies        15.2       6.1      21.3
Total Base Cost 2/                     (91.8)  (109.4)   (201.2)
Contingencies
Physical                                     11.0      17.0      28.0
Price                                        31.8      50.4      82.2
Total Prolect Cost                    (134.6)  (176.8)   (311.4)
Interest During Construction            -        -       35.0      35.0
Total Investment Cost                  134.6    211.8      346.4
1/   Applicable ta,,es are included, but the amount is negligible.
2/   December 1979 prices.
Note: During the period 1980-88, EPM's Power Department will carry out other
operational investments with an estimated cost of US$1,466 million
equivalent (excluding interest during construction amounting to US$84
million). Tt will also require an increase in working capital estimated
at US$96 million equivalent and will invest approximately US$485
millior equivalent in Interconexion Electrica, S.A. (ISA), in which it
is a shareholder.



- iii -
Project Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign    Total
(US$ million equivalent)
IDB                                              4.0     81.0       85.0
Internal Cash Generation                       130.6        -      130.6
Proposed IBRD Loan                                 -     85.0       85.0
Suppliers' Credits/Other External
Borrowings                                      -     45.8       45.8
134.6    211.8      346.4
Financing Plan for EPM's
1980-88 Investment Program: 1/
(US$ million equivalent)
Internal Cash Generation                                    1,067.1
Existing Loans                                                 37.7
Existing Loans for Guadalupe IV (1868-CO)                     164.5
Proposed IBRD and IDB Loan for Playas                         170.0
Suppliers' Credits/Other External Borrowings                  110.7
Total                                           1,550.0
1/   Including capital contributions to ISA.
Estimated Disbursements:      FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
---------(US$ Million equivalent)-----------
Annual                    8.1    19.0    20.8    20.6    13.0        3.5
Cumulative                8.1    27.1    47.9    68.5    81.5    85.0
Rate of Return:  15.5%
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 3240b-CO, dated February 9, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR THE
PLAYAS HYDRO POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Empresas Publicas de Medellin, with the guarantee of the Republic of
Colombia, for the equivalent of US$85 million to help finance the Playas Hydro
Power Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four years
of grace, with interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report on Colombia (2535-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in June 1979. An updating report is being prepared and
will be distributed soon. This section on the economy reflects the major
findings of the forthcoming report. Country data sheets are presented in
Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy made considerable progress over the past
quarter century. From a largely rural and agricultural base in the 1950s,
it evolved to a more integrated urban-industrial and services orientation.
The productive structure of the economy was broadened appreciably and output
in both the agricultural and industrial sectors became more diversified.
Public sector investment and output came to play a greater role in the economy,
primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of decentralized
agencies and public enterprises. Also, greater reliance on foreign trade
allowed the external sector of the economy to grow, with non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanding rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widening considerably. The growing urban-industrial
coloration of economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas gave rise to rapid rural-urban migration as rural labor sought to
take advantage of higher productivity and better paying jobs in the major
metropolitan areas. Financial and capital markets evolved pari-passu with the
growing financial needs of the industrial and services sectors of the economy,
and Colombia has become an active participant in international capital markets.
The economy has grown more resilient to external shocks as a result of the
structural changes that have occurred.
4.        Real GDP per capita rose by 2.4% p.a. on average during the 1950-79
period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per capita
income. This was the result of lower population growth, combined with more
rapid GDP growth. Population growth, which had remained in the 3.0% to
3.5% range during the 1950s and early 1960s, declined dramatically after
1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the fertility rate. Greater economic



- 2 -
and educational opportunities for women, rapid rural/urban migration, rising
per capita income and increased effectiveness of family planning programs
contributed to the decline in fertility. Colombia's population is currently
growing at an annual rate of 2.1%. As a result of the high proportion of
women now entering childbearing years, this rate of population growth is
expected to continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services over the past quarter century brought about a substantial improvement
in the welfare of the poorest income groups in Colombia. As a result of
improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate fell by about 50%
and life expectancy rose from 50 years to 62 years. The child mortality rate
declined from 17 per thousand in the early 1960s to 9 per thousand in the mid
1970s. Infant mortality, one of the best indicators of welfare, fell to 98
per thousand in the mid-1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the early 1950s.
School enrollment ratios have increased substantially at all grade levels
since 1960, and by the late 1970s, 91% of urban children aged 7 to 14 were
enrolled in school. The poorest income groups, including those in rural
areas, have experienced the greatest increases in electricity and water
services in recent years and have benefited more than the average of the
population from services of the national health system. In spite of this
progress, Colombia remains largely underdeveloped, with a relatively small
modern sector superimposed on a broad, traditional and economically poor base.
Development has been concentrated in relatively few areas of the country,
public services are not available to a large proportion of the rural and urban
populations, unemployment and underemployment are relatively high, and income
and wealth distributions are skewed. The coverage of health care is still
deficient and adequate housing is not available to a substantial proportion of
the population. Rapid migration to the three major metropolitan areas has
created urban development problems, with attendant social difficulties.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past twenty-five years
were the result of Government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors,
provide the required economic and social infrastructure and establish an
effective institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s
development policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff
protection and the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector.
It was during this period that the country's major communication and trans-
portation networks were completed and the transformation to semi-industrial
economic structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s the prospects for
further import substitution were substantially diminished and the country
was in the midst of a period of great economic uncertainty, with economic
activity and the balance of payments heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In 1967 the authorities adopted an outward-
looking development strategy. Export promotion policies, including periodic
exchange rate devaluations and export tax rebates, were introduced and the



- 3 -
authorities began lowering tariffs and freeing capital markets from controls
as means of raising efficiency and increasing the competitiveness of Colombian
goods in external markets. These measures were highly successful in relieving
the foreign exchange constraint and stimulating growth. However, by the
mid-1970s the economy was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily
by the world recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of domestic
budget deficits.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of fiscal and
monetary policies designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses pre-
vailing in the economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective,
the economy was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp
increase in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports,
together with some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports,
caused a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimu-
lated aggregated demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accele-
rated and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas.
Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated surpluses averaging about 5.8% of GDP during the 1976-79 period, and
by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen to about
US$4.1 billion, equivalent to nearly 12 months imports of goods and non-factor
services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom has had
a somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy. Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to economic
and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was lowered and
the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with some adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit (including interest rate ceilings,
directed credit, portfolio requirements, etc.), thereby reducing the financing
available to the private sector via the official capital market. These
controls encouraged the development of a flourishing extrabank market in which
credit was available albeit at high interest rates and for short maturities.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were moderately successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth; thus relatively high inflation persisted. In 1979, consumer
prices rose by nearly 30%. Nevertheless, real GDP growth remained strong,
rising by about 5% for the year, led by a good performance in services, manu-
facturing and agriculture. However, construction and mining activities
declined. In response to the increasing stabilizing effects on aggregate
demand and the troublesome financial market distortions caused by inflation
and the extended period of monetary restraint, the authorities began in late
1979 to adjust the stabilization program. The rate of peso devaluation was
advanced to increase export incentives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in
early 1980, credit restraints were relaxed by lowering reserve requirements.
At the same time, interest rates on time deposits captured by commercial banks
and development finance companies - and on the lending therefrom - were



- 4 -
freed from controls. To offset the inflationary effects of these measures
the authorities further liberalized import payments and adopted the policy,
supported by a new issue of short-term certificates, of not expanding the
subsidized selective credit operations of the Central Bank in excess of the
resources captured from private savings for their financing. The authorities
also increased the surveillance and control of the illegal export trade.
10.       The effects of the above measures were not immediately noticeable.
Industrial sector growth slowed during the first half of 1980 and construction
activity, which had fallen sharply in 1979, continued to slacken. Agricul-
tural output was affected by drought, high incidence of disease and rising
fertilizer costs. Consequently, real GDP growth is likely to decline to
3-4% in 1980. With world coffee prices at relatively high levels for most of
the year, Colombia's balance of payments in 1980 is estimated to have regis-
tered an over-all surplus in the US$700 million range. This would maintain net
official reserves at about 11 months imports of goods and non-factor services.
Colombia's consolidated public finances are estimated to have recorded a large
surplus in 1980 for the fourth consecutive year, again mainly because of
increased earnings on foreign exchange holdings and large receipts from the
coffee tax. Inflation continued to be a problem in 1980, however, despite the
slowdown in economic activity, with consumer prices increasing by about 26%
for the year. The major challenge facing the Colombian authorities over the
next few years will be to bring about a reduction in the inflation rate, while
at the same time raising investment to the level required for private sector
expansion.
Development Strategy
11.       Achievement in this decade of the Government's objectives of increased
productivity and maximum economic growth, improved distribution of income and
greater welfare for all Colombians will require a major effort to remove from
the economy the constraints of inadequate economic and social infrastructure
and insufficient demand. Infrastructure needs are most pressing in the
energy and transportation sectors.
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives are set forth in the recently promulgated Plan de Integracion Nacional
(PIN). This strategy continues the previous emphasis on export promotion as
a means of supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments
stability, and on policy measures, including further import liberalization,
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a large increase in public investment, giving high priority to
energy projects and to the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic
decentralization, regional automomy and the uniting of regional growth centers
through improved transport, communication and financial links are directed
towards creating an integrated national market, a strategic goal of the
PIN. The Plan also places emphasis on the promotion of both small scale and
commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation and contribut-
ing to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial policy



objectives are to provide an environment of certainty, along with adequate
credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and
expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign markets, creating
employment and bringing in new technology, private foreign investment is to be
encouraged. The Government's approach to helping the poor takes on a new
orientation in the PIN. Programs in the health and education sectors are to
be better focussed and integrated, and selected low income and economically
disadvantaged groups, such as workers in the informal sector, children and
unemployed youth, are singled out for special attention. Combined with
extensions of the Integrated Rural Development (DRI) and National Nutrition
(PAN) projects, the new directions given to social programs are expected to
raise significantly the welfare of low income groups in Colombia.
13.       While the PIN provides a good analysis of the development issues
facing the country and sets forth the general guidelines for policies and
programs to resolve these issues, there are two important aspects of bringing
off the development strategy that are expected to receive increasing attention
from the authorities in coming months. The first involves a required deepening
of the sector analyses in order to improve coordination in planning and executing
sector strategies, and the second has to do with matters related to financing
the PIN. Given the large investment required to carry out the PIN strategy,
inadequate planning and coordination among sectors or insufficient domestic
resource mobilization would be likely to result in substantial resource mis-
allocation and to delay execution of the strategy. It is essential that this
be avoided. The two most important sectors where additional work is urgently
required are energy and transportation.
14.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976 and by 1985 petroleum
imports are expected to absorb nearly 25% of total export proceeds. In the
absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages will become a major
constraint on Colombia's growth later in this decade. Resolution of the
energy problem depends on the country's success in developing its abundant
domestic energy resources. The strategy for doing this will require energy
pricing policies that rationalize consumption with energy resource avail-
abilities, a least cost program of investments in energy and policy measures
to assure the program's rapid execution. Although planning and policymaking
have improved substantially in many energy sector institutions in recent
years, overall planning and coordination in the sector are still weak. A study
initiated in 1980 by the National Planning Department is expected to provide
the basis for improvements in sector-wide planning and policy-making (para-
graph 27), and recent pricing decisions have gone a considerable way towards
providing the correct signals for regulating consumption and encouraging
production. The prices paid to producers (primarily foreign companies) for
"incremental" and "new" crude have been raised to levels which should provide
adequate production incentives, and the retail prices of petroleum products,
while still below international levels, have been increased substantially
in excess of world oil price rises. The Government has committed itself
to raise energy prices to equivalent international levels as rapidly as
politically and economically possible, and a least cost energy investment
program is being prepared. Between October 1978 and October 1980, the price
of regular gasoline was raised by 125%, from US$0.40 to US$0.90 per gallon.



-6-
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate service could
become a constraint on economic growth, particularly on mining development.
The State Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs rehabili-
tation and upgrading. The authorities have begun to take steps to improve
the country's infrastructure and PIN assigns an important share of future
investments to the sector. There is, however, a need for more efficient
planning to ensure that only least cost investments are carried out and that
a sound policy framework for the sector is established to deal effectively
with the problems of intermodal coordination and energy conservation in
line with the Government's energy objectives (paragraph 27).
Investment and Its Financing
16.       A substantial increase and redirection of public sector investment
will be required in the next several years to carry out the development
strategy outlined in the PIN. Over the 1980-85 period, such investment is
expected to increase by about 12% p.a. in real terms. The energy, transpor-
tation and industrial (including mining) sectors are expected to account for
the bulk (60%) of this investment; however, sizeable real increases in invest-
ment are also expected in the nutrition and health, small scale agriculture
and industry, water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public
fixed investment is projected to average 9.2% of GDP during the 1980-85
period, and is expected to total Col$1,716 billion (US$22,260 million).
Private investment will have to increase also during this period to provide
the goods and services required by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobilization
effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. The buoyancy of the tax system
(excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign exchange
holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be increased through
new taxes and better tax administration and the charges levied for public
services will have to be raised substantially in real terms. Since this effort
is expected   to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment
resources, the importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be
over-stressed. The recent capital market liberalization should encourage
savings. A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are good and significant
advances in economic welfare are anticipated. The urgent need to relieve the
pressure on aggregate demand arising from the recent growth of foreign exchange
earnings and the necessity to increase rapidly imports to develop the country's
resource potential and restore higher economic growth requires a turnaround
in the balance of payments from a current account surplus of US$596 million



(2.2% of GDP) registered in 1979 to a current account deficit projected to
average US$1,150 million, over the 1980-85 period, equivalent to 2.8% of GDP.
By the end of this period, net official international reserves would have
fallen to a level above three months of imports of goods and services (a level
which is adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's credit-
worthiness. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of real
GDP of 5.5% during this period. Beyond 1985, the current account deficit
should improve as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly coal)
and a levelling-off of imports. The current account deficit would fall to 2%
of GDP in 1987 and to 1% by 1990. It is expected, therefore, that the economy
will be able to achieve real GDP growth averaging about 5.5% per annum during
the 1980-85 period. To reach this level of growth, gross domestic investment
will have to expand to about 24% of GDP, up from 18% in the early 1970s and
21% in recent years, and to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebted-
ness, gross national savings would need to average about 21% of GDP. This is
about the same level of savings achieved in 1978-79, when the terms-of-trade
gains from the coffee boom raised the savings coefficient, but above the level
achieved in the early 1970s.
19.       Gross external capital requirements (net of reserve drawdown) are
projected to total US$10.0 billion in current prices for the 1980-85 period,
for an annual average requirement of US$1,670 million. About 31% of this
amount will be required annually for debt amortization and the rest to
cover current account deficits. Multilateral and bilateral agencies are
expected to provide 40% of these requirements, 48% is expected to come from
foreign suppliers and financial institutions and the balance should come from
private foreign investment. At the end of 1979, Colombia's public and publicly
guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$3.4 billion,
equivalent to 12% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt was 25%.
Reflecting the recently increased lending by the Bank and the decline by
bilateral sources, this share is expected to increase to about 30% in 1983,
before falling to about 25% in 1987. The debt service ratio at end of 1979
was 12% and is expected to climb to 17% by 1985, peak at about 18% in the
early 1990s and then decline gradually. The World Bank's share in public debt
service is expected to rise to about 24% in 1985 from about 13% in 1979. With
continued sound economic and financial management, Colombia is expected to
maintain its creditworthiness through and beyond the 1980-1990 period.
PART II:  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.       The proposed loan, the 89th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,790.9 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount the Bank held, as of September 30, 1980, US$2,200.9
million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Dis-
bursements have been completed on 52 loans and the IDA credit. During 1972-77



- 8 -
disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then declined
slightly to US$82 million in 1978 but increased sharply to US$138 million
in 1979 and to US$203 million in 1980. The improved performance of social
sector institutions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual
containment of inflationary pressures which should allow relaxation of fiscal
restraint and the recent Bank lending for infrastructure projects, all point
to higher levels of disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments and
underwriting commitments of US$53.9 million in 24 enterprises and, as of
September 30, 1980, it held US$15.1 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of September
30, 1980. The Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the 36 ongoing
projects.
21.       In response to the priority objectives established by successive
Governments (self-sustained economic growth, increased employment and improved
income distribution), since 1966, Bank lending to Colombia has become increas-
ingly diversified and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs
and activities which emphasized social as well as economic benefits. All
three loans for education have been made during this period, and so have
twelve of the fourteen loans for industry, eleven of the thirteen agricultural
loans, one loan for a nutrition project, two loans for urban development
projects and all nine loans for water supply and sewerage. During the same
period, sixteen loans were made in the power and transport sectors, while
before 1966, twenty-two out of a total of twenty-five loans were made to
these sectors.
22.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY80 consisted of two loans for power
generation and distribution projects, and one each for a nickel project,
telecommunications, and credit to small-scale industry and to development
finance companies for medium- and large-scale industry, totalling US$518.0
million equivalent. In addition to the loan proposed in this report, the FY81
program includes loans for further hydro power development, railways, rural
and feeder roads, village electrification, irrigation rehabilitation and erosion
control, and secondary oil recovery. Work is also under way on projects for
further petroleum development and mining, land settlement, rural development,
ports, highways, oil refining, electric power, agro-industries, fertilizers,
water supply and sewerage, urban development and environmental improvement,
for possible consideration by the Executive Directors during the next two
years.
23.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy as outlined in the PIN (paragraphs 12 through 15). To
help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a sizeable part of the
proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist the
development of coal mines which hold potential in helping Colombia meet part
of its energy requirements and in diversifying exports. In support of the
Government's objective to increase the supply and the recovery of domestic
petroleum, the Bank proposes to finance further petroleum projects and, for
the first time, become involved in projects which promote the efficient
processing of hydrocarbons. Bank financing in the energy sector would also
assist in strengthening major institutions and in mobilizing external



- 9 -
finance as some of the projects would require co-financing. Other future
loans would finance agriculture and industry to support the Government in
its efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment, and to
increase and diversify exports. Closely related to these objectives would be
the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastructure. In this context, the
Bank is assisting the Government in preparing a highway paving and rehabilita-
tion program in support of the increasing interregional flow of goods and
services. Other loans under preparation for ports and railroads are aimed at
helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-traditional exports and the
imported inputs on which the modern sector of its economy relies for expansion.
Finally, several loans are being prepared in support of the Government's
efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population. Lending for urban
development and slum improvement, rural electrification, rural development,
land settlement, water supply and sewerage, irrigation and environmental
improvement projects is principally designed to improve the standard of living
of the poor.
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total external
financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since
then to approximately 50% for the 1976-79 period and it is expected that
during the period 1980-85 will decline further to about 40% of external
capital requirements. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to
social projects and has financed projects in low cost housing, urban and
rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural
electrification and land erosion control. In the future, it proposes to
assist Colombia to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the
activity of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment.
USAID has supported programs in education, urban development and small farm
development, but is phasing out its aid program in Colombia. The Governments
of Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also
provided concessional financing for social and regional integration projects.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER REQUIREMENTS
Energy Resources and Requirements
25.       Colombia is endowed with substantial primary energy resources
(hydropower, natural gas, petroleum and coal). Low cost hydropower, with a
potential estimated at 93 GW, has been developed on a limited basis to date
(4 GW). Coal resources are believed to be considerable, with reserves ranging
from 10-40 billion metric tons of both thermal and coking coal, but explora-
tion has been insufficient. The coal deposits identified are reported to be of
very good quality, characterized by high caloric and low sulfur content. A
relatively recent discovery of natural gas in the Guajira Peninsula, amounting to
3.5 trillion cubic feet, has brought proven reserves to a level well above
4 trillion cubic feet. However, known reserves of crude oil have been falling for
several years and are estimated to last less than 12 years at present extraction
rates. Of the country's 13 sedimentary basins, few have been systematically



- 10 -
explored; thus, there is potential for new oil discoveries. In an attempt to
find additional crude oil reserves, the state-owned oil company, ECOPETROL, in
part with Bank financing, will investigate several basins and undertake detailed
explorations of promising areas. It is also carrying out explorations and
development in association with foreign oil companies.
26.       Since 1965, output of primary energy has lagged behind overall
economic growth, mainly because of declining crude oil output. By 1978,
production of crude (267 trillion Btu) had fallen to 65% of 1965 output.
While during 1965-78 total energy output increased by 12%, from 578 trillion
Btu to 650 trillion Btu annually, energy consumption increased by 132%, rising
from 271 trillion Btu to 628 trillion Btu. (Exports and losses account for
the difference between production and consumption figures.) By 1979, hydro-
carbon imports exceeded exports by US$425 million equivalent. Projections
of Colombia's energy balance indicate an expanding deficit that could become
so large in the 1980s as to become a constraint on economic growth
(paragraph 14).
Energy Development Objectives and Strategy
27.       As stated, the Government's objective is to overcome the energy
deficit by developing domestic energy sources and by promoting rational use
of them. To this end, it has adopted several measures. First, it has recast
its hydrocarbon pricing and regulation policy to stimulate output of petro-
leum. Foreign oil companies, in response to these measures, have initiated
new explorations based on joint venture contracts. Second, the Government
has been moving domestic consumer prices for hydrocarbons toward inter-
national levels, and has adopted a policy calling for charging consumers
the full cost of electric power, in order to promote efficient energy use
and self-generate an important share of the financing required for invest-
ment (paragraphs 17 and 32). Third, CARBOCOL, a Government agency estab-
lished to develop the country's coal resources, has concluded contracts with
various foreign companies to explore and develop several coal fields, particu-
larly El Cerrejon (measured reserves in excess of I billion tons), in the
Guajira region. Fourth, considerable substitution of gas for petroleum
products in industry and thermal power generation is being carried out on the
Atlantic Coast.  Fifth, a program for rapid expansion of power generation and
transmission facilities to meet forecast demand over the 1980-88 period is
being carried out (paragraphs 33 and 34). Lastly, the Government has concluded
a contract with the French Minatome Group to explore the country's uranium
potential. Although these measures have already yielded positive results, the
Government recognizes that its planning and policy efforts have been insuffi-
ciently coordinated among the various energy subsectors (paragraph 14). To
remedy this, the Government has begun the already-mentioned study to evaluate
the country's options in developing domestic energy resources - mainly hydro-
power, coal, oil and natural gas (paragraph 14). This study will also focus
on policy measures that can maximize the benefits to be derived from recommended
investments, based on least-cost solutions. The Bank is working closely with
the Government in this endeavor and would continue to do so during implementa-
tion of the proposed project. In the interim, the project would assist the
Government in increasing output of low-cost hydroelectric energy.



- 11 -
The Power Market, Service Levels and Institutional Framework
28.       Electric power is the fastest-growing form of energy use in Colombia.
Its share of total energy consumption has risen from 6.5% in 1970 to 8.9% in
1978. Colombia's installed capacity at the end of 1978 was about 3,900 MW,
including captive plant (about 235 MW); hydro stations account for 69% of total
power generated. Since 1972, production of electricity has been growing at an
annual rate of 9.9%, i.e., one and a half times as fast as the growth rate of
GDP. Power sales have also been rising rapidly (9.3% per annum since 1972).
Annual per capita electricity generation in 1979 was about 730 kWh, which is
below the average for Latin America. Households (40% of the total), industry
(31%) and commerce (12%) are the major electricity users.
29.       About 63% of Colombia's 26.7 million population has electric power,
compared to 26% in 1950 and 45% in 1970. The urban population, comprising
about 68% of the population, has greater access to electricity. 1/ In 1976,
for example, 90% of households in large cities (population of 50,000 or more)
had electrical service while in rural towns (population between 500-2,500) the
corresponding figure was 36%; in other rural areas, 16%. With the assistance
of external lenders, the Government is carrying out programs to increase the
supply of electricity to rural areas; the proposed village electrification
project under preparation would expand such efforts in the North Atlantic
Region.
30.       The Ministry of Mines and Energy is charged with formulating
national policy for power generation, transmission and distribution. In
defining investment priorities, it shares responsibility with the National
Planning Department (DNP). The Government cannot enforce its policies directly
on the municipally controlled power companies, but Interconexion Electrica,
S.A. (ISA), a generating and transmission company, of which the shareholders
are the largest municipal power companies and the Government-owned national
power companies, 2/ provides a mechanism for reaching agreement on major
issues affecting the sector. ISA defines the generation and transmission
expansion program for the interconnected system; after approval by DNP, this
becomes the national power expansion program. Public utility tariffs are
regulated by the Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Publicos (JNT) in
DNP. JNT, which was established in the late sixties with Bank support, has
the power to approve requests from the power companies for tariff increases.
Power Development and Its Financing
31.       Colombia's power sector has developed rapidly.  Between 1950-1978
installed generating capacity increased by 3,700 MW or about sixteenfold,
electricity service has been provided to one-third more of the population
1/   Residents of cities with 2,500 or more inhabitants.
2/   Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM), Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
(EEEB), Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA), Corporacion
Autonoma Regional del Valle del Rio Cauca (CVC), and Instituto Colombiano
de Energia Electrica (ICEL).



- 12 -
(paragraph 29) and the task of interconnecting the country's regional systems
to form an integrated national network is nearing completion (paragraph 41).
A substantial part of this expansion was financed with internal cash generation
(in the case of the large municipal companies, about 40% of total capital outlays)
and with contributions from the National Treasury, chiefly to ICEL, CVC and
CORELCA. The Bank and IDB were the main sources of foreign financing for the
power sector, although in recent years suppliers' credits and external
commercial banks have increased their participation.
32.       During 1971-74, power rate adjustments lagged behind cost increases
and the companies' finances deteriorated, with the result that construction
of needed works was delayed and the operating efficiency of the companies
suffered. However, investment outlays have picked up sharply since 1977, when
the Government and the major power companies initiated a program of tariff
increases with the aim of generating an adequate portion of investment funds
for planned expansion (paragraph 27). They propose to continue adjusting
tariffs as necessary to generate sufficient resources for investment. To
complement this effort, and in view of the high priority attached to the
heavy program of planned investments (paragraph 34), the Government has under-
taken to establish a permanent power development financing facility, and
has made interim arrangements for such financing until the facility begins
operations. Finally, to promote rational energy use, the power companies and
the Government, under the San Carlos I Hydro Power Project (1582-CO), are
studying the internal structure of rates with a view toward bringing them more
in line with the cost of supply to each consumer category. The study is
taking into account the Government's social welfare policies with respect to
rates to be charged to low income consumers, which include cross-subsidies
between the high and low income electricity users (paragraph 59).
Power Requirements and Proposed Investments
33.       To catch up with rising power requirements, in view of the under-
investment in new facilities during the first half of the 1970s and to sub-
stitute some electricity for more costly forms of energy, effective generating
capacity is planned to be increased by 175%, to about 10,500 MW, by 1988.
Of this total, about 3,700 MW are under construction. The proposed project
would provide about 3% of these requirements through development of renewable
hydropower.
34.       Investments in generation and transmission through 1990 are expected
to amount to about US$16 billion in current prices, of which some 60% would
be foreign exchange. Thus, in accordance with national policy of financing
only foreign costs with external borrowings, external financing on the order
of US$870 million equivalent on average per annum, in nominal terms, would be
required. A substantial share of such borrowings is expected to come from
foreign capital markets, which have recently been providing increased financing
to the power sector, including to Bank-financed projects. Future distribution
investments are estimated to amount to at least 25% of total investments.
35.       To provide for future sector expansion, ISA and its shareholders,
under San Carlos I, have completed a Master Plan for generation and transmission
facilities covering the period 1980-1990 in detail, and 1991-2000 in more



- 13 -
general terms. This plan is being supplemented by a Master Plan for distri-
bution covering the same period. This combined effort should encourage
not only improved investment planning but also greater attention to system
design, operation and maintenance in light of modern techniques, with a view
toward enhancing the quality and reliability of service to consumers. Overall,
the consolidated Master Plan is expected to provide a valuable framework for
long-range decisions on sector expansion, including rural electrification,
financing and pricing.
Recent Sector Developments
36.       In recognition of the power sector's important role in Colombia's
development process, in the mid-1970s the Government and the main power
companies established a framework, the Sochagota Agreement, for orderly and
efficient sector expansion. To enable equitable sharing among the regions of
the financial burden of the large investments contemplated, to foster least-
cost development of high priority generating plants, and to assure that
adequate supply from these plants would reach all regions, the Agreement
envisaged that ISA would be responsible for planning, building and owning all
plants of national interest. Since then, ISA has functioned on this basis.
However, in 1979, the shareholders of ISA expressed reservations about the
concentration almost 70% of planned expansion in generating facilities through
1988 in the national company and the associated loss of parity among themselves
in relative generating capacity. Another worrisome aspect has been the fact
that ISA's construction capacity is nearly fully committed over the next few
years with works in progress (1,925 MW of hydro plant, 232 MW in thermal plant,
numerous 230-kV lines and a 500-kV line). To take due account of these
reservations while, at the same time, ensuring that the objectives set forth
above would be achieved, the Government and ISA's Board have confirmed that:
(a) ISA would achieve and maintain direct ownership of at least 33% of total
sector capacity (it currently owns 28%), as well as all trunk transmission lines.
This would be sufficient to assure ISA a predominant role in guiding sector
development and operation, while avoiding problems attendant upon over-
concentration of sector responsibilities in ISA, (b) the regions would continue
to share, through investments in ISA, in the cost and benefits of relatively
low-cost hydro-electric resources, which are geographically concentrated in
only a few regions, and (c) ISA, as the future national dispatch agency
(facilities are being constructed) will operate the interconnected system at
minimum cost.
37.       Another matter under discussion between the Government and the Bank
has been the rapid growth in overdue payments to ISA, both for electricity
purchases and capital contributions, by the largely rural-based ICEL (a
holding company for some 13 local power companies, Tielectrificadorasti).
ICEL depends upon national budgetary resources to meet its capital contribu-
tions to ISA; these contributions have been recently brought up-to-date by the
Government. There are, however, still substantial arrears for the electri-
ficadoras' energy purchases from ISA, and the Government is determined to
erase them by strengthening electrificadoras' finances. In line with this,
the electrificadoras themselves have initiated higher monthly tariff increases
(as high as 3.3%) to improve their ability to pay. For its part, the Govern-
ment has decided that a 15% surcharge would be added to their tariffs (as
in the CORELCA system on the North Coast). Further, from national budgetary



- 14 -
appropriations to public entities, the Government proposes to deduct amounts
owed to the electrificadoras by such entities and pay this debt directly. At
the same time, the Government has authorized re-financing of the electrificadoras'
financial debt in order to free resources with which to pay ISA. With a view
toward a long term solution, the Government realizes that the electrificadoras
would need to be grouped into larger market companies to become financially
viable and operationally efficient. In line with this, some ISA shareholders
have begun to buy, or are contemplating buying ownership of electrificadoras
in geographic proximity to them. For example, EEEB has ratified a proposal
to obtain, as a first step, a 25% share of the Electrificadoras of
Cundinamarca and Meta, and EPM's Board is considering acquisition of the
Electrificadoras of Antioquia and Choco. In support of the development,
the project includes assistance to EPM in assessing the proposed move
(paragraph 47). The Bank envisages continued support of this sectoral
reorganization, and future lending will include appropriate programs with
this aim. It should be recognized, however, that such restructuring will
necessarily be achieved gradually over a period of several years. Finally,
Bank lending for power will also address the subject of watershed manage-
ment, since siltation and erosion are beginning to have adverse effects on
reservoirs' levels. In this regard, a start would be made under the proposed
project in the form of watershed management studies for the Guatape River
(paragraph 47).
The Power Market of Medellin and of the Surrounding Area
38.       Medellin is the capital and principal center of Antioquia, the
most heavily populated state in Colombia. Medellin and its immediate suburbs,
situated in the Aburra Valley of the Central Mountain range, account for about
one-half of the state's estimated 3.5 million people. Colombia's industriali-
zation began in Medellin which for many years was the leading industrial and
commercial center in the country. Though it has been overtaken by the rapidly
growing Bogota, it is still the major industrial site for production of a
large range of commodities, including textiles, garments and leather goods,
and accounts for about 23% of the country's industrial employment and 19% of
its output. Surrounding Medellin is also a rich agricultural area farmed by
notably efficient small owner-operators (many of whom are being provided with
assistance under a loan for Integrated Rural Development, 1352-CO) producing
flowers, beans, vegetables and a variety of other food crops. Colombia's
major coffee producing region is also nearby.
39.       The area within about a 35 km radius of Medellin includes a large
number of towns ranging in population from about 10,000 to over 100,000
inhabitants. These towns have been growing rapidly since the physical growth
potential of Medellin is approaching its limits. Two major developments are
expected to influence greatly the spatial development of the entire southern
region of the state. Construction of a new Medellin airport at Rio Negro, in
the valley adjacent to the Aburra Valley, is currently underway with the
assistance of a Bank loan (1624-CO). An industrial and free trade zone is
also planned for construction close to the airport. Together, these develop-
ments are expected to result in a rapid growth of industry, population,
housing and services. Another urban complex is also planned north of Medellin
adjacent to Bello, a town with over 100,000 population, which may nearly



- 15 -
double the population of that area by 1990. The demand for public services,
including electricity, can be expected to grow rapidly in areas farther away
from Medellin.
40.       EPMsupplies electricity to the city of Medellin, to 25 of the
above-mentioned towns and, through sales to the Electrificadora de Antioquia,
to 73 small municipalities, thus covering about 85% of the 116 municipalities
in Antioquia. In 1979, EPM served directly 280,000 customers, plus a further
100,000 users through sales to the Electrificadora, who in that same year
consumed a total of 3,250 GWh. Households (44%), industrial (29%), commercial
(7%) and bulk sales (15%) are EPM's major customers. Reflecting the growth of
industrial, commercial and agricultural activity, the company's sales have been
growing rapidly at an annual rate of 9.3% since 1968 and 7.7% since 1975. For
the reasons cited above, it is expected that EPM's sales will continue to grow
during the period 1979-88 (about 8.7% per annum). To serve the expanding
market and improve the coverage and quality of services in rural areas, EPM
will undertake substantial investments in new facilities, both directly and
through participation in ISA. The expansion program (1980-88) includes the
Guadalupe IV project (Loan 1868-CO), approved last year. The Guadalupe project
would enable EPM to increase its generating capacity, subtransmission and dis-
tribution system, and to participate, together with ISA and its other partners,
in least-cost operation of the national electricity network. While continuing
to assist EPM in improving its services, under the proposed project the Bank
would encourage EPM to broaden the scope of its responsibilities by acquiring
neighboring electrificadoras, consistent with the objective of improving the
efficiency and financial viability of the sector as a whole (paragraph 37).
The proposed project would also enable EPM to strengthen further its generating
capacity and to provide part of the energy and capacity needed to meet the
requirements of the interconnected system, including substitution of hydro-
based electricity for thermal generation in the North Atlantic Region.
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
41.       Since 1950, the Bank has supported Colombia's power sector with
loans totalling US$894 million which have assisted the expansion of generating
capacity, and transmission and distribution facilities in the systems serving
Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Cartagena, Bucaramanga and Manizales, including expan-
sion of electricity distribution to low income areas (874-CO, 1973; 1807-CO,
1980; and 1868-CO, 1980). The Bogota Power Distribution Project (1807-CO;
US$87 million) is the first Bank loan to Colombia to support exclusively
distribution expansion and, in addition to other beneficiaries, would directly
benefit about 340,000 lower income consumers. In addition, the Bank has
supported rural electrification under 246-CO (1960) and 313-CO (1962) and
under the ongoing Integrated Rural Development Project (1352-CO, 1977). The
most recent loans included the 500-kV Interconnection Line (1583-CO, 1978),
the San Carlos I and II Hydropower Projects (Loans 1582-CO, 1978; 1725-CO,
1979) and Guadalupe IV Hydro Power (1868-CO, 1980) which would, respectively,
complete the task of interconnecting the country's regional power systems
begun under 575-CO (1968), and add 1,240 MW and 213 MW of capacity to the
national interconnected system. EEEB's Mesitas Hydropower Project (1628-CO,
1979) would meet about 95% of projected incremental demand in the Bogota
system during 1982-84. Taken together, the abovementioned projects reflect



- 16 -
the Bank's participation in overall power development in Colombia, from the
planning stage through financing and construction of generation and transmission
facilities, to delivery of service to the final consumer. It is envisaged
that the proposed project would be followed this year by a project in support
of village electrification in northern Colombia and a further project for
hydro power development to assist Colombia in developing renewable domestic
sources of energy.
42.       Past Bank lending to Colombia's power sector has been found gen-
erally successful in several OED reports. For instance, the most recent
report, "Power Interconnection (Loan 575-CO) and Chivor Hydroelectric Projects
(Loan 681-CO)" (Report No. 2720, October 29, 1979), commented upon the Bank's
participation in Colombia's successful effort to evolve a stronger and more
efficient power sector organization. Through the creation of ISA in conjunc-
tion with these projects, and the steps taken to overcome financial and
institutional difficulties, real progress was made toward more coordinated
sector development. Despite implementation delays and increased costs, both
projects were successfully implemented. Also, the report entitled "Bank
Operations in Colombia, an Evaluation" (Report No. Z-18) of May 25, 1972,
concluded that Bank financing was successful in assisting the power companies
to develop hydroelectric plants at lower unit cost than they otherwise would
have been able to do. In turn, this permitted greater urban coverage as well
as cheaper and more reliable electricity supply to industry. The report
commended Bank efforts in the establishment of JNT and the central intercon-
nected system, which facilitated further power sector development. Among other
things, the report recommended that in the future the Bank pay increased
attention to the companies' financial planning, tariff structures, distribu-
tion programs and energy losses. These points have been addressed under the
aforementioned recent loans, which have been the first Bank operations since
late 1972 (paragraph 32). Complementary measures are also provided for under
the proposed project.
43.       EPM has received six Bank loans, totalling US$260 million, for
power development and a recently-approved loan of US$44 million for telecom-
munications. The previous power loans have assisted with expansion of
generation, transmission and distribution capacity. An OED report, "Third
Medellin Power Project - Loan 369-CO" (Report No. 450, May 24, 1974) concluded
that the project had been very well executed despite considerable geological
difficulties.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
44.       The project, prepared by EPM, with the assistance of consultants,
comprises part of its 1980-88 power investment program, and covers planned
1981-86 generation expansion. It was appraised by a joint Bank/IDB mission
which visited Colombia in September/ October 1980. Shortly before negotiations,
scheduled to begin on January 21, 1981, draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements



- 17 -
were sent to EPM and the Government for study. The Bank was subsequently
informed by the Colombian authorities that there were no issues requiring
negotiations.
45.       Project objectives are:  (a) to provide for the incremental power
needs of Medellin and its environs; (b) to expand further the supply of
hydroelectricity in rural areas of Antioquia, in place of unreliable and
expensive power generation from small local diesel plants; (c) to provide part
of the power and capacity required by the national system, thereby making
hydro-based energy available in the now totally thermal-dependent North
Atlantic Region; (d) to support recent Government and power sector initiatives
to strengthen sector organization and efficiency; (e) to help ensure that,
in the event of need, EPM would be prepared to deal with power rationing on a
least-cost basis; and (f) to assist EPM in improving watershed management. In
addition, the project would continue support of the Government's objective of
sound sector financing through the maintenance of adequate tariff levels.
Project Description
46.       Playas Hydro Plant.  The Playas hydro plant will form part of the
integrated hydroelectric development of the Nare and Guatape Rivers, which in-
cludes the Guatape, San Carlos and Jaguas plants. The 200 MW generating plant,
to be constructed 16 km upstream from the San Carlos station, will use the
waters of the Guatape River augmented by the flow diverted from the Nare
River for the Guatape and Jaguas plants. It would operate under a gross head
of 190 m and generate an average of 1,450 GWh per annum. Project works
comprise construction of:
(a) Dam and Spillway - A 653m high earth and rockfill dam with
a volum5 of about 1.9 m with a concrete spillway with a
2,800 m /sec discharge capacity, a diversion tunnel and
dam and a reservoir with a storage capacity of about
3
85 Mm
(b) Underground Works - A 200 MW underground power station
with three 67 MW Francis turbines coupled to 60 Hz
generators, power and pressure tunnels, surge tanks, caverns,
tailrace tunnel and discharge channel.
(c) Substation - A substation, located 1 km from the Guatape-
San Carlos line now under construction, and control building
adjacent to the entrance of the access tunnel and 230 kV
transmission line which would connect the power station to the
substation.
(d) Infrastructure - 40 km of roads to replace roads to be inundated,
4 km of access roads, a bridge over the Guatape River and a
two-lane access tunnel to the underground power station.



- 18 -
47.       Consulting Services.  Consulting services for the execution of
the project would comprise:
(a) Board of Consultants - A Board of Consultants for general assistance
and supervision of all works.
(b)  Engineering Services - Engineering services for the final design and
preparation of bid documents, engineering and supervision of the
works.
(c) Studies - (i) Definition of measures to assist EPM in protecting
the Playas reservoir against siltation and pollution caused by
the increasing population and industrialization along the
Guatape River; (ii) an assessment of the cost to consumers and
to the economy in EPM's service area of possible electricity
rationing and the preparation of a least-cost power curtailment
program; and (iii) a feasibility study to assist EPM in assessing
a proposal that it would acquire the Electrificadoras of Antioquia
and Choco, including a determination of the works necessary to
bring their electricity systems up to adequate standards. Taking
account of the study's conclusions, if the proposed acquisition
would be justified and feasible, then EPM would do so, in line with
an action plan that would be agreed with the Bank.
Costs and Financing
48.       Total project cost, excluding interest during construction (which
amounts to US$35 million equivalent), is estimated at US$311.4 million equivalent,
of which US$176.8 million equivalent, or 57%, correspond to the foreign exchange
component. During project execution (1981-1986), EPM plans to carry out other
investments at a cost of US$829 million equivalent, including interest
during construction and investments in ISA, and will need an increase in
working capital of US$68 million equivalent. Project costs are based upon
estimates prepared by EPM and include physical contingencies amounting to
approximately 14% and price contingencies equivalent to about 41% of base
costs (Loan and Project Summary). The cost of consultant services for design
and engineering supervision includes 9,700 man-months at an average of US$1,200
per man-month and 20 man-months for the electrificadoras' study at an average
cost of US$5,000 per man-month. (These averages include overheads and personnel
at various levels of expertise.) All such services would be provided by
consultants whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to EPM and the Bank (Section 3.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
49.       The proposed loan of US$85 million equivalent represents 27% of the
project cost, or 48% of the foreign exchange cost. An IDB loan of US$85 million
equivalent would cover 38%, or US$67 million, of the foreign cost, US$4 million
of local cost and US$14 million of interest during construction. The remaining
foreign cost would be financed by commercial borrowings and suppliers' credits
(14% or US$24.8 million). US$130.6 million of local cost would be provided from
EPM's own resources. Exclusive of the portion provided by IDB, other interest
during construction (US$21 million equivalent) would be financed by commercial
borrowings. Thus, of the total foreign element, including interest during
construction, the proposed Bank loan would represent 40%, IDB 38%, and external
commercial sources (banks and suppliers) 22%.



- 19 -
The Borrower, EPM
50.       EPM is an autonomous company owned by the Municipality of Medellin.
It was established in 1955 and is responsible for providing Medellin and
nearby areas with electricity, water, sewerage, and telephone services.
51.       EPM is administered by a seven-member Board of Directors and
a General Manager appointed by the Board. The General Manager is responsible
for day-to-day operations and is assisted by four Assistant Managers heading,
respectively, the administrative, financial and commercial, technical and
operational branches of the organization. Additionally, a secretary general
in charge of legal matters and office records and a planning director report
directly to the General Manager. Below the level of the managers, each of
whom is responsible for all three services, the organization is administered
separately for each service. The corresponding three branches of EPM function
financially independently of each other. The Board of Directors is headed by
the Mayor of Medellin who selects the remaining members at large.
52.       EPM's management and staff are, in general, well-qualified and
competent. Average length of employment is 10 years, as turnover is low.
Pay scales are attractive on the whole. EPM has a satisfactory training
program for existing and new operational staff; in 1979, 950 participants
each obtained about 60 hours of instruction. To enable the entity to reduce
reliance on consultants for detailed design, procurement and construction
supervision, the recently approved Guadalupe IV Project (1868-CO) provided
financing for highly specialized training of EPM's professional staff.
53.       EPM had 4,120 employees as of May 1980 of which 1,950 are directly
concerned with the Power Department. The latter includes a technical staff of
79, and 901 operations personnel, as well as 60 construction staff. The
history of the company's staff growth over the past ten years, in relation
to number of customers served and energy sold, shows a steadily improving
trend: 167 customers and 2.9 GWh per employee in 1979, compared with 138
customers and 1.4 GWh per employee in 1970. These figures compare favorably
with those of other electric utilities serving similar markets.
54.       EPM's accounting and internal audit systems are satisfactory.
Independent external auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, would continue to
carry out annual audits under the proposed loan (Section 5.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Billing and collection procedures are sound; on average during
1973-79, accounts receivable as a percentage of annual sales have not exceeded
19.2%. EPM has secured adequate insurance coverage of its power assets, and
would maintain such coverage in future (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Finances
55.       EPM has in general maintained a satisfactory financial position
throughout its 21-year relationship with the Bank. The measures it has taken
under the San Carlos projects, including full revaluation of assets for monitor-
ing financial performance, have strengthened EPM's financial structure. At



- 20 -
the end of 1979, EPM's debt to equity ratio was 32/68, calculated on the basis
of revalued assets, and the coverage ratio of debt service plus investments in
ISA was 1.6. The company's cash flow and working capital have been adequate
in recent years, with the current ratio rising from 1.5 in 1976 to 3.3 in
1979. EPM's 1980-88 investment program amounts to US$1,550 million equivalent,
of which US$346.4 million pertain to the proposed project and US$485 million
(about one-third of planned investments) comprise capital investments in ISA.
In line with Government policy to finance the local cost of investments
from domestic sources and reflecting the limited availability of financing
in the domestic capital market, EPM would generate internally about 70% of the
total funds required during this period. The proposed loan represents 5% of
the investment program's requirements. Approximately 26% of EPM's own-invest-
ments would be financed from other external sources. The favorable structure
of EPM's debt and its program of tariff increases (paragraph 56) place it in a
good position to obtain the additional financing it will need over and above that
provided by the Bank. For example, EPM has recently signed a loan with the Bank
of America for US$32 million for transmission and substation system expansion
(with a term of 10 years including 5 years of grace; interest, LIBOR plus
5/8% for the first 2 years, 3/4% thereafter; management charges 1/2% flat,
commitment 1/4%, Government guarantee not required). Prior to effectiveness
of the proposed loan, EPM would make satisfactory arrangements for the remain-
ing foreign exchange needed for the project and for the balance of financing
required to carry out scheduled investments during 1981 and 1982 (Section 8.01
of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       The projected cash generation in EPM's financing plan is based
upon the company's planned tariff increases. The plan assumes continuance
through 1984 of the recently reinstated 2.2% monthly tariff increase (Section
5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement), plus three further increases each esti-
mated at 12% in June 1981, 1982, and 1983 in order to generate adequate cash.
57.       Based on the above, projected net operating income would produce
minimum annual rates of return on fully revalued assets ranging from 7% in
1981 to 10% in 1982, 14% in 1983 and 1984, and 12% in 1985 and annually
thereafter, and EPM has confirmed that it would meet these targets (Section
5.07(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). (During 1978 and 1979, EPM exceeded the
annual targets of 9% agreed under the San Carlos loans.) These returns are
consistent with the aforementioned internal cash generation (paragraph 55).
58.       EPM's debt service coverage ratio during 1980-86, the implementation
period of the proposed project, would range from 1.8 in 1980 to 2.3 in 1984 as
a result of the substantial revenue increase and the grace period of foreign
borrowings. Through 1986, the ratio is expected to fall no lower than a satis-
factory 1.9. EPM has confirmed that, unless the Bank should otherwise agree,
it would not incur debt in any fiscal year which would reduce the coverage of
its maximum future debt service by internal cash generation below 1.5 times
(Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). It is expected that the company's
debt/equity ratio will improve slightly from the current proportion of approxi-
mately 32/68 during the next two years, reaching 24/76 by the end of 1986.



- 21 -
Lastly, to ensure adherence to the financing plan as well as to the national
least-cost power expansion program, until project completion, EPM has agreed not
to undertake without prior concurrence of the Bank, aggregate investments in any
year in excess of 1% of the value of its net fixed assets in service other than
for: (a) the proposed project; (b) generation expansion included in the national
expansion program (with the exception that plants of 100 MW or less could be
undertaken under the 1% limitation referred to above), provided that adequate
financing would be available; (c) its obligations to ISA; and (d) other invest-
ments in its agreed 1980-86 program (Section 5.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
In addition, EPM would not incur, without Bank concurrence, investments unre-
lated to the operations of its three services (Section 5.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
59.       Tariff Structure and Rates.  EPM's average rate has been rising in
real terms and is scheduled to continue doing so over the next three years.
However, its charges to industrial and commercial consumers are higher than
to households, even though the cost of servicing the latter is estimated
to be at least equal to the cost of the former. Since 1973, the difference
between residential and other rates has widened by the allocation of a smaller
portion of overall rate increases to the residential category. A study on
cost of service to final consumers and pricing implications, being carried out
under San Carlos I, is expected to detail the precise dimensions of the
problem. In view of the importance to the energy sector, and to the Colombian
economy as a whole, of promoting efficient energy pricing, EPM has agreed
under Guadalupe IV to take account of the study's recommendations and establish
a related program in agreement with the Bank. The revised tariffs would be
consistent with the Government's social welfare policies with respect to the
lowest-income consumers. Should the study be delayed, EPM has agreed (also
under Guadalupe IV) to implement an interim program to correct the most
obvious rate differentials.
Procurement, Implementation and Disbursements
60.       All the items to be financed by the proposed loan (except consult-
ing services) would be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB)
under Bank guidelines. Colombian manufacturers would receive a margin of
preference of 15% or the applicable import duties, whichever is the lower, for
purposes of bid evaluation. The cost estimate assumes that local manufacturers
would be able to supply some items required for the project, the cost of which
is estimated not to exceed US$2 million equivalent. Project works would begin
in August 1981 and be completed by February 1986. To take account of the
different procurement arrangements of the Bank and IDB, the proposed financing
of each institution would be associated with separate bid documents, with the
Bank covering the foreign cost of contracts for the river diversion, electro-
mechanical equipment and some consultant services, and IDB, underground works
contract and remaining consultants.
61.       Disbursements would be made against:  (a) 56% of total expenditures
for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment and 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured materials
and equipment; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for foreign consultants and



- 22 -
50% of total expenditures for local consultants. In the interest of continuity,
retroactive financing not to exceed US$500,000 has been included in the
proposed loan to finance the cost of consulting services as of January 1, 1981.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1987.
Benefits and Risks
62.       The project would have a considerable impact upon the State of
Antioquia, and particularly upon the municipality of Medellin and surround-
ing areas. Through provision of needed electricity services to industrial
and commercial establishments, the project would facilitate continued growth
of economic activity in the area and support the Government's objective of
stimulating development of townships in Medellin's sphere of influence.
Moreover, the standard of living of the substantial number of lower income
people who would be connected for the first time to electricity service would
be enhanced. The increased bulk sales to other areas of Antioquia would
provide support to the Government's aim of substituting hydro-based energy for
costly power currently supplied from local diesel plants, as well as to the
aim of increasing the rural population's access to basic services. It
has been found in the Medellin area that provision of reliable electricity
supply to small-scale economic activity improves efficiency and productivity.
63.       A return on investment was calculated by relating the combined
costs (capital and incremental operating/maintenance costs) of EPM's 1979-88
development program to estimated incremental revenues at levels that would
prevail over the period (as a proxy for benefits). On this basis, the return
on investment would be about 15.5%, i.e., well above the estimated opportunity
cost of capital in Colombia. The incremental revenues, however, which are
based on tariffs rather than on the--unmeasurable--consumers' willingness to
pay, underestimate the benefits to subscribers, particularly in commerce and
industry. The measurable benefits also exclude the social benefits accruing
from enabling some 50,000 new household connections in the Medellin area
alone from 1986 to 1990.
64.       The project is subject to risks normally associated with large
civil works in difficult terrain. However, the site is one of the most
closely studied in Colombia because of other large hydro works in the area
(paragraph 46) and all precautions considered necessary have been provided
for; therefore, the project is expected to be carried out as scheduled.
There is also a risk that the return on investment may be less than expected
if capital costs would be significantly higher than provided for, or if
quantified benefits would be substantially lower than anticipated because
of slower growth of revenues. In view of experience with recent hydro station
contracts in the vicinity, as well as EPM's history of adequate income genera-
tion, a return lower than 15.5% appears unlikely.



- 23 -
Ecology
65.       EPM has carried out previous projects with due regard to environ-
mental protection and safety considerations. Under the proposed project, the
works will be carried out in a like manner. Moreover, the study provided for
under the project (paragraph 47) is expected to provide a basis for improving
existing environmental conditions in the area of the Guatape River.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and EPM, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank and the
report of the Committee provided for the Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
67.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
An additional condition of effectiveness would be that EPM has made satisfactory
arrangements to secure the remaining foreign exchange needed for the project,
as well as the balance of financing required for its scheduled 1981-82 invest-
ments (paragraph 55).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 10, 1981.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER/ACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1138.9
AGRICULTURAL      230. 6                                MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE IUCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   250.0       400.0    1010.0                    1562.9                     2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      491.0        606.0      700.0                   1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       15.8        21.3       25.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 48.2          59.8       68.3                     63.4                       53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         39.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           57.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         14.0        19.0       22.0                     28.1                      77.2
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      71.0         93.0      111.0                     81. 7                    129. 3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          47.0         46.8       40.7                     41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                          50.0         50.5       56.3                     54.7                      61. 1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0          2.7        3.0                      3.9                       8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1          3.0        2.3                      2.7                       1.6
URBAN                               6.0/c        5.2        3.9                      4.1                       3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.0         37.0       31. 0                    34.8                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       14.0        10.0        8.0                      8.9                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2         3.2        1.8                      2.5                        1. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       115.4      142.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       35.9
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          100.0         99.0      120.0                    106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    97.0         88.0      102.0                    107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           54.0         48.0       52.0                     65.6                      91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0         24.0       26.0                     33.7                      39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       17.0        13.0        9.0                      8.4                       4. 3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    53.0          58.5       62.0                     63.1                      67.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        98. O/d      *                      66.5                      55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        63.0       64.0                     65.9
URBAN                                ..           ..       73. 0                    80.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..       46.0                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        47.0       48.0                     62.3
URBAN                                *          75.0       73.0                     79.4
RURAL                                *-          8.0       13.0                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2400.0       2170.0    1970.0                    1649.2                    1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       3740.0      2040.0    1250.0                    1227.5                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              363.0       449.0      620.0                    480.3                     289. 7
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        23.0       25.0                       ..                       17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         5.7/d
URBAN                                *-          5. 5/ad
RURAL                                 ..         5.9/ad
AVERAGE NUMIBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..         1. 8/d      .
URBAN                                 ..         1. 6/d      ..
RURAL                                *-          2. 4/d      ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               47.0/e      58.1/d       ..
URBAN                               83. 07o     87.57d       ..
RURAL                                8. O|e     13. 2i/      ..



- 25 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AAVERA9ES
- NDST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRDIARY:     TOTAL                  77.0        103.0     103.0                      99.7                      105.9
MALE                  77.0        101.0      100.0                    101.0                      109.3
FEMALE                77.0        105.0      105.0                     99.4                      103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         24.0      39.0                      34.4                       64.0
HALE                  13.0         24.0       39.0                     33.5                       71.1
FEMALE                11.0         24.0      40.0                      34.7                       56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  31.0/f         21.0       17.0                     38.2                       28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0         38.0      30.0                      30.5                       29.4
SECONDARY                           11.0         17.0      19.0                      14.5                       26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         63.0         73.0       81.0                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         11.0      18.4                      43.0                       84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         124.0        100.0     107.0                     245.3                      192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           9.0         37.0      64.0                      84. 2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   56.0           ..      69.0                      63.3                       93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       4.1                        ..                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       4726.5       6353.3    8174.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    18.9         24.6      25.0                      22.2                       30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.4         37.9      30.0                      37.1                       37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.2         21.0      23.0                      23.5                       29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.6         29.7       29.7                     31.5                       40.9
MALE                                  49.8         44.9       44.7                     48.9                       55.9
FEMALE                                11.6         14.6      14.6                      14.0                       26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.7        1.4                       1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2/e.g    31.97g
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67. 7/e.g    60. _I/
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2. lej         3. 5/R
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 81e_       10. 1/
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (U5$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     214.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     197.0                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     267.0                     474.0
RURAL                                 *-           *      122.0                     332.5                      385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOMtE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       34.0
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1951-64;  /d 1973;  /e 1964;  /f Including teacher training at the third level;  /g Economically active
population.
Most recent estirate of GNP per capita is for 1979-
October, 1980



ANNEX I
- 26-Page 3of 5
jElPIOLTOOS If SOCtA. INPOCOTOPS
Ntno.:  Adch-Aa   h 0'. .to  -r  droen tr-m  ..o.t.n geoceoLly lodged the  -ot ecthorfooftee ann  -IiSobir. it  hould .ine be noted that they nap eet be inter-
-atieealiy  com,parabl hl cac...-   of, theIao  of o taried d.l.ttetten   end ..o..aPtnee-d by dififere- t  'ettt  collecting  the aLto.  The data are, mena-
ebine,oefl  o  eoele  cdteatI agotId. Ledei . treedo. and ohartotrfon  -entaie naoe diffetanonL anencct in..
The refere...  fce t-peo   (1) o                 ...e' ...t . I.oc  ofithe aeto    ..act  enY d (2f a  -coery geemp oft1 aenohae  9high t-a"t-ge Intone than the on...ery greep
ofte blmo    oer:(aetfo    aclSritOlSnntr'gn;eee"Kiddle Ionte flece Aft i- and fliddlt Stat  an ch-nen hnotat -   taof                                            g
leant halfIof oh, ccotOIn. Ag-op hoc date let that telttr   float the oeoetgn of .oonnote- nean  the  edboaceon dep-rdn on the a-al.ihi fty0
at net bod cotter at a tIme aceog chegce coto oc  -tintenothgr-ups
LAR  AREA (cho..nao,d oqkn)                                                                      neca .e.ne  Phyntoon - Vopaiattn acceded by,nette  ca ptttttelng pby-
jTan     Ttotl  cfti  etcoptCg la_d area ad inland wtern.uiotana. qulif itd teem  ra dical school at ..nn..nifty meal.
Ieiaioo   - ttf.ote-   of  anclot   rmeuedtnyrtiya IIran   ly                         Ptlati-n-aoc    ottnaPanm-Ppolinia  diotded bY oteb                     pr of ..entlina
for tepe.  p-socrt., ma-Anted oveo--  ga-des en te lit yfailne; 197  data.                  sale and   -tmalsgedot  teea. panna   oa, ;and assitan oss
oalaosd hbysn  totso    tched an to-ld Bank Atlas. (1977-PB bee b): 1960,                      available in poblie end private gratena1 and apteislteed haspyta  and re-
1 7 d 1979d.c.                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~habilltatian neetara,   esylnale ena eatablishments p.snm....tly staffed
by at leas.t ont phYslin is,Etahlihtaa.ta peaniding pnintipally n..stediel
iNERit COB0iBLATION PF i A COPA - Aeclcncpte f_m                   cileeg nl                     oa.crs arm tnot tncladed.  Ruanl hespitala, bhans, inelads health end madtal
and liganitet, petrelmea, osteomi gas n d.hydra-, noIsar an   ethenma  elan-                   onsantpritnl   n   ad by  e-pytne   (bt by a nedital assis.tant,
t ioitoy  Sri  kllearaa ef ...I eqailca.. ran  sepite; 1990, 1970, and 19798macse,  iodtife, ate.) shith effam on-petiant .aenadatian and prenide 
d-L..                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited range at medical fectlitlee.  roe s.tesitinal porpoa. urban baspi-
tas inninde Ott  prnitipel gaaalad spanfi.lead haepital,  and naal..
PDPSfIATIOn AND Olihi. STAIbBTiC                                      haspitala~~~~ ..oat on runel ha ptnital  and ntdinal and satannity n.n.te.
ToalPmcieao  Kd-at   tIl         A.o    atfa Jely 1; 1960, 1970, and 1978          dlsesecItete    s    atlcaataadisasteniehns
data.                                  -Ri.                                                   reamot.... P"  f.  hospitals divided by the caber aP beds..
diffeantdalttIesetIabat acea  mayaffe ctempamablity of data                            HOUSING
among neo..trlem; 1960 1970, end 1978 data.                                               atsee   Bit o1. f _le-aohld  (esn   oa  .aesheld)-ttl   urban    nntl
neetlatfon Prof motiece                                               A heosekua.ld           ofsst   at    uat  of Individuals ae"sha-  livIng   . qanree
Peniaton  n  ear201  -  utentpoplatompeoJeotome art hate.d on 1980              cand theSe main neele.   A beandee or lodger -y en nap net be tncludad in
totl  ppoainb   g   a   a   nl   chair aortalitp  and fertilitpyats                       the h .t.sheld tam  tmetianlcal punposes.
Prnejttobopnnter   o   o taIc  rot LI ee1pntae ef thet.a-Rcatasa-                        AceTase  cambe  ofeaa        e  rea      oneal. urban, and natal - Avenge e.
ing lito top.to ItOy at birth incea iathc aaatft'  Per apit. a t....                      hr.f yte    e   et t  l  eman. nd ural  otapied nonvamional
-  loca, ne  fettle life mope1ttancy otahilloing at 77,9ya5      s   The papa              -delns    ep-otie-ly.  Oteallingo            'ode oon-yenmaet etmLtterme and
otor _ forf'Ilitilty nate mic  hoot theo. locale esaming denline in                      .teo.oapied pat.
tetilyaaIeedfI   to Sooner SteelI an  pastgaiypnig panemne                           ooe ecetititc  (Pn...ant of deellinos) - total. urben, end rural -
taohaenep  e tan  taloednetof  hes  clt nnhiaclos  l mntaity       Ceocmtiooei doalllng   0b olenfitiy im liviog quarteneoas p..n..mnage
and foctility trmeada for peejo.tict purpoats.                                            of toa,abe   tdma    mllgetpo ny
itaiemby   qp~ao  oeInto. tatien.cy  royalanlee. there fe ta geawih since              f    ,Juhc   n    c1             1 ..rpt-
the bitch rot Ia ei ua   ltotindaten   nat, ami nla  the age  tmeactees na-    ODUIAT1ON
malaIoaoo       h baInahiom   oe1y otter feetility mattes dstline et                  djutad  fnrollsant Rotios
tho              1-1eent  e    of colt  -ntrnpreduntfon mama, when oath emmenetla          mmr   eel      oa,saean   eat-mm   ntl   aetdfeae
of cooreictoI   it..S ..onotly.  The onania...ey papolatin    iete                        -eelmm .l   gsa ihinpet..y  eve t.. yant motageeof reean                     attIv'
eontd on the Oteta es bthpro aen,:tl,  h..a..ni nieof tba pepelotien                    priary ..thoi-ego pepeletinn..  normily inniodes ohildeen agd6-1
Ic the .ea  200 ,  nd the rate of  eeta  of fertility rten  to replant-                     pars  e   detdfo   tdem   emtaa   em                        doatn   e
TYte  stationary   eptioLenL- _is--mhed~ - TIe year chat stetionery  npaplatinm                coutriesta  poit eaeh     eowa  aboc h   f   ta   n lae
aloe hbaa  emreahS. fcedary  snitol - total, male  and femal  - Camputn  en aben; esnodary
peruint kon  Bmidty..   ...l.p               .r   ile. 10h...)o                                  d.ontle   ueeits at leesm  Soon years of apprnn-d pimary imomrootion;
Per  n.  h. -ItIdyatepollatfn po nqarn  ilentar(lB  heoeros  efprocmoe  genee.  vaea-tinmml  o  tem acter trafning imetruntia... for popib
tenema ha  1abolocl  sd .- Competed an abevn for agnitalteal land                             aseally of 12 en 17 yoara ad ags: aerrospendem.. otres  tee generaly
per .1.                                                                sec~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mluded.                           c      
.nLy.                                                                                     pnt...e.eimn    nena tef  ...ondary) - I...ntiota  inet1tuti.ma
Pemulaltfo,  c   trnae(nret2    Children (0-li years),                       ttokn-g    l-iatatemnl                   rnatial. or ethee Pr.gam            chin  Ipmt  idp
66 reer) o  retrod  (65 yarn and  -ro) me p-ettetges ef mod-year yO1puO                     dstly en as depantem tnne ad....edary institotione.
laniom; 1960, 1970, amd 197h date.                                                           Peonl-:teenhe sai    -nmac    nd   edr '7 -- Total stndents emelld in
-Pecoltien Geecth SRte  Innocent) - toma1 - Anmaal grewh eotes  ef tone1 aid-                   primrynod tecodary len`s  divddby mebrs of te...bena im the
1uT~oeie    a   950-60, 1960-70.  nd17078-t-seeednilves
lator   (mmu  19t -60 fr 8-70I an           nd90- 9707.cr.. mig1.
eeBrth    tBn  fReethte nd- Annual,,- lve4 hirnb tpa   beasen  af  midn p-pn              atapmetgofttadam oulinmnd1yaradae.
poaticem; 195060, 1970. md178 dmta.It    dltpculti.sng5  ea                                                                                                     adogr
GrdeBstt  ae  na   htouad),-d knnao  deaths Pee theneted If mid-year                  Pe...atste Can   tntesn    etait       eepe   aseMPfemoe
popLaie; 1960, 1970, ed17   aa                                                              aeaeing lae  than eihpt pecs  eldsoabe1le..e.. hesceen and
l  Rne    rsnedtin  Becan -A Ae..age tambe  of doaughtera a yemen silt beer ip              militanyveils
beenorma  repeedattive period Sf aleo eape tmoe  presenet  g-ptfit7f no- gdeBmiar                            8tetesad  na.1talte)-Alnpea   eanr   o 
tiliry rates;  aoailp f ic-yeas  scmga  sedi.g it 1980, 1970, end 1977,broadee..nt  to gameral publ in per fthnegnd ad Ppelatien  amtlnde  tall-
Pamlc   ian)pg5eetor.  dnoe  I hocted) -Anmel  ombn a  atgytte          smed nees.i-ere  in nennasnd in pame   h.e  regietratiem  of r.di.  sop
nof  ithim-aatne1 davi..e under eapcylos  of motional fatly planning pregram.                wa  it aff ect; data den instat yese.s ay net be comparbla 4et* moat
Femurl Pleeina  - leers  (Pec..antof manied  woen  - Pernentase ad married                     teuttries  abolishedIlimeasing.
Roma  of ahild-bseriog age (15-44 Peace) eke use birmh-nantrol. devi-e  tn                 TV  Beneinars  tees  thauseo     nl, in   ITVenivn  for brtadcasn to
all macnd ennan  n eats ae gmenp.ganeral pabllnptthmed ypltin   alnldes am"iteeed ITV nat..icee
Ff01 API BITBOTIOB                                                       in~~~~~~J  ceantnies end in yasee eae   eiteipOf TV seta was in affesat.
tmdantTof  dye-doetiao PearCaiefg -l) - Sedan ofevtPar                                                   Gietlitenieu  ibeaend          te ation) - Bbows theavrg  tirale
___________________________________________   f pr mpitaannal          s    f "daily g..sea1 miscarst neapepr, defined as a Peciad.. a LIPab-
p-d-atien of  llfee.n.         odtis   Poanie   ssudes ased and dead and                     10 natien devtd primarily t  r. retding geenerl new. tO in nmnidesd
is no nalnda  yer beets.  C-eoIdities nee   e ry  god             ae..egrtan                on be  'daily0tif itapet  am Leendo   ~s
Instea   et mcgee), etieh are edfbls and eantafe matmtanta (.Cog of. mtee nd              Cnm    ama  Amondenn   er   anneme Yea-Bame,d en She nubesa
notema  avrag  prdater peine ne Sabte; 1961-65, 1970, and 197B date,                   and mbiln units..
Pa    aia   aeymOolre   (rre         of   eafsem)- Capated free
energyeqeaeto  ma   odsplo    vilable In ..untry par naptm                                9  OC
pe Ady.boilabla  nepplionee.     atdmsi  pdauction, impeete lapn.                   ota   Lbr   ecefneesdm  -oonnlly atti,a pereons, imelading
enporto, and ohangan in  teet.  Net uapplie   enld  aniea1 teed, needo,                    armed ftress end unemplye  bat s..tadimg heuteci-e, students, ate.
quan.titIes ...d In feed Preema.tino, and manes. in dinteibutfon.  Requtie-               Definttiens it casinos nootrise . arent  oaenl;1960, 1970 and
-t.n once -ttlentad by FAC  as b on pyaelgi aledm foe mamma  anti-                        2976 dare.
tinty nod hta1tb  t...midering nociroaotal teapyt.rats, body esights, age               Paal    .(.momt) - Pamole lahor feron me yeoenatge of metal labor forte.
endseaOtoribttn o  poulaiot   ad alowng  l  ennnt  nn  ant  e   Agitanar   brret) - Laber fenr.  infrIng, fmrnatry,hatting mand
hoeeald  evel  lI-I           91,ad17  data,                                               fishing en pare...toge of total labor forte; 1960, 1910 end 1979 data
Per  .-nit.  nerely of protmn   -oo _p or  fo)-  Prutein enomant ef Par eapite             Indeenry  fmeeeamt) - Labor Ectro So emmag, enetc.telet  aefteteina
net ocppiy of feed pot day.  ttmni   fSee   sdfmda   be.i                                  and tle-trtnity   ae  and           . gene    prt...tago of total Ith   fobto  1960,
qelo-mete fee o2l  -ettri..n -otclloe hp Cb BA provide for minmm1970 nod 1976 date....
a1IIoao   t Igraof total1 Preoi  poe ftp tad 20 aromo of anma  end                       FartriftionBt   rreo -ttl    at    e tamlI-Prttt ipatlem or
orda ant  boar than thas of 75 gram  of total pretnim and 23S g"en  ofpacticity                          f  --,-0  -    -.P---i-  f-19 cPt-
Inel  r bl  a . no -aorge Sr ths. treed, pnepoeef hy PAl In She Third             pnengsofftl   aead   fmlpouainfeleaerepnIvLy;
5_d   '961- 6,  I~~~~~~~~~~~1960, 1970, and 1975 f.ate   Three ant ILit  peetfoipatien .-L.. refl  Itng
fetd fo   cop   91-b   i970 tad :977 data,aetnanoaeo.tepplne,adbg  ieted .e   eS
Pe    icapt   rrecnlo  acery  free  aetoal  and-ee- Pettein supply of food dn_             matte ar fIromu, netel                Iengaronad.A  -    ti
trdfoanloale  and pe1a.. In Oe-m  per day; 1961-65, 1970 end 1977 data.    tonem.ori fendne   fae-Rtitfpplaiecde   bad61adnn
&~h     as    -c edotln   an   (o   t..c.od) - AnnealI doaths per theon..d In J                t.stae   endns
Of t .teep 1_4 yearn, ton chIldreinS thia see greup; fI on moo developing ceen- t h .. 0
trite deco deefend from life tablet; 1960, 1970 and 1977 data..INOME DBISTRBUTION
Pe tsease of Pntt   booe(eh in nan  and bind)   R i..elv-d by richest
bOdIly                                                                    O~~~~~~~~~~~~~N pannent,rnithoet'20 pereo,  e rot 20 pernent,  n  poorest 40 p-roatt
liEOprtnat  Birth   rt;- Av--oe  nanbor of years of life  retaining                         n   athle
at IethI196, 110.ndh176dota
totntfleoait   mo   Ier thocoed  - cAncel. dnathe of ifeaftm  andenr t FO    PO'TOST   Icif   BO
efoepethuadlchit.                                                                          feiia_te_"d  AnlaaPcne ntn    e1A&.proif-ata adrul-
esote it Kloidee te-ead -erfac. nate-  or otrated hat uateentomfated                 nutritionally adequate diet pie ..ent..tia1 oem-fond ceqeirsteeta  in not
affordable.
Toececrrtodrot   octedot =tentia-  PD001          r  free a hetee may be              p-reemo  Inoee of the. teantoo,  Urban le-nl J. derived teen nth  renal
oool-or  at  alc t.ithe  tatc -f L -ecoof tiot hoe. In rentlara                            leve  nith adjostmemt fee hihet- east of livlop So urbaneas
Iecenal  ctI Ia ceId teplp that the hamonif. a  rnebr  ot the hueehl                       imoimated Population  Beo AbltaPvte I..eLeme   lvl (noIntm   - crban
do  oo  aco00  poo  adinpreyelttl...nt  port ofthe day So fotnhieg She                  tsei-ynenfpylno    mhnadiaafwoot"beavpn"
dttnee  to  toorat.o  hevooad rc.1   Perof...etl.oiantio                                                       L ae bhaa.aa
dfyo..eI Ca yere-t.eg-n of choir  -op-uiv- Populationa.  itobste die-                                                        BEao-io and Denial Dana Dieiefom
Petl  acOtftteto  cll -tonto  diop-sl, nlth on nth.ltaeneseet ...ntmie Analysis end  PDoninsOpeenmoon
of  eo  ror    naadett-ar opotr-or   ysnem  or the nat ofQOctobmo 1980
pI   ror  o-d ticil-ntnaiten



-  27  -                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  26,670,000           (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita: USS1010L.L        (1979)
Aaount               Average Annul Increase (7)             Share of GDP at Merket Prices (.
indicator                                        (id11ion US$               (at constant 1970 prices)                  (at current prices)
at current ,2riess)
1979.L-6             1960-70   1970-75       1975-79        1960      1970       1975        1979
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product.Lu                              27,412                   5.3        6.1          5.8         100.0    100.0       100.0       100.0
Agriculture                                            7,263                  3.5        5.2          4.3          34.1      28.6       29.3        29.0
Industry                                              7,110                  5.9         615-.4                    25.7      26.6       28.3        28.4
Services                                             10,866                  6.0         7.3          7.2          40.2      44.8      42.4         42.6
Consumption                                             20,235                  5.9        6.6          5.7          79.4      79.6       81.6        73.8
Gross Investment                                         6,465                  5.1        0.6         11.6          20.5      22.0       17.8        23.6
Exports of goods and NFS                                 4,912                  1.1        5.9          5.4          15.6      14.2       15.1        17.9
Imports of goods and NF                                 4,200                   6.0        1.1         12.0          15.5      15.8       14.5        15.3
Gross national savings                                   6,993                  5.2        4.1         20.8          19.4      18.0       16.8        25.5
Composition of Merchanidise Trade (.
(at current prices)
1960     1970       1975         1979
bM.CHANDISE TRADE                                         _4,062                  3.3        1.4         12.7         100.0    100.0       100.0       100.0
Merchandize exports (FOB)                                2,632                  28        -4.76        17-.-         7 2.5    6C9.4       51.2        61.2
Major Primary                                            725                  -         23.8          4-1           -         9.0       24.5        17.8
Major Manufactures                                       705                  -3.8                    8.6           -        21.6       24.3        21.0
Other Merchandise imports (CIF)                       3.409                  3.5       -2.3          12.5         100.0    100.0       100.0       100.0
Food                                                  ill                 10.0       --0.1         1.6          E-Y-      4.5          .83.3
Petroleum                                             571                -21.4       70.6         89.0            2.0       -         2.0        16.7
Machinery & equipment                               1,400                  5.2       -8.5          15.9          42.7      50.6       36.4       41.1
other                                               1,327                  1.8        2.4           2.4          52.9     44.9       56.8         38.9
1974         1975         1976         1977         1978         17L
PRICES AND TEMS OF TRADE                                               27.6         20.8         23.6          28.3         14.5         24.1
CDP deflator                                                         27.1         31.2         35.0         36.9         39.3         42.6
Exchange rate
Export price index                                                  155.4        159.7        214.5        303.6        281.1        288.8
Import price index                                                  210.3        217.3        233.5        254.3        275.4        340.2
Terms of trade index                                                 73.9         23.5         91.9        11 9.4       10 2.1        84.9
As 7. GDP
(at current yrices)
1970          1975          1979
Current revenue                                                                       10.6           11.3          12.0
Current expenditure                                                                     5.7           8.3           5.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-                                                                .9           6.0          *6.6
Capital expenditure                                                                     1.8           1.1           1.2
Foreigni financing.11                                                                   3.3           2.9           3.8
1960-70       1970-75       1975-79
OTHEP INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (7)5.1                                                                                6.3           6.2
GNP per capita growth rate (L)a.0                                                                     3.9           3.8
Energy conssumption growth rate (7)5.0                                                                4.0           4.0
ICORL                                                                                   3.5478        3.1906        3.0686
Marginal savings rtatLil                                                                0.1354        0.1279        0.1872
Import elasticity                                                                       1.1744        0.1680        2.2533
/a  World Bank Atlas Method.
/b  Preliminary.
/c  At market prices:  Components are expressed at factor cost and will not add because of exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
IdEstimated.
ftCentral Governiment.
~f  Gross disbursements of external loans to the entire public sector.
L&Lagged one year.
fh  increment to gross domestic savings/increment to gross domestic product.
December 15, 1980
Colombia Division



Aen.    I
- 28 -                                                                           Pageof 7
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTEBNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Popul pttc n      26,670,000 (pid-1980)                                           (ili.on USd *t current prices)
GNP Per CaPits,  U510o10 a  (1979)
1874           u975        1976           1977         1971          1979 d/       1980          1981          1982          1983          1984          1985
BALAkNCE DOF PAYMlEXTN
Entporte of goods and toe-
factor services                              000           2165        2782          3404          4059          4910           5345         5502          5912          6410          7467          8649
toporte of goode and non-
factor s-n .lcen                             1149           2030        2302          2730          3722          4191           5359         6255          6997          7644          8618          9884
R-eoc .e balance                                  -149          -135          480           674           337           719            -14         -753         -1085         -1234        -1151         - 1235
Net factor paym to                             -180           -263         -279          -235          -247          -127            -91         .105         -166          -264          -375          -487
Tlet urquited transfers                          27             48           21            16             7             4              6            4             5             6             6             6
Correct  c.count balane                           -302            -80         222           455            97           596            -99         -854        -1246          .1492        -1520        _ 1716
N., di-eot forcigo  cocsttont                       39             32           14           43            56           124            125          125           150           250           250           350
Medium and long tacit loins (net)                 202             308         131           192            72           703            674          529           996           942           970          1166
to public sector                               3160)          (254)        (109)         (195)          (92)        (603)           (741)       (550)         (911)         (846)         (860)        (1018)
no pcitvteseocwoc                               (42)           (54,         (22)          (-3)         (-20)         (100)         (_67)        (-21)          (85)           (96)        (113)         (146)
Other capital                                       55         - 121          195           162           391          -153                           -                          -                           -
Oseital Acceunt Balanos                           296            219          340           397           519           669            799          654          1146          1192          1220          1516
Osgess 8n  neserces  7- --unoreass)                  6            139          62          -852          -616         -1265          - 700          200           100           300           300           200
Iorsrnanicnsl Dageroset    (offio(oI(             152             547        1166          1830          2482         4106           48068K       4606          4506          4206           390t         3706
Neeer.e. s   months of imports                    1.6              3.2        6.1           80            8.0          11.8           IO J          8.8           7.7           6.6           5,4           435
00096 21082130NE25TS hi
Dffioisl grants                                                 -            .-.                                       ..--
Dress disbesstnients of MdT loans               235            390          262           371           319         1036
Conesos ionsl                                   132             39           47            27            80            36
Eilatera1                                    (100)           (37)         (44)          (21)          (53)          (28)
IDA                                           (-)             7-)         7-)           )-)           7.)           (-5
Other nolcila-ec-l                              (2)            (2)         (3)           (6)           (7)           (8)
Non.-onc-ss io.l                                133            351          215           345           260         1000
Offici-a  soport credits                      (26)           (14)         (0)           (14)          (19)         (47)
1SRD                                          (5B)          (106)         (76)          (85)          (02)        (138)
Other  ultilAt-sl                           (14)           (19)         (27)          (31)          (23)         (31)
Prio-t                                        (35)          (212)       (112)         (214)         (125)         (783)
.EXTERNAL  70B7   (en,d of poriod) ~
Dtbr ocIstatdicg snd disbursed                 1249           2348         2453          2670         2dat          3426
Officl-l                                     1074           1716        1785          1862          1999          2151
'BR'                                      (334)          (634)        (672)         (716)         (751)         (838)
ID'                                        (20)            (32)        (22)          (22)          (22)          (22)
Other                                     (700)         .)4o(60)     (1019)        (11 247       (1225)        (1291)
P, il.t. ~~~~~~174                             632          668           808           804          1271
Undilbersed Debt                                602            663          908         1040          1516          1993
DE3,T,,SERVTCE,b
TLat TbcO  serooce paytenc e _   f uhich       119            249          278           313           398          664
TnteceNt 144                                               114          125           137           171          231
Telnretro 7s 2coports of goods soDd
cli ScroIcco                               1. 6           11.1          9.5           8.9           9.5         12,5
Psy-lntSas   GNP                               1.7            1.9         1i9            1.6           1.8           2.4
A+-ag. i.t.... t race on otv loeoa(%)           5.8            7.4          6. 5          7.4           7.9         10.3
Offici-l                                     (5,1)          (461)        (50,)        (7 3)         (7.6)         (7.8)
frti-st                                      (6.9)          (0 2)       (7.5)         (7.6)         (8.6)        (12,0)
A-erogo  ntctuitY o(f -ev 1o-ne (y-oro         22.4           15.1         14.8          16.0         14.1          12.6
Official                                    (30 1)         (26.1)      (20.0)        (17.9)        (16.2)        (16.8)
Pri-ae                                      6(9.7)          (8.2)       (7.4)         (7.1)         (9.1)        (10.0)
BuGII 0U0P EXP050009   (M) h/
TOED sooitotsl 1DOD                            2.54           27.0         27.4          26.8         26.8          24,.
I0RD dosborssrentatto l cross dis-
buronmentt                                     24.6           27.1         28.9          22.9         25.7          13.3
10RD debt  -srni-e/iotsl debt eec-irce         34 4           28 9        13.7          14.3           8.8          13 1
iDA DOiOocs I DOD                               1.6            1.0         0.9           0.6           0.8           0.6
21DA disbOr... nS          a....gos  dis-
bursements                                       _                           _             _ 
I70  debt sersis/total d-btrorrice               -             3.1         0.1            3.!          0.1           0,0
.                                     _-~~~~~.
do %. of Debt Ocltacadlng
at Rnd of 1897
vTMIJ STRUCTtIR
Meturity ttrnotore of debt =tcstendieg (%)
M.t-urti:s  doe vithin 5 yas                                                                                       32.3
Maturitie  du ..thin 10 years                                                                                     6886
Ineoret srnre   of dabt  u-tatanding (%)
Intsesst dui oithin first Yper                                                                                     5.4
Wi -old Ssnk Atiss 7iethod
b/  Assuae no cbahgs in eat dose,tie esnats of the raEC
of benktng  yptcam  aftc- 1979
o/ Pcblio and poblilly guorantetd debt
d/  Pr-lieinory
febru-ry 6, 1981
Colojbio Ooisico



ANNEX II
- 29 -                         Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1980)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
52 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                       833.5      23.5 /1   --
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply       88.0               1.1
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation          2.2                .6
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply        9.1               2.3
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 56.0                .4
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   60.0                  .1
920     1973  Colombia                          Education          21.2               9.4
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways           25.0                .1
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       27.0              11.5
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5                 7.4
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture        21.0              13.4
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0                 3.9
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.         52.0              30.1
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0                22.2
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   58.3                50.9
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   15.0                 3.1
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways           90.0              72.4
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition          25.0              20.8
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply          13.8              13.1
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              24.0
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                126.0             104.1
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power              50.0              23.1
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export           15.0              13.1
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0                38.1
1624    1979  Colombia                          Airports           61.0              53.9
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power              84.0              64.0
1694    1979  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            13.5               13.5
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                      Water Supply       30.0              29.4



- 30 -                            ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30. 1980) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1725 /2 1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power             72.0              72.0
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal             Water Supply       31.0              31.0
1737 /2 1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria         Agriculture Cr.  20.0                20.0
1762    1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.               Mining-Nickel    80.0                74.3
1807 /3 1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica   Power                87.O              87.0
de Bogota
1825 /3 1980  Empresas Publicas de              Communications   44.0               44.0
Medellin
1834 /3 1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   32.0               32.0
1857 /3 1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  150.0              150.0
1868 /3 1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               125.0             125.0
TOTAL                                           2,705.9      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          487.2       2.1
Total now outstanding                           2,218.7      21.4
Amount sold                         51.0
Of which has been repaid            33.2           17.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  2.200.9      21.4
Total undisbursed                                                 1.261.3
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.
/3   Not yet signed.



- 31 -                            ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1980)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board       0.50      -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08        2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans        0.70      -       0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09        0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical
equipment      0.50      -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera            Development          -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de            Textiles          1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                            financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging        -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing       1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock         1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles          5.00   2.60       7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism              -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del        Development          -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development          -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism           0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism           0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing              -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement            1.50      -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement            3.60      -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining            6.00      -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities       13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43   0.30       2.73
Total Gross Commitments                           40.31  13.65      53.96
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            29.99   8.88      38.87
Total commitments now held by IFC                 10.32   4.77      15.09
Total undisbursed                                   -       _         -



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 28, 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Borrower's
financial performance has deteriorated; recently, however, large tariff in-
creases were put into effect and additional ones are being contemplated
which should help to improve overall finances. Completion of the Chuza-
Ventana tunnel section, which was delayed by a methane explosion, is expected
to be completed by mid-1982; all other project elements will be completed by
the end of 1981. Disbursements up to September 30, 1980, amounted to about
99% of the loan amount.
2.   Ln No. 849 Second Atlantico Development; US$5 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current - September 30, 1981
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production.  At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977. Settlement of farmers within the project areas is behind
schedule and the provision of technical assistance/farm credit needs improve-
ment. Because heavy seasonal rainfall in 1979 resulted in severe flooding in
the project area, civil works construction has been halted and a study is being
carried out to reassess the flood protection and drainage requirements of the
area.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -                           ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
3.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 10, 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - May 31, 1981
As of September 30, 1980, about 75% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but execution
has since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution;
however during 1980, execution improved. INSFOPAL prepared a new implemen-
tation program for each city and works are now contracted and under construc-
tion, with no further delays foreseen. All works are expected to be completed
by May 1981.
4.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 12, 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - June 30, 1980
The project is virtually completed. After considerable delay in
resettling the people of El Penol and Guatape, filling of the Santa Rita
reservoir was carried out in May 1978, three years behind schedule. The
revised project cost is substantially above appraisal estimate, mainly occa-
sioned by higher cost of the civil works and resettlement.  As of September 30,
1980, loan funds were fully committed and US$55.6 million or 99% of the loan
amount had been disbursed.
5.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, June 11, 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1979
The loan is fully committed and the Borrower has requested cancella-
tion of the US$0.1 million which remained undisbursed as of September 30, 1980.
The Project Completion Report was issued in October 1980.



ANNEX II
- 34 -                            Page 6 of 12
6. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
Project execution had been suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition
of sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 but suffered
continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted a proposal to
reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the loan.
However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978, retracted
the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally conceived.
Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in planning,
construction, educational programming and personnel training, and project
execution is proceeding normally. Nevertheless, because of the delay and
higher costs the scope of the project may have to be reduced.
7.   Ln. No. 926 Sixth Railway Project:  US$25 million, August 8, 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing date: original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1980
Because of severely constrained locomotive availability, freight
traffic in 1979 decreased by 5%, compared to the previous year. The Government
has provided substantial funds to assist CNR in obtaining necessary equipment
and spare parts to improve motive availability. Thus, performance is expected
to improve over the next few months. Together with the Bank, the Government
is studying further corrective measures aimed at enabling the railway to
fulfill its important role in facilitating continued economic growth in
Colombia. Loan funds are fully committed and as of September 30, 1980 only
about US$100,000 of the loan amount remained undisbursed.
8.   Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981
In spite of the fiscal restraint imposed by the Government's economic
stabilization measures, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily
in most cities. With the exception of the ground water component and Barranquilla
water treatment plant which would be completed by December 1981, all works are
expected to be completed by June 1981. Sub-borrowers have not been implement-
ing tariff adjustments as agreed, therefore, INSFOPAL is proceeding to take
corrective measures. As of September 30, 1980, US$15.5 million or 57% of the
loan had been disbursed.



ANNEX II
35                             Page 7 of 12
9.   Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    Original - October 31, 1979
Current - December 31, 1981
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (168 km have been
completed). School construction and the provision of sufficient credit are
lagging because of slow transfer of funds by the Treasury; the Government is
attempting to correct the situation. As of September 30, 1980, US$7.4 million
or 38% of the loan remained undisbursed.
10. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project and implementation is still behind
schedule. One of the project's main problems continues to be inadequate
budget allocations to carry out project works and to provide sub-loans to
farmers. Maintenance of roads and drains constructed under the loan,
technical assistance to farmers and rate of land transfer to beneficiaries
are inadequate; the executing agencies have now agreed to take corrective
measures. As of September 30, 1980, US$7.6 million of the loan amount had
been disbursed.
11. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of September 30, 1980, about 89% of the loan had been
disbursed.
12. Ln No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fourth year of implementation and proceed-
ing satisfactorily in spite of its complexity. The project's components of
credit, technical assistance and training are proceeding satisfactorily, while
institutional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry and water
supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but



ANNEX II
- 36 -                            Page 8 of 12
they are much less serious than initially.  Control and monitoring of project
execution is comprehensive, and first stage evaluation is currently underway.
As of September 30, 1980, US$21.9 million, or 42% of the loan had been disbursed.
13. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February 4,
1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1981.
The funds originally assigned to medium and large farmers were fully
committed and disbursed and the $2.0 million reallocated to this component will
be fully committed soon. However, only 28% of subloans allocated to small
farmers have been disbursed, but commitments have increased recently. Concern
over possible diversion and substitution of subloan funds led the Borrower
to increase substantially its end-use supervision. About 51% of loan funds
for credit to agroindustries have been committed for 116 subprojects. As of
September 30, 1980, US$41.8 million, or 65% of the loan had been disbursed.
14. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$58.3 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of several personnel
changes in the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expan-
sion, and design of buildings to house equipment. Good progress is being made
in the acquisition program of smaller local telephone companies. As of
September 30, 1980, US$50.9, or 87% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
15. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    March 31, 1981
After initial delays in loan effectiveness mainly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and loan funds are
fully committed. As of September 30, 1980, US$11.9 million had been disbursed.
16. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. Stabilization and drainage works are progressing
well and works have commenced on the construction lots. The maintenance
program began in January 1980, and consultants to assist MOPT in carrying out
the program have been retained. The vehicle weight control program has
experienced a 12-month delay but progress is now satisfactory. As of
September 30, 1980, about US$17.6 million had been disbursed.



- 37 -                           ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
17. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply but execution is running about a
year behind schedule. Initial delays occurred in two subsidiary components--
home food production and food quality control--but activities are now underway.
Project management and coordination have been sound, flexible and effective.
Project monitoring and evaluation systems are operating effectively.
18.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
After an initial delay, project implementation is now satisfactory.
EMCALI's weak financial position remains the most critical issue in the
implementation of the project. EMCALI has agreed to take corrective measures
to restore the entity's financial viability and to improve management and
administrative procedures. The Bank is following up project execution and
financial management closely.
19.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
While project execution and coordination has recently improved,
overall progress is still running behind schedule. Project implementation
plans in 16 of the 23 cities have been approved by the Bank. The new Directora
General of SIP intends to accelerate project implementation and has established
a working unit to monitor progress and evaluate the project.
20.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule and main contracts for
equipment have been signed. As of September 30, 1980, US$21.9 million or 17%
of the loan had been disbursed.



- 38 -                          ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
21.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated. The Bank-financed
component (transmission line) is proceeding on schedule, at lower-than-
anticipated cost. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about two years as a result of KfW's objection to the contract award
for substations (KFW was originally to finance this component). The
Government is now exploring other sources of finance.
22.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. Construction and the promotional campaign are
both well under way, but there have been delays in contracting the water supply
works and in construction of a portion of the access road. Difficult soil
conditions encountered at the site will require substantial soil investigations.
23.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
By the end of September 30, 1980, about US$97.6 million had been
committed and an additional US$0.9 million, which has been approved by BR for
subloans, is presently being processed.
24.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project works are well under way. Because of poor soils, there is a
construction delay at the future Rio Negro airport and a solution to this
problem is currently being investigated.
25.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982



-39-                                ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Project works are well under way, although at higher-than-anticipated
cost. Performance by the Borrower continues to be satisfactory, although early
next year it will have to take additional tariff measures if its finances are
not to deteriorate.
26.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
Effective Date: June 20, 1980
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Physical works are about one year behind schedule, but the implemen-
tation programs for 1980 and 1981 have been accelerated in an endeavor to make
up the time lost and complete the project in 1983.
27.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: April 22, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding slowly. As mentioned in
paragraph 1, the borrower is taking additional tariff measures to improve its
finances.
28.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
Awaiting resolution of the problem of heavy arrears in payments to ISA
from ICEL, a shareholder, the Bank has not yet agreed to the effectiveness of
this loan.
29.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: February 28, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project implementation is under way with the final designs for 16 of the
23 subprojects approved and with designs for the remaining subprojects in final
stages of preparation.
30.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: October 1, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
This loan became effective on October 1, 1980 and project implementation
is underway.
31.       Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
Effective Date:  July 3, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
While some awards of construction contracts are lagging behind
schedule, procurement of equipment and materials is progressing well and the
Borrower is confident that the project will be completed by April 1982.



-40-
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
32.       Ln. No. 1807-CO Bogota Power Distribution; US$87 million,
February 6, 1981.
This loan is not yet effective.
33.       Ln. No. 1825-CO Fifth Telecommunications; US$44 million,
December 19, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
34.       Ln. No. 1834-CO Third Small-Scale Industry; US$32 million,
December 10, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
35.       Ln. No. 1857-CO Eighth DFC; US$150 million, December 10, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
36.       Ln. No. 1868-CO Guadalupe IV Hydro Power; US$125 million.
December 19, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
December 1980
Colombia Division



- 41 -                             ANNEX III
COLOMBIA
PLAYAS HYDRO POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 36 months
(b) Agency which prepared project: ISA/EPM
(c) First presentation to Bank: August 1980
(d) First mission to review project: September 1980
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: September 22, 1980
(f) Completion of negotiations: the Government and the
Borrower informed the Bank on January 21, 1981 that the
draft Agreements did not contain any issues requiring
negotiations.
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances have been obtained that:
(a) annual audits of accounts for each of EPM's departments will be
carried out by independent external auditors satisfactory to the
Bank (paragraph 54);
(b) EPM would earn an annual rate of return on its revalued assets
of 7% in 1981, 10% in 1982, 14% in 1983 and 1984, and 12% in
1985 and thereafter (paragraph 57);
(c) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EPM will not incur debt
in any fiscal year which would reduce the coverage of its maximum
future debt service by internal cash generation below 1.5 times
(paragraph 58); and
(d) without prior concurrence of the Bank, EPM will not make any
capital expenditures not directly related to the operations of
any of its departments (paragraph 58).
A special condition of effectiveness is that EPM will make arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank to--secure the remaining foreign exchange needed
for the project, as well as the balance of financing required for investments
scheduled during 1981-82 (paragraph 55).






IBRD-3638RL
7                                   70                                                                                                            7O> 'CTOBER I97E
e  dA  S7LOTH AMERICA
.h~ Ab t   v-/$  h .  -  -y,
Monterla      SUCR                                                   7
r                                                                                                      ,    . . ... . ... . ... . ........ tA>., tMAGDALENA f ' "'' -' '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .   .   . .    .. .
d'                                                                                                                                                                      Z  CA  U   E   L  A )0i 
0~~~~~  
tstis~ ~ ~~~0I                                                                                       0YP. CF AS NA R EiAYO k'                  
... ;. .C -- -0 D,  me  RAdeI 2 -mne  N-e
4.                                 V A  L.E  , IeL IMA   ; .                      i
E  @S  glet"Ie,'X,O ',, ' '-' ;--, n E                                                     T 
N  A                                                                                                                  V    Aplksr UG    P    -E RS-  
.                         r*                                                                                                                                     /     , - ,           
L8'            b                   .                                   -.-..



