RESTRICTED
FILE    .opy                   Report No.  P- 506
This report was- prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
JAMAICA
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
September 12, 1966



INTER-NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMERT
REPORT AND RECOIMEMDATION OF T.HE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO JAAAICA
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$9.5 million to
Jamaica to help finance an education project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        After receiving the advice of a UNESCO educational planning mission,
the Government of Jamaica proceeded with the preparation of an educational
development project with the assistance of the Bank and UNESCO. In January
1966 it requested a Bank loan to help finance the project and a Bank mission
visited Jamaica in February to make an appraisal.
3.        Formal negotiations for the proposed loan were held in Washington
from July 25 to August 1, 1966. The principal representative of the Govern-
ment in these negotiations was M4r. D. R. Clarke, Acting Under Secretary,
Ministry of Finance.
4.        The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Jamaica as
of August 31, 1966:
Year           Borrower              Purpose           Amount     Undisbursed
(US$ million)
1965       Jamaica                   Highways            5.5           5.4
1966       Jamaica Public Service
Company                  Power              22.0         21.5
Total now outstanding                        27.5          26.9
Amount sold                                    .6
Total now held by Bank                       26.9



- 2 -
Only a small amount of disbursements have been made under the highway loan
due to delay in the selection of consultants. A U.S. consulting firm was,
however, engaged by the Government in April 1966 and work is no- under way.
The power loan became effective on August 9, 1966.
5.        With the aid of a technical assistance grant of up to US$200,000
from the Bank, a feasibility study for an urban expressway in the city of
Kingston is now being carried out. The Bank also seconded an adviser from
January 1965 through July 1966 to assist the Government in the identifica-
tion and preparation of projects.
6.        The Bank has under advanced consideration a request from the Govern-
ment to help finance a telecommunications project. The Government has also
expressed its desire to seek Bank assistance for projects in industry,
agriculture, transportation and water supply and sewerage.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:                  Jamaica
Amount:                    The equivalent in various currencies
of US$9.5 million.
Purpose:                   To help finance an educational de-
velopment project.
Amortization:              In 31 semi-annual installments,
beginning January 15, 1972, and
ending January 15, 1987.
Interest Rate:             6%.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of Education Project -
Jamaica" (TO-553a) on the proposed project is attached.
9.        The principal purposes of the project are, first, to providM secon-
dary education for those children aged 12 to 14 who have completed primary
education but who now remain in the primary schools for lack of secondary
institutions; secondly, to expand teacher training colleges to meet the in-
creased demand for teachers in primary and secondary schools; and, thirdly,
to expand post-secondary technical education to provide more highly skilled
manpower.



- 3 -
10.       The project is composed of four complementary parts:
(1) The construction of 50 junior secondary schools to pro-
vide 33,000 places at a cost of US$25.0 million. By
the academic year 1970/71 enrollment in secondary schools
would comprise 45 percent of the students aged 12 to 14
instead of the present 10 percent.
(2) The expansion of four teacher training colleges at a
cost of US$1.1 million, which would increase the en-
rollment by 50 percent.
(3) The expansion of the Jamaica School of Agriculture
which produces agricultural experts through three years
of training, at a cost of US$2.0 million. Student
places would be trebled to meet the demand of the
public services and the private sector.
(4) The expansion of the College of Arts, Science and
Teclnology which produces senior-level technical
personnel in engineering, science, pharmacy, commerce
and institutional management. The cost would be
US$1.3 million. There is great demand for personnel
of this type and the project would increase enrollment
in the school by 110 percent.
11.       The Ministry of Educat-on is responsible for educational policy
and the administration of government schools.  It will be strengthened to
ensure that the educational objectives of the project are achieved. As
called for under Section 5.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement, a project co-
ordinator satisfactory to the Bank has already been appointed to administer
the project and a qualified project architect has been appointed to collabo-
rate with him in the arrangements for the construction works included in
the project.
12.       The total cost of the project is estimated to be about US$19.4
million to be incurred over a period of five years. The direct foreign
exchange requirements are estimated to total about $6.2 million, of which
$1.3 million for technical assistance is to be covered from bilateral
sources.  The proposed Bank loan of US$9`5 million would cover the remainder
of the foreign exchange cost and about 35 percent of the local cost, thus
covering about 50 percent of the total cost of the project. This appears
reasonable in view of the public savings efforts being made by the Govern-
ment and the budgetary resources being made available for education in
Jamaica.
13.       All major construction and procurement contracts will be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding. Disbursement will be
made on the basis of an agreed upon percentage of the cost of the goods
included in the project.  Expenditures made for the project after June 1,
1966, will be covered by the loan.



- h -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS At'ID AUTHORITY
14.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Jamaica and the report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The
Loan Agreement conforms to the pattern of agreements for education projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
15.       A report (OH-154a) on the "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Jamaica" was distributed to the Executive Directors on December 30, 1965
(R65-198). The report commented favorably on Jamaica's recent economic per-
formance and prospects for future growth and capacity to assume additional
external debt. It noted that, while the Government had not yet defined all
aspects of the public sector's financing plans for 1966 and 1967, these plans
were being drawn up to be consistent with the preservation of Jamaica's
growth momentum and financial stability.
16.       Recent information on developments in 1965, which was not available
at the time of the last report, is consistent with the above appraisal. Pre-
liminary estimates indicate that the high rate of economic growth (7.5 percent
per annum) which Jamaica experienced since mid-1963, continued in 1965 because
of the booming tourist industry, and fairly rapid rises in agricultural and
industrial production. Jamaica's balance of payments in 1965 improved in
some respects over 1964. Merchandise imports increased only half as rapidly
as gross domestic production and food imports declined somewhat. With a
moderate rise in exports of goods and services (including tourism), the
current account deficit remained at the 1964 level of about L13 million.
This deficit was largely covered by the inflow of private capital and by
official borrowing abroad, principally in the London market, where the
Jamaican Government raised L3.15 million in June 1965. An important achieve-
ment was the successful public offering of a US$7.5 million bond issue in
January 1966, Jamaica's first in New York since independence.
17.       With regard to the public sector's financing plans, the authorities
have decided to keep public investment expenditure at the already high 1965
level (6.5 percent of the Gross Domestic Product) but to reduce the recent
rate of increase in current expenditures and to introduce new revenue
measures in early 1967. These adjastments, together with presently planned
approaches to the private markets abroad and increased borrowing from the
official lending agencies, should cover the financing requirements of the
public sector.
18.       On January 31, 1966, Jamaica's external public debt repayable in
foreign currency totalled US$99.7 million, of which US$16.5 million was un-
disbursed. Since that date there has been no material change in Jamaica's
external debt position. Annual service charges on this debt, which amount
to US$9.3 million in 1966 and rise to US$104. million by 1970, account for



about 3 percent of Jamaica's prospective earnings on current external account.
In view of the relatively low level of these debt charges, Jamaica's favorable
growth prospects and its Government's prudent financial management, Jamaica
can be regarded as creditworthy for the proposed loan and the other external
borrowing in prospect.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECORSENDATION
20.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
RESOLUTION NO,
Approval of Loan to Jamaica in an amount equivalent to
US$9,500,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Jamaica in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million five hundred thousand United States
dollars (US$9,500,000) to mature on and prior to January 15, 1987, to bear
interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum, and to be upon such other
terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Education Project)
between Jamaica and the Bank, which has been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
W4ashington, D.C.                                 President
September 12, 1966
Attachments



