RETURN      TO                                        RESTRICTED
REPORTS       DES}                 FILE     copy          Report No. TO-553a
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
EDUCATION PROJECT
JAMAICA
September 8, 1966
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
U. S. $1        =O. 357 (7 shillings and
1-1/2 pence Jamaican)
E1              =     U.S. $2.80
E1, 000, 000    =     U. S. $2, 800, 000



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paragraphs
SUNMARY  . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .    i-xii
I.  INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1-5
II. SOCIAL AND ECONOMYIC BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . .   6-11
III.  EDUCATION AND TRAINING .... . . . . . . . . .   . .   12-48
The Educational System . ...            .    .  . .  12-15
Primary Education  ........ ..... . . .        .    16-18
Secondary Education  .........        . ....        19-25
Post Secondary Education . . . ..........           26-37
Higher Education . . . . . . .          ....        38-43
Vocational Training  . . . . . . . . . ......        4-6
Financing of Education . . . . . . . . . . . ...    47-48
IV. THE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . .  49-105
College of Arts, Science and Technology  . . . . .  52-58
Jamaica School of Agriculture  . .  . . . . . . .   59-69
Junior Secondary Schools . . . . . . . . . . . . .  70-75
Upper-Cycle Secondary Education  . . . . . . . . .    76
Teacher Training Colleges  . . . a , . . . . .  .0  77-80
Technical Services and Overseas Training . . . . .  8i-85
Administration   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    86
School Sites   . . . . . . . , . , , , . . . , . .    87
School Buildings . . . . .l. .. .  I'm.. . .   .. .   ..  88-92
Instructional Equipment and Furniture  . . . . . .    93
Cost Estimates   . . . . . .  . .. .. . . a   ..    94-8
Implementation   . . . . . .              .. .      99-100
Procurement            .........                     101
Finance    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   102-105
V. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOIDENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . . 106-115
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Jamaica in
February 1966 composed of Messrs. Aristides Macris, Sergei Kadleigh,
Henry Gassner, and J. C. Jones (Consultant to the Bank).



-2-
ANEXES
Annex 1 - Chart - The Educational and Training System (1966).
"    2 -  Chart - Educational Pyramid.
"    3 - Table - Pre-School and Primary Education - Government and
Government Aided Schools - Enrollments.
"    4 - Table - Secondary Level Enrollment - 1964.
5 - Table - College of Arts, Science and Technology, Present and
Projected Entry and Output of Full-time Students.
"    6 - Table - University of the West Indies - 1965 Enrollment and
Admission of Jamaican Students.
"    7 - Table - Expenditure on Education and Training 1959/60 through
1965/66.
"    8 - Table - Recurrent Expenditure for Education and Training.
9 - Table - Capital Expenditure for Education.
"   10 - Table - Educational Expenditure as Percentage of G.N.P.
" 11 - Table - Summary of Project Costs.
" 12 - Table - Construction Schedule.
" 13 - Table - Projection of Teacher Supply and Requirements.
"   14 - Table - Projection of Enrollments.
" 15 - Table - Assumptions Used in Modified Projection of Recurrent Costs.
" 16 - Table - Projection of Ministry of Education Recurrent
Expenditure - 1980/81.
MAP - Map of Jamaica Education Project.



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMARY
i.        The Jamaican Government has requested a Bank loan to help finance
an educational development project. As revised by the appraisal mission, this
project would cost about $19.4 million and would provide:
(a) 390 additional places at the College of Arts, Science and
Technology to increase enrollment by 110 percent, at an
estimated cost of $1.3 million.
(b) 330 additional places or an increase by 200 percent of the
present capacity of the Jamaica School of Agriculture.
Estimated cost is $2.0 million.
(c)  675 additional places at four teacher training colleges,
increasing enrollment by 50 percent at an estimated cost
of $1.1 million.
(d) 33,000 places in 50 junior secondary schools as part of a
plan to provide effective education to children aged 12
through 14 years, who have completed primary education and
are presently retained in the primary schools for lack of
secondary level institutions. The estimated cost is $15.0
million.
ii.       The project includes provisions for the services of foreign
specialists to assist in the implementation of the proposed educational develop-
ment. Overseas training is also provided for supplementing on-the-job training
of Jamaican teachers and school administrators. Of an estimated cost of
$1.6 million for these services $0.3. million would be assisted by the loan
and the remainder has been committed by US AID.
iii.      The proposed expansion of training at the College of Arts, Science
and Technology and at the Jamaica School of Agriculture would produce techni-
cians urgently needed to improve the efficiency of Jamaican industry and
agriculture, reduce dependence on expatriates, and staff the Ministry of Agri-
culture programs aimed at raising agricultural productivity.
iv.       The junior secondary school program would (a) improve the quality of
the education received by students terminating their education at age 15 so
that they may fully benefit from pre-employment and on-the-job training at the
levels required by the rapidly advancing economy; (b) increase the number of
qualified students for further formal education; and (c) make available
workshops and instructors for general up-grading of the skills of the adult
population - a badly felt need at this time.
v.        The proposed expansion of teacher training will ensure qualified
teachers for the junior secondary schools and will allow for gradual improve-



ment in the quality of primary education.
vi.       There are sufficient qualified applicants to fill the additional
places at the teacher training colleges, the Jamaica School of Agriculture
and the College of Arts, Science and Technc ogy.
vii.      On the basis of the proposed financial arrangements for the project,
the recurrent and capital costs generated by the expansion of the Government
education program, including the present project, are within Jamaica's
financial capabilities.
viii.     Four local architectural firms have been selected to design and
supervise construction of the post-secondary portions of the project and a
foreign firm has been selected to perform similar services for the junior
secondary schools.
ix.       Major contracts for construction and equipment will be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
x.        The completion of the project is estimated to require approximately
three and one-half years and the closing date is expected to be September
30, 1970.
xi.       In view of the assurances by the government set forth in paragraph
114 the project is suitable for Bank financing.
xii.      The direct foreign exchange requirements are estimated at $6.2
million of which $1.3 million is expected to be financed through bilateral aid.
If the Government were to assume all local costs, however, its capital
expenditure for education during the next four years would need to increase by
over 90 percent from the present rate. Therefore, a Bank loan of $9.5 million
is proposed, representing about 50 percent of the total cost. Even under this
arrangement the Government will need to increase its present capital outlay
for education by over 50 percent. It is proposed that the loan be for 20 years,
including a grace period of 5 years.



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       At the request of the government, Unesco sent an Educational
Planning Mission to Jamaica in September 1964, to assist in the develop-
ment of the country's educational program.   A report of the Mission's
findings was completed in November 1964.
2.       After studying the above-mentioned report and in consultation
with the Bank Resident Adviser the government decided to formulate a
project for possible Bank assistance in the financing of educational
development.
3.       A member of the Bank staff visited Jamaica in July 1965 for a
preliminary review of the proposed educational development and to
advise on the preparation of the project for consideration by the Bank.
Two Unesco experts - an architect and a technical education expert -
discussed details of project preparation during a visit in 1965.    The
chief of the Unesco Planning Mission (Mr. C. L. Germanacos) had
returned to assist the government in preparing the necessary project
data.
4.       In January 1966, the Government of Jamaica submitted a loan
request, and a Bank appraisal mission, comprising Messrs. Aristides
Macris, Sergei Kadleigh, Henry Gassner, and J. C. Jones (Consultant),
arrived in Jamaica in February.   Mr. Germanacos acted as an adviser
to the mission.
5.       In addition to consulting government authorities, the
mission cooperated closely with representatives of other sources of
external assistance.   Discussions were held with US AID concerning
technical assistance in teacher training and in agricultural education,
and with representatives of the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany and
the U.N. Technical Assistance Board concerning other financial and
technical assistance in the field of education.



-2-
II. SOCIAL AND ECONOiMIC BACKGROUND
6.       Jamaica is an independent country (since 1962) and a member
of the British Commonwealth of Nations.   It is the third largest
island in the Caribbean and supports a population of 1.8 million on
an area of 4,400 square miles.   While the annual rate of natural
population growth during the past decade was 3 percent, the net rate of
population growth was only 2 percent, due to the high rate of emigration.
With emigration to the United Kingdom now largely cut off, continuation
of the high rate of population growth poses a serious problem.
7.       During the period 1954-1961, Gross Domestic Product at constant
factor cost increased at a rate of 8 percent per year.   Due to the un-
certainties produced by Jamaica's transition to independence, the
growth rate fell to 2 percent during 1962 and 1963 but since 1964 the GDP
has again been growsing at an annual rate of 8 percent.  During the past
decade real per capita GNP increased from $250 to $445.
8.       The main factors in the rapid growth rate were the discovery
of bauxite, the rapid rise in the level of industrial activity, the
development of Jamaica into a major tourist resort, and the upsurge of
the building industry.   Since 1958 Jamaica has become the world's
largest producer of bauxite.   It has also become an exporter of
manufactured goods, mainly clothing,but also cement and industrial
machinery. During the past five years tourist earnings increased by
over 50 percent.
9.       Although the contribution of agriculture to the gross domestic
product is only 13 percent, two-thirds of the population live in rural
areas and about 40 percent of the labor force is engaged in agriculture.
During the past decade agricultural production increased by only 1
percent per year.   The cultivable area is only 1.7 million acres and
densely populated.   About 45 percent of this area is occupied by
subsistence farmers cultivating small plots, often on steeply sloping
lands, and handicapped by lack of modern knowledge, deficient market
arrangements, and inadequate credit.
10.      The growing divergence between rural and urban incomes has
led to a large exodus of the rural population to the cities.   Lacking
adequate education and skills, these migrants are the core of the
unemployed.   An unemployment rate of 15.-20 percent of the labor force
is one of Jamaica's most serious economic and social problems.
11.      With the rising standard of living and the maintenance of
relative monetary and price stability, domestic saving has increased
rapidly and has financed the greater part of the country's gross
capital formation.   Since Independence the government has financed
more than two-thirds of its investment expenditure from public savings
and non-inflationary internal borrowing.



-3-
III. EDUCATION AND TRAINING
The Educational System
12.      The structure of the educational system and the educational
pyramid are shown in Annexes 1 and 2.   The Ministry of Education is
responsible for educational policy and for the administration of
government schools; its supervisory powers also extend to provate
and government-aided private institutions.   The management of each
school is in the hands of a school board.   In the case of the public
schools the board is appointed by the Ministry while the boards of
government-aided schools are appointed by the organizations sponsoring
them but include a minority representation of the Ministry.    Private
schools not receiving government aid had not been subject to any
government control but the Education Act of 1965 gives to the Ministry
of Education jurisdiction over them, including supervision, recognition
and legal action leading to disqualification.
13.      All Ministry services are located at headquarters in Kingston
with the exception of the inspectorate which is partly decentralized.
The inspectors are, in theory, entrusted with supervision and counselling
but their time is largely taken by administrative duties.   The numerical
strength and professional preparation of the inspectorate are inadequate
for effective service to the schools.   The Ministry appreciates this
weakness and is implementing measures to reorganize and strengthen its
supervisory services.
14.      A small planning unit was established in the Ministry recently.
A planning committee comprising representatives of the Ministries of
Education, Finance, Development and Welfare, Labor and Agriculture
supervises the activities of the planning unit and considers its pro-
posals.   It is expected that the Committee will facilitate coordination
of the educational program with the needs of both the public services
and the private sector in agriculture, industry and trade.   A special
unit in the Ministry collects educational statistics but its efficiency
is handicapped by inadequate and insufficiently trained personnel.
15.      The Ministry is availing itself of experts at the University
of the West Indies.   The University's Department of Education offers
courses leading to a diploma in education and the Institute of Education
participates in the study of educational problems, especially those
related to curriculum development.
Primary Education
16.      Primary education consists of five years of schooling -
normally 7 through 11 years of age.   After completion, a small number
of the students (about 10 percent) enter secondary schools of different
types, while the majority of the students attend three "senior" classes
appended to practically all primary schools.   In 1965, out of a total
of 723 primary schools, 26 were "junior" schools, restricted to the



five primary classes, 683 were "all-age'" schools having the five pri-
mary years and a three-year "senior" division.    Fourteen were "seniorlt
schools, catering for the 12 through 14 age group only.
17.      Some 223,000 students were enrolled in 1964 in the five
primary grades or 87 percent of the age group 7 through 11 (estimated
at 256,000); it is assumed that a large portion of the remaining 13
percent of the children attended private schools.   The same year,
enrollment in the "senior" or post-primary classes was 94,000 or about
75 percent of the age group 12 through 14 (estimated at 125,000).
It is noteworthy that enrollment in the "senior" classes and in the
three first years of secondary schools totalled some 107,000 and
represented about 85 percent of the age group 12 through 14 years.
Enrollments by age and grades are available for the year 1963 and are
given in Annex 3.
18.      The extended primary or "all-age" school has been helping the
pupils who are unable to enter secondary schools to consolidate the
knowledge acquired in the primary school.   The most capable among
these pupils are prepared in the "senior" classes for late entry to
the secondary level, especially technical, or in further "unofficial"
classes for entry into teacher training institutions.   However, the
system is far from ensuring effective post-primary education; the
"senior"t school program, lacking specialized teachers and equipment,
fails to appeal to the pupils and leads to marked absenteeism in the
upper senior classes.   Further, the task assigned to the primary schools
to serve both the regular primary and the "senior" division students
has aggravated the problems of these schools, namely, a high teacher:
student' ratio (1:58), over 40 percent of the teachers being unqualified,
and practically all primary schools being overcrowded.
Secondary Education
19.      Secondary schools are of different categories depending on
whether they aim at general (academic) education or at specialized
education and training.   The number of schools and enrollments are
given in Annex 4.
20.      Secondary High Schools offering a general program constitute
the core of secondary education.   There are 41 such schools with
some 18,500 students enrolled in Forms 1 to 5.   Examinations at the
end of the fifth year lead to the General Certificate of Education at
Ordinary ("0"1) Level.  This certificate qualifies for entrance to
such post-secondary institutions as the Teacher Training Colleges, the
College of Arts, Science and Technology and the Jamaica School of
Agriculture.   Some of the high schools offer two more years (lower
and upper Form 6) leading to the Higher Level Certificate required for
university entrance.   About 1,800 students are enrolled in these
forms.



-5-
21.      The teacher:student ratio is about 1:18; some two-thirds of
the qualified teachers hold university degrees and a further 23 percent
are trained primary school teachers.   WJith appropriate planning it
should be possible to increase the number of students by 30 percent
or to about 25 students per qualified teacher.    It is also estimated
that teaching spaces and staff in these schools could handle 20 percent
more students than at present.
22.      Comprehensive Schools - TAfo schools established in 1964 apply
the princTjile of a diversified curriculum to meet the different
interests and aptitudes of the students.   The diversified program is
introduced mainly in the fourth year after a common, exploratory
curriculum in the first three years.   Enrollment reached some 2,000
in the current year and the Ministry considers these schools as an
important experiment in the reform of secondary education.   A satis-
factory teacher:student ratio of 1:30 has been maintained in these
schools.
23.      Technical High Schools - Six schools of this type have been
established w7ith the purpose of providing a practically-oriented,
pre-vocational education to pupils selected from the senior forms of
the primary schools at the age of 13 or 14 years.    They offer four-
year courses, which include both general and technical or commercial
subjects.   Enrollment (1966) totals about 2,800.   In addition, the
schools offer evening classes in general subjects to about 3,000 adults
and day-release classes to some 400 apprentices.
24.      The Technical High Schools have often been used as a substitute
for general secondary education.   Further, the schools have experienced
difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified teachers of technical
subjects.   Under the proposed educational reform, these schools would
be expected to become technical sections of comprehensive schools and
the teacher supply would be also improved.
25.      Junior Secondary Schools - The government is in the process of
establishing junior secondary schools provided with laboratories and
workshops to replace the "senior" divisions of the primary schools.    As
a first step in this direction, the Ministry is taking action to
provide the existing 14 "senior" schools with additional facilities and
a revised curriculum to transform them into junior secondary schools.
The operation of these schools will provide valuable experience for the
expanded program and will help with the training of teachers.    The
present enrollment in these schools is about 13,000; two more such
schools are to begin operations in September 1966.
Post Secondary Education
26.      Teacher Training Colleges - There are six government-aided
teacher training colleges, one non-aided college and one junior teacher
training college.  IWhile some students entering the training colleges
have passed the GCE "0" level examination, the majority have lower
qualifications.   The course of study is designed for training "all



-6-
purpose" teachers, but some 50 students are trained each year for
teaching industrial arts and commercial subjects in the secondary
level grades.   In recent years some trainees have studied one or two
subjects in greater depth, and are able to teach in the lower forms
of secondary schools.
27.      In the past the duration of the course has been three years,
but students who enter the government-aided training colleges as from
September 1965 receive a twio-year course plus a year of supervised
teaching service.   The annual output of these colleges is 350
(including some 50 teachers who complete a special two-year course
for upgrading untrained teachers).   An additional 15 trained teachers
per year are provided by the non-aided college.    The junior training
college offers a 20-week course to some 300 trainees every year;  the
graduates are not classified as trained teachers, but completion of
the short course is recognized in salary classification.    Salary
increments are also given for the completion of various correspondence
courses.
28.      The College of Arts, Science, and Technology was founded in
1958 on a site of 35 acres, formerly belonging to the Jamaica School
of Agriculture.   New construction, including commerce, engineering,
science, and social buildings, together with appropriate equipment,
have been provided, largely with the help of United Kingdom funds.
29.      The College offers day and evening instruction in five main
fields: mechanical and electrical engineering; building and structural
engineering; science, including pharmacy; commerce, institutional
management. The duration of the engineering and pharmacy courses is
three years, while the business administration and institutional
management courses last for two years and the secretarial course for
one year.   In 1965, there were some 350 students taking full-time day
courses, 500 students in part-time day-release courses, and 800 evening
students.   Current output from day sessions totals some 115 per year.
Wastage has been excessive, and increased efforts are needed to
improve the passing rate.   This improvement should be assisted by the
Government program to raise the standards of secondary education.
Present and projected numbers and distribution among the several courses
are given in Annex 5.
30.      Full-time courses normally require entrants to have passed the
Ordinary Level of the General Certificate of Education of the United
Kingdom in not less than three subjects, one of which must be English
and the others in accordance with the requirements of the separate
departments.   A good deal of latitude is permitted in meeting these
requirements, particularly in science subjects since facilities for
science teaching are not uniform at the secondary level.
31.      The curricula are considered to be too theoretical and ill-
adapted to the objective of producing competent middle-level technicians.
The College is seeking advice in developing modern curricula emphasizing
practical instruction in industrial processes and organization.



-7-
32.      Evening studies have been successfully developed in commercial
and general education subjects but, except where combined with part-time
day release, have been less successful in engineering and building
subjects.   For these latter it is interesting to note the absence of
an entry examination and the substitution of a class test at the end
of eight weeks; failure in the test requires withdrawal from the class.
33.      Equipment of the laboratories and workshops is generally of
good standard and additional equipment is to be provided from U.K.
funds during the next few years.   The present staffing consists of
the principal (non-teaching, appointed full-time but continuing in
private practice), 5 heads of departments, and 35 lecturers of whom 2
are on study leave abroad.   The average number of teaching hours,
excluding overtime work for which additional payment is made, are 10
hours per week for heads of departments and 20 hours per week for
lecturers.   These hours are normal as are also the average class
size (20) and the overall staffg-student ratio (1 to 12.2, excluding
evening classes).
34.      The Jamaica School of Agriculture wzas founded in 1910 and is
administered by a Board of Trustees under the general supervision of
the MIinistry of Agriculture and Lands.  This school is the main source
of tecluical personnel for the Ministry of Agriculture, and for private
agricultural enterprises.   In addition, some of the graduates continue
further studies with the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of
the West Indies or at agricultural faculties in the United States and
Canada.   The duration of the course is three years.   Male applicants
who have passed the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
in four subjects, the Jamaica Second Certificate of Education, or any
equivalent examination are admitted to the school on the basis of a
competitive examination followjed by an interview.  The present student
body numbers 165 and 40-50 students graduate each year.
35.      The school facilities include a 77-acre tutorial farm and a
350-acre commercial farm.   Laboratories are also operated for instruction
in general sciences, soil chemistry and food technology but additional
laboratory space and equipment is needed for the expansion being planned
and also for a diversified program to meet the needs for various
categories of technicians and for university entrance.
36.      The teaching staff include (a) the principal, 4 senior
lecturers, 7 lecturers and assistant lecturers - all with university
degrees including 4 M.Sc. degrees, and (b) 2 demonstrators with
intermediate-level qualifications.   The present teacher:student ratio
of 1:12 is satisfactory for this type of institution.
37.      The Jamaica School of Agriculture has established the reputa-
tion of giving effective practical training.   However, the present
capacitiy,program and output of the school are inadequate to meet the
demand of the public services and the private sector for qualified
agricultural staff.   An expanded program will necessitate additional
physical facilities and expatriate specialists to supplement initially
the present staff and to train additional teachers.



Higher Education
38.      In 1960 only one out of 205 Jamaicans over age 25 was a
university graduate.   This compares with ratios of 1:118 in Trinidad,
1:146 in Barbados, 1:40 in Greece and 1:13 in the United States.
There are probably somewhat more than 3,000 Jamaicans currently
enrolled in universities.   This estimate includes 1,300 in the
University of the liest Indies (1965/66), 1,C50 in the United States
(1963/64), 300 in Great Britain (1963/64), and 300 in Canada (1961/62).
While current enrollment levels represent close to a 50 percent
increase during the past five years, enrollment per thousand of
population is still only one-third of the level prevailing in Greece,
a country with a similar level of per capita income.    The main
obstacle to increased enrollment in some faculties is the shortage of
qualified secondary school graduates.
39.      The University of the TlWest Indies, established in 1948, has
its main campus in Kingston, Jamaica, with branches in Trinidad and
Barbados.   First degrees in arts, natural science and social science,
are offered at all three centers; agriculture and engineering in
Trinidad;  medicine in Jamaica.   The University also offers one-year
diploma post-graduate courses and one-year certificate courses in
education, social work, public administration and trade union studies.
Advanced degrees are offered up to the Ph.D. level.    (Current enroll-
ment of Jamaicans by field of study is shown in Annex 6.)
40.      There are currently 56 Jamaicans enrolled in second degree
and diploma programs in education, plus a comparable number in similar
prograrns overseas.  With proper incentives it should be possible to meet
the requirements of secondary schools for graduate teachers, although
particular subjects, such as mathematics and physics, may continue to
require expatriate personnel.   The Institute of Education of the
University of the West Indies has been given responsibility for standards
of training in teacher colleges throughout the region.   The University
has also made important contributions in the development of textbooks
and other instructional materials designed to meet the local needs.
41.      Some 30 Jamaicans are enrolled in the Agricultural Faculty of
the University, including six following post-graduate study.    A
Regional Agricultural Research Center is also part of the University.
Measures are being taken by the University to integrate the Research
Center with the Agricultural Faculty.   The agricultural authorities
of Jamaica are anxious to coordinate their programs with the university
so as to ensure optimum technical support to the island's agricultural
industry.
42.      About 50 Jamaicans study engineering at the University of the
West Indies.   It is also estimated that another 100 or more students
follow similar studies in the USA, Canada and the UK.
43.      The University of the West Indies is financed in large part
by government contributions from the English-speaking countries of the



-9-
Caribbean.   The Jamaican share of these contributions is somewhat over
40 percent, but exceeds 80 percent of the recurrent costs of the
University Hospital.
Vocational Training
44.      The hnockalva Agricultural School and the Caron Hall Vocational
School for Girls, operated by the Ministry of Education, offer two-year
vocational courses in agriculture and home economics respectively.
Enrollment in each school totals about 100 students.   The results of
the courses have not been satisfactory and the Ministry has planned
extensive improvements.
45.      Three trade training centers are also operated by the Ministry
of Education in St. Andrew (Kingston), Port Antonio and Montego Bay.
They offer practical pre-employment training in six tiades.   The
duration of the training for most trades is one year.   Enrollment
totals about 360 and annual output is about 250 per year.   A small and
relatively ineffective apprenticeship scheme is operated under the
Ministry of Labor; some 450 apprentices were in the program in 1965
but enforcement of regulations and standards is minimal.
46.      Preliminary discussions have been held by the government and
the US AID concerning assistance in the development of trade training
centers.   Consideration is being given to integrating this training
with a revitalized apprenticeship program.
Financing of Education
47.      Between 1959/60 and 1965/66 the government's total expendi-
tures on education increased from $16.5 million to $27.9 million, the
preponderant increase being in recurrent expenditures.   As will be
seen in Annex 7, there has been little movement in the period 1959/60-
1964/65 in total annual educational recurrent expenditures as a
percentage of total national annual recurrent expenditures; there has
been a downward trend in annual capital expenditures on education as
a percentage of total capital budget.   Total recurrent educational
expenditures in 1964/65 amounted to 19.1 percent of the total recurrent
budget; capital expenditures to 6.0 percent of the total capital
expenditure budget; and recurrent and capital expenditures to 15.5
percent of the total recurrent and investment budget.   The distribution
of expenditure among the various categories is shown in Annexes 8 and
9.
48.      The percentage of the GNP represented by government expendi-
ture on education and training has increased from 2.8 percent in
1959/60 to 3.3 percent in 1964/65.   Private sector expenditure on
education, including fees and overseas grants, adds another 1½
percent of GNP spent on education (Annex 10).



-10-
IV. THE PROJECT
49.       The proposed project (Annex 11) consists of construction, equip-
ment and technical services for the following institutions:
Increase in Capacity
Estimated
Places   Percentage      Cost
Added     Increase    US$ million
College of Arty, Science
and Technology-                          390        110          1.3
Jamaica School of Agriculture-/          330        200          2.0
4 Teacher Training Colleges1/             675        50          1.1
50 Junior Secondary Schools!/         33,000          3/        15.o
Total                                                      19.4
50.       The project facilities would meet the immediate requirements for
certain categories of qualified manpower as well as the longer-term need
for an adequate flow of qualified entrants to higher education and suffi-
cient trainable people for middle-level posts. These needs and the con-
tribution of the project in meeting them are further discussed in the
sections treating the relevant project items.
51.       The foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at
$6.2 million, representing about 32 percent of the total estimated cost.
As mentioned in paragraph 104 below, it is proposed that the Bank finance
$9.5 million or 50 percent of the total project cost. Since this would
involve financing a part of the local cost, it is proposed, in order to
facilitate administration of the loan, that disbursements be made on the
basis of a percentage of the cost of agreed items in the project.
College of Arts, Science and Technology
52.       The proposed project provides for the addition of seven class-
rooms, library, lecture hall, assembly hall, two drawing offices and
17 rooms to be used as laboratories, workshops, and commercial classes;
1/ Additions to existing institutions.
2/ Five Junior Secondary schools are sited on the grounds of existing
schools.
/ All places in Junior Secondary schools are new.



-ll-
administration offices; a hostel for 50 female students; and six staff
houses. The project provides also for furniture, instructional equipment,
for technical services and site development. Costs of these facilities
and services are estimated to total $1.3 million. The proposed expansion
would enable the College to increase enrollment from 343 full-time students
to 735 and annual output from 110 to 245, as follows:
Current     Expanded    Current   Expanded
Courses                   Enrollment   Enrollment    Output     Output
Mechanical and Electrical
Engineering                 130           240        19         60
Building Engineering and
Structures                   61           115        10         30
Institutional MIanagement      27           65         12         25
Business Administration        50           155        19         451/
Secretarial                    48            95        42         6_V
Laboratory Technician           -            25         -         13
Pharmacy                       27           40          8         12
Total                    343           735       110        245
53.       It is expected that the present external assistance in teaching
staff will be continued and the recruitment of some 27 additional teachers
required for the expanded program should not present serious difficulties.
Hmoever, the proposed expansion makes urgent the need for the principal
officers to devote their full time to the administration of the College.
The College will also need to revise its curricula and syllabi in the
light of its expanded aims. Foreign specialists are provided by the pro-
ject (for a total of 15 man-months) to assist the College in this reorgani-
zation.
54.       Manpower Requirements - In 1964, the Department of Labor undertook
a survey covering all establishments employing 15 or more persons. While
not complete, the survey as summarized below indicates minimum requirements
for employees in various categories. The proposed expansion of CAST is
clearly within the immediate employment needs and opportunities.
1/ 30 after 2-year course, 15 after 3rd year of advanced training.
2/ 40 after 1-year course, 20 after 2nd year of advanced training.



-12-
Establishments Employing 15 or more Persons
2/     Current     Proposed
Number       Annua17     Output of   Output of
Employed   Requirements      CAST        CAST
Engineering Technicians         1/
and Draughtsmen            1,059-         100           29         90
Laboratory Technicians       513-/         40            -         14
Accountants and
Auditors                     617           50 )
Business - Administrative                     )         19          45
and Management Personnel   4,292          340 )
Stenographers and
Typists                    2,652          210          48          60
Institutional
Management                 Not Available                12         25
55.       In the field of engineering, CAST is the only institution pre-
paring higher-level technicians. In the secretarial field, private schools
may continue to supply the larger share of the economy's needs, but repre-
sentatives of the business community report that the secretaries trained by
CAST generally perform more satisfactorily than those trained in the private
schools. Although the great majority of business administrators would con-
tinue to be trained on the job, the training offered by CAST should make a
substantial contribution in this area; business representatives complain of
a dearth of middle-level management personnel.
56.       No information exists as to the need for people trained in insti-
tutional management but in two sample months (June 1965 and January 1966)
the government issued 26 work permits to foreign personnel following appli-
cations received from hotels. The proposed output of 25 per year in
institutional management should be easily absorbed.
57.       The I5inistry of Education program provides that CAST will
cooperate closely with two teacher training colleges (Mico and Shortwood)
in training technical and commercial subject teachers for the secondary
schools. Present plans provide for CAST to offer technical subject-matter
courses during two-three days per week over a period of two years.
1/ Based upon 1964 study for private sector, plus government establishment
figures.
2/ Assuming 7 percent annual increase for Lngineering Technicians, 5 per-
cent for other categories and 2- percent annual replacement.



-13-
58.       Under the planned expansion program, CAST's total annual intake
of full-time students will be 360. For the 1965-66 academic year 450
applicants for admission as full-time students met the minimum entrance
requirements.
Jamaica School of Agriculture
59.       The proposed project provides for a library, assembly hall,
lecture hall; 13 units of classrooms and laboratories; ten farm buildings;
administration offices; student hostels with 332 places; staff residences-
nine houses for families and six apartments for single teachers; and site
development. Further, the project provides for furniture, educational
equipment, farm machinery and transport. Costs of these facilities are
estimated to total $1.7 million. Technical services and overseas training
of teachers are also provided at an estimated cost of $0.3 million.
60.       The proposed increase of facilities would treble the capacity of
the school-from the present 170 places to 500 places-and would permit an
expanded and diversified program to meet the needs of both the public ser-
vices and the private agricultural sector. The following use is proposed
for the expanded facilities:
Enrollments
Annual
Courses                 I Year    II Year   III Year   Total   Output
2-year, men               35        30           -       65      30
3-year, men               95        88          82      265      80
3-year, women             45        40          35      120      30
Short Courses              -          -          -       50       1/
All Streams              175       158         117      500
61.       Confirmed manpower requirements fully justify the proposed expan-
sion of the Jamaica School of Agriculture. In an effort to accelerate
agricultural development, the government has allocated to the Ministry of
Agriculture one-third of the public investment planned for the period
1963-68. Various projects are to be implemented including advisory pro-
grams to help modernize the small- and medium-size farms. For this pur-
pose the Iiinistry estimates that it will need to employ, by 1970, some 400
technicians including women extension agents. Only men are being trained
presently and the output is insufficient to meet the demand; in the period
1961-64 the Ministry has been able to recruit an average of only 20 JSA
graduates per year.
1/ Facilities are provided for enrollment at any one time of 50 students
on short courses of duration varying from a few days to several weeks.
Some 20 courses would be held annually giving an output of 1,000 or so.



-114-
62.       There is also a large unfilled demand for JSA graduates in the
private sector. During 1961-64 the JSA was able to supply an average of
16 graduates per year to the private sector; in 1965 requests were made
for about 50 graduates, a number which would have been greater had it not
been known that the supply was limited.
63.       The recently revised curriculum for the senior division (age 12
through 14) of the all-age schools and for the new junior secondary schools
calls for practical projects in the school garden and related theoretical
studies aimed at giving youth some basic knowledge of agriculture and of
improved agricultural practices relating to the type of crops grown in the
community. This program will call for some 200 teachers of agriculture and
home economics to be trained during the next five years. During the period
1961-1965, only five JSA graduates per year could be supplied to the educa-
tional system.
64.       The number of men who will complete the diploma course is esti-
mated to reach 80 from the present 40 per year. This increased output
would help meet the needs of the Ministry of Agriculture and of the private
sector. It is also expected that a number of JSA graduates will be trained
as teachers of agriculture for the secondary schools.
65.       Under the new plan some 45 women students would be admitted every
year for training in both agriculture and home economics. The course would
last three years and graduates would be mainly employed in the extension
service, so tha,t advice to farm families would cover both the farm and the
home. A number of the women trainees may also be prepared as teachers of
agriculture and home economics.
66.       Graduates of the school have been in the past the main source of
university students in agriculture and this condition is expected to per-
sist for some time in the future. It is now planned to organize a special
stream for preparing selected students for higher education. The course
would take two years and arrangements have been made with the University to
reduce its course from three to two years for graduates of the school who
satisfy university entrance requirements. Some 30 agriculture students
would thus enter the University of the 'Wlest Indies every year so that the
output of degree-holding agriculturists would be trebled.
67.       The project provides for short courses on various subjects and of
different duration to give supplemental training to technicians employed by
the public services or private enterprises and also to train farmers in
modern equipment and techniques used in particular farm industries.
68.       In 1965 there were 265 male applicants for admission to JSA.   Of
these, 153 were qualified to take the entrance examination for the 56
available places. The expanded program provides for an intake of 145 male
and 45 femals students.  An adequate supply of candidates for the expanded
enrollment seems assured for the present, while higher levels of admission
and instruction may be expected with improvement in general education.



69.       Given the supply of qualified agriculturists and the technical
services and oversea.s training provided by the project (paragraph 83), it
should be easy for JSA to recruit and train in the next five years some
25 new tea.chers needed for the expanded program.
Junior Secondary Schools
70.       Fifty new junior secondary schools are proposed as pa.rt of a pro-
gram designed to provide within the next two decades three years of second-
ary education to the children who complete primary education but who are
now kept in the all-age schools for lack of secondary level institutions.
The "senior" classes of the prima.ry schools are unable to offer a program
which is adapted to the needs and potentialities of the children in this
age group. The generally small enrollments in the senior division of the
all-age school make it prohibitively expensive to establish the labora.-
tories and workshops required for effective modern education at this level
and to employ teachers with specialized training. "All-purpose" teachers
are now required to give instruction in subjects for which they have not
been prepared.
71.       Junior secondary schools centrally located so a.s to receive the
graduates of a number of primary schools would ensure efficient use of
physical facilities and specialist teachers for the operation of a program
which should (a) challenge the abilities and attract the interest of the
students; (b) acquaint them with various occupations so that they may dis-
cover their vocational interests; and (c) increase the flow of capable
students to upper secondary and higher education institutions. Thus, the
junior secondary schools should lead to a more balanced educational system
and to a better preparation of youths leaving school at the age of 15.   The
junior secondary schools would also reduce the need for expensive boarding
facilities by bringing genuine secondary education to the local communities,
72.       Another important feature of the junior secondary school is its
role in the community development programs of the Jamaican government as
propounded in the overall national development plans. There is a,conspicu-
ous need in Jamaica for the general upgrading of skills, and an equally
conspicuous lack of facilities for this purpose, particularly in the rural
areas. The junior secondary school, with its workshops and trained
teachers of practical subjects, is equipped and located to respond to re-
quests initiated by employers (agricultural estates, industrial complexes
and mines). The schools will function in the evenings as community cen-
ters with particular emphasis on extension classes to increase skills in,
e.g., plumbing, electricity, carpentry, metal working, building. The
schools are also to be tied in with apprenticeship training and further
education schemes for out-of-school adolescents.
73.       It is intended that 51,000 students will be in junior secondary
schools in the 1970/71 academic year. Of this number, 33,000 will be in
places provided through the project, 5,500 will be in new schools con-
structed by the government, and 12,500 will be in former "senior" schools



which will have been provided with the necessary facilities and staff for
conversion to junior secondary schools.  An additional 76,000 students
will continue to be enrolled in the "senior" classes of the primary schools
system, pending the construction of additional junior secondary schools
after 1970/71 (Annex 14).
74.       In view of the preparatory work that must be done, construction
is not expected to commence before June 1967. The limited capacity of the
construction industry has necessitated a reduction in the project as
originally requested so that construction may be completed by September
1970. The proposed junior secondary schools-excluding teacher houses and
technical services-are estimated to cost $12.8 million.
75.       It is essential to house some senior staff on the sites of schools
outside the Kingston Corporate area to organize and supervise evening ex-
tension activities for which the facilities are to be used. Housing for a
reasonable minimum number of staff for this purpose (an average of about
two per school) is estimated to cost $0.9 million; this has been included
in the project. This is 7 percent of the total cost of these schools.
Nore than half of the remainder can be housed in neighboring towns and
villages and it is considered that it is within the government's capability
to meet the additional need.
Upper-Cycle Secondary Education
76.       The proposed project does not provide directly for expansion of
secondary education beyond the junior level. However, the Ministry plans
to add by 1972 some 18,000 new places in existing secondary schools. A
further 4,000 places can be added as a result of more efficient use of
existing accommodation and teacher resources "paragraph 21). Assuming the
present distribution of students, enrollment in the upper secondary classes
would be doubled (from the present 11,000 to 22,000). This expansion would
adequately meet the needs for the immediate future; costs have been in-
cluded in the financial projections for education (paragraphs 102 to 105).
Teacher Training Colleges
77.       The project provides for additions in buildings and equipment to
four colleges training teachers for the primary and junior secondary
schools. The project item is estimated to cost $1.1 million and will in-
crease the capacity of the colleges as follows:



-17-
Present     Present    Proposed    New
Colleges               Enrollment    Capacity   Capacity   Places
In Project
Mico                     500         500         650       150
St. Jose p, Is           130          130        250       120
Moneague_/               100          100        380       280
Mandeville                 7a8/       125        250       125
808-3       855      1,530       675
78.       The proposed increase in capacity of the teacher training col-
leges together with the change in the course from three years to two years
of regular instruction and one year of internship would result in increasing
the output of trained teachers from 365 at present to 1,000 per year. The
government has assigned high priority to the teacher training program and
plans to expedite construction and procurement. It is thus expected that
this project item will be completed by April 1968.
79.       The increased output of trained teachers would make possible by
1972 student-teacher ratios of 50:1 in the primary grades; 45:1 in the
senior forms of the all-age schools still in operation and 35:1 in the
junior secondary schools. The current student-teacher ratio for the all-
age schools (junior and senior forms) is 58:1. The expanded training pro-
gram would also increase the percentage of trained teachers from the cur-
rent average of 58 percent to 75 percent by 1972 (65 percent for the
primary grades, and 100 percent for the senior forms and the junior second-
ary schools). In spite of these increases, some 250 new untrained primary
teachers will still have to be recruited each year (Annex 13).
80.       Sufficient qualified candidates seem to be assured for the ex-
panded program. Preliminary figures in February 1966 showed over 1,400
applications for admission to the teacher training colleges in September
1966. An additional source of applicants will be the estimated 500
students unlikely to meet university entrance requirements at their
"A"l-level examinations.
Technical Services and Overseas Training
81.       In the past, educational development was marked by extensive em-
ployment of foreign personnel for supplementing local resources at the
secondary, post-secondary and administrative levels. Since self-government
there has been less need for this dependence. However, the government re-
cognizes that the targets for its current educational program are obtain-
able only with a continued measure of technical expatriate support in key
sectors.
1/ College for upgrading untrained teachers.
2/ First year of college's operation.
3/ Two other teachers' colleges with a total enrollment of 475 are not
to be expanded.



-18-
82.       In its initial stages CAST has depended largely upon expatriate
staff from the United Kingdom. Significant progress has been made in the
appointment of Jamaicans to the teaching staff, including the post of
principal, but expatriates still head four of the five departments. Foreign
specialists are provided by the project (for a total of 15 man-months) to
assist the College administration in revising the curricula and implementing
the new expanded program.
83.       The teaching staff of JSA including the Principal, are all
Jamaicans. Occasional assistance is received under the U.S. and U.K. aid
programs. The expanded program will require additional expatriate special-
ists to assist the school to (a) revise and develop syllabuses, (b) train
JSA teachers on the job, (c) establish collaboration with the research pro-
gram, (d) operate a pilot extension program to serve as a laboratory for
research and training purposes, and (e) help in training agriculture teachers
for the secondary schools. The project provides for eleven man-years of
specialists in various subjects of agriculture and home economics such as
crop production, animal husbandry, nutrition, agricultural education, farm
management and marketing. The project provides also for five one-year
fellowships for training teachers abroad. Costs of the above technical
services for JSA are estimated to total $0.3 million.
84.       For the new junior secondary school program the government has
concluded a technical assistance agreement with the United States Agency
for International Development providing for a team of education specialists
(a total of approximately 4O man-years) to assist the Ministry of Education
and the institutions concerned to: (i) develop suitable curricula; (ii) de-
velop an effective program to train teachers for the new schools; (iii) pre-
pare and test textbooks and teaching rmaterials adapted to local needs;
(iv) establish suitable organization and procedures for the supervision and
in-service training of teachers; and (v) strengthen the organization and
develop the staff of the Ministry of Education for effective administration
and supervision of the expanded program. The agreement also provides for
the training abroad of Jamaican specialists (six grants for a total of
eighti man-years). The agreement provides $0.8 million for a period of two
years. Another $0.5 million is expected to be required for a third year,
which might also be provided for by AID.
85.       Some teacher trainers from abroad are employed in the teacher
training colleges. The government intends to continue encouraging this
practice in the aided colleges.
Administration
86.       The accomplishment of the educational objectives of the project
will depend on the development of an appropriate organization to administer



-19-
the expanded programs. The following are some of the major requirements of
such an organization:
(a) Strengthening of the Ministry of Education statistics
and planning services to ensure that all necessary in-
formation is assembled and constant educational planning
is carried on in order that efficient use of resources
and a balanced development of the educational system may
be achieved.
(b) Development of a supervisory service capable of, and giving
its full time to, assisting the schools to improve their
instruction and to use all available means for developing
their personnel. Separate competeiit services of the Ministry
should deal with purely administrative work.
(c) Government educational policy emphasizing coordination of
the program of the University of the West Indies in the
field of education with the teacher training colleges and
the Ministry services especially those concerned with
planning and with supervision and in-service training of
teachers.
(d) A program and facilities to produce textbooks and teach-
ing materials adapted to local requirements.
(e) Agricultural policy and administrative arrangements
assuring the effective use of the services of the Agri-
culture Faculty of the University of the Wlest Indies in
the development of integrated research, extension and
education programs.
Government assurances on the above have been obtained during negotiations.
School Sites
87.       The Jamaica School of Agriculture, the College of Arts, Science
and Technology, and the Teacher Training Colleges at Moneague,'Mandeville,
St. Joseph's and Mico are expansions of existing schools on land owned by
the schools. The sites are satisfactory. Five of the junior secondary
schools are to be built on suitable sites belonging to existing secondary
schools with which they are to be associated. The remaining 45 junior
secondary schools are to be built on new sites. As at July 1966, 16
sites had been selected of which ten had been acquired. Satisfactory
arrangements are in operation for the selection and acquisition of the
remaining sites and the rate of progress gives assurance that this will
be completed by the end of 1967, in ample time to meet the requirements
of the construction schedule (Annex 12).



-20-
School Buildings
88.       The general standard of design of existing government schools is
modest and reflects stringent economy in capital costs; it is weakest in
its provision of scientific and technical facilities and takes little
account of maintenance. The schools to be built under this project will
be designed to avoid these deficiencies. In the estimate of recurrent
expenditure for the project schools, the government assumed a generous
annual allocation for maintenance equal to 2.5 percent of construction
costs. However, in view of poor standards of maintenance in school build-
ings visited by the Bank mission, assurances have been given that build-
ings financed by the Bank will be regularly maintained in accordance with
an approved routine schedule.
89.       The size of the new junior secondary school program warrants a
comprehensive review of existing data before finalizing standard designs.
With Unesco assistance, a satisfactory start has been made with the pre-
paration of economic space standards for this program. Environmental
standards and criteria for maintenance will be established in the design
stages. The accommodation proposed for expanding the existing colleges
and schools meets the needs economically.
90.       Professional and technical resources within government are in-
sufficient to design and supervise the construction of the project.
Accordingly, satisfactory local firms of architects have been selected
for the expansions of the post-secondary institutions, and a foreign firm
has been selected for the junior secondary schools.
91.       Contracts of over L10,000 have to be approved by Cabinet.   Stan-
dard forms of building contracts conform to good professional practices.
92.       The building industry includes a dozen firms which have associa-
tions with larger firms abroad and are competent to construct the project
facilities in accordance with acceptable standards. However, skilled
labor is scarce, particularly of site foremen, and productivity is some-
times as low as one-fifth of U.S. standards. The materials/labor ratio
was about 3:2 before recent increases in labor costs, but is now approach-
ing 1:1. The uncertainty and low productivity of labor and the scattered
nature of construction sites may tend to discourage international bids.
These considerations were a deciding factor in the decision to reduce the
number of junior secondary schools in the proposed project to 50 from the
66 originally requested.
Instructional Equipment and Furniture
93.       Provisional lists have been prepared and, as revised during the
project appraisal, are satisfactory for realistic cost forecasting. With
the help of expatriate specialist teachers, these lists will be reviewed
and master lists prepared for procurement.



-21-
Cost Estimates
94.       Building cost estimates for the proposed project (Annex 11) have
been based on an analysis of recently completed contracts for school build-
ings of simple design using modest specifications. Land acquisition costs
have not been included in the project. A contingency of 12 percent has
been added to the cost of the project as a whole to take into account future
rises in building costs and a possible margin of error in the estimates.
Unit costs per student place are difficult to establish for the expansion
of the existing post-secondary boarding institutions, but a reasonable
estimate is in the order of $3,880 for the Jzrmaica School of Agriculture,
$2,480 for the College of Arts, Science and Technology, and $1,610 for the
teacher training colleges. In the case of the junior secondary day
schools, the average cost per student place is $280. These costs are
moderate in the context of Jamaica and are acceptable.
95.       The general distribution of the reimbursable project costs is
54 percent for academic buildings and common facilities, 12 percent for
site development, 10 percent for instructional equipment, 9 percent for
furniture, 6 percent for students' hostels, 7 percent for staff housing
and 2 percent for technical services. Although a relatively high propor-
tion of the costs is for site development, this distribution is reasonable.
Site development costs for the post-secondary institutions have been based
on the requirements of the individual sites and, in the case of the teacher
training colleges, include substantial improvements to the overall sanitary
arrangements. The cost of site development for the junior secondary
schools has been determined by taking the 16 sites already selected, which
were the best available in each particular location, to be a representative
sample of the problems likely to be encountered. These costs can be con-
sidered to be reasonable in the particular circumstances.
96.       Essential staff housing for the junior secondary schools has been
provided at each school for the administrative personnel required to live
on the premises (see paragraph 75). The cost of this housing is 7 percent
of the total cost of these schools. At the post-secondary institutions,
houses for key staff have been provided in the past in varying numbers ac-
cording to the essential needs for resident personnel, the remoteness of
the school's location and the extent of existing accommodation. A limited
amount of housing, therefore, has been provided in the project to ensure
successful recruiting of additional key personnel for the expanded insti-
tutions. The cost of the housing provided is 4 percent of the total cost
of these institutions.
97.       The foreign exchange component is expected to be 95 percent of
the cost of instructional equipment, 20 percent of construction costs,
70 percent of the fees payable to foreign-based consultants, and 75 per-
cent of the cost of technical services. On this basis the total estimated
foreign exchange required for the project is $6.2 million equivalent.



-22-
98.       Within the limits of available data the following table fore-
casts the accumulative percentage of the Loan for which applications
would be made to withdraw Loan funds:
1966     1967     1968      1969       1970
0-5%      15%    45.0%     8o0e%       100%
Implementation
99.       A Project Coordinator satisfactory to the Bank has been appointed
to administer the project as a whole, coordinate bilateral sources of
assistance to conform with project schedules, and submit to the Bank regu-
lar progress reports and withdrawal applications as they fall due. The
Bank's consent will be sought on any changes in this appointment.
100.      A qualified Project Architect, acceptable to the Bank, has been
appointed to assist the Project Coordinator in arranging that architects
are properly briefed, that their submissions are considered and approved
by cormpetent authorities, that the progress of construction is reported
regularly, and that construction schedules are fully taken into account in
the programning of equipment and furniture procurement.   The Bankts con-
sent will be sought on any changes in the appointment of the Project Archi-
tect.
Procurement
101.      All major construction and equipment procurement contracts will
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. It is pos-
sible, however, that the small size of construction contracts and the un-
certainty and low productivity of local, labor may tend to inhibit active
international participation in the bidding for construction contracts.
Finance
102.      The Ministry of Finance has projected recurrent and capital ex-
penditure of the Ministry of Education for the next five years, based upon
planned improvements and expansion in the education system including the
proposed project. This projection showed that if the total Jamaican recur-
rent budget increased at the rate of 7 percent per annum, the proportion
of the recurrent budget allocated to the Ministry of Education would in-
crease from its present estimated level of 15.7 percent to 21.1 percent
in 1970/71. This is in line with the expenditures on education made by
many other countries, but such an increase would require strenuous efforts
to limit other sectors of the budget. There appear, however, to be oppor-
tunities for considerable economies in operational expenditures. The
maintenance of teacher-student ratios at 1:18 in secondary grammar schools
is an unnecessary luxury which would make any substantial expansion in the



-23-
secondary system unduly burdensome. The L40 per capita cost projected for
the junior secondary schools in 1970/71 also appears excessive.  With a
teacher-pupil ratio of 1:35, teachers' costs in the junior secondary
schools will average L22 per pupil to which must be added maintenance and
operation costs of about L13, giving a total cost of O35 per capita.
These cost reductions combined with the reduction in the size of the pro-
ject would enable the government to achieve its quantitative and qualita-
tive goals in educational development without increasing the Ministry of
Education's share beyond 19 percent of total recurrent expenditure. This
proportion would ease the pressures on other sectors of the budget and
should be within the financial capabilities of the Jamaican governmrent.
The projections, which a.re exclusive of all salary increases, are summarized
below and details of the assumptions used are given in Annexes 8, 9 and 15.
The government has agreed to take the steps which have been indicated to
keep educational recurrent expenditure within the limit of 19 percent as
indicated in column (3) below.
Ministry of Education Recurrent Budget
Jamaican    Finance
Recurrent   Ministry               Modified
Budget    Projection             Projection
Year             (1)         (2)      (2) -. (1)    (3)      (3) 4 (1)
;   o000   1 000                 :6000
1964/65          43,555      6,724      15.4%       6,724      15.4%
1965/66 (est.)   45,518      7,160      15.7        7,160      15.7
1966/67          48,700      7,840      16.1        7,700     15.8
1967/68          52,100      8,466      16.2        8,500      16.3
1968/69          55,700      9,882      17.7        9,400      16.8
1969/70          59,600     11,661      19.6       10,500      17.6
1970/71          63,800     13,470      21.1       11,700     18.3
1971/72          68,300        -          -        12,800      18.8
1972/73          73,100        _          _        13,900     19.0
103.      Of the L6.7 million increase in recurrent costs between 1965/66
and 1972/73, L1.1 million is directly attributable to the project. Of the
remaining L5.6 million, L2.0 million is due to increase in junior and upper
secondary places outside the project; L1.5 million to higher enrollments in
primary schools as a result of population increase; L1.9 million to smaller
class sizes, better-qualified teachers, and higher operating costs in res-
pect of "senior" schools converted to junior secondary schools; and I0.2
million to miscellaneous increases.
lo4.      It is proposed that the Bank finance $9.5 million or about 50 per-
cent of the project cost. This is considered justifiable in order that the
financial burden for this significant educational development would not be



excessive for the government which has already been maintaining a fairly
high level of expenditure in education (paragraphs 47 and 48). As indi-
cated in Annex 9, projected capital expenditures by the NMinistry of
Education during the implementation of the proposed project (1966/67 to
1969/70) total about $27.6 million. Hence, even allowing for $4h0 million
which is expected to be forthcoming under bilateral aid programs and Bank
financing of 50 percent of the cost of the proposed project, the Mvlinistry
would still be undertaking an annual average capital expenditure of $3.8
million as compared with an average of $2.5 million over the previous five
years, i.e., an increase of over 50 percent. If the government were to
assume all local costs, its capital expenditure for education during the
next four years would need to increase by over 90 percent from the present
rate.
105.      In order to assess the long-term financial implications of the
government program for educational development, recurrent education costs
have been projected to 1980 (Annex 16). While forecasts for so long a
period must be viewed with considerable reservation, the exercise shows
that the proposed educational targets should not unduly strain the govern-
ment budget if revenue continues to grow at the rate of the past decade.
Estimates are based on the assumption that by 1980 some 90 percent of the
children will complete junior secondary education and that enrollment in
upper secondary classes (estimated at 36 percent of the age group) would
have reached 55,000 from the present 11,000 pupils. The projection shows
that under these conditions, the Ministry of Education's share of the total
recurrent budget would not exceed 20 percent.



-25-
V.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
106.      The facilities to be constructed under the proposed project
are required in order to meet the immediate needs for certain
categories of manpower, and to strengthen the educational system so
as to assure an adequate flow of qualified students for higher
education and training for middle-level positions.
107.      The primary school system cannot provide the type of
education adapted to the needs and capabilities of the 12 through 14
age group. The junior secondary schools to be constructed under the
project represent a reasonable first step in the transfer of this age
group from the primary to the secondary school system over a 15-year
period (paragraphs 70-72).
108.      The additional teacher training college places to be
constructed under the project are required in order to meet the
staffing needs of the new junior secondary schools, and to provide
for a gradual upgrading of the teaching force in the primary schools
(paragraph 79).
109.      The additional places to be constructed at the College of
Arts, Science and Technology, and at the Jamaica School of Agriculture,
will help to improve the efficiency of industrial and agricultural
enterprises, reduce dependence on expatriates for technical personnel,
and provide the personnel required by the Ministry of Agriculture for
its programs aimed at raising agricultural productivity (paragraphs 54-
56, 61-65).
110.      The recurrent costs generated by the education program are
within Jamaica's financial capabilities (paragraph 102).
111.      There is an adequate number of competent contractors in
Jamaica to carry out the project. While the available Jamaican
architectural firms are able to undertake the design and supervision
of the post-secondary portions of the project, the services of a
foreign firm with more resources than available locally have been
obtained for the junior secondary school program (paragraphs 90 and
92).
112.      A project coordinator and a project architect acceptable to
the Bank have been appointed on a full-time basis (paragraphs 99 and
100).
113.      The list of equipment to be procured is adequate and cost
estimates are reasonable. The proposed procurement procedures are
satisfactory (paragraphs 93 and 101).
114.      The following confirmations and assurances have been



-26-
obtained from the Government during negotiations:
(i)    Assurances on the develo,xnent of an appropriate
organization to administer the expanded programs
(paragraph 86);
(ii)   Confirmation on the reduction in the proposed level
of recurrent expenditures for secondary (grammar)
schools and junior secondary schools (paragraph 102);
(iii) Confirmation on the use of local and foreign firms of
architects for the design and supervision of the
construction of the project, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 90);
(iv)   Assurances on the use of international competitive
bidding for major construction and all equipment
supply contracts (paragraph 101);
(v)    In addition to the usual assurance that the
government will provide all funds necessary to
complete the project, assurances that the government
will include in its yearly budgets sufficient fands
for the operation of the proposed project and the
adequate maintenance of school buildings and
facilities (paragraphs 88 and 102).
(vi)   Assurances that the Principal of CAST shall be
wiholly employed in its administration and conduct
and shall not normally engage in other professional
practices (paragraphs 33 and 53).
115.      In view of the assurances referred to above, the project
forms a suitable basis for a Bank loan. The proposed amount of the
loan is $9.5 million with a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of five years.
September 8, 1966



JAMAICA: THE EDUCATIONAL AND TRAINING SYSTEM, 1966
SECONDARY HIGH SCHOOLS           GCE                GCE
COMMON ENTRANCE         I        H                                                             vIt
3rd YEAR IN TEACHER TRAINING IS "INTERNSHIP"                                                                           COLLEGE OF
ARTS -SCIENCE -TECHNOLOGY
2nd YEAR IN TRAINING CENTERS AVAILABLE ONLY IN FEW TRADES                                                          I        I3
PART-TIME OR EVENING CLASSES MOSTLY IN COMMERCIAL
gm AND SECRETARIAL SUBJECTSCOPENSVSHOL
GCE "O"- GENERAL CERTIFICATE OF EDUCATION "ORDINARY"                      I    _       _                                    JAMAICA SCHOOL
OF AGRICULTURE
GCE "A"- GENERAL CERTIFICATE OF EDUCATION "ADVANCED"                              JUNIOR                               {    3
SECONDARY SCHOOL                           TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES
H9H~TEHNIA HIHSCOL
EXAMINATIJON,
PRIMARY SCHOOL (JUNIOR DIVISION)                                         CRSPD/C             APPRENTICESHIP<
}                                               +   3'          C          _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ON-TAHNE-SPOT 
PRIMARY SCHOOL            C'OURSES            TRAINING 
(SENIOR DIVISION)
TRADE TRAINING CENTERS
SCHOOL YEAR        I        2        3        4         5        6        7         8        9        10       I1       12        13       14        15
AGE               6         7        8         9       10       I1        12       13        14       15       16        17       18       19        20
z
z
(R) IBRD -3037,



JAMAICA: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
ENROLLMENT IN PUBLIC AND GOVERNMENT-AIDED SCHOOLS
1964
FORM
UPPER 6     841
PRIMARY
LOWER 6     948                                                             SENIOR DIVISION PRIMARY AND SENIOR SCHOOLS
5        4,63SECONDARY
4 
3
2
GRADE
S 30                                          45,998'    2.i                    1 
2                  ..   ..  .  :  .   4~~~~~~~~~~V '49,1 18   .
:I: .... ... .. . ... 55,047
0               1 0,000           20,000             30,000            40,000             50,000            60,000
z
NOTE  Differences in enrollment by sex are negligible and, therefore, no distinction by sex is shown                Z
IBRD - 3117 x
N



JAMAICA
PRE-SCHOOL & PRIMARY EDIJCATION-G0VERNPiENT AND GOVERNMENT AIDED SCHOOLS
A.  19631/                                   Detailed Enrollments for 1963, and 1964 Totals
A. 1963_/
Infant Division                        Junior Division                                 Senior Division
Age                                 :::otals
Total                1        2        3        4         5     Total  :Form 1 Form 2 Form 3       Total      :
4                  1,082                     -            -        -         -       _        _       _       _                     1,082
5                  3,781           :-                          -                     - _  _  _  _                                   3,781
6                  3,350                823       21      -        -         -        844     -       _       _         _        :   4,194
7                    5440            35,594    8,128      887       62        6    44,677     -       -       -         -          85,217
8                  _                 11,502   22,226    7,850      926      107    42,611     -       -       -         - :42,611
9                    -                2,455   10,794   19,686    6,624    1,163   40,722         9       2    -           11     :40,733
10                    _                  611    2,790   10,444   18,366    6,660   38,871        68      19    -           87       38,958
11                    -                  100      627    3,027    9,520    15,455   28,729      889     179      24     1,092        29,821
12                                        24      146      742    2,894     6,800   10,606   17,829   7,090   1,586    26,505        37,111
13                    -                    1      -          1       14        41       57    7,178  12,712   6,670    26,560        26,617
14                    -                  -                 -        -           5        5    2,116   5,591  13,074    20,781        20,786
15 and                -                           _        _                                    255     981   4,923     6,159         6,159
over
Total                9,383            51,110   44,732   42,637   38,406    30,237  207,122   28,344  26,574  26,277   81,195        297,070
B.  19614
Total                9,988            55,047   49,118   45,998   41,300    31,645  223,108   33,658  29,669  30,999   94,326        330,3803/
1/ Excludes 8,999 students enrolled in Senior Schools (Forms 1-3).
2/ Includes 9,297 students enrolled in Senior Schools.
3/  Total includes 2,958 students in schools which did not report subdivision by grade.



JAMAICA
SECONDARY LEVEL ENROLLMENT - 1964
Form I     Form II     Form III      Form IV     Form V     Form VI     Form VI           Total
______                  (Lower)     (Upper)
A. SecondaVy High Schools
Age
10                        342         23          -             --                                                  365
11                      1,369        638          28           --           __         __          __             2,035
12                     1499       1,482         547            4            1         --          --             3,533
13                        376      1,477       1,347          485           23         --          __             3,708
lh4                        22        331       1,172        1,263          363         17          --             3,168
15                          2         17         423        1,269        1,105        178          33             3,027
16                         --          4          49          569        1,209        393         146             2,370
17                                     1           4          154          685        263         317             1,424
18                         --         --          --            18         259         97         345               719
TOTAL  (41 Schools)            3,610      3,973      3,570          3,762       3,645        948          841           20,349
B. Comprehensive Schools
TOTAL   (2 Schools)              136        520         278           325          33         --           --            1,292
C. Secondary Technical Schools
TOTAL  (6 Schools)                --        473         716           711         559          __          __            2,459
D. Vocational Schools
TOTAL   (5 Schools)               --         --           --          434         126         __                           560
GRAND TOTAL            24,660



COLLEGE OF ARTS, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Present and Projccted Entry and Output of Full-time Students
;rojected     Total Lnrollment       Annual Output
Course           Years     entry      Present   Projected   Present   Projected
iIechanical eng.      3                     69        122         11          30
96
Electrical eng.       3                     61        122          8          30
Building              3                     61         61         10         15
48
Structural eng.       3                    nil         61        nil         15
Pharmacy              3         16          24         42         11         12
Lab. Technicians      2          20        nLl         36        nil         14
Business Admin.       2                     50        132         19         30
72
Business Admin.(adv.) 1                    nil         18        nil         15
Secretarial work      1                     48         72         42         40
72
Secretarial work(adv) 1                    nil         24        nil         20
ienstitutional
Management         2          36         24         64         12         25
Totals               360         343        754        113        246
Part-time Students (1965 - 1966)
Total Enrollment
Course           Years     Evening     Day       Period of Day Attendance
hiechanical eng.    1 - 5        nil        204       1 day per week
Electrical eng.     1 - 5         89         72       1 day per week
L'uilding           1 - 5         15         92       1 day per week
ComE.erce           1 - 3       422          65       1 day per week
Teacher training    1 - 2        nil         56       3 days per week (av.)
Languages           1 - 2         84        nil
"A" level science   1 - 2       180         nil
Totals                   793         489



ANNEX
UNIVERSITY OF THE WEST INDIIS
1965 Enrollment and Admissions
of Jamaican Students1
New Admissions     Total Enrollment
(a) Degree Courses
Arts (day)                                     95                 236
Arts (evening)                                 83                 156
Natural Sciences (day)                         51                 198
Natural Sciences (evening)                     48                  83
Social Sciences                                53                 145
Medicine                                       43                 153
Agriculture                                    13                  22
Engineering                                    26                  49
Total Degree Students               412              1,042
(b) Non-Degree Courses
Certificate of Education                       18                  18
Certificate of Social Work                      6                  11
Public Administration                           5                   5
Preliminary Science                           124                 127
International Relations                         4                   4
Total Non-Degree Students           157                165
(c) Post Graduate Courses
Diploma in Lducation                                               17
M. A. in Education                                                 21
Arts                                                               12
Natural Sciences                                                   23
Social Sciences                                                    16
Medicine                                                            6
Agriculture                                                         6
Total Post Graduate Students                           101
1/ Lnrollment a.s of 10/65 and admissions for 65/66.



JAMAICA
EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION AND TRAINING 1959/60 THROUGH 1965/66
(vith percentages of total goverrnent expenditure)
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE (in   000)                                     T
Year                Total                  Ministry                                       Other                               -       otal
Recurrent                   of                                       Educational                                Educational
Expenditure              Education               (2) I (1)            Expenditure           (3) I (1)            Expenditure          (14)   (1)
(1)                     (2)                                           (3)                   '                    (4)
1959/60              26,379                  4,314                   16.4%                  600*                 2.3%                4,900                 18.6%
1960/61              28,201                  4,670                   16.6                   800*                 2. 8                5,500                 19.5
1961/62              31,567                  5,179                   16.4                   850*                 2.7                 6,ooo                 19.0
1962/63              35,704                  5,722                   16.0                   778                  2.2                 6,500                 1 .2
1963/64              38,042                  5,818                   15.3                 1,40l                  3.7                 7,219                 19.0
1964/65              43,555                  6,724                   15.4                 1, 592                 3.7                 8,316                 19.1
1965/66 (Est.)       45,518                  7,160                   15.7                 1,7 46                 3.8                 8,906                 19.6
* Jamaica's share of University of West Indies expenditure is estimated for these years.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE (in L 000)
Year                Total                  Ministry                                       Other                                      Total
Capital                    of                                       Educational                                Educational
Expenditure              Education               (2) * (1)            Expenditure          (3) J (1)             Expenditure           (4) 1 (1)
(1)                     (2)                      *                    (3)                  *                     (4)
1959/60              U,011                   1,015                    9.2%                   23                   .2%                 1,038                  9.4%
1960/61              10,680                    993                    9.3                     5                   ---                  998                   9.3
1961/62              11,126                    909                    8.2                    14                  0.1                   923                   8.3
1962/63              12,155                    892                    7.3                     4                  ---                    896                  7.4
1963/64              12,770                    726                    5.7                   318                   2.5                 1,044                  o.2
1964/65              16,732                    862                    5.2                   140                  0.8                  1,002                  6.0
1965/66 (Est.)       19,099                    968                    5.1                   103                   0.5                 1,071                  5.6
TOTAL EXPENDITURE  (CAPITAL AND RECURRE4T)
(in L. 0co)
Year                Total                   Ministry                                      Other                                      Total
Expenditure                  of                                      Educational                                Educational
Education              (2)   (              Expenditure           (3): (1)             Expenditure
(1)                     (2)                                          (3)                   *                     (4)
1959/60              37,390                   5,328                  14.2%                  600*                  1.6%                5,900                 15.8%
1960/61              38,880                  5,663                   14.6                    800*                 2.1                 6,500                 16.7
1961/62              42,693                  6,o88                    14.3                   850*                 2.0                 3,900                 16.2
1962/63              47,859                  6,616                    13.8                  7W2                   1.6                 7,'o7                 15.4
1963/64              50,813                  6,54                     12.9                 1,719                  3.4                 0,265                 16.3
1964/65              60,287                   7,586                   12.6                 1,7,2                  2.9                 9,317                 15.~
1965/66 (Est.)       64,618                   8,128                   12.6                 1,8/9                  2.9                 0,077                 IS.S
7 Jamaica's s'tare of University of the :est 'nd1es expenditure is estimated for these years.



JAnAICA
REWUhRHNT XPEUOITURE FOR EDOCATION AND TRAINIUS (in L 000)
PROJEClTED EXPE1DTTURE
MINISTRY OF YDUCATION                  1959/60   1960/61    1961/62   1962/63    1963/64   1964/65   1965/66      1906/67          1YO71E                  N 196B/69  1969/70         1970/71        19772   19m2/73
(est)                                                                                            _
AIUMNISTRATION                               232         257       257       281       300        323       302          308              314             320               326              332            340       345
PRIIIR (including Senior
Schools through 1966/67)               2,575      2,645     2,806     2,949      3,156     3,735      3,867       3,990            4, 290          4,6 55           4,995             5,323          5, 730    6,0o0
JINIOR SiONDARY SCHOOLS
(including coverted Senior Schools)     --          ---                                                             285              570             835            1,185             1,535          1,885      2,235
SECONDRY (Orar-mr & Comprehensive)           805         944     1,l38     1,213      1,286     1,469      1,487       1,560            1,655           1,735            1,805             1,880          2,060      2,300
SECONDARY TZICNICAL AND VOCATIONAL                               (295        349        384       156       514          510              500             530              725             1,045          1,270      1,330
173        193 
COLLIGE OY ARTS, SCIENCE AND TZHNLOLY        13                    52        62         76         95       105         1i5               125            io               175                195           205        215
TEACHR TRAINING                              21.8        274       307       331        345       347       507          560              625             700              775                810           825        840
HIGHF EDUCATION                               31          71       99        406       2143       1in       131          142              154             171              194                200           215        230
YO1TH CORPS                                   98          98       101       ---        ---       -         ---          ---              ---             ---              ---                ---           ---        ---
LIBRARINE                                     75          81       94         95        97        103       131          129              138             146              154                162           170         180
OTHER                                         77         107        50        36         31        85       316          107              118             140              162                184           195         210
TOTAL MINISTRY OF EBJCATION               4,314      4,670     5,179     5,722      5,818     6,724      7,160       7,706            8,489           9,375            10,496            11,663         12,840     13,925
% Of TOTAL BEURREgN   PNMOIITURg            16.4S      16.6%     16.4S     16.0%      15.3% S    5.U       15.7%     15.8%            16.3t           16.8%             17.6%             18.3%          18.8%      19.05
JAMAICA SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE                 5O          53       61         62         71        75         80          85              l11             136               146              na..           n.a.      n.a.
UMIVEZEITY OF iEST INDIESZ                    200        300       300       ---        522       631       631           N
UNIVERSITY HOSPITALY./                        126        135       161       203        272       320        336              T
SCHOLIAISHIPS AND TRAINING
(Mlnistry of Finance)                     95         129       155       198        199       173        244               A
v
ALUDLNCE TO NUSES IN TRAINID                   71        109        93       142        152       183        185                   A
TOUTH CORPS                                  -                     ----102              102       310        145                     L
A
OTrHEH                                        60          75        69        n          83       100        125                        a
L
TOTAL OTrHR MINISTRIES                      602        801       839       778      1,.401    1,592      1,746
% of TOTAL RNEURRENT BCPRDTURt              2.3%       2.8%      2.7%      2.2%       3.7%      3.7%       3.8%
TOTAL EXPmINTUJR ON EAUCATION AND
TRAINING                                  4,916      5,471     6,018     6,500      7,219     8,316      8,906
NO0T   A VA IL A BLE
S OF TOTAL RNEURRDiT ZEDITUHE                18.6%      19.41     19.1%     18.2%      19.0%     19.1%      19.6%
TOTAL JAMAICAN GOVERIDIT R    RsNT
EXPENDITURE I4                          26,379     28,201    31,567    35,704     38,042    43,555     45,518       48,700           52, 30          55,700           59,6o0            63,800          68,300   73,100
NOTES:
V   The major modifications to the Miimstry of Finance aasueptions are shown below, together with the effect o the 1970/71 budget projections:.
Reduction from Ministry of Finance 1970/71 Projection
a) Junior Secondary Schools are coated at 1, 35 per place rather than L 40.                                                  250,000
b) Secondary School cost per place is reduced gradually to B 60 o the assumption that student-teacher
ratica will increase fron 18:1 to 23-1.                                                                                  250,000
c) Only 7/12 of the ncreased costs of each acadesic year are shown in that fiscal year, with the
remaining 5/12 reflected in the following fiscal year.                                                                   .00,00o
d) Cost reductions for C.A.S.T. and teachers training colleges.                                                              100,000
e)  32,000 fewr students arm transfered from the Pri-ry Schools to the Junior Secondary 9chools.                             550S000
f)  Only 50  of 6 year old. are s school by 1970.                                                                            750,000
Total           L,P00D
The Figures for admin-stratioo, higher education, libraries, and other are fro. the Ministry of vinonce projection. Details of the projection of other items are shown in Ahnes 16
2/ Prior to 62/63 this cost was mat by the Federa] Gomernsent, nd 7fter tie dissolution of t e federation by the Imterim Cosissioner. 0i-r.s for 1050/60 trough 1C61/62 are crude estimates of the proportion of thes costs
paid by Jamaica. For 1962/63, this item vas imcluded i the Ministry of Fducation b.dget.
3/ 32% of the hospital costs is counted as training expenses.
4S  Projection assuxes 71 annual increase.



JAMAICA
CAPITAL EXPENDITLTRE FOR EDUCATION (in L 000)
Prdated Expe~ndi ture,
1959/60    1960/61    1961/62    192/63     1963/64     1964/65    1965/66        1966/67    1967/68     1968/69   1969/70    197 /71
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Primary                                   307        324        283        245        271        380        350            350         210        210        210        210
Post Primary Departments
and Senior Schools                         50        195        181        195         94         91         96             71          -          -           -          -
Junior Secondary Schools                    -          -          -          -          -          -          -            490       1,750-     1,750-/   l,500/    1,220
Teachers Cottages                          56         66         65         39         12         35        108             128        250        250        215        215
Teachers Training Colleges                149         26         47         74         ho         38         86              -         190Y       190.'        -          -
Secondary (Grammar)                       288        162        113        103        108         92         105             75)
)    -        ~~~~240    2h0        625
Comprehensive Schools                       -          -          -          -          -         55          50             52)
Technical High Schools                                           76        116         75         47         126             22)
-        100        700        1u00
Vocational Schools                                                -          5          6           3         10             21)
Trade Training Centers, and               14h        189
Technical Institutes                                           46         11          -          -           1             Ih         20         20         20         20
College of Arts, Science                                                                                                                  2/         2/
and Technology                                                   50         73         51        108           8             15        105-       220-       145          -
Libraries                                   1         17          5          2         17           5          8             75          -
Other                                      20         14         43         29         52           8         20              -          -          -
Total Ministry of Education          1,015        993        909        892        726         862        968          1,313      2,525      2,980      3,030      2,690
Jamaica School of Agriculture              20          2         10          -          1           5          -             20-/      4202-      370°/      1702/
University of West Indies                   -          -          -          -         165        120         94                N o t    A v a   1 a b 1 e
University Hospital                         -          -          -          -         147         10          4                N o t    A v a i 1 a b l e
Other                                       3          3          4          4           5          5          5                N o t    A v a i I a b 1 e
Total Capital Expenditure            1,038        998        923        896       1,044      1,002      1,071                N a t    A v a i I a b 1 e
1/ Projection is by the Ministry of Finance except that:
a) Project items are revised in accord with the recommendations of the Bank mission;
b)  Secondary construction in 1970/71 is 40k of the 10,000 new olaces and of the 3,000 replacement places proposed by Ministry.
As revised, the projection provides:
Primary - 3,000 reDlacement and 4,000 new places each year from 1967/68
Secondary - 2,000 new places in 1968/69 and in 1969/70; 4,000 new and 1,200 replacement places in 1970/71.
Secondary Technical and Vocational - A tots] of 6,000 new places from 1967/68 through 1970/71.
Junior Secondary - 4,000 places in 1966/67, and 10,000 Dlaces per year thereafter.
2/ Included in project.



EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURE AS PERCENTAGE OF G.N.P.
in ; 000,000        Percent of G.N.P.
Expenditure on Education
Government (1964/65)                             9.3                 3.3%
Overseas, Grants (1963/64)                      1.8                  0.7
Expenditure by Individuals for
Education Fees (1963/64)                     1.6                  0.6
Private Sector Capital Expenditure (1960)       0.3                  0.1
4.7%
G.N.P. (in E 000,000)
1964     280.7
1963     267.4
1960     224.8



JAMAICA EDUCATION PROJECT
(Summary Of COsts in I. Jamaican)
Academic
Item                                                                    & Commson        Housing           Site       Professional    Instructional                Technical   Contin-      Total        Foreign
Ho.    Description                                                   Facilities    Students   Stgaff  Development        Fee           EqupMent      Furniture    Services    gencies   ---Costs     -- Exchiange
Foreign Exchange Component:             (20)  (20%)      (     0)        (20)             70%           (95%                      (75%)                     i.
* A 1   JAMAICA SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE (JSA)                               167,296   133,920      8,751     58 600         39,857         105 000         4o 000     107.000      59.52.     719 946(A)     27h 198
aB2COLIZGE OF ARTS, SCIENCES & TECHNOLOGY (CAST)                     9b,1         1.9        959                       0bb           T003 000                                 i    ~   ~   ~   B       ~   l
C TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES (TTC)
*    3  Moneague                                                           37,053    85,b1o     13,455     16,000        15,192            4,446         13,163         -        22,164     206,863         41,257
a    b  Mandeville                                                         20,550    53,712      9,906     10,000         9,1,l7           2,4,66         8,086         -        13,696     127,833 1/      25,286
*    5  St. Josephs                                                         2,730    15,600       -         8,000          2,633              328         1,833         -         3,735      34,859 -        6,698
*    6  Mico                                                                 -          -        9 900      9 bO0          1.930            -              --                     2 548      23 778          li,624
Sub-total (TTC)                                                    6033     1b.22        ____       ___2r7                          .10          2302-l                               9:3()         7.6
D     JUNIOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS (JSS)                                     (USAID for specialists and overseasa training)                                           464,000                 464,000        368,000
7   (9 streams) - Pembroke Hall - (Kingston & St. Andrew)             79,268       -         -        10,000          8,927           10,200        11,900         -        l14,435     13l4,730        38,123
8                -MaLxfield Park -                '79,268                          -         -        10,000          8,927           10,200        11,900         -        l14,,35     134,730         38,123
9                - Old Harbour     - (St. Catherine)                  79,268       -         -        10,000          8,927           10,200        11,900         -        14,435      13b,730         38,123
10   (6 streams) - Spanish Town (B)_                                   54,508       -         -        10,000          6,1,51           7,000          8,100        -        10,327       96,386         27,166
11        "       - Tivoli Gardens - (Kingston & St. Andrew)           54,508       -         -        10,000          6,4,51           7,000          8,100        -        10,327       96,386         27,166
12                 - Delacree         -                                 54,508      -         -        10,000          6,1,51           7,000          8,100        -         10,327      96,386         27,166
13         '      - Seaforth          -(St. Thomas)                    5b,508       -         -        10,000          6,1,51           7,000          8,100        -         10,327      96,386         27,166
11,               -Tfrinityville      -      '5h,508                                -         -        10,000          6,1,51           7,000          8,100        -         10,327      96,386         27,166
15        "        - Port Karia       -(St. Mary)                      5b,508       -         -        10,000          6,1,51           7,000          8,100        -         10,327      96,386         27,166
16                - St. Ann.'s Bay    -(St. Ann)                       54,508       -         -         10,000         6,151            7,000          8,100        -         10,327      96,386         27,166
17                 - Alexandria       -                                 SI5i,508    -         -         10,000         6,h51            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
18                - Ocho Rios         -                                 St54,508    -         -        10,000          6,451            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
19                - Albert Town       -(Trelawn~y)                     54,,5o8      -         -         10,000         6,451            7,000          8,100        -         10,327      96,386         27,166
20                - Wakefield         -                                 51t,508     -         -         10,000         6,151            7,000          8,100        -         10,327      96,386         27,166
21                - Maldon            -(St. James)                      54,508      -         -         10,000         6,161            7,000          8,100        -         10,327      96,386         27,166
22                - Green Island     -(Hanover)                        54,,508      -         -         10,000         6,451            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
*23                 - Rusea's          -                                 Sb5,508     -         -         10,000         6,451            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
2h,               - Grange Hill       -(Westmoreland)                  54,5o8       -         -         10,000         6,451            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
25                - Petersfield       -                                 54,508      -         -         10,000         6,151            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
26         "       - Little Lonidon   -                                 54,508      -         -         10,000         6,451            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
27                - Newell           -(St. Elizabeth)                   54,508      -         -         10,000         6,451            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
28        e        - Vauxhall         -       e54,508                               -         -         10,000         6,451            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
29                - Junction          -       "51,,5o8                              -         -         10,000         6,451            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
30                 - Bellefield       -(Manchester)                     54,508      -         -         10,000         6,161            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
31                - Lionel Town       -(Clarendon)                      5h,5o8      -         -         10,000         6,161            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
32                - Kellits          -                                 54,,508      -         -         10,000         6,161            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
33                - Denbigh          -                                 5h,508       -         -        10,000          6,161            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
31,               - Thompson Tc,n     -     e54,508                                 -         -         10,000         6,451            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
35        "       - Kemp's Hill       -                                 5)b,508     -         -         10,000         6,161            7,000          8,100         -        10,327      96,386         27,166
36                - Glengoffe         -(St. Catheriiws)                 54,508      -         -         10,000         6,161            7,000          8,100         -        10,327       96,386        27,166
37             ~  - Bog Walk          -                                 54,5o8      -         -         10,000         6,1,51           7,000          8,100         -        10,327       96,386        27,166
38                 - Guy's Hill       -                                 54i,508     -         -         10,000         6,h 51L          7,000          8,100         -        10,327       96,386        27,166
39   (5 streams) - Oracabessa         -(St. Mary)                       4,7,4,88    -         -         10,000         5,74,9           6,700          7,200         -         9,256       86,393        24,661,
La0                - Anchovy          -(St. James)                      4,7,4,88    -          -        10,000          5,70,           6,700          7,200         -         9,256       86,393         24,661,
hi                 -KEnockalva        -(Hanover)                        47,4,88     -          -        10,000          5,74,9           6,700         7,200         -         9,256       86,393         24,664
L2         '       - Black River      -'St. Elizabeth)                  b7,0,8      -          -        10,000          5,70,           6,700          7,200         -         9,256       86,393         2L,66L
h3         "       - Springfield      -                                 47,488      -          -        10,000          5,749            6,700         7,200         -         9,256       86,393         2h,66b
Lb                 - Mocho            -(Clarendon)                      4,7,4,88    -          -        10,000          5,7h9            6,700         7,200         -         9,256       86,393         24,664,
h5                 - Alston                                             4 7,488     -          -        10,000          5,749            6,700         7,200         -         9,256       86,393         2L,664
L6         '       - Stokes Hall      -(St. Thomas)                     47,4,88      -         -        10,000          5,74,9           6,700          7,200        -         9,256       86,393         24,,664,
a   1,   (4 streams) - Clarendon College -(Clarendon)                       37,112      -         -         10,000         h,711            5,590          5,670         -         7,570       70,653        20,301
L8                 - Buff Bay         -(Portland)                       37,112       -         -        10,000          L,711            5,590          5,670        -          7,570      70,653         20,301
L9                 - Fair Prospect    -     '                           37,112      -          -        10,000          4,711            5,590          5,670        -          7,570      70,653         20,301
50         '       - Russell Pen      -(St. Catherine)                  37,112      -          -        10,000         h,711             5,590         5,670         -          7,570      70,653         20,301
51         "       - Spaldings        -(Clarendon)                      37,112      -          -        10,000          4,,711           5,590         5,670         -          7,570      70,653         20,301
52         '       - Ewarton          -(St. Cathertne)                  37,112      -          -        10,000          4,,711           5,590          5,670        -          7,570      70,653         20,301
a   53        "       - St. Elizabeth Tech. -(St. Elizabeth)                37,112      -         -         10,000         4,,711           5,590          5,670         -         7,570       70,653        20,301
51,  (3 streamts) - Richmond          -(St. Mary)                       33,764       -         -        10,000          h,376            5,500          5,070        -          7^5b       65,755         19,151,
a   55                - Happy Grove      -(Portland)                        33,76b      -         -         10,000         L,376            5,500          5,070         -         7,ob5       65,755         19,15b
a   56                - Morant Bay Hi.gh-(St. Thomas)                                   -         -         10 000             76           $.   09         .070         -        -10          65755       1-    15
Sub-total (JSS)                                                 9757I6          -         -       ____           3Oo5                            383.100     b66oo                                     7,061h ) 
E 57   STAFF HOUSING FOR JUNIOR SErONDIARY SCHOOLS                           -         -      316,71         ------                                                                         316,71-1_(E)     63,3,
PROJECT TOTALS-     (A.B.C.0.E)                                2.927,755     310.032   378,5c02   627,000         395,670         567.570        h96.162     581.000     61,0,631L6,921,,382     .,2,232,613
us$ (say)    19,4,00,000      6,200,000 
I/ Includes 1. 57,000 government funds already allocated.
a Additions to existing facilities.



ANNEX 12
JAMAICA EDUCATION PROJECT
i/
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1966    1967    1968    1969    1970
*        *0  ~     *       *     *       *0
?reparation          2/..                                        .       ..
Acquisition of Land                               XXXXXXXXXX
___________~~                           ~   ~    ~  ~   ~~      ~   ~~      ~~~~~ *  *  * 0 
Construction..                                                   .       ..
Jamaica School of Agriculture                             XXXXXX.XXXXXX XXXXXX
College of Arts, Science & Technology                    ,XXXXXX XXXXXX XXJXXXX
Teacher Training College - Moneague                       XXXXXX XX,
Teacher Training College - Mandeville                     XXXXXX.XX.
Teacher Training College - St. Josephs                    XXXXXX*X
Teacher Training College - Mico                           XXXXXX
11 Junior Secondary Schools - Phase I                        XXX.XXXX
20 Jwiior Secondary Schools - Phase II                           ,     xx xxxx X
19 Junior Secondary Schools - Phase III                                  ,  XXX   X
Proposed schedule XXXXXX
Original schedule
1/   Based on information available July, 1966.
2/ Refers to Junior Secondary Schools - Phases II and III.



JAKAICA
PROJECTION OF TEACHER ijth'PY AND REQUIREMENTS
(Infant, Junior, All-Age, Senior and Junior Secondary Schools and Departments)
Number              Teacher             Number of                                           Number of                                                                   Nunber of
Of               Student               Teachers            Percent                        Teachers             Resignations         Sent for           Newly          Teachers
Students              Ratio               Required            Trained                        Prior Year             (at 3%)            Training           Hired          Current Year
1964/65 (Actual) 
All-Age                             321,083              1:59                  5,467               57%            Trained                                                                                        3,321
Senior Schools                        9.29               1d42                    221               95B%           Untrained                                                                                      2.3673
Total                     330,380              1:58                 5,688~~3             5 %           Total                                                                                          5,6   _
1965/66 (Estimated)
Trained           3,321                  100                ---              350               3,571
Untrained         2,367                   71                 50              2182,61
Total                               31h001:57                                  6,035               59%           Ttl568115                                                                     6                  ,3
1966/67
Primary                             25,000O              1:58                  4,9                                Trained.         3,571                   107               ---              350                3,8lb
Senior Pores All-     a              89,000              1-55                  1,618           -    7)            Untrained        2,4:64                   74:                50             261                2,601
Junior Secondaryp                    14 Tooo             1:35                    100               95%                            ________________________________
Total                               358,000              1:56                  6,15                59F%           Total            6,035                   181                 50             611                6,1:15
1967/68
Primary                              266,000             1i57                  4:,702
Senior Formsa Al-l-Age                92,000             1:52                  1,769               60'            Trained          3,81h                   1.14:-                              700               1:,1:0
Junior Secondary                     lB1 001:35                                  514:10                           Untrained        2,6101                   78                200             262                2,585
Total                               3784 0               1:51:                 6sY656J                            Total            6,1:1                   192                200             50.z               61,985
1968/69
Primary                              28Z,000             1:56                  5,036            3-62%             Trained           4:,4oo                 132                --700                              1:,968
Senior Porms All-Age                  68,000             1:52                  1,692           -,Untrained                          2,585                   78                200              253               2,560
Junior  Secondar-y                     80  01:35                                 800              100%                           _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
Total                               39,0O                1:53                  7,528               661            Total             ), 965                 210                200             YSJ                7,58
1969/70
Senior Forms All-Age                     ODO0            1:52                  1,515Trie496                                                                 h--705,1
PrnimrScnary                             ODO0)           1:35                  5,1:086%Trie                                        16771:                                                      700               5,5819
Junior Secondary  38,000            1:35                  1,08~      ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~5 100%  Untrained      2,560                   77202982,8
Total                               1100152,106%Total                                                                               7,520i                 226                20                                 0 ,100
1970/71
Primary                              310,000             1:52                  5,962
Senior Pores AUl-Age                  MO,00              1:50                  1,580               66%            Trained           5,519                  166                ---            1,000               6,353
Junior Secondary                      4 ,001:35                               -1.371              100%            Untrained         2,581                   77                200              256               2.560
Total                                I:7,041::                                 8,913               71S            Total            ti,100                  23O                20_0   _ _   _1-,256               5,9.3-
1971/72
Priesry                             331,000              1:51                  6,4:90              69%            Trained          6,353                   191                ---            1,000               7,162
Senior Forms All-Age                  72,000             1:4:7                 1,532             -'               Untrained         2,560                   77                200              231:              2,517
Junior  Secondary                    58,0  01:35                               1,657              100%                               _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total                               1:1001189,679                                                  71%Toa                            ,913                  266                200            1,231:              9,679
it972/7j
Pr.,mary                            352,000              1:50                  7,04:0        71% ~64%             Trained           7,162                   215               ---            1,000               7,94:7
Senior Forms All-Age                  66,oo0             1:1:5                 1,:466             II0O%           Untrained         2,517                    76               200              260                2,501
Junior  Secomdary                     68 0 01:35                               1,9412             100%                                          _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Total                                M   g6,0            1:1:7                101187%Total                                          TIT    -                291               200            1,260              10, 41:8
Notes:
1/  Number of students from Annex    14:.  Distribution between Senior Forms and Junior Secondary Schools based upon probable construction schedule.
2/ Including formar SenLior Schoc
3/  From Project Request Documents Appendix A - Table 5.



ANNEX 1t
PROJECTION OF ENROLLMENTS
A -Ag 6 through 11
Total Enrdllment
Y6ar      Population   Percent    Population P6rcent          Infant Rnd
7_U        Enrolled     Age 6     Enrolled     Junior Divisionsi/
1964/65      256,000        88       57,000        10             236,000
1965/66      264,000       89        58,ooo        10             2455,OOO
1966/67      272,000        90       59,ooo        10             255,000
1967/68      280,000        90       60,000        20             268,000
1968/69      288,000        90       62,000        30             282,000
1969/70      296,000        90       63,000        40             297,000
1970/71      3041,000       90       64,ooo        50             310,000
1971/72      312,000        90       65,ooo        70             331,000
1972/73      320,000        90       66,0o0        90             352,0o0
B    Age 12 through 114
Year     Population   A11 Age      Junior      Secondazy                %
and Senior   Secondary  (including Secondary   (2)+(3)+(4)
Schools     Schools     Technical and
Vocational)
________  (1)  (2)       (3)          (4)                  (1)
1964/65     125,000       94,ooo       _            13,000                86
1965/66     131,500       99,000       _            14,000                86
1966/67     138,000       89,000      14J,000       15,000                86
1967/68     145.5,000     92,000      18,000        16,000                87
1968/69     151,500       88,ooo      28,000        17,000                88
1969/70     158,500       84,000      38,000        19,000                89
1970/71     165,000       76,000      51,000        22,000                90
1971/72     171,500       72,000      58,ooo        25,000                90
1972/73     178,500       66,ooo      68,000        27,000                90
1/ Including about 5,000 under six years of age.



ASSJnPIOIS ISED IN MODIFIED FROJLCTION OF RECURRlENT ODSTS
(nu.ber of students in 000, cost per head in L, cost in  OOO)
Academdc    Fiscal  Acadecdc    Fiscal   Academic    Fiacal   Academic    Fiacal  Academic     Fiscal  Academic    Fiscal   Acudeic     Fiscal  Acadeic      Fiscal  Ac-ic
Year        ea.r    Year       Year      yer        Year      Year       year     Year        Year     Year       Year      Year       Year      Year       Year     Year
9/6h-8/65 h/65-3/66  9/65-8/66 b/66-3/67 9/66-8/67  h/67-3/68  9/67-8/68  h/68-3/69 9/68-8/69 1/69-3/70 9/69-8/70 4/70-3/71 9/70-8/71  4/71-3/72  9/71-8/72  4/72-3/73 9/72-9/73
(bod-get
eatiatea)
Ntaer of Students
lGoer Forms                         236                 2h5                  255                  268                  282                 297                  310                  331                  352
SeniorFore                           9h                  99                   89                   92                   88                 8e                    76                   72                   66
Cost per Head
Loser Forms                          10.5                10.5                 11.0                 11.5                 12.0                12.5                 13.0                 13.0                 16.o
Senior FormS                         13.5                13.6                  i.0                 15.o                 16.0                17.0                 18.0                 19.0                 20.0
Cost
Loaer Forms                       2,h80                2,575               2,805                3,080                3,385                3.710               b,03D                4,70                 b,930
Senior Foras                       1,270               1,335               1,2h5                1,380                1,410                1,430                1,388                1,370               1,320
Total                              3,750     3,867     3,910      3,990    h,050       h,290    b,460       4,655    h,795      h,995     5,1O      5,320     5,b18      5,675     5,840      6,01.    6,180
JUNIOR SECONDAR!
N(uber of Studenta                      -                   -                   1lh                  18                   28                   38                  51                    58                  68
Cost per Head                                                                   35                   35                   35                   35                  3%                   35                   35
Cost                                    -                   -         285      b90         570      630         835      980      1,185     1,330      2,535     1,785      1,885     2,030      2,235     2,380
SECOND0AR
Nuber of Students                     21.6                  22.0                2h                   26                   28                   30                   32                   36                  ii-
Cost per Head                         68                   68                   67                   65                   63                   61                   60                   60                   60
Cost                                1,470      1,187     1.195      1,560    1,610       1,655    1,690       1,735    1,765       1,805    1,830      1,880     1,920      2,060     2,160      2,300     2,1W
SECONDATY TECI5CL X     CD &YIiN
Nudber af Students                     3.5                   3.5                 3.5                  3.5                   °.0                 6.o                  8.5                  9.5                  9.5
Cost per Head                        h17                   1h7                 15                    10                  14h0                 1.0                  110                  IhO                  110
cost                                 515         515       515        51o      510         5oo      hso         530      560         725      810      1,05      1,190       1,270    1,330       1,33L    1.330
Asup,i ong,
Pr_    i For upper sd lomr forms cemd, current stent-teacher ratio is 58:1, sith 508 trained teachers. Diatributiom of trained oad untrained teachers beteen loser and upr forus is not knh     n.
Cost per he ad for uway nd lower forms oobined is L9.5 for teachers' salaries, U.0 fr other espetoes.
Asm    for the loer frm    urrent stocettetseher ratio of 60:1, 50 trinmd. improving by 1972 to 50,1. 65% traied; cos per head for teachers' salaries to inrease froe 68.7 to U1.S.
Ilr.tesmhr met increaesin from 11.8 par head to u.S.
Asme for the *edor form    cu.. r   tu ntt-teacher ratio of 55.1, 75% trained, improvit by 1972 to 85:1, 100% trained; costs per head for teachers' salaries to imeres  te- Lll.? to uaS.7.
Ibnsteacher cost iereasirg from L2.3 to  h.3.
Juanior S ecMrjt Costs per teed are   s followe'
TascharE ad Principal's Salaries           122.0  ( aaiaing 35:1 student-teacher ratio, 1008 trained).
Other Staff                                  5.0 (L1.5 for -istrrtie staff*   , u2.0 for mintenace staff, r  .S for cafeteria staff).
Nateriels                                    3.0
Utilities nd Office Supplies                 .5
NainteeAnem                                  3.5 (2% of capital cost of bumlding, 10% for furniture gd equipmnt, 6i for fistures).
Lmn n    TSextbooks or Other Contingencies   1.0
*35.0
Secaidary- Coat per heed for teachers decreased fro. current 1n5 to 136 by 1970, due to incrEase in tudent-teacher ratio fro, 16..ol to 23:1. I st rer hc-a fcr other tharges rerns at 123.
tnrollmnt    From education cpita1 budret orojectirn. ,d existinr underitcliced capacity in Secondary Schools. Fr Pri.ary ,chools see Annex 14.



JAMAICA
PROJECTION OF MINISTRY OF EDUCATION RECURRENT EXPENDITURE - 1980/81
1964/65                                                         1980/81 Projected
Type of Education                        Percentage     Student   Cost        Total           Percentage     Student    Cost         Number             Total Cost
of Age Group   Teacher    per        Cost            of Age Gr,up   Teacher    per           of
Enrolled       Ratio     Student                     EnrolUed        Ratio     Student      Students
(i              ) (L6)                                            7('O0)              ('6000)
Primary (6 through 11)                      882/)        581       11.50      3735                902/      35:l-40:1   20-23          389             7,800 - 9,000
Primary (12 through 11)                     85   )       58:1      11.50      3,735'                                                                        Nil
Primary (12- through 14i)                   75   )                                                 -            -         -             -Ni
Secondary General (Forms 1-3)               10   )                                               90           30:1        40           176                 7,000
Secondary General (Forms 4 and 5)           10  )        18:1      68         1,469              23    )      23:1      60-70           30             1,800 - 2,100
Secondary General (Form 6)                   2.4)                                                 8.5 )                   75            10.4                 800
Secondary Technical & Vocaticnal(For.al-3)   1  )                 140           456                -           -          -              -                   Nil
Secondary Technical & Vocational (Forms 4&5)  2  )                                               13                      140            16                 2,200
C.A.S.T.                                                                         95                                                                      500 - 700
Higher Education                                                                 111                                                                      500 - 600
Teachers Training                                                                347                                                                      900 - i,D00
Administration                                                                  323                                                                       400 - 500
Libraries and Other                                                              188                                                                     600 - 700
Total Ministry of Education                                                    6,724                                                                    22,500 - 24,600
Total Jamaican Recurrent Expenditure                                          43,555                                                                       125,0003
% of Recurrent Budget for Ministry of Education                                 15.14%                                                                   18.0% - 19.7%
1/ From Project Request Documents.
2/ The 1964/65 percentage is for the age group 7 through 11.
The projected figure is for the age group 6 through 11
in line with plans to increase junior primary
education from(6to 6 years.
3/ Assumting 7% annual increase excluding salary
increases and inflation. Over the past five years
recurrent expenditure increased at the rate of 10%
per annum, including an estimated 3% for salary
increases and inflation.



LLS    ..... ....... ~ ~ ~ N 
e O  0*;  n.   <  {J   ,1 X)/ .  *  *  -   O   Z
° 0       j °~. _                    ..   .......
X 00      a     .            N)  -     . °  '- - . . S  e  e   e
0  kO  0  5  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .U ..0 
00  .0 '  ., c                                  0 e   7DPH=l
0 .0         C N<          .      ii
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                       0
p~~~~~~~~~~~ 0!                 X   0000o-000.00.000.00i
wffl  "-S-   .   g X .  /  . -  r  .-  - 00.0C0e00°  000c c0_  0
4°~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N               O L N N   NU 0 N W   .00 2_ oX°S
~~~~~~~~~~~~o           00.0. 0 00 0   c  s  e  ......00. .0.
z~~~~~~~~~~~ *,         00*   'I  uzN  °  0°rv ...=  0  Oc
{  iO 4 %/S   O   6N oF-0 c  O e   0 c  cN  00 c*c  - -"O7 
q%l~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~ ~     ol°/  00.0J  Z., ='  00 N
~~~~~~~~~~~ .0        00.  00.00  k0-N0 .. '\F. -  .e 0.
O j  0.k0  000.0'. C  N_  NO.  0.0 0SCOU O ===W 
~~~~~~~~~ N          00 0. 00   OO   0. 0 . 0.l0.* < 0   0  Xcocore
V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~k....O.  SO  0O.OOONO......00r.00......0-. N  CR 
.0'0 0000  00 OO00 000 0000 0...0ff-O  



