Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CR'. />S-t_Co0
Report NS. 6039-COM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
June 17, 1986
Education and Manpower Development Division
Eastern & Southern Africa Regional Office
This document hs a nrstrited dbtdbuion and may be used by ripints only In the performnce of
their oRfkc  dude. Its conents May not otherwie be d icend witout Wodd Bank autboritdon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Franc Comorien CFA
US$ 1                 FCCFA 350
FCCFA 100       =    US$ 0.286
SDR 1              =  3US$ 1.14314
US$ 1                 SDR 0.87478
FCCFA 100      .      SDR 0.24994-
WEIGHTS & MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AfDF            African Development FUND!
Fonds Africain pour le DEveloppement
BEPC            Lower Secondary Education Certificate/
Brevet d'Etudes du Premier Cycle
BEPE       =    Education Projects Implementation Unit!
Bureau d'Execution des ProJets d'Education
CEG        =    Lower Secondary School/
=    College d'Enseignement G6ndral
CEP        =    Primary Education Certificate/Certificat d'Etudes Primaires
DEPE       =    Directorate for Pre-Primary and Primary Education/
Direction de I'Enseignement Pre-Elementaire et Elementaire
DESGT      =    Dlrectorate for General and Technical Secondary Education!
Di-e tion de 1'Enseignement Secondaire G4n6ral et Technique
DFPT       =    Directorate for Vocational and Technical Training/    -
Direction de la Formation Professionnelle et Technique
EEC             E European Economic Commission
ENI             Primary Teacher Training College/
Ecole Normale d'lnstituteurs
ENES       a    National School for Higher Education!
Ecole "Iationale d'Enseignement Supdrieur
ILO             International Labor Organization!
=    Bureau International du Travail
INE      -      National Institute of Education/
Institut National d'Education
MEN             Ministry of National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports/
Ministare de l'Education Nationale, de la Culture, de la
Jeunesse et des Sports
UNDP       e    United Nations Development Program!
Programme des Nations Unies pour le D4veloppement
UNICEF          United Nations International Children Education Fund
SCHOOL YEAR (ACADEMIC YEAR)
Primary, Secondary, Technical:      -  October 1 - June 30
Teacher Training, Higher Education:   October 15 - June 15
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OV ICL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
.Credit and Project Summary
Basic Data
1.   Socio-Economic Development-and Eumun Resources . . .         1
-Geograph4c and Socio-Economic Setting . . . . . .        1
-Manpower and Employment .           ........             2
-Recent Development and Prospects .o.......               4
II.   The Education and Training Sector   . . .  . . . . .        4
-Overview  . . .  . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  . .         4
-Structure and Management of the Education and
Training System  . . . . . . . . . . . ...  
-Recent Education Developments . . . . . . . . . .        6
EducationCost and Financing   . . .  .   . . ...         8
-Main Issues . ... . . .. . . . .* -                      9
-Education Development Strategy  . . . . . . . . .       11
III.  The Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       15
-Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  * .        15
-Quality Improvemet . . o . . . . . . . . . . . ...      16
-Manpower Development  . . . . .. . . . . .. . .         19
-Summary of Technical Assistance .. a a... .. .          21
-Project Sustainability  . . . . . .    . . . . . .      22
-Coordination with Donor Agencies  . . . . . . . .       22
-Female Participation in Education . . . . . . . .       23
-Poverty Focus  . .. .. ...... . *    -    --            23
-Population Education  . ...... .. ... . .               23
-Environmental Impact  .. . * . a          . . v *  . .   23
IV.  Project Cost and Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . .        24
-Project Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        24
-Financial Plan  . . . . .........   ...                 25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros in Nay 1985. The
mission consisted of Mr. J.C. Lair (Sr. General Educator/Mission leader),
Ms J. Vial (Sr. Economist), Messrs. 1. Goodine (Sr. Technical Educator) and
A, Stam (Sr. Architect). Mr. J.C. Laederach (Architect) assisted in the
prepaTiLLon of the report.
Thi document has a restrcted distibution and may be usd by ecipients only in tho pmance 
of their oMeisW duies. Its contents May not othewsbe be dicblod witbout Wold Bank authoriztion.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
PSt No.
V.    Project Implementation, Procurement, Disbursements
and Auditig               a *        . -   . . . . . ..       27
-Implementation .  . . .  . . . . . . . . .     * . .        27
-Procurement   ... . ..   .aa*t..  .,-..                     28
-Disbursements *.   . . . .  . . . . . . . *   . . . .      29
-Anditing  *                      . .S  £ .  .  .    . a . .  .   * .  , . .  30
VI.   Benmefts tandiRisks  ..       ..,.            ...31
-     Benefits. . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     31
-Riskt                a  .aaaaa   *aaaa e* aa               31
VII. Agreements reached and Recommendations  . . .      -. .        32
ANNXS
ANNEX 1:  Tables and Charts
Table I  Comparative Uducation Indicators
Table 2   Government Expenditures on Education (1984 and 1985)
Table 3   Distribution of the Ministry of National Education,
Culture, Youth and Sports (MEN) Recurrent Expenditures
(1984/85)
Table 4   Education Expenditures by Number of Students and Level of
Education (1984/85)
Table 5  Comparison of Recurrent Cost per Student in selected
African countries
Table 6   Summary of Consultant Services
Table 7   Summary of fellowships
Table 8 Financing Plan by Project Item
Table 9   Financing Plan by Category of Expenditure
Table 10  Implementation Schedule
Table 11 Disbursement Schedule
Chart 1  Organization of the Ministry of Education
Chart 2   Structure of the Formal Education System
Chart 3   Education Pyramid
AN=EX 2: Key Indicators for ProJect Irjlementation
ANNEX 3:  Selected Documents and Data available in Project File
MAP.      IBRD No. 19520



(i)
The Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros
Second Education Project
Steff Appraisal Report
'CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
8orrower:                 Federal Islamic Republic of tbe Comoros
Deneficiary:~            Ministry of Education, Culture,
Youth and Sports
Credit AMount:            SDR 7.0 (US$7.9 million equtvalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms
Project description:
Objective: The project is designed to assist the Government in increasing
the efficiency of the education system and its relevance to
P-cio-economic needs, The three major objectives of the
proposed project are: (a) to strengthen the capacity of the
Govermuent to plan effectively for the education sector and to
administer and managa the system at all levels; (b) to improve
the quality of education through teacher training and provision
of learning materials; and (c) to train middle-level
technicians and skilled workers for the industrial and business
sectors.
Components: (a) Institutional Development: The strengthening of the
management and planning capacity in the Ministry of Education,
Culture, Youth and Sports, through provision of about 30 staff
mouths of technical assistance, about 36 staff-months of
fellowship training, organization of local seminars and
training sessions, and preparation of studies on the sector's
key issues;
(b) Quality Improvement: Upgrading of the skills of about
2,000 primary school teachers and about 350 lower secondary
teachers by providing an integrated training program consistiag
of correspondence courses, upgrading seminars, on-the-job
support to teachers by education advisers, and preparation and
distribution of teacher guides and student textbooks; and



(c)        r Develomt: Reorganization and strengthening,
including upgrading existing facilities, for (i) a
Technical/Vocational Training Center of about 260 places to
train-skilled workers for the industrial sector and (ii) a
Business and Management School of about 36.: places to train
office clerks,-accountants and secretaries.
Benefits:   The immediate-benefit of the project would be to enhance the
capacity of the Government to use effectively the resources It        -
has available for the education sector by strengthening the
-.efficiency of sectoral management-and planning, improving
educational quality and producing adequate yearly output of
skilled workers for the industrial and business sectors. More
important, bowever, is the fact that in the - -long term, -as a
result of the institutional development to be promoted by the
project, the education authorities should have the capacity
to carry out integrated sectoral planning and to optimize the
use of physical and teaching resources. Managerial
improvements are expected to reduce Government's recurrent
expenditures in the sector.
Risks:      The project has three types of risks, closely associated with
the problem of sustainability. The first concerns the
Government's financial constraints. To address this problem,
the project has been designed to minimize recurrent costs and
is limited to existing activities which would be improved and
strengthened. The second risk concerns the ability of the
Government to implement the project in an adequate manner. To
overcome this risk, the project includes elements to strengthen
the organizational units responsible for education planning,
administration, teacher training and project implementation.
The third risk is that the quality improvement objectives and
the production of skilled workers may be endangered if the
current number of existing qualified expatriate technical staff
is not maintained. To reduce this risk, the Government would
be requested to confirm the necessary arrangements with France
and Belgium, that their assistance would continue for at least
the five-year duration of the project.



(iii)
Estimated Project Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
---US.   millions-
lastitutional Development
Administration and Education Planning        0.1       0.4      0.5
L-A i4r Improvement
-tLnary Level -                              1.1       0.9      2.0.
LOwer Secondary Level                         -        0.3      0.3
-over Development
(a) Training for the Industrial Sector          0.3       1.8      2.1
(b) Training for the Business and
Management Sectors                           0.4      0.8      1.2
ProJect Administration                           0.1      0.3      0.4
Total Ba&d Costs                             2.0       4.5      6.5
Physical Contingencies                       0.2       0.5      0.7
Price Contingencies                          0.5       1.1      1.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              21:7        T.
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
-US 4 millions
IDA                                              1.8      6.1      7.9
Government                                       0.9       -       0.9
Total            2.7       6.1      8.7
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
US$ millions
IDA FY                                 1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Annual                                  0.6   1.4   1.9   1.8   1.1   1.1
Cumulative                              0.6   2.0   3.9   5.7   6.8   7.9
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
v : IBRD No. 19520



BASC        1/
POPULATION
Area                                                 -     1,861 km2
Population: total (1984)                                   377,000
growth rate p.a.                               3.02
density/k2                                     203
GNP per capita (1983)                          US$345
Literacy rate (1980 Census)                                491
Rural population as S of total population                  tl7
COVuiNuN EUPEITURE IN EDUCATION
Recurrent (1985)
- Shae of education tn total recurrent expenditure                  28.02
Capital (average 1981-85)
Share of education iu total capital expendlture                      7.5S
Dlstribution of MIN Recurrent Expendlture (1985)
Administratlon                                          8.6
Roranic education                                       7.7
Primary education                                      36.3
Secondary education                                    25.5
Voc./Tech. education                                    1.9
Higher education                                       20.0
Total                                                 1n0.0
EDUCATION (1984-1985)
Per student cost
Gross    No.of   X of        Student/      sue    e
Age      No. of     S    enroll.  tea-    qualified  teacher                 per
students  girls  ratio    chers   teachers   ratio        US$     capita
Pre-Primary     4-5      19j139     55     68       600        -        31.8/1      -         -
Primary         6-11    65,265      47     80.4   1997        21        32.6/1      25       7.2
Lower Secondary 12-15   15,841      39      41.3    377       36        42/1        37      10.7
Upper Secondary 16-18    3,500      31      12.7    160 2/   100        21.8/1     252      73.04
Tecb.Education  16-18       363     34       -       -        --                    -         -
Higher Educ.    18-21       283     -        -       -       100 3/       -         -         -
Including:
mES                        99     -        -       -        -           -         -         -
fellowships abroad        184     --               -        -          -          - 
abroad
1/  1983/84 unless otherwlse stated, data relate to Grande Comore, Anjouan and fohell.
/ Including 119 expatriate teachers.
31 All expatriate staff, except the director, 2 teachers and the support staff.



COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
1.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVSLOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting
1.01      The Federal Isla81 c Republic of Comoros, with GNP per capita
estimated at $345, is consldered one of the least developed countries in
the world.  The Comoros archipelagor, with a total area of 2,235 km2, is
located In the northern tip of the Mozambique Channel.  It comprises four
main islands: Grande Comore, Anjouan, Koheli and Mayotte, the last still
under French administration. 1/ The Islands are mountainous and of
volcanic origin, with a tropiical maritime climate and subject to occasional
cyclones and volcanic eruptions. The soils are generally rich and support
a lush vegetation. Population in 1984 was estimated at about 382,000 with
a density of about 203 inhabltunts/km2, among the highest in the Eastern
and Southern Africa Region. The open economy is predominantly rural and
highly dependent upon external aid and trade.  In the medium-term, economic
progress will depend on the continuation of technical assistance and
concessionary aid.
1.02      Natural resources are scarce.  Only half of the total area, of
which much is steeply sloping, is suitable for agriculture. The potential
for traditional in-shore fishing Is limited because of the narrowness oi
the continental shelf and because frequent bad weather limits the number of
fishing days for traditional boats. There are no known mineral resources,
and energy resources are limited to the hydro-electric sites of Moheli and
Anjouan whose potential is estimated at a modest 10 MS and 500 KW
respectively and are not yet exploited. Geothermal potential is being
assessed and limited studies on solar energy have been done. Presently all
energy produced is based on imported fuel. Potential for tourism exists,
but it remains largely unexploited. The lack of adequate international and
inter-island communication and transport infrastructure is a major
bottleneck for the country. The lack of adequate maritime infrastructure
is the most serious problem in this respect, and is due mainly to the
absence of natural harbore.
1.03      In October 1978, the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros was
constituted as a federal state composed of three independent governorships
for Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli under the President of the Republic.
The President. is elected through popular vote and the governors (since
1/ Unless otherwise indicated in this report Mayotte Is excluded.



1982) are appointed by him, following proposals made by the Island
Couneils. The latter are elected by the population.  At the.federal le-.
the executive power i 'exercised by the Presidrnt assisted by the cabiL
appointed by him; the legislative power is va ted tn the Federal Assemt
elected by the population; and the judiciary power operates under the
responsibility of the Supreme Court.
1.04      The country suffers.from an acute -shortsge of trained personnel.
In agriculture, health, public administration and industry.  The lack of
skilled manpower is compounded by the unattractive conditions found on the
islands by graduates returning from their studies abroad (lack of career
opportunitie.i, low wages, shortage of housing). Most available jobs are in.
the public sector, but poor public anagement-and insufficient budgetary
resources often create delays in salary payments, sometimes up to six
months, thus limiting the level of commitment and motivation of civil
servants. As a result, turnover is extremely high and trained Comorians
usually elect to stay or go abroad. The deficiency in qualified manpower
Is made up through a large contributlon of French technical assistance.
1.05      Because of the succession of invasions of the islands by
different ethnic groups, the inhabitants of the Comoros are of mixed
origin, where the Bantu dominates, but where Arab, Malagasy or Indoneslav
are also in evidence. However, the population Is united by a common
language, Comorian, closely related to Swahili, and a common religion,
Islam, taught to pre-primary school children in the Koranic schools. The
Comorian language Is very seldom used in written form and the official
language of instruction and literacy is French.
Manpower and Employment
1.06      Within the population 12 years and over, about 99,500 (802 rural
and 202 urban, 742 malet and 262 females) were reported as active by the
1980 census. This number represents about 302 of the total population,
which would appear to be a relatively low share if compared with other
countries in the region. However, this figure may underestimate the
activity ratio in as much as it excludes housewives, who in rural areas
perform part of the agricultural tasks. Regarding the employment situation
of this active population, the picture is rather grim. Only 58X reported
to be In permanent employment while the rest elther did not report
employment status (15%), or reported to have had some sort of temporary
employment (142) or no employment at all (13%) during 1984. Urban
unemployment, as it is the case in most developing couRtries, was
substantially higher (19.32) than rural unemployment (11.8X). Improvement
of this lismal situation will only be possible through economic
development, which in turn hinges considerably on improving the quality of
education and training.
1.07      Of the active population recorded in the 1980 census and
reporting their branch of activity (28Z did not provide this information),
almost three-fourths were engaged in agriculture and fisheries, about 8% In
industry and construction and the rest (about 172) in services (commerce,



-3-
tranportation, finances, social and others). Regarding the type of
employment, the reporting population was classified as follows:
Type of Employment -1980
Numbers   % Distribution
Employers                                         468           0.6
Self-employed                                  46,806         64.4
Wage and Salary Earners and Trainees           15,683          21.5
Family Workers                                  9,803          13.5
Total                 72,81C        100.0
Source: Recensement G6neral de la Population, 1980
The self-employed group taken together with family workers accounts for
almost 80* of the active population. This group is constituted mainly by
people engaged in small-scale farming. For extension services to succeed
in helping the group improve their lot, it is extremely important for the
farmers to have attained at least a minimum level of literacy and
numeracy. Thus, the need to reinforce primary education is not only an
issue of social equity but also an economic issue.
1.08      Among the wage and salary earners, the most important group is
constituted by those engaged in Government services, estimated at over
5,600 workers. Over 602 of these workers are in the support or contract-
labor categories, many of them redundant, while high and medium-level
managers and techniciaus are in dire shortage across the board.
Purthermore, among those occupying high and medium-level positions, many
are not qualified for the job, either because they have been trained in
fields other than that of their present occupation, or because they are
simply underqualified. At the roots of this problem is the low quality of
education in the country, compounded with a lack of selectivity and control
of those receiving external training. It may take as many as eight years
for a Comorian student to obtain a four-year college degree. Once abroad,
students often change the field of study, and if they return (many stay
abroad), they have difficulty adjusting to the country conditions. The
shortage of qualified medium-level staff such as accountants or secretaries
is also contributing to the poor performance of some Government
departments. The implications of this poor performance of the public
sector and the urgency to correct the situation are well understood and a
number of programs of training and technical assistance to cope with the
situation are under preparation. For example, a World Bank/Unesco
Cooperative Program study which identifies training needs and proposes
programs for the training of medium-level (upper secondary equivalent)
manpower in technical, commercial and managerial skills has been recently
completed. This study concludes that In order to cope with the manpower
demand in the above fields, technical/industrial training programs should



-4-
have a yearly output of about 80 trainees and managerial and commercial
programs of about 50 trainees.,
Recent Developments and Prospects
1.09      In recent years the economy has expanded at about 42 per year or
about 1i per year on a per capita basis.  This growth has been basically
-generated by-investment-related activities depending on Investment totally
financed from external sources.  At the same time, a numbet of distortions
have been emerging, which if not.corrected in.time, could result, in a
reversing of the growth trend...Fiscal and balance-of-payment deficits have
been increasing and the external debt service has attained alarming
levels.  To a great extent the distortionf are a.reflection of the
Government's weak management and decision-making capacity. Crucial
decisions on investments and budgetary allocations have been made
disregarding national priorities and without an assessment of ulterior
consequences.
1.10      Programs including extensive training for Government officials
responsible for the decision making and operation of the public sector, and
temporary technical assistance are being developed. If these programs are
Implemented successfully they should contribute to strengthenlng public
sector management capacity and ultimately to the correctIon of emerging
distortions. Also, if the economy is to continue to grow, a steady inflow
of external resources would be required in the foreseeable future.
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Overview
2.01      To keep in line with the declaration of the President of the
Republic that access to free primary education is a privilege of every
citizen, major efforts have been devoted to the quantitative expansion of
the system where gross enrollment ratios are 80.42, 41.3% and 12.7% for
primary, lover and upper secondary education respectively. In the absence
of development plans, these important enrollment ratios have been achieved
through uncoordinated initiatives by regional inspectors and local school
principals, bringing on substantlal differences between regions and between
rural and urban areas; for example, teacher/student ratios in primary
education vary from 1/36 in the Grande Comore to 1/25 in Anjouan and
teacher student contact hours range from 25 hours per week to 12 hours per
week, depending on the location of the school. Moreover, as the central
administration responsible for curriculum development and teacher training
has been unable to keep pace with this rapid expansion, the lack of
education materials and the limited number of qualified teachers has
resulted in poor academic standards and low student achievement at all
levels. Aware of this situation, the recently appointed Minister of
Education intends to introduce important measures to increase



-5-
administration efficiency and Improve the quality of education.  These
aeasures Include the reform of the administration, the strengthening of
Ministry of Education, Culture, Youth and Sports (MEN) capacity for
education planning, the expansion of teacher training, provision of better
education materials, and the traiiDng of industrial and commercial manpower
(para. 2.19).-
-Structure aud      elment of the Education and Trainig System
2.02      The organization of the MEN and the structure of the formal
education system are shown in Annex 1,- Charts 1 and 2. The education and
training system consists of two years of pre-primary education in Koranic
schools, six years of primary education, four years of-lower secondary
education (colleges ruraux) and three years of upper secondary education
(lyc4es). Primary teachers are trained in the National Prlmary Teacher
Training college (OT.), and lower secondary teachers, education inspectors
and business managers are trained in the National School for Righer
Education (ENES). With this minor exception, all higher education is
provided overseas, with most students in France and Algeria. Technical
education is provided at the General Lycee of Mutsamudu for industrial
activities and at the General Lkcee of Moroni for commercial subjects.
Traiaing of agricultural extension workers is provided under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Production and Rural Development and is
offered in new facilities financed under IDA's First Education Project
(para. 2.20).
2.03      The MEN is responsible for education administration, which is
carried out through the following eight administrative or technical
directorates: (a) general administration and finances, iu charge of
teacher recruitment and placement, salary payment and resource allocation
and distribution; (b) education planning and fellowships, responsible for
preparation of development plans, collection of educational statilstics and
selection of students for fellowships; (c) the National Institute of
Education (IN!), whose function Is to develop new curricula, train teachers
and prepare new programs and textbooks;(d) higher education, which consists
mainly of the ERES where lower secondary teachers, education inspectors and
business managers are trained; (e) pre-priuary and primary education
(DEFE), which is also responsible for the operation of the pre-service
primary teacher training school (ENI); (f) secondary and technical
education (DESGT); (g) examiuation and school guidance, which is In charge
of the organixation of the three major national tests to qualify for the
primary education certificate (CEP), the lower secondary education
certificate (BEFC) and the baccalaureate; (h) project implementation, which
consists of the Project Implementation Unit (BEPE), responsible for
implementing and managing projects financed by external resources (ID&,
African Development Fund (AfDF), Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development).



-6-
Recent Education Developments
2.04      The language of instruction at primary and secondary levels is
French, except at eight Arabic Colleges where all the subjects are taught
in Arabic.  The Education Pyramid showing enrollments-by grade is provided
in Annex 1, Chart 3. Although enrollments at all levels are high (para.
2.01), the 1980 population census indicates that 51% of adult Comorians are
illiterate. Considering that the population growth of 3% p.a. exceeds the
growth in literacy estimated at about 1.12 p.a., unless tralaing in basic
literacy is expanded, the number of illiterates will continue to grow. In
facts in 1983 it was estimated that about 23,500 children were not
attending school and likely to remain illiterates.  Added to that Is the
high drop-out rate during the first year of primary education (16%) when:
another 2,200 students normally drop-out and presumably join the ranks of
illiterates.
2.05 Koranic Schools. The pre-primary system in Comoros is well
established, with about 20,000 children attending Koranic schools in 1985
(68% of age group 4 and 5). The attendance is almost a pre-requisite to
entry in primary school. Teaching is done in Arabic and about 600 teachers
are employed, some of them being paid by the Government. The pedagogical
methods being used in these pre-primary schools appear to be poor.
2.06 Primary Education. In 1984/85, about 65,265 children, 47Z of which
were girls, were enrolled in the primary school system. This would
correspond to 80.4% of the estimated population aged 6 to 11, but as it
includes over-aged children, the net enrollment ratio is estimated at
62.4%, which compares favorably with other countries in the region (Annex
1, Table 1 Comparative Education Educators).  The national average
pupil/teacher ratio in 1984/85 was about 33:1. This ratio is low given the
Comoros' constrained fiscal situation and could be increased to about 45:1
with probably no detrimental effeet on student achievement. About 56X of
all teachers have only a primary school certificate; 23% have a lower
secondary school certificate; and only 212 are fully qualified teachers.
The untrained teachers utilize very poor teaching methods and lack basic
knowledge of the French language and of mathematics. The MEN estimated
that in 1984/85, 17% of the primary children attended school on triple
shifts (less than two hours of class per day) and the rest attended on
double shifts (about 2.5 hours of class per day). As a result,
student-teacher contact/instruction time varied from 12 hours a week in
triple shift classrooms to 15/17 hours weekly. In addition to the low
qualification of teachers and the insufficient weekly instruction time, the
instruction suffers from the lack of instruction materials and textbooks.
2.07 Secondary General Education. Gross enrollment ratios at lower and
upper secondary education in 1984/85 were estimated to be 41.3% and 12.72
respectively, which is high compared with estimated averages of 14.5% and
5.5% for the other countries of the region. During the last four years
these enrollments grew at 14% per year in junior secondary schools and 32%
per year in senior secondary schools. Such rates are excessive and are



seriously affecting the quality and cost of this level of education.  The
majority of the 377 lower secondary school teachers are'untrained, wlth 64%
teaching as part of a two-year period of national service before being
awarded overseas scholarships. Largely because of the high number of
unqualified teachers at the Junior secondary level, almost all the teacher
positions of the first three years are staffed by unqualified national
service personnel, resulting in poor quality education. In 1980, the MEN
established a teacher training college for lower secondary teachers at
Mvouni on the Grande Comore Island. 'This school now enrolls about 60
students in a two-year course, to qualify-them to teach in lower secondary
schools.  At the upper secondary level, 75% of the-160 teachers are
expatriate and provided through French, Belgian, Arab League and other
external aid programw. All Comorian teachers at this level are qualified
with overseas training. Governient has initlated the teaching of practical
subjects such as woodwork, agriculture and home economics in eleven
secondary schools. To date, the few existing workshops are inadequately
supplied with equipment and no local teachers are qualified to teach these
subjects.
2.08 Technical Education and Vocational Training. In 1984I35, about 365
students (2% of the total secondary students) were enrolled in the two
technical divisions functioning at the general lyce6es of Mutsamudu and
Mioroni (para. 2.02). Both, under the supervision of the Director of
Secondary Education, are underfunded and do not receive the proper
attention regarding planning and programming. The curriculum is mainly
theoretical because of lack of suitable facilities, equipment and
consumables. To provide the country with skilled industrial workers and
middle-level technicians adapted to manpower needs, the Government, with
UNDP and ILO assistance opened a vocational training school in Anjouan.
however, due to a change in the political situation and an earlier IL0
departure than expected, the school had to be closed after 3 years of
successful operation. Two specialized professional schools aiming at the
training of agricultural extension workers and nurses (para. 2.02) are
being financed under IDA's First Education Project and are expected to open
in 1986. All the teachers in technical education and professional training
are expatriate and, at the moment, there is no plan to train local
teachers. There is also insufficient consultation/coordination among the
supplier and user ministries and the labor market generally.
2.09 Higher Education. There is no university in Comoros and students are
sent abroad either under Government-financed fellowships or using
scholarships financed by external donors. All baccalaureate holders were,
before 1984/85, entitled to receive a fellowship abroad after one year of
national service as lower secondary teachers. In 1984/85, about 184
students in higher education were studying abroad. The Government also
established at Mvouni (Grande Comore) ENES to train annually about 60
teachers for the lower secondary level. This institution has also added
courses to train 30 education inspectors/advisors, 16 journalists and 23
management specialists, the latter three training programs being
established in response to identified needs.



-8-
Education Cost and Financing
2.10  Budgetary Expenditures in Education.  Details of Government
expenditures on education and its distribution among the different levels
of education are shown in Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3 . Expenditures of the
MEN are the most important single item in the Government's recurrent
budget, accounting for over one-fourth of the total. Furtbermore, this MEN
budget excludes the salaries of expatriate.teachers and some school
material financed by bilateral assistance; the rental expenditures for the
provision of housing for expatriate teachers(included under comon
expenditures); and the expenditures for specialized education under other
ministries (agricultural and health education). If all expenditures in the
sector financed by Government budget are taken Into account, the share of
education increases to about 28%, in comparison to the 18.5Z average for
the region. This share of the budget is explained by the following
factors: (a) education is free at all levels; (b) enrollments, in
particular at the secondary level, are high; (c) student/teacher ratios are
lower than in many countries in the region; (d) a substantial number of
expensive (because of very high repetition rates) scholarships are provided
for higher education; and (e) salaries of part of the pre-primary teachers
are government-financed.
2.11.     Although the level of expenditures for education is a major
concern In relation to limited Government revenues, the inefficient
distribution of these expenditures within the sector is an even more
serious problem. For example, as shown in Annex 1, Table 4, in 1984/85,
20% of the budget was allocated to higher education to cover the expenses
for about 253 students enrolled at the higher education Institution of the
country or studying abroad on fellowships, while only 25.5Z was devoted to
18,684 secondary students and 36.3% to 65,265 primary students. As another
example, 15.9% of the education budget finances fellowships abroad when
only 1.7% is allocated to educational materials and equipment at primary
education level. Improving the allocation of budgetary resources in the
sector would require the adoption of measures ranging from limiting
fellowships abroad to those high priority areas for which no external
funding is available, to adopting and implementing cost-saving measures
(paras. 2.15 and 2.16).
2.12. Unit Costs. Through measures such as contaiment of teacher
salaries and increased student/teacher ratio in upper secondary education,
the Government has been able to keep unit student costs at almost the
lowest level in the region, about US$25 and US$78 for primary and secondary
education respectively, representing 7.2Z and 22.5% of GNP per capita as
compared to 22.2% and 66.6% of GNP per capita in other francophons African
countries (Annex 1, Table 5). The particularly low unit cost in lower
secondary education is due to the fact that the majority of lower secondary
teachers consists of secondary school graduates, who are doing one year of
national servlce prior to obtaining scholarships for higher education, and
who are paid salaries comparable with those of the unqualified primary
teachers. From an educational point of view, the employment of these
secondary graduates as teachers has proven to be very deficient (para.



_ 91_
2.07'.  Because in upper secondary education all teachers are quallfied,
the unit cost is notably higher and more in line with those of many
countries in the region.  A number of the teachers at this level are
expatriates paid by external donors, but they are housed by the Government
at-a cost similar to-the sa-l-y of a qualified local teacher. However, as
more lower secondary qualified teachers are recruited, unit costs are
expected to increase. Moreover, prospects of continued country economic
difficulties,-and the expected doubling of the population during the next
25 years, would continue to create a situation of severe financing
constraints in the face of rising demand- for-education.  Drastic cost
saving measures will accordingly be required, in addition-to those .
eoneerning fellowships and teacher salaries.
Main Issues
2.13 Economic situation of the Country. .^uture development of education,
both in quantitative and qualitative terms, will depend primarily on the
general economic situation prevailing in the country. Any reduction in
total Government resources would undoubtedly affect the funding of the
sector, the share of which in the recurrent budget is already very high
(28%) and may not be maintained. Furthermore, if the present delays in
monthly salary payments, ranging from 2 to 6 months, continues, it would
become increasingly difficult to attract or retain the better qualified
teachers, many of whom are stated to participate in upgrading programs
under this proposed project.
2.14      It is therefore important that the current precarious economic
situation of the country be addressed through the adoption of fundamental
stabilization and adjustment measures. A program is in the preliminary
stages of formulation and discussion between the Government and the Bank,
on the basis of the recommendations formulated in an IBRD economic report.
These recommendations include, Inter alia, the adoption of a financial
rationalization program based on a reform c? the budgetary system, and a
major change in the emphasis of the development effort away from building
infrastructure toward improving the rural sector and other productive
sectors where recurrent costs could be covered.
2.15 Control of Education Financing and Costs. Through a better
administration and management of the sector a more efficient planning of
education activities, and a better qualifieA teaching staff, meaningful
achievements can be reached that would have a positive impact on education
cost and financing. First, a better use of existing staff can be obtained
by increasing teachers' weekly teaching time from about 12 to 15 hours to
22 hours and identifying non-teaching staff which could be used as
teachers. With better qualifications, teachers will be able to handle more
students at a time in the same classroom, making possible a substantial
increase of student/teacher ratios. Consistently applied, these measures
could lead to an increased enrollment without additional teacher
recruitment and construction of new classrooms and without affecting
students' achievement. Second, important savings can be made If
Government-financed fellowships abroad are limited to only those high
priority areas for which no external funding is available, and if the



continuing provision of fellowships is linked to study performance.
Finally, current excessive enrollment growth at the secondary Levels must
also be limited and made compatible with the country's financial capacity
and employment prospects. During negotiations, the Government provided .
assurance that (i) any new major capital mnv ttment aiming at expanding the
existing enrollment capacity at the seconds., and post-secondary levels
would be made in accordance with the agreed policy of limiting enrollment
growth at these levels,-and (ii)-any capital investment of US$500f,000
equivalent or more would be subject to Bank agreement (para. 7.01(a)).
2.16      At the beginning of the academic year 1985/86, the newly
appointed Cabinet had adopted two important measures to limit education
recurrent expenditures: (.a  the teimination of aukiliary teacher--
recruitment (200 teachers in 1984, out of a total of about 2,000); and (b)
termination of Government-financed 1985186 fellowships abroad (57 were
granted by the Government in 1984). Moreover, although no final statistics
were available at the time of the appraisal mission, enrollment growth at
lower and upper secondary levels appears to have been limited to 2% and 1X
respectively for the academic year 1985/86 as compared to 14S and 32Z
respectively in 1984/85. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that: (a) in the period 1985/86 to 1988/89 recruitment of new
teachers for all levels of education would be limited to teachers trained
at ENI and ENES; (b) in the period 1985/86 to 1988/89, Government-financed
fellowships for baccalaureate holders would be limited to those necessary
for students attending courses at ENI and ENES, and to only those high
priority areas for which no external funding is available; and (c)
enrollment growths at lower and upper secondary levels would be: 0% between
1985/86 and 1988/89, 1% between 1988/89 and 1990/91, and 3% thereafter
(para. 7.01(b)).
2.17  Education Adtmuistration.  Education administration and planning
suffer from a lack of adequate leadership, qualified staff, and a clear
assignment of responsibilities. Due to the highly centralized
organization, all major decisions related to the sector are taken by the
Minister of Education, but his large range of responsibilities makes it
difficult for him to discuss all the issues with the technicians, to take
timely decisions and to follow up on actions taken. At the departmental
level, the directors and their staff have not received the adequate
training which would enable them to master their responsibilities, to
prepare plans for the development and implementation of their activities
and to make decisions based on information and data scientifically
collected and organized. The Education Planning Unit, INE, INES and the
administrative departments of primary and secondary education have
overlapping responsibilities, unclear objectives and are not made
responsible for providing advice to solve the pending major problems such
as excessive enrollments at secondary level, low quality of education, lack
of education materials and poor qualification of teachers. Finally, there
are deficiencies in primary and secondary school administration, which are
mainly due to lack of supervision and inadequate headmaster training; this
has led to inadequate implementation of double shift and multigrade



- 11 _
teaching policies, with detrimental effects on student achievement.  A
reorganisation of the administratlon of the sector, focusing on better
assignment of responsibilities -and strengthening of the Education Planning
Unit. is presently underway with the assistance of a specialist financed
under IDA's First Education-Project.  For an efficient operation of the
proposed reorganized administration, training of managers and
administrators will be urgently needed (para. 3.02).
2.18  Quality and Efficiency of Education.  Poorly qualified teachers, high
teacher absenteeism, lack of educational resources, low student/teacher
contact instruction time and mediocre school organisation, management and
supervision, result in poor quality and low efficiency, mainly -at primary
and lower secondary levels (patas 2.06 and 2.07).  This low-efficiency of
education is evidenced by high repetition, drop-out and failure rates. The
average repetition rate is 292 in primary educstion, 162 for the first
three years of lower secondary education while in the fourth and last grade
the repetition rate averages 252 and the drop out rate 342. Out of a
cohort of 1,000 pupils admitted in grade 1, only 390 students complete
grade 6. In upper secondary, enrollment is high in comparison to other
countries in Sub-Sahara Africa-12.72 versus an average of about 4% for the
francophone countries of the region. The problem is exacerbated by the
tendency of students to pursue their studies until they obtain the general
baccalaureate, which, until recently, guaranteed fellowships abroad. Under
these circumstances, vocational and technician training courses at all
levels are only second choice. Improving the quality of education, making
it more relevant to the country's needs and developing employment-oriented
vocational training should now become priorities for the development of the
education sector.
Education and Development Strategy
2.19 Government Sectoral Strategy. Only the general framework of an
education policy has been delineated so far in statements of the President
of the Republic or the ministers in charge of education. These general
statements mainly focus on the need: (a) to increase access to education;
(b) to improve the quality of education at all levels; (c) to adapt the
education programs to the country's needs by using subject matter related
to Comorian environment and customs; and (d) to increase the specialized or
skilled training of the youth to respond better to the agricultural and
other development needs of the country. These statements, although sound,
are not supported by a plan or even a list of specific projects or actions
to be taken, and do not propose priorities and measures to resolve the
pending issues. They therefore cannot be considered as a realistic
strategy for education development. However, the recently appointed
Minister of Education has expressed his desire to carry out realistic
development plans based on reliable statistics and strengthened planning
capacities of the sector (para. 2.01). For this purpose, the MEN requested
the Association to finance a consultant specialist in administration
organization (para. 2.17) and expressed deep interest in a possible
implementation of the main recommendations of the Bank's Educatlon Sector
Memorandum (ESM). Those recommendations, discussed in depth with the main



12
officials of the Ministries of Education and of Planning, were verbally
.accepted by the Government in May 1985.  This .proposed second education
project- would launch the implementation of the most important of them,
I.e. reorganization and strengthening of the administration, adoption of
financial and technical measures which could lead to improved  0ost.
efficiency and better allocation of the education budget, Improvement of
the quality of education and preparation of education programs more
relevant to the country's needs.
2.20  Bank-Group Involvement in Education and Training.  The Association  -
has supported the Comoros' education sector directly through one education
project aiming at assisting the Government in its major development
..priorities, namely (a) the improvement of the quality of primary education,-
through pre-service and in-service teacher training and the provision of
textbooks and teaching materials, and (b) essential manpower
development through the training of agricultural extension workers aad
health technicians. The First Education Project (Credit 1195-COM) for
US$6.0 million, was approved In December 15, 1981 and became effective on
July 30, 1982. Despite some early delays, implementation of the project
proceeded satisfactorily until early 1985 when it faced a major financing
problem as the Government, because of severe financial constraints, was
unable to cover its 15% share of the civil works.  An increase of IDA's
contribution to civil works from 85% to 95Z has been recently agreed
(without an increase in the overall credit allocation) and it is expected
that the project will be satisfactorily completed by its original June 30,
1987 Closing Date. The successful implementation of the hardware aspects
of the project is due in part to the efficient use of the technical
assistance provided by the project.
2.21      In addition to the on-going First Education Project, other
Bank/IDA operations in the Comoros are linked in various ways to the
education sector as follows: (a) under the IDA-financed $2.3 million line
of credit to the Development Bank of the Comoros (DBC), provision is made
for training of DBC staff in project appraisal and supervision at
experienced development banks and relevant training lvstitutions abroad;
(b) the $5.1 million Credit, recently declared effective, for the Bural
Services Project, will establish a program of extension, training and
supervision of staff at all levels in the network for agricultural
services; and (c) fellowships for nurse trainers and on-the-job training
for nurses, midwives and paarmacy assistants is being financed under the
$2.8 million Credit for the Health and Population Project.
2.22 External Assistance to the Sector. In addition to the direct budget
support provided by France which, although declining steadily, in 1984
still covered about 23% of the recurrent expenditures, 95% of the
investment is financed through foreign grants or credits. The external
assistance itself is handled through extra-budgetary accounts which are
beyond the control of the Treasury. It is estimated that these
extra-budgetary expenditures Increased from 32% of GDP in 1980 to about 57%
in 1984. The main donor is France which, on top of the general budgetary
support, is assisting the INE and the ENES, secondary and higher education



- 13 -
with teaching and advisory staff, while providing textbooks for the primary
level. It is expected that France's leading role in the sector will be
maintained. Saudi Arabia is funding the construction of an administrative
block at the ENES primary classrooms, and is providing technical assistance
in the teaching-of-Arabic; Belgium and Canada are providing assistance to.-
INE, secondary teachers and school equipment; UNICEF is helping with school
gardens and pre-school programs; the Netherlands is asaisting women's
organizations; and the AfDF is assisting with the construction of 54
primary classrooms, the upgrading/renovation of 13 secondary schools and
the construction, furniture and equipment of new facilities for the INE. -
2.23 Lessons learned. Experience with past education projects developed
under external and/or Government financing provides lessons with respect to
both project design and implementation. Given the limited administrative
capacity of the sector to monitor project implementation, future project
designs should be simple, avoiding multiplicity of components and limiting
the number of departments responsible for projects components. Although
physical implementation of projects has been so far relatively successful,
two major concerns remain. First, the lack of timely provision of
Government counterpart funds has, at times, slowed down implementation.
Second, the difficulties in implementing efficiently the 'software'
component, points to the need to continue an effective ongoing dialogue
regarding education sector issues, in particular because many of the
problems are of a continuing nature. These call for, inter alia, improved
planning and management for all parts of the sector, coordination of
educational activities of INE and ENES, preparation of action plans and
appointment of qualified personnel at key positions. Further lessons
learned relate more specifically to the technical functions which must be
maintained and/or strengthened in the BEPE. There is a need to advance
preparation of key project components, develop capability to monitor
effectively the architectural and engineering work, improve the bookkeeping
capacity and the supervision and coordination of educational aspects of
project components. All these matters are being addressed in the proposed
project.
2.24 Bank Group Lending Strategy for the Education Sector. Overall
strategy should take account of the severe financial constraints of the
country, and the major problems described in paragraphs 2.13 to 2.18. As
Increased financial constraints and uncoordinated expansion are threatening
the future viability of the system, the education development process needs
to be reassessed with emphasis on financing, management and planning.
Increased attention to institution building is thus called for to improve
management and planning, to rationalize operations and to reduce costs, as
well as to strengthen the capability for project lmplementation. On the
educational side, efforts should concentrate on qualitative improvements    --
while enrollment expansion at the secondary level should be constrained,
and a more efficient use of available primary teaching staff should be
effected. The Bank Group would continue to support efforts to improve
quality in all parts of the system, both in terms of operational efficiency
and in the provision of improved inputs to the instructional process.
Finally, with regard to vocational training, the system must respond more
effectively to manpower needs.



- 14 -
2.25      The dialogue of the Bank with the Government, with which the main
donors    France, Belgium, UNDP, EEC -  are associated, would be intensely
pursued to be applied to the above described strategy. The dialogue would
particularly focus on the financing of education, emphasising the need: (a)
to control recurrent expenditures st a level'consistent with the countryts
financial capacity; (b) to allocate resources in a more efflcient and
equltable manner; (c) to avoid wastage of resources through the provision
of- unproductive and unnecessary scholarships for students in higher
edu,cation; and (d) to use more efficiently available human resources.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      The.project was identified by IMA in September 1984, and prepared
by the Government with assistance from the Unesco/Bank Cooperative Program
in.January 1985. The project must be cansidered as only one element of a
long-term strategy for the development of the education sector, with
particular emphasis at improving the coat efficiency of the system and thus
of the economy as a whole. Tbis strategy Is based on. the recent Education
Sector Memorandum -/recommendations which focus on the control of
education expenditures, more efficient .use of existing resources,
improvement of the quality of education, and strengthening of vocational
training. The three major objectives of the proposed project would be: (a)
institutional development: the strengthening of the Government's capacity
to plan effectively for the education sector and to administer and manage
the system at all levels; (b) quall  imrovement: at the primary level.
training of about 2,000 teachers, 250 headmasters, 35 education advisers
and production of teacher guides, and at the lower secondary level,
training of about 350 temporary teachers yearly, 80 headmasters, 3
inspectors and production of teacher guides; and (c) panpower development:
provision for the training of about 260 middle-level industrial
technicians and about 365 middle-level business employees.
Institutltonal Development
3.02.  Improving the Admiistration of Bducation. Following the
appointment of the new Minister of Education, a reorganization of the
administration of education is being undertaken. However, further
assistance Is required to improve the qualifications of the managers and
enable them to define the objectives of their respective departments,
prepare plans to implement these objectives, and identify solutions to
solve the problems they are facing. For this purpose, the proposed project
would include financial assistance for consultant services to assist the
Government In the implementation of the agreed reform of administration
(para. 2.17), local training and scholarships to train administrators.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that an
organization chart of the Ministry of Education including, inter alia, a
Directorate of Education Planning, and a single department responsible for
curriculum development and teacher training at the primary and secondary
education levels has been prepared and will be formally adopted not later
than December 31, 1986 (para. 7.01(c));
3.03 Strengthening of Educational Plannin. The pressures of quantitative
growth of the education system and the simultaneous need for qualitative
improvement of education services, each within the limitations Imposed by
constrained financial resources, as well as the necessity for increased
efficiency In the use of existing resources, will place a severe burden on
the planning capabilities of the ME. Currently, the Edueation Planning
Directorate is unable to address these issues and needs to be strengthened
both quantitatively aon qualitatively. To improve educational planning,
2/ Report No. 5598-COM, dated 6.25/85.



16-
the project would assist the Planning Directorate to establish and prepare
a long term education development plan based on a comprehensive knowledge
of the existing situation in the seCtor.  To acquire and master this
knowledge, the Plauning Uuit would, during a three to four year preliminary
phase:  (a) analyse education cost and financing problems  -(b) study and
propose alternative solutions to the key issues of the sector i.e.
enrollmnt flows, student/teacher tatios and contact hours, double-shift
system implementation, and school administration (para. 2eA7); and (c)
collect and analyse reliable education statistics with a view to revise the
school location plan.  The second phase, which would be the finalization of
the education plan is a long term exercise which would require highly
qualified and trained Comorian specialists. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that,.not later than December 31, 1986, the,
Education Planning Directorate would be staffed with qualified specialists
acceptable to the Association and consisting of a director having, if
possible, training and background in education administration and planning,
an education planner, an economist, a statistician and a school mapping
specialist (para. 7.01(d)).
3.04      The efforts currently undertaken by the Government for an
immediate reduction of education recurrent costs i.e. termination of
auxiliary teacher recruitment and of Government financed scholarships
abroad and limitation of enrollment growth at secondary level (para. 2.16)
are expected to be pursued and lead to substantial reduction of the
education budget level. They must, however, be complemented by more
permanent long-term effect measures which would emanate from the
recommndations prepared by the Education Planning Unit. During
negotlations, the Government provided assurance that (a) the agreed
cost-saving actions would be implemented beginning with the academic year
1987/1988; and (b) the action plan to increase the cost effectiveness of
education and Including concrete and monitorable actions, would be
completed by June 30, 1987 (pare. 7,01(e)).
3.05      To a8sist the Governmant in Implementing the objectives above,
the project would include provisions for equipment and furniture for the
Directorate, about 30 man/monthe of consultants services (Annex 1,
Table 6), 36 man/months of fellowships and study trips to visit similar
projects in other African countries (Annex 1, Table 7), local training and
seminars for inspectors, pedagogical advisers and beadmasters, and
Incremental operating expenses.
Quality Improvement
3.06 Pr1ma!y Level. To improve the quality of education at the primary
level, about 2,000 underqualified teachers (para. 2.18) would be provided
with training to upgrade their teaching skills and subject matter
knowledge, and about 35 pedagogical advisers and 250 school princlpals
would be provided with training to improve pedagogical support and guidance
to the teachers.



- 17 -
3.07      To reach a qualitative critical mass of in-service training, each
teacher would undergo upgrading through an integrated program consitiang of
three types of traIning: (a) a one-year correspondence course; (b) two
one-week seminars organized at the regional level and conducted by
education advisers assisted by school,principals; gad (c) a siatweek
upgrading course during summer vacation.  About 400 teachers would undergo
training each year, using improved facilities in existing primary schools.
3.08      The training of the 35 pedagogical advisers and the 250 school
principals to improve on-the-job pedagogical support to teachers, would
be provided on an annual basis during the first three years of the project
in one-week, regionally organized seminars. Pedagogical innovations,
improved teaching methods, use of new curricula and strategies for
conducting teacher training seminars would be part of advisers' and
principals' training. In addition, each of the 35 pedagogical advisers
would be provided a motorcycle to allow for the visit of widely scattered
Comorian schools and provide on-the-job support to teachers. The
in-service training programs of both the teachers and the pedagogical
advisers and school principals would be the responsibility of the Director
of Primary Education assisted by the Director of the INE who will be
specifically responsible for training programs, training implementation and
correspondence courses.
3.09      Teachers' pedagogical skills would be enhanced by the provision
of teacher guides which would be especially adapted to local environment.
New books for students, based on newly adopted programs and curricula would
also be prepared. Only a limited distribution of textbooks for
experimentation and possible changes would be financed by the project while
printing and larger distribution would be considered at a later stage.
Both teacher guides and student textbooks would be prepared by INE
specialists.
3.10      For the total training and upgrading programs, as well as for the
production of teacher guides and experimental student textbooks, the
project would finance: upgrading of existing physical facilities for the
organization of training seminars; provision of 35 motorcycles; per diem
and travel costs for local training; salaries and expenses for the local
staff working during summer vacation; development and printing of course
material, correspondence course, teacher guides and student textbooks; and
operating expenditures (transport and administrative expenses, maintenance
and spare parts for vehicles and motorcycles).
3.11 Lower Secondary Level. Iaproving the quality of education at this
level by  navesting heavily into mediur-term teacher training would not be
cost-effective as teacaers are temporary (para. 2.07) and leave the
teaching career after seven to eight months of employment, when their
one-year National Service is completed. While the number of permanent
teachers trained at ENES is increasing, quality improvement would be
obcained through the provision of detailed curricula, teacher guides and
student textbooks, close monitoring of the teaching staff and short
traluing courses for temporary teachers.



w~- 18 -
3.12      Each yeir, during the summer vacation preceeding the new academlc
year, the temporary teachers would be presented with the new curricula,
teacher guides and student textbooks which they will use for teaching.
This trairdig would last two weeks and will be under the responsibility of
the Director of DKSGT assisted by the Directors of INE and ENES who would
be responsible for the technical content of the seminar' Three training
seminars (one In each Island) for a total of about 350 trainees, will be
saet up each year.
3.13      Currently, thern. is no education inspector in charge of
monitoring the development of lower secondery education activitles, The
training of three inspectors would be included under the fellowship program
to be -financed by the proposed project. In the interim, the wrnitoring and
on-the-job training of the teachers would be the responsibility of the 80
lower secondary school (CEG) headmasters who will be especially trained
under two types of seminars: (a) an Initial four-week course organized
during summer vacation for about 20 tralnees per year, under the
responsibility of the DESGT, followed by (b) a one-week refreeher seminar
each year during the life of the project. Both seminars would be set up at
the INE facilities In Moroni and benefit from the technical assistance of
the INE's Director and education specialists. The training program would
focus on teaching skills, improved teaching methods, use of teacher guidee
and organization of on-the-job training. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that (i) the INS would be formally asslgned
the responsibility for the Implementation of the in-service primary and
lower secondary teacher training programs, including organization of
training seminars and on-the-job mnitoring of teachers; and (ii) SNUS
would be assigned to assist INE for the implementation of these programs
(pars. 7.01 (f)).
3.14      INe would be responsible for the production, testing and
distribution of teacher guides gnd student textbooks. It is expected that,
during the life of the project, teacher guides covering the four grades of
lower secondary education would be completed, and that between six and ten
textbooks for students would be either entirely prepared or adapted to
country's environment from otber existing books, and tested In three, four
or five experimental CeGg. Large scale printing and distribution of
approved textbooks will be considered at a later stage.
3.15      For the improvement of lower secondary education, the project
would provide financing for limited equipment and consumables for the
preparation and distribution of teaching guides and textbooks; fellowships
for the training of inspectors (63 man/months, Annex 1. Table 7); per.diem
and travel costs for local training; salaries and expenses for the staff
working during summer vacations; expenses for the development and printing
of course materials and teaching equlpment; and operating expenditures
(transport and administrative expenses).



- 19 -
Manpower Develop2ent
3.16      Although employment opportunities are limited in Comoros (para.
1.06), there is, according to the 1985 World Bank/Unesco Cooperative
?rogram study mentioned earlier (para 1.08), an annual need of between 30-
and 80 industrial skilled workers and/or middle-level technicianss and of
between 60 and 100 clerks, accountants, secretaries and typists. Also,
self-employed artisans and/or small entrepreneurs should be provided with
modern working practices, and existing in-service business and management
staff should be recycled and upgraded. Finally, the gradual replacement of
a relatively important nuimber of expatriates working as-professionals
("cadres') in the industrial-and business sectors would require training at
a further level. The current-technical training-(para. 2.08), which aims
at preparing the students for a technical baccalaureat, is not functioning
properly: the training stremse are not set up in relation to the employment
opportunities, the potential employers are not consulted on the programs,
and there is a lack of equLpment and functional facilities.  Moreover, the
absence of relationship between potential employers and the systems
responsible for the supply of trained manpower, which exists for industrial
and business/management training as well, is a heavy handicap for-a country
where the number of unemployed trained workers in particular skills is
increasing, wbile for other skills specialists' positions continue to be
vacant (para. 1.08). The objective of the project would be to replace the
existing training by a more elaborate and practical technical/vocational
traling system, which woNuld be sufficiently flexible to respond quickly to
manpower demuad and employment possibilities.
3.17   Organization of Technical/Vocational Training.  To organize and
control the training of artisans, skilled workers, middle-level technicians
and technicians, clerks, accountants, secretaries and typists, the project
would assist the Government in the establishment of a Directorate for
Vocational and Technical Training (Direction de la Formation
Professionnelle at Technique - DFPT). Inter alia, the DFPT would also be
responsible for the development of training programs at the two
institutions to be financed by the proposed project i.e. the
Technical/Vocational Training Center at Ouani and the Business School at
Moroni. To begin the DFPT activities, the project would finance a
consultant (18 man/months, Annex 1, Table 6) who would also supervise the
implementation of the vocational/technical training programs at Ouani and
Moroni. To establish better relations-with the employment market, it is
expected that the DFPT would be assisted by a Management Board where
employers would be represeated.  During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that (i) a Presidential Decree establishing a    -
Directorate for Vocational and Technical Training (DFPT) would be submitted
to the Association for review by not later than December 31, 1986; and (i1)
the Vocational/Technical Training Center of Ouani and the Business/
Management School of Moroni would be formally placed under the authority of
the DFPT (para 7.01 (g)).



-20 -
3.18   Training for the Industrial Sector.  To train the manpower in
uccordance with the industrial labor market needs, a National Center for
Technical Education and Vocational Training would be established by
rehabilitating, expanding and equipping the "Centre de Formation
Professionnelle" at Ouani, Anjouan (para. 2.08), to provide up to 260
student places. The center wouldestablish an integrated training scheme
based on a modular system designed to meet the country's needs both for
technicians and tradesmen through parallel programs which must remain
flexible to respond to actual needs. The planned annual output
corresponding to estimated needs will be 30'trainees, with basic employable
skills to enter the work force; 48 technicians at-the level of "Brevet de
Technicien Professionnel' (BTP), and another 24 (maximum) at the level of
'Baccalaur6at Technique" (BT); and finally, an average of 30 already
practising craftsmen will be recycled or upgraded, particularly those
self-employed or intending to establish small enterprises, regardless of
their formal educational level. The Government intends to seek external
assistance to establish a revolving fund, from which individuals could
receive loans with which they would purchase tool kits for self-employment,
or to establish small enterprises.
3.19      A significant feature of this technical/vocational training
component is that it would integrate, through the authority of the DFPT
(pars. 3.17), the "enseignement technique", which is under the jurisdiction
of the MEN, and the "formation professionnelle", which is under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labor, although the latter currently has no
trainees enrolled. This integration would present the advantage to allow
for substantial savings in capital and recurrent costs by using common
facilities, equipment and teachers, and to give to the training program a
professional orientation which the existing program does not have. In
relation with this proposed component, the Government has requested
financial and technical assistance from UNDP and ILO for the in-service
training of the above mentioned (para. 3.18) local practicing craftsmen.
Facilities for this training, which would be developed partly on-the-job,
and partly at the Ouani Technical/Vocational Training Center, would result
from the rehabilitation to be financed under the proposed credit. UNDP
would finance additional technical assistance, fellowships, equipment and
consumables under separate arrangements which would complement the ones
envisaged by the project.
3.20      For the technical/vocational training program, the project would
include provision for the rehabilitation of the existing Vocational
Training Center at Ouani, furniture, equipment, technical assistance for
one specialist (24 man/months, Annex 1, Table 6) in modular training systea
ln addition to the Chief Technical Adviser of the DFPT's Director (para.
3.17) who will complement the teaching staff already provided by bilateral
technical assistance, fellowships (75 man/months, Annex 1 Table 7) to train
the future teachers of the Center, local tranaing and operating
expenditures (transport and administrative expenses).
3.21 Training for the Business and Management Sector: To provide the
employment market with clerks, accountants, secretaries and typists (para.
1.08) the project would -upgrade the existing management stream at the



- 21 -
General Lyc4e of Moroni, which will become the National Business and
Nanagement School (Bcole Commerciale et de Gestion), and will accomodate
365 day students.  Students entering the Business and Management School
would be BWPC holders. Some would be trained in two years and eater the
labor market, while the best students, prior to employmnt, would continue
for one additional year leading to a certificate in business studies.  If,
in the longer term, the demand for further qualifications in field becomes-
evident, the latter students, after some ptactical experience, could
receive additional specialized-training. In all cases, studies would be
essentially practical.  Retrainig courses for employers currently in
service wuuld also-be provided.
3.22      For the business and management training component, the project
would provide financing for the construction of new facilities at the lycEe
of Moroni, furniture and equipumat, fellowships for the training of future
comorian teachers, local training and operating expenditures (transport and
administrative expenses), Currently, France and Belgium are financing a
total of eight teachers who will continue to assist in the development of
the program until local teachers are trained and ready to replace them.
Summary of Technical Assistance
3.23 Specislist Services. Details on specialist services are provided in
Annex 1, Table 6. Because of relatively important technical assistance
being granted to the education sector by bilateral donors, the number of
specialists financed under the project would be relatively low. The six
man-years and the four un/month of specialist services included under the
proposed project would be allocated as follows: (a) 30 man/months for the
administration and planning component, to train an education planner and
assist the Government in the implementation of the administration reform
and in the preparation of education development plans and studies (para.
3.05); (b) 42 man/months to train technical teachers (paras 3.17 and 3.20);
and 4 man/months for a procurement specialist and for pre-investment
studies (para. 5.02). Specialists financed under the project would be
selected in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Qualifications,
experience and terms of employment would be subject to review and agreement
by the Association. All expatriate specialists, as part of their terms of
reference, would be expected to train local counterpart staff.
3.24      Currently, substantial technical assistance is being prov'ded to
the Government mainly by Prance and Belgium, for the development of
activities related to teacher training, technical education and business
and management training. France and Belgium indicated agreement to
continue their assistance If the proposed project materializes. As
successful long-term effects of the proposed project depends largely on a
contluuation of existing technical assistance for, at lest, during the
five-year duration of the project, during negotations the Governwint
provided assurances that a satisfactory agreement with France &m& Belgium
for a five-year extension of the ongoing technical assistance program for
teacher training and tecbnilcal/vocational training, has been areed upon,
based on the artrent level of quantity and speciality (para. 7.01(h)).



- 22
3.25,  Fellowships and Training.  tn addition to local training of
teachers, headmasters, education advisers and administratots and education
planners, the project would finance about 15 man/years of long and
short-term fellowships abroad. A detailed summary of fellowships is
provided in Annex 1, Table 7. The fellowships would be-allocated as
follows: (a) 36 man/months for administration and planning (para. 3.05);        -
(b) 63 man/months for the training of lower secondary-school inspectors
(para. 3.15); (c) 75 man/months for the training of future technical
teachers (para. 3.20); 72 man/months for the training of future business
and management teachers (para. 3.21); and (d) 7 man/months for the
upgrading of the project management staff (para*.5.02).  The-selection
criteria for fellowship recipients, all courses of study, training
institutione and estimated costs would-be subject to review by the
Association.  Terms of reference for specialists to be hired under the
proposed project, and a detailed plan for the fellowships and training to
be undertaken, would be subject to review and agreement by the Association.
Upon return, fellowships recipients will serve at least ten years in the
position for which they were trained.
Project Sustainability
3.26      The proposed project, which includes substantial financing for
training of total staff, has been designed to provide the education sector
with institutions which could function under the direct responsibility of
local managers, specialists and teachers as soon as the five-year project
implementation period is completed. As a result, all education planning
specialists, middle-level administrators and technical/vocational training
teachers are expected to be trained by the end of 1989. Also as all
primary and lower secondary teachers would be trained during project
implementation, the only remaining long-term activity would be on-the-job
training and monitoring. This task would be performed by the pedagogical
advisers and inspectors whose qualifications would also be enhanced under
project financing.
Coordination with Donor Agencles
3.27      Bank Group staff discussed the content of the proposed project
with representatives of UNDP, France, Belgium, EEC, Canada and the United
States, to avoid duplication of efforts and to maximize the beuefits to the
education sector. Through the important program of already existing
technical assistance,-France, Belgium, UNDP and Canada would play an
essential role in the project implementation; they would also participate
actively in the policy dialogue already in process, and close coordination
among external donors regarding educational matters would continue, which
was not the case one year ago.



-23-
Female Participation in Educatlon
3.28      Females account for 472, 392, 312 and 29X of total enrollment at
primary, lower secondary, upper secondary and higher education
respectively. The percentage of female -teachers in primary education is
about 252 but Is increasing--the percentage of female students attending
the National Teacher Training School was about 512 in 1984/85. The
proposed project, which is designed to improve the quality of training
rather than increase-the number of trainees, would contribute to -
maintaining the existing percentages of female participation in education
activities.
Poverty Focus-
3.29      By building managerial and planning capabilities within the
Ministry of Education, influencing education policy, supporting teacher
training and student textbook development, and provisions for the two
technical/vocational training schools, the proposed project would serve the
both urban end rural poor. First,through the enrollment increase in
primary education obtained by applying cost-saving measures, educational
opportunities would be provided to previously disadvantaged groups.
Second, the introduction in the primary and lower secondary teacher
training programs, of subjects related to environment is expected to result
In a more efficient training for those students who would have to enter the
productive life after primary or lower secondary education.
Population Education
3.30      Having recognized that Comoros requires a population program that
goes beyond the provision,of family planning services, the Government
established a Population Unit in the Directorate of Planning. Its mandate
is to advise the Government on the formulation of a population program and
to inform and educate opinion leaders and the general public about
population growth and its implication, family health and family planning.
The IDA supported Health and Population Project (Credit 1048-CON) is
assisting in the design and execution of the Unit's work program and in the
organization of seminars and local conferences to explore and publicize the
population issue. The ENI and the ENES have been directed to incorporate
population education elements in the training programs of primary and lower
secondary teachers. Progress is being monitored by Bank Group staff.
Environmental Impact
3.31      No negative impact on the environment is expected as a result of
this proposed project.



- 24 -
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Project Cost
4e01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$8.8 million equivalent.
The estimated c08ts of the project are given-in Annex 1, Tables 8 and 9 and-are
-ummarited -below:-
I of
-. C  (Millions)        USs (000) -asse
Local Foreign  Total  lAcal  Foreign  Total   Cost
1) institutional
Development
Administration               7     35       42       19     100      119      2
Education plsaning          26    124      150       76     354      430      7
2)   ality Improvement
a) Primary level           393    308      701     1123     878    2001      30
b) Lower Sec. level         -     103      103       -      293    2952       4
3) Manpower Development
Techn/Voc. Training         91    629      720      260    1798    2058      32
Management Training        132    284      416      376     812    1188      18
4) ProJect Administration        46    105      151      130     301      431      7
TOTAL BASE COST (1-4)        695   1588    2283      1984  6           522    100
(Jan.86)
5) Contingencies
a) Physical (102)           69    159      228      198     454      652
b) Price increases (252)  186    371       557      533    1059    1592
Sub-total (5)           255    530     785       731    1513    2244
TOTAL PROJESC  COST             950   2118    3068      2715    6051    8766
~ muu   mmas    mir               in 



- 25 -
4.02      Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles
wave prepared in consultation with the DUPE and the Miustries of NatioUal
Education and Public Works. The proposed schedule of accomdation are
functional, austere and appropriate for the proposed objectives. The
average construction cost per square w-ter Is about US$290 for secondary
schools. This compares with unit cost In selected African countries as
follows: US$365 in Kenya (1981) and US$225 in Tanzania (1980).  Furniture
and equifrent costs are reasonable and respectively estimated at about
US$175 -na-US$3,375 per student place for the Technical/Vocational School.
The technical assistance costs under the project-are based on UNDP rates.-
4.03      Custom Duties and Taxes:  Items directly imported for the project
would-be exempt froi& custom duties and taxes and other local taxes would be
negligible.
4.04      Contingency allowances  are added to base costs as follows: 10l
of the base costs for physical contingencies, and an average of 242 of the
base cost plus physical contingencies for price contingencies. The latter
have been calculated on the basis of the implementation schedule (Annex 1,
Table 10) at the following annual inflation rates: 1986, 7.22; 1987, 6.8%;
1988, 6.8X; 1989, 7.01 and 1990, 7.11. Inflation rates are assumed to be
equal for foreign and local costs due to the almost complete dependence of
the country on Imported goods, The annual rates have been reviewed by Bank
Group staff and have been found satisfactory.
4.05      The Fore*gp Rxchage cgMponent has been calculated as follows:
(a) civil worst ous; 1(b) furnlture, 77Z; (c) equipment and vehicles, 1OOS;
(d) professional services, 702; (e) technical assistance and fellowships,
100%; (f) local training, 301 and (g) incremental operation costs, 30%.
Including contingencies, She foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$5.4 million or about 70X of the total project cost.
Financial Plan
4.06      The project would be financed by an IDA Credit of US$7.9 million,
with a Governmut contribution of US$0.9 million equivalent. Government's
financing would cover salaries for local personnel required for project
implementation activities. Based on the above, the financing pln would be
as follows:



- 26 -
Us$ 000'
Category                     Gov.       IDA       TOTAL
1. Civil works                -          1,100     1,100
2. Purniture, materials,
Equipment and vehicles      -         1,900     i,900
3. Consultant Services         -           900       900
4. Training                  -2,000                2,000
5. Operating -Costs           900          150     1,150
6. Unallocated                 -         1,850     1,850
,~~ --  .            
TOTAL          900         7,900     8,800
4.07      The proposed credit would finance US$6.1 mllion, or 1002 of the
foreign exchange component, and US$1.8 million or 672 of local costs. The
Government's contribution would be US$0.9 million, phased over a period of five
and half years, an average yearly contribution of about US$160,000 equivalent.
The annual Government's contribution to the costs of the proposed project during
the implementation period would represent salaries of education planning unit
staff, education advisors, lower secondary school inspectors, technical teachers
and additional project related administrative staff.
4.08      Recurrent expenditures.  8ffects of the project on the recurrent
budget when all activities would be In full operation would arise al}ost
entirely from the cost of operating the technical/vocational training center and
the primary and lower secondary teacher In-service training programs, new
salaries and salary increases for the staff acquiring better qualifications.
These additional costs would commence about 1991.  In that year, the additional
cost would amount to about FC8 million for the planning unit, FC60 million for
teacher training and FC49 million for Industrial training, a total of about
FC117 million.  However, recommnded cost-saving measures would allo  the
Government to save substantial resources i.e. about FCIOO million annually from
the termiastion of underqualified primary teacher recruitment, and an additional
FC40 million annually if Government-financed fellowships abroad are eliminated.
Other savings would result from increased student/teacher ratios, and limit on
enrollment growth at lower and upper secondary levels. These savings would
offset all recurrent costs generated by the project.



- 27 -
V. IIIP ION, P             HENT, DISBUREHES AND AUDITING
-plementation
5.01      Schedule. The project would be lispleunted over a period of
about five and haf years (Annex 1, Table 10). Project completion Is
expected by December 31, 1991, with a Closing Date of June 30, 1992. The
impleentation schedule  a deemed- to be relistic and based upon experience
derived from the First Education Project, and an ongoing AfD education
Project.
5.e02  Administration. The Project Implementation Unit (BESPE)i
established in the HER which is adequately implementing the First Education
Project, the AfDB Education Project and the civil works component financed
under an IDA Health and Population Project, would be responsible for the
administration of the project. To take into account the heavy education
content of the project, and the complexity of bookkeeping activities
generated by the payment of numerous local small activities, i.e. training
seoinars, school monitoring, etc., the BPE would be strengthened with a
local general educator, a local chief accountant and a technical assistance
procuremeat specialist (para. 3.23 - 2 man/months - Annex 1, Table 6)).
The construction department of the DUPS (Bureau Technique - BT) comprising
a junior architect, two draftsmen and two site supervisors, would be
responsible for (a) preparation of architectural briefs including
preliminary sketch plans; (b) monitoring of the architectural work prepared
by a private consulting firm still to be selected, and (c) supervision of
construction work. The education specialist would supervise the
implementation of the educational component of the project. On this
matter, he would lialse on a full-time basis with the Directors of the
Planning Unit, INS, DEES, DUPE, DESGT and DFPT who would be directly
responsible for education planning and preparation of education studies
(par"s 3.02-3.04), primary and lower secondary teacher training (paras
3.06-3.15), and technical/vocational training of skilled u*rkers and
tecbniclans (par"s 3.16-3.19). In particular, the education specialist
would monitor the timely appointmet of fellowship candidases, consultants
and local specialists and performance. He will be also responsible for the
preparation of pre-investment studies leading to possible fuiure projects
for which consultant services (2 man/months) would be financed by the
proposed project. Study trips and upgrading seminars abroad (7 man/months)
would be Included in proJect financing. During negotiations, the
Governmaent provided assurances that the following local specialists would
be recruited and maintained in their positions during the life of the
project: two education planners, one education financlig specialist, one
school mapping specialist, 35 education advisers, three lover secondary
school Inspectors, 10 teacher trainers and curriculum development
specialists at INE and ENES, eight teachers for the Techeical/Vocational
School of Ouani and eight teachers for the Business/Nanagement School of
Moroni (para. 7.01 (i)).
5.03      Professional services.  A coneultant architectural firm would be
hired by BIPE to provide profesional services for the civil works
coWonent, on the basis of sketch plans and brieflg documnts prepared by
the ST. The flr would be selected in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines.



-28
5.04      Site selection.  The existing site for the Technical/Vocational
School at Ouani is suitable for the planned rehabilitation and expansion
works. A suitable iite for the planned Business and Msnageuent School has
been identified adjacent to the IlN. The site is owned by the Government.
5.05      Status of proI ect preparation.- The BDPU is an established unit
which has gained considerable experience through its administration of
several ongoing projects.  Sketch plans-for civil works ar under
preparation. Furniture and equipment lists are being prepared concurrently
with the design of the facilities. -Term of Reference for technical
assistance specialists have been prepared.;
5.06      Maintenance.  The Government bas problems to adequately maintain
its buildings, mainly because of budget constraints. It is important that
buildings to be designed for the project require little aintenance. The
BUPE would develop a plan and procedures for the future management of
school buildings, which would, inter alla, outline financial needs to
enable the Ministry of Public Works to adequately maintain educational
facilities.
Procureament
5.07      Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
US$ Million
Project                                       TOTAL
Category            ICB      LCB     Other     COST
Civil works                -      1.5       -         1.5
(1.5)              (1.5)
Furniture, equipment,
materials                 2.2     0.3                 2.5
& vehicles               (2.2)   (0.3)               (2.5)
Consultant services                        1.2        1.2
(1.2   . (1.2)
Training                                   2.6        2.6
(2.6)     (2.6)
Operating CostO                            1.0        1.0
(0.1)     (0*1)
TOTAL           2.2      1.8      4.8       8.8
(2.2    (1.8)    (3.9)     (7.9)
Note: lgurs In panthess"  aem the rwspectiv  innate finacd by IDA,.



29 -
S.08      Contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles would be awarded
on the basis of International competitive bidding, In accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines for Procurement, except for contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent each, which would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association. The aggregate total of such contracts is
not expected to exceed US$0.3 million equivalent.  Due to the small size
and type of work (rehabilitatton and small extension), contracts for civil
works for the TechnicallVocational Trai.ing School, estimated at about
US$1.5 million, would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.  When ICB procedures are used, domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a margin of preference of 15S over the c.i,f. price of competing
foreign suppliers, or the existing applicable rate of Import duties,
whichever is lower.
5.09      Other contractse   Specialists and consultants would be selected
and hired on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and in
accordance with the "Bank Group's Guidelines for the Use of Conaultants".
5,10      Bank Group's Review.  Sketch plans, draft tender documents and
master lists of furniture, equipment and vehicles, indicating proposed
grouping and cost estiaates, would be reviewed by the Assoclation. Items
would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding
and permit bulk procurement. Band Group review of tender evaluation
documents prior to award, would be required only for contracts exceeding
US$100,000 equivalent for civil works, and US$50,000 for furniture,
equipmsvt and vehicles,
Disbursements
5.11      Disbursements under the proposed IDA Credit would be made on the
basis of:
(a)  100% of total expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100% of total expenditures for furniture, equipment, materials
and vehicles;
(c)  100% of total expenditures for consultant services;
(d)  100% of total expenditures for training; and
te)  100% of total expenditures for operating costs (excluding
salaries of local personnel) and allowances.



-30-
All disbursements would be fully documented except for: (a) civil works
contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (b) furniture,
equipment, materials and vehicles costing less than US$50,000 equivalent;
(c) training and (d) incremental operation expenditures, for which
disbursements-would be made against statements of-expenditures (SOB) whl4k
would be certified by the Project Director. The documaetation of SO3
would not be submitted co the Association for review, but would be retalned
by the Borrower and made available for Inspection by the Association durlng
project supervision. The dIsbursement-schedule (Annex 1, Table 11) has
been estimated on- the basi of -the implementation schedule (Annex 1, Table
10) and the sector profile for Comoros.
5.12  Special Account.  In order to ensure that funds for the -project would
be made available when needed, a Special Account in Comorian Francs,
operated by the BEPE, would be established In a financial institution
acceptable to the Association, with an initial deposit of about US$500,000
equivalent to cover about four mnoths of expenditures-which would be
withdrawa from the Credit account after Credit effectiveness. The account
would be replenished on the basis of documentary evidence, to be provided
to the Bank Group by the BEPE, of payments made from the account for goods
and services required for the project eligible for financing under the
Credit. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that a Special
Account would be established for the purpose of the project.
5.13 Monitoring and Evaluation.   Semi-annual progress reports on
implementation would be submitted to the Association by the BEPE by each
June 30 and December 31, following Credit effectiveness. The format of the
reports would be similar to those routinely utilized for comparable
education Bank Group projects. The reports would briefly identify major
problems, if any, and recommend solutions; review the performance of
implementing authorities and agencies; and maintain performance key
Indicators in reaching project goals. In addition, the Government would
prepare and eend to the Association for comeant, not later than six mDnths
after final disbursements from the Credit Account, a completion report
assessing attainment of project objectives, project Implementation and
initial operation, its cost and the benefits derived, the performance of
the Government, the Association and other agencies involved, and the
significant lessons learned.
5.14 Auditin. The BEPE would maintain separate accounts for all project
activities, in conformity with national accounting practices. These
accounts would be controlled according to normal Governuant financial
control procedures which are satisfactory. The 3BPE would prepare an
annual report summrizing the financial situation of all project
operations, which would be submitted to the Association, Auditing would be
required on an annual basis for a8l expenditures financed under the
project, with particular attention to those reimbursed under SOBs
(para 5.11)* The audit report would include a separate analysis of the use
of IDA funds under the Special Account (pars 5.12). Auditing would be
performed by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association, within
six months following the end of the Borrowers fiscal year and would be
financed under the proposed project.



- 31 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The immediate benefit of the project would be to enhance the
capacity of the Government to use effectively the reiources it has
available for the education sector. It is- eVpected that. this objective
would be reached through three different actions. First, following the
reform of the adminstration initiated and pursued under the First IDA
Education P-oject, the-maagement ofUthe sector would-be mte easily
monitored, and a better education planning, based on reliable statistics
and adequate school mapping exercise,. would lead to a more efficient use of
existing resources. Second, under the proposed project, the professional
skills of all primary and lower secondary teachers would be upgraded and,
as a result, the quality of education would be significantly improved.
Finally, the replacement of two theoretically- oriented technical education
institutions by two professionally-oriented vocational training schools,
would allow the Government to adapt the training of skilled workers to the
country manpower needs.
6.02      More important, however, are the long-term effects expected from
the project. As a result of the institutional development to be promoted
by the project, the education authorities should have the capacity to carry
out integrated sectoral planning, to plan and implement investment
programs, to train and monitor teachers at all levels, to prepare, evaluate
and distribute education materials, and to optimize the use of physical and
teaching resources. This managerial improvements should assist in a
reduction of the Government's recurrent expenditures in the sector.
Risks
6.03      The project presents three risks.  The first concerns the
Government's financial constraints and its ability to finance developments
related to the project. To address this problem, the project has been
designed to minimize recurrent costs as it will be limited to improvement
and strengthening of exlsting activities. Moreover, the optimization of
existing resources would generate substantial savings which could be used
to finance the development of new activities. The second risk concerns the
Government ability to implement the project in an adequate manner.
Currently, the lack of efficient institutions and trained personnel hampers
any improvement in the sector. To minimize this risk, the project includes
elements to strengthen the organizational units responsible for education
planning, administration, teacher training and project implementation.
Also, the project provides for local specialists training and the
Government would appoint qualified personnel for key instltutions. The
thlrd rlsk is that the quality improvement objectives, and the training of
skilled workers may be jeopardized lf the current number of qualified
expatriate specialists is not maintalned for five wore years. To reduce
this risk, the Government would be requested to confirm the necessary
arrangements with the main sources of technical assistance (i.e. France,
Belgium)* that their assittance would continue for at least the five year
duration of the project.



- 32 -
VII. AGREEM S RAUCHE1 AND RECOME TIONDASIO
7.01      During negotiations, the Government provided assurance that:
(a) (i) any new r1tajor capital investment aiming at expanding the existing
enrollment capacity at the secondary and post-secondary levels-would
be made in accordance with the agreed policy of lmlitwtn enrollment
growth at these levels, and (ii) any capital- investment of US$500,000
equivalent or wore would be subject to Bank sgreement (para. 2.15);
(b). (i) in the period 1985/86 to 1988189, wecruitmert of  ew  teachers for
all levels of education would be limited to teachers trained at ENI
and ENES; (ii) in the period 1985/86 and 1988/89, Government-financed
fellowships for baccalaureate holders would be limlted to those
necessary for students attending courses at ERI and BNS, and to those
high priority areas for which no external funding is available, and
(iii) enrollment growths at lower and upper secondary levels would be:
02 between 1985/86 and 1988/89, 12 between 1988/89 and 1990191, and 3%
thereafter (para 2.16);
(c) an organization chart of the Ministry of Education including, inter
al8, a Directorate of Education Planning, and a single department
responsible for curriculum development and teacher training at the
primary and secondary education levels has been agreed and will be
formally adopted not later than December 31, 1986 (para. 3.02);
(d) not later than December 31, 1986, the Education plarnnng Directorate
would be staffed with specialists acceptable to the Association and
consisting of a director having if possible, training and background
in education administration and planning, education planner, an
economist, a statistician and a school-mapping specialist (pars.
3.03);
(e)  the action plan to increase the cost-effectivene9s of education and
including concrete and mnitorable actions, would be completed by June
30, 1987; and (it) the agreed cost-saving actions would be implesmuted
beginning with the academic year 1987/1988 (pars. 3.04);
(f) (i) the INE would be formally assigned with the responsibility of the
Implementation of the in-service primary and lower secondary teacher
training programs, including organization of training seminars and
on-the-job teachers' monltoring; and (ii) RNES would be assigned to
assist IN% for the implementation of those programs (para. 3.13);
(g) (i) a Presidential Decree establishing a Directorate for Vocational
and Technical Training (DIPT) would be submittr4 to the Association
for review by not later than December 31, 1986, and (ii) the
Vocational Training Center of Ouanr and the Business/Mhnagemant School



33 
of Moroni vemld be formally placed under the authority of the DPPT
(para. 3.17);
(h)  a satisfactory agreennt with France and Belglum, for a five-year
extension of the onoiag techcal assista-cs program for teacher
training and teebuical/vocationAl training,7ba  been agreed upon,
based on eurrent level of qu"atlty and speciality (para. 3.24); and
(I) the following local specialists will be recruited and maintained in,
their positin during the life of the project: two education planners,
one educatio flanmcing specialist, one school u-pping specialist, 35
education advisers, three lover secondary sehool inspectors, 10
teacher trainers and curriculum development specialists at INE, eight
teachers for the Technical'School at Osani, and eliht teachers for the
National Business and Manageumnt School at Noroni (para. 5.02).
l~~~~~~~~~~S



N              *01   0                         O'ft  At'$  owl r"  at    v
SM141                                           en               Votes     90                    we         VI    wila  0         im         ATOM
4slow     99       to      Is       44   de  a   ov    4we          A  9    Stec  1.1    a    on 9 Wm=
Aar"      a       69        44        re         oc              to       Os   61  It  Cs        41*1      is        *Ir         a             dUt
wo        of      a         lm       silt       a        a       to      14   0    it  n        rql       AV a    Zs  we"   Os             ARAMM
W 41                                   0,11   fto         -;     son             $I di so       40-to             4mos 4vt    GA              imom
446                            -   -    ;       4rol              4019   4rg    Id         gapom
Qe7                                   ro                 to  IC                                wit  4:F   Awf 1,69 a
we        a       to                            of       A                                        9       i's    *#$'I  re    ot            "I"M
06            In       19      "I
awe       O      amll      on         wit    9419       ON    Ann                  di do    41,01                 4mg    VI    a
I                                                        ags-6
we        a      et        an        9161        9       a       IN      of   0    6    It    AW4         'We    as   40.6    49              um
d%WC             duos       -                                   An%"      -    =   -   ""    44111        40.1    Ott    w'o   IM             Wm
&Ws             MOT         to                                 4300      -         -   -        %Val      ".1   400P$  irt    as           WWASPO
Ann                             SC       It   Ann         n    to  9   "      A41199    4krg    ow    fro    "           -mlil la
rte                        at       It   "   is  it       rog       dro    Girt 40'a    46            "Wm
919       VI              Go      4"    a   is
we#       tt      ot                            66                                      it      0191       we    owl  I's   4w   14N arisen"
deirot     it   Ants                    -       4499      as   antis       Is            -        4ret      O's            re    Is             im
OrN       is      Go        As        Vs        St       it      96      go   cc  a   of        1119       VI        I41-8    go         on #AM
AOWOI      of      to                  Vo         It      'I      u       410    99  kV    a      4rst      rt         Iqala    a            wi
&ewit  &W  A"gg                         -    A%"    -   ASOIS   -  -  =  -    4fgl  ftl'                                   6-01  es            inm
go   AOIPI   Ads        etO       gs-I     Ott       -      Aai        "    to       is        0        ;I1   4MA.,  VOil  4M             u
$91      Z         d7-        4"              Att       a   -   -   -         eilot     stilt    099    VI    of           V&"Vo
't,            All                    61     "S               401      qII  lot *4  440      Q1,98    ma-a    oWs  re    a
-       61      14        46                  VI       96      44      40    it  19  19       1.61       Cs    01412  ro    Os            IVAM
00,99     I       It        a                   is       Is      u       q%*  got .11 J.        Vol        re    off"af&            A  0  gaigmwllolmm
&%we   q,  VI                a         VW   sost   oo   ti    a  all We on    Wm   Awe  a"   ra  a                                              4=
411010   a                             Wi*   is                  wig   491 -  -                  qrn    It  On   Vt  As   mnmm
14:rrf     to      of        a         17       141             A""        a    a   a             0-a         6    St,    C-6
09      a         a            I      It               16       '"   t,               Val        VI   Ok    O-C#   a              "Iwo
0`0       u       9         a         rst       it       es      a        VI   In  a   of       wig       4ra    OK      ri                   am
It's     iu       6         ag        W"                4H       99      stl   a   to  0        a,"        i's   qz    q111    a         vurnom
idwo       it       I                  #,$I               0       a        at   It  to  a        "Its       or*           VA    to               m
aell     ot       to        St        rill      99       a       a        ag  fa   a   99       roi        re    as    VI    46             Timm
WI       SI    was          of        rat       a        41      u      AM     #   of  is       free      IN      as   qt-s    so        "VW am
Noti      01                Ito     "VLI        n         x       99      0   an  on  ea          -       two   *M        t'l    ot           vaaw
Is               -          -    ^11                &"tj   -  - -  .                  r"    Ag'f  ow   et# Os                       Wm
at               ft        841"     ^a                         4"   to  do           440'9     Mrs    an       sle    At           am$
..O;g    401                                    St*                        -    -   -            are       All't    OW4  VO    "                mom
"WV  AO;                                        All                       -  -  -               Aldlit  Amwo  kg  VI  IM                        *Om
pro       I'll                                   It              Ags       it                   4911     A"rg    m        ro    u               GM
"08`0  -                                        Adf                                             Xul  Ain   M   rg  a
sort      a       of        qu        orto    .416       fit     ot            on  on  *Ct      AVOI       &VI    on      re    It
wo       19      4                    flu       to       a       el       6    a    a    go     Me        *I-#   qOlt    4-9    49          in
Awl       to       tv       ag        rvt                 ag      n       411    4   19  to      flu       ere   On    0-6
Oro       a       S!        18        0144      a        go      40     4"     t   ag  to       IM         re   40M    ti't    to           ommm
ort       a       "         a         6-81      eV       0       $0     4"   .81  a   so         I'll     erv   %w_   el's    go              im
are       a       of        0         rit       49       a       4m     01    #1  -, -         . im        A-4   019   qrst   to              am
wo        a       9         to                  is       to    ios       a    4mi qa  4a       *v,w                n       a    Os            W40"
Oro                        '01        wit       ct       a                                                               lrli   de
mrc       et      a         16        VI#       a        ag     46"O           a   It  Is       VW       qZCS  4"o
ll-9  go          wnwM
91        VO                                                      a   of   -                   40a    orto   es             Wm
WI        9t     qlt       40        qre       4a       4"      qu      qu         49*  40                 6.1   4w       slo    is          vivo"
99                            on  ea  VW       Wu          #19    owl  re    41           #"INN=
T         W"    0                                   a  fA to   fla              re  40a  vvs  so                   Tam
owl       a       49        as        rat       a        u                      4   u   it       OV        C-9   quirl qVI    to           sul
wo        is      t         91        rt                 a       99            a   VI  at        Vs$       "      qm     4119    to           SW
AqfPg      -ts      of        a         re       WS        a     am        as    a   a   ts       rts       art    in       re    As        gum
aclt      to.    is         so        Vs        Of       It             qa      IR  a   a        el"       6.g   qm      49-1    to          OWAM
a       el        as        el"       n        O'      gig    4"      of  in   a      '11,41   J=       On    Avit   to              lam
SU,       $161       to      do       go      a     0   a             I'll                            to         "an=
VAS      ft        of      It     -41   ...  a   U        Iris       rt,   alt,    O *   'it          usan
it                  -         Os       OP      94      0     a   a   to       VW        are    us   *re    011             somm
WI    91   d                at        rat    a           a   to    a   a  a  "    slot   4rg  M   ro  19                                     to"
Is      II                  "I        n        u       m       4"    U   11  to       Wit        4-fo   *"    'WI    It-
vugw
town    "O         a"        ot         $161     off       001    No      4"     Ot  In  19        ra        r6    owts C's
**Wu       41       as        m         ris       $9       m       on     qu     St  ft  ig        VICI     d's   %till'ot ogle  ffif      &,Wm    4"
wig    ltt       a         4U        rat       IN       a       n      4"      It  a   0        P#         oli    Wu  rot   II           forsom
folAtt    -       ib"       MM          -       -        Om      on     40    -   - .-          Is's       #4      acres r1o   es        91,9'mmm
VW"       of      in         an      "Vial       to       00     SW      44"   45U 4" 400    40rlg          *i's   ogglo 4vto   te             voom
W41F    gt        u                             it       ON     am       -                                 st-9    OWS qripl
(Ito   at)      nip       110        Os)       to)      is)     ta)     49)        til         (t)         4t)      4t)    (1)
mawdw  aw"&i  '491             0)  CUOI)        0)                   mn4vwu    tlwot) 40161)
am  Ammum AIWM 110  4"   MDO 'am   (a) n m  Sim                                       a MOM  tan SUN Wu
.1   at mom  SOISOUN unum   lummis                       am tog os"II IOM                 mm" guan law tv"
am                        WUU"  AMM "WIN AMMUMIAXMU" SONNOWN SMOM                                                      m
basm no atom                a" an             &%W   ANFAMN founm
........ ......
I



£:mmb.. 8sa*   31$*3aqo  81111  n"1 pm m I                I     A 49
0135  Isove , pttm w       opma ta     4pm 6 nmsow  83smon on* &twmu aua6 8.    so3m  pas p    (O,ag£ M    PM91   a      q.60  3~
'11143* es4naoslf                                      sa~.14193130    1U mint  * a30uuaa34 o P    S pm    pm   s oms 6   *.CIemi £33')016    1s IUq    (1)
3114F3IIS3m1 VW .nt.449m$d              PSmaRp wua.ipmbuvsswP 4338383        1     in33 as1 am"0 to PM t 3In") .33)W   31 Wu*1P33U' see           s.   '
30'.4'    T"3  nupg    set  Po  mu.Vu40nAa    Aimw  weo 4pm 801810m £30s at  *esmaino Aimasmo alu      m       up" U38* (9 010-3) 333  *'31          i)
'1-133113m 09331W Pan" 03.*)
393311 643  63 99- 3833'31313'b31-t owso   Po3  6*9s 3343 3s333   pm   U  *33     ti*    383no  p11 innO  pm "VI £4.1331   34  3
wmbam'     WIsm 343   "No 33333838 $313830 31          " 35333   an"33   SlIp4 s3 '3*3 .93*3 -3 31339.u3 p   galo  34 wpm"3 a" '333  3143130938 "a3$"on"
1300*38  31333401 33'U353839                      "Sam10  p343**338  is ""TM33 Po MM" 331339  833*    p  331133163  41311 of3333338333gm  gain"3"4 3813334*
Sw=Us meo *A                     elmn amnlumi SaM * 
"Raw  mm.*30 "&8 53l4d6   33                   osmY awnconm al                                               SAIIII& 33333 *MM346   M0333 
313 *8M300A   WAS1 03933 SW   A        MA6 am1  MA03380513 no3 11410 *                                          wa163im2     3 us3 3641115   ...
31EV (am2) 403*103 402 so 3332 3nal           - on1  am1  01*16  96439 *M   V                                                335113*334 3mom 
it £          1 it                    (3 it    St        to                is    61 a05C            j'91          Olt33*.393p
I'             Et        Is           9$       1£        6£       05       1       I of33           O430          0*0                                    $33331
0'    1       101        00                    a3        ££       at       SE      £    1$ 1 It    sit            WE1                        33mn
to,"1    tot       (0        (005         0'9 alit             (34     £313    (46    (£ (90 (ot        (('05,        (Vol,
-(0.Q)    -0)      -1)       -0$)        -90$       -4$)       -U])    -83)      -3)    -6) -9)  -13) *L£)            -903oft
00.3      01        45         9,        0.3        5a         06                Cs    go .6  sOto.         t'9         VIS  49        qO'3    to        *63'd nlm
01't       03       1          to         904       AU        *gl       is      411      A    I         VS   i$s      NOVIS    at       119      all      `'IVma
00e        if       It         St        Ire         It        it       oft    q£4        2 3    305        rot         r £5    01$3£40         to£334
we.        0 at                01 at         s      49£       405      awl       It 499  65      3          04Vs       4904     011l 0 ro        A            13113115
09*33     413     4419         It                              of(6 0  4446     .31      o 93      IC0      cl0$       4903     051$l   Vs9   04                13
40V0i   -    £4s9               -             -    q             =   £46    -   --  -                        AWI!    Al's  019'00VIC  94                          law
0$ v         $1         93          -          St        t9      all     4q01          -             *A-S3        53l   49$ISq0           a
noliz -      a"                                 I -  -  61- .99                                     w.903         -        -i      I's     44p
4006',     .3     tpo           g                                         C -   - l  - swll 054.'0                     A34£               833C   Is               30
A0L1        9$1    A44$                                St 0'     5       ASS       5     .3.9    O -'ll                  .90      044$11.   961    4I          43351
*00'S     4q1      me"           3Olt S£                         69      £q £      31     5$                               -$             Vic'S                   on
-cl       -9       I          -            -        -         -         $3    0$  - --                      0           Ill11 IS 03mi
50*1  11  0$  -  9'S      55       -        ASP      495334515                4,0.0)~      ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~ 41  06i    wit6   £3.
00.9  63  39  ~~~~~~0     st'S        $3        13~~~~~  10$     qo       o1r,3                         sr       on' 40 a4n6   II31
OS'S  83  03  09        9003       4$        05       64       53      0133~~~~~~9  $0   4341       83909     31990            as      *13u
00'9       et       99                    903        I           9        o 1£           DI $6     SE *309VIC' 4$                31900'          01           Wu93
OD's3      is       is         46         Ill        $1        594                to     et4  asa9           Vt9          0.4369*W    f45      064        *3m63
00.3       ofl    Iti          5£         0'£        Itl       319       09       -      33    c LI  00     96          9'S    C3        0S      £
9t*l'  3$  35  U  .111    93        46      316434    q014S33(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    rI           I'    q*414'f    91   ~            wsw30n
0*'33      6£       03v        it         wit$       50        Ott       at       95          it5159        900$       ..               WC       to         Ire Tam
~~ (9$)   (SI)  ($1)    ($so3)       ' 0$)               St        It) (4)   £6)        ( a          (0)            't)      £3)     1
(3)  431839*1    ) Ci    (1)   (      atYJ)j    33393     to)      (a)   (9563) )                    (1) 3U 4     in        141)  (46)1
?TV*63  344*041              a l*   01    31314  33  119131333108  VMUS *          1413a      sm"        sm " $0390319303 0  013333     91343  '4du   an9
813*36 A303W*U 3390333   304339   S311ind      931    nu3343               am1430*33   933933041  amine U 9
~1333  30J91~                      30190403   303303
LL.J~~~~~fL  *Zj iJI
Tiom~~~~~~~~~~~~~-99 9
3 *3ij ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ S



-36-
A--=X  I
- - - Tab~~te I
DistriWbtion of MEN Recurrent Expnditures, 1984-1985
Uigher/Sup4rieur                                         20.2
Vocational-Tachnical/ I/
Technique et Professiaonel 1I              2.2           2.0
seco.darylgec-ndaire                                     25 0
Primary ad Koraticl
Primusire et Coranique                                  44.2
Total        100.0         100.0
Memorandum Ttems.:
MeN as  of total recurrent budget/
Pourcent.8e des. hcpeue  totales de
fonctionniment du P iouisAre de         25.0          25.5
1 'Education                            25.0          25.5
MEN as X of GDP (Orojected)n
Pourcentage du PDs du Nirietare de
l'Education (pr*vu)                       3.8           4.0
I/ Includes primary teacher training/Comprend formation professionuelle
de I'enseiguem.nt primire.
Source: Annex 2, table 2.



- 37 -
Table 3
Second  wedsutluon Ljet/t! Projet Euucatto
D- ltrlbtio  Of No Rcuent              t.  (1984/85)1
:-- attti.u 4   bdepu  de ?ouctout      het de M  (1984/85)
Sehool            Scolage 191985
1. Rcurrnt Bdge/Budet d  Foctonneen               ilinsP
- Secndar/SecoIdaecod25re.
if, I \ ~~-24.9 
and Primsly/ 
Mr-Primire
et YritmirQ     ''e
- Higher/SupErisur                              425.2
Z 44            u             TSuperi uur
d     stratio Ain                                                    1. Tec calvoctional
8.6XZ                            ~>~~~                       technique/Professionzel 022
1. Recurretnt Budgee/BudLet de Fonctionnement             Millions FC
- Primary and Koranic/Primaire at Coranique              931.5
- Secondary/Secondaire                                   525.3
- Higber/Superieur                                       425.2
- Vocational-Technical/ProfessionneI et Technique         41.3
- Administration                                         182.1



COMOROS/COMDRES
Education Expenditures
by Number of Students and Level of Education (1984/85)1
Dgpenses pour i'Education
par Nombre d'gleves et niveau d'instruction (1984/85)
Soo                                       ;I          If 2                                            0,.,    0  M. .
900
300           i    t-   F'  @          tf nt;i,gii4r!j '*             hi0 *| 0E#.                      o,   o;10 OOQ
100 -..--.j Ed ucatSion;'110T1 ExpnS tsre                           Nabe of *tude ats/ U¢1
mllffr~~~~ ~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. I    "Is   0
500        Dpenees pour l40d0cato0 000,000 CFA                      Ucubre d'dl2.e
}     -I Pr1uary/Protmtre              931.S                     Prim.ry/Prle.lre            .65,26S
Lover Secoadary/ler cycle *econdalre  270.6             Lous ecoesxndmry/ler cycl. secondair. 15,84
Upper Second.ryIe cycle *eeondalre   269.4              Upper 8econd.ry/2e cycle ecoaire   3,SO0
Ntghber/Soprleur                     425.2             N 4heu/Sup$rt.ur                      .234 
I ;1



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
Seoud Educatio   Wrojict   Pr@iJ  Ediajelgi
~Cimgscisom @1 !umscut costs qeir stnagets to sexacteg Mtioe.a cousevieo
Cosura isou de deeases wuUmteala  oie Los  auele$ pay d'fi
ceuttyl      Y      f        per    Annua    cuyet eoct per studautIp           rdoe  a1             psi hive
Fors            Mae capital                                                a"______________________________par___ save__
13 per
capita    It  US dolle,rslW dollego ds L.U.        a S     of Chesn x de Pll
MTi sry Eiucat/oa t bb¢                fttesy Cdc./Secondsy iduc.
E"t. ftriaie    Inst. Seooadei         Ifte. Pttmlaa     lot;. 8m2lduarc
Est -AftcJ
mgria  ts
Le"th. 1       1982      435            48.2                314-16             11.0              72.2
Knys 1.        1983      340            37                   74                10.8              21.7
Ztiebes 1      1984      740            83                  149                1!.2              20.7
Zana 1         1983      380            80                  294                13.7              50.6
Dotava. 1      1983      £io            5I                  376                 8.9              40.9
iRwnda         1983      2.0            43                  700                15.9            259.2
Sawmit         1983      195            51.6                658.7              26.3            327.2
Djbouctl        1983     480            320                 630                66.6            13t.25
Vest Attc)
S1irra  Leoe  1 1980     270            68                  216                25               80
Kau1           1981      180            30                  395                15.?            207.8
CAA3           1981      298            55                 t1l                 18.4             39
toP            1983      340            23                  120                6                35.2
Avesp  Auglophor  couatru"i             66.3                237                13.4             47.6
NoysOe PaYs Ay loptones
Average Francophone coustewis/          67.1                436.7              22.2             166.6
Noyenue Pays Fraacophoae
Avewag  Selected Atwtcan countruesl    76.7                 336.8              17.8             107.1
"     eu ds Pay*  ftricalas cooli"tia
Coro*/    1984       345             25                   t7.7              7.2               22.5
Lowe       Uppet                     Low:    Uppew
lot cycl*  2O C.                     low cycle  eC.
37        252                        10.7    73.04



-40.-                                                           ANNUlI
Table 6
(eaton.. do           tiultm                milmorla$sIoe/  a     Ima*u*                   amm*mU a       4.maal.
4.       .ot  .do   .o £mao    a              . h.Mao                              t      a      Stt
: -  -    . _  4 * tft ow-   -  an=*-_ n - _ #
.   .   .   ..   .   .  _ . _  .                      .e   _i7 I     ,       .a                                                             l ..................... 
.~~~~~bt
vimmustaaum         pzmaiettats@;Ei.~Pumam- t') Tm equal,. mleaal    alt                                                                                   t aUm
I _a IUPtSttm 0144.1*0t  10 dS-
so                                                                          t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~peeo fommiet"  Ia1mtm4
tb)                                                             ftt. 66                                                             MMUap   .  iiAM a    t -. 45""
(1)  0tiq Iim ftc                 I            tt.Pgo 3                                                  ( r _ .T eay Omoa_ t. i _ _
(2) 89WWAGO hmatift                                                              In~~~~~~~ftmamtis emeot
rtam toom do                                                                                                   E  Sm.ltttm         .
amhmieattl's.
naImgi                       aI              -                                                                      /     -
t&* .) ttaIut/        CCSIIC U3  Tmeimqu                                                                                             Its* WA "MUtl  toetotl   to
faveatif los ?ve     PUimu01S (CTo).                                                                                            man  a peamim   Iet*" btowin  tgiasam
eloswmllo a                                                                                                                     owama  emsat. am to a,n." as
l.ltts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fti CWB t  ".ggGPM0
-aimelg mat.- C.     dumalupamat 
MI-tel. equ$0    eat.  mOate Mt*
am1 to be "a. ttof an   eta_i
(masImlara PMs l'aowgaattam de &&a-
-eIamg. tes_.lom. a 4. _  . (mm.s to
l=t$          *-u" l& moot a nl
'ofttmm$         *a  esto" m   ea la  d
11.mm SaImut.. a  maplol ae       ti_
{X} PNCs_S 1b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~teaei                                                       mle Ib. masloa )tt__tl¢t aetd
.e. 1'quLw...g et .   easenoma. at
hTiSs 1,11tpg deqeete.
(0  mpeot IAf 4.1090* of                   ag.1.?                              *4(t) to dms.IU  COW"e mItlal as til".
tI1.0 10U t _ lsU  mat an                                                                                  m".lm  eemt.ee,b _tltestal
MW.A., 4. P&IraMt                                                                                         Imuteato  malaeoem   otwf n fth mba ao
Smut" of employable tul Sloettm
oao ave"" d. toImlIm ea Loome
peeommame aatl.moa  Otto* ma"etfIe
A rutUlltta.t be a1.). de toetaa1
(I)ffoatan mg4.etit              I      *      .t *o f                                                       t O         eoq0lpn   iUs"a" btd
at dau mte" Esg.el *OttM".
it)ttaft pofmt$a  Pfteaat.      *-                                                                       (*3 t.okltists to bi. seleced at e
tlmlluggroatma V'wftvmoasl,L    Stgn/psle*t  4 05*51s VWa
fmttm p0)613                                                                                              tWf,46 em(ttsa 4. (sta  Kgolm).
Cs) Awst rim etmatie/             -                                             lttelt                    (3) to smut Pojlut aettowl  am Gim"
CoaS8ta NWa OIufOWtCalt 4mm                                                                               *posima moatmatom so hbamftam
comtm 4.p)1- uf oe                                                                                          roauem/ritev is Ia mtemuttl     de
p0)6* et aemmllleto ie  osmata    an
-    -         _____________                   ___________I   I a is   da   ltw egme.      
A'0~  tooc*ts, gale.  Imaot. miJU te  ma tna,set    caa               atla , . do ICN. topagmmm   inea elam. jttodolf ma Ira"a de toa~"eu
boa cassm  Ws monto"" am II3I.OOD pa makfmtI     bel  lb mls Mmm  mmalaat a rstaala E I de t.00*1ar. 0e etas Bell, PAT eml.
jIULuell*  camn ef eaf.oere. ors, to eta vblats  Pawmlaao some    gm u*raOulu"11S  (gtip"" Eel. Iem de ato
EaheaCgs It*/U= 4aa dho the I I delga * 390 PC (Dtotuatm 136).



*(9Mt aW) 2131 LaT8P *aa asw npa |        
,arom me 01$.392131    ll109   15994I      1ta.mS     *a awju    aid  s. p  on  hon saws a   t* -
*|_stos       of *PV1 to an   *lU But"          _           m  'B on    $np n    _w&tgm     -           - to   *_         p        I on" Om   t
.sipad as mptlm-som%am    '1 4"Up ela
a5Z   15              PM thfl   at Coq       cal* 4"0&P11
.5rnes so %TM      ".n P
.a.tllqalEast
up WNOEU1Li21supa aIf""1w    4W                                                                                                    .        aainq 
g~~~suba.  yaat    IOU-t PP/*                                                                                                             P" 01
all  eA S ITI  /l3osixit TPMVa. z5S w     -$
&*wv%vmvq/*wv*mgS*pI Sas"0 "                                                                          Ja"30mwm  as 4$R"04 (1)    p*1a54()
*ta,sau pu 31 aalinstsmsAt  el
.sa     pus"        W 11ap                                            .                  Jl)             1                  Of  PM21d1w4"            I
/ *b--  t"Anoaz51Ow1sTh                                                                                        P155161  so &14"41 63t
ai__.~    41 op ~~$as~~da1siaps                                                                                         141a414 ls6     VP .a 4:
tSovn  ogv                   gbq          "o                                                                      eo ntmqgm             I
*OFas    2  at          wam "inups   S                                                                                                       a,oS1itTS1lm
aaasa_X _t ep sns-ao *5n3*                                                                                I ' 5s% (:)                             g        *w     (O
9319133"T41.1 40 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~2113111  ta
*iagwt   etuEs-aal.   upai                    LP.4aa%3fW0
*t tut  ettlW  w    -OWI- Ofo
tat-0.tb  531S~21Lp
aIpsad       t 3,                        V ft" sa . .*2vw41 t_ s-ot
* D lltPW"tJ.t w  t_ 4                                                                                      t      "    P01J6.tal                     3
S Up amsasietW AA S.a   iast    -s o                                          it .-si                                                                       sal __tw  tawPZ
Aft   ins-tv   exos-IbIdo 35310    cmuseam.uiu -onto1111                                        9                               um.n5 la"="      113           rvarms;a aaTwo)
t~ ~~~~~~'I  Si  go                                                                                                                                        ft_e
ta~xt gavesm  VW   .--d    *1 an  atu  t
s-WY~~5-
up~~~~ aaauaaa  w      w saSlS    at,J01131
~~~~I"We"                      IM                             nte"_
amaxe    p tssw-b     41 -      t _WIg.a   _J6115               ats"                  5
.%VW*  ml Se.a   m     q  3p   a's-W                                                                                                  or0.  _1 - 6W5515
.44 amp ontoB  milE nopw   on"" aa/a.         (ti)6                                                               I        -1w21la  at   140124  (1)                       C
. a mai  PMgw arsawla asi        1-ta           itj-.33    s            o15341d 1e)
l4aeal ~s.S waS        pnsa wsn t         n-t
15103141S  USt*,lw                 si      ~      ~      44       515115
_~  -tT                                                              -  
-xmnU
_  *PI'L                                             ...    
___4 4 tx-vtS  w



- 42                                             ANU 
limit ~       ~ bustl 8yhJe   osa
42 U                          .  .            AM        I.
sinus muw   L  MWAXc 1WA                             MW
13115311   RMIS          "[       M         TW  UMIU IMI    A*MM3      *T1IN  ToaUl    2   b#stm
m.              -   m                       - o                                  m  u= 3
c.                                                 _tm orn
ka3mle I Couml  -  -  21.8  -    107t5     170.9          15.0   315.2  1.0o  31.5
bask.                -    _         _        _           19.7     _                  -    19J.7  10.    2.0
Site bats              -       -         -                 25.~~~~~~~~~~~Z4  5.             1.1180    5.1
Suh-Tota1 CIVIL                              -              2.-                 152,6     196.            15.0   3.0  10.0   38.6
1. fuI5                                                      7.3         -       30        41.            2.1    84.0  10.    8
C. EUFUIUWf
[wAest3.LO                                               196.6      9.2      278.7      u5se           26.9   536.0  10.0  9.6
%Mdatcle                                2.7        -                  -         .6         -           13.5    5210.0    5.
IToMS      u        IIU3                  11.4        -              59.2       296.3       5.3           04       .   10.0    .l9
Law tern UT                               -     34.0                  -      1470                             231.0  15.0   23.1
.  t tuOl ti                            10.5    10.5      7.t         -                                24.0    45.0  10.0    4.5
follu,                                  7.0      13.2 -            44.1       52.5      54             14.0   136.2  10.0   18*6
5*-T  ota  u=11W   U3I                    17.5    112.7               44.1      199.5     5314           M.0   442.2  £0.0   46.2
3. 111D11  MS WIM  /a                      9.      13.6    400.1         -       16.0      2441          27.    496.3  10.0   49.6
F. MR. MD                                  2.tES      -        -         -       224.      2.6              -    46.5  10a.0    46
0. MOEC lU6 lb                             6.4     19.1    1.            -        2.53     23.6           7.3   24.47  I.   22.5
TOt al  TEgnT coT                            49.9    15s.5    70.       103.3     717.      415.6          151.0 b282334  10.8  228.3
Totald        t CO                            49    155.    7004         103       717.8     45.            1.  2.         1t.0  23.3
pmieal CamaSin                              st 50   15.0    70.0       10.3       71.0      41.6          15.1   223.    0.0    0.
Price Caimts                                9.7    271    191.         13U.      1.3       105.2          29.2  55U.2   9.1   50*8
T    tl FE   T K CS                          64.6    192.6    92.2       U.0       t97       512.9          1.3 3076.5   9.1  29.7
-m i01. Q_IEI   -    -  -  -            mm2t     inm    -                m4 mu.O so
Fo,i  Exdahw                                4.5    15.0    414.7    12.           2.4      384.7         13.2   220.4  910  192.8
Is -Car1s priest
lb  Matis.  _n_x
Jet9d 11e1960:15ll                            99     1.                  W3       7UB        U              5.    ..    OO



- 43 -
ANNX I
Table 9
-COIIOR08-I 
MW fCawOnUcS cssow
(FC  ilion) '        '      00S$  0M)        '       TOW
--                    -------- _    tFo.* ls.
Lal Foiu  Totil    Lotal ForeiWn Totl   Excmn          Costs
I~~_,    -   ,c.ST 
A. CI. Van
ALuduuic I Comma              161   18*1  315.2   60.2  S4O04   00.6             60      14
N.u"                            7:9   11.8   19.7    22.5   33.7   56.2          60       1
site bhi                       20.4   3064   Sl.      5804   8.6  145.9          d0       2
-Totl CIL 88                     154*4  23h16  3860   441.1  661*7 1.102.8         60       1
B. Foam                           25.2   58*8  84.0    72.0  168.0  240.0          70        4
C. uOrnuur/IItLEt
Emismot                           -  536.0  536.0        - 1.531.3 1991#3       100      23
Vebiclos                          -   52.8   52.8        -  1501.9  150.9       100       2
Tota Ew ITWCIES                      -   So.   58.8         - 1.82.2 1,822         1t       26
3. 110ILcM MS8TU
Lwn iuo  TA                       -  231.0  231.0        -  60.0  60.0         1t        10
Ust tvfstd                        -   45.0   45.0        -  121.6   286         100       2
F8llodubn                         -  186.2  186.2        -  532.0  532m0        100       8
T        Ro OOA01 ASUMM             -  462.2  462.2        - 1v320.6 1u3206        100      20
E. T16111185 in Kom              347.4  148.9  4963   m9.6   M4  1418.0            30       22
F. AM# AS ENIhE S SERWC           13.9   32*5   46*5    3.8   93.0  132.8          70        2
8. NOWEY 41113. h/b              1573   67.4  224.7   44.4  1924   64.0            30       10
Totad aIIE CO                       698.2 1t50.22 288.4 1t995.0 4,53,4 6.538.4                100
PIjidul Cmtinumnes                 69,8  159.0  228.8   1".5  454.3   53*8          69       10
pIies Cmntlminu                   168.0  3*2  559.2   57.0 1,6 1.5977               6        24
Total PlJ  COT                      956.0 201204 3.076.5 2.731.5 6058A4 8,789*9        69      134
to 1-Capris Prim
/b Slaim 1@car



- 44 -
ANNEX    -1
Table 10
CAUDUU  D'IManzO
CT                  1986       -      987             1936            19S9 S                           1 1
Quattewa           TIT 4    i  z  3                 I          4! .T  '         T               4T    -T 2T
'  uu.tect. Oct.6'
lraltatmwy documents 444'
-~~  .iin   .tnt   4.
Teudaging             ~~~444' 
C4ratt  uagd                       +4
Expcrt   4nt    ' -+                                          .                ., 
1uwuiasre/Squaipmna                      4'44    4*+ 4#44+  0  0    +  +  4   0    4  +
Lee"n .evicuas                            +44444  444' 444' 444 44.4 44+ 444' 444' 4*+ 444 #++,44             +0
LOpal trainng4  4444 4.4   *  4 4444+4   4*+ 4*++  444 4+*  444' 44* 4*6  444.444' 4*  4*
QUALnI OVEISATMO
Cosettuctim                   4~~~~*+ 4* 4*+ +444  444
Wuznituu/tquip.sac                  4*~~+f 4*  44* 4*
ovens". trainin                                     4*  4 4+ * 444' 4*+ +6 * 4*++  4* 4   4414
Locl training              .* 4* 4* 4*   .. .. *44 -a                      4' +  '04 4*   4,   44:   . .44*  +#5 s:: 4* 4*
Operatins                                               4*+ +§* 4*+ 4* .44 4*4   44f*4*4                 4*4* "++f 444.
in.
Cmetructicn                                 *4' 4*+ 4*  4*+ 4*+ 4* 44
Punfitnr.l_qv.nt                   .444  4* 44.4. .* 4*  "+                              4* 4*
v1?sa  trann                                       444' 4* 4* .'4  :          I 4* 4*  44 4
Loa  tanin                       C44g                                   444*  4  4*  +  4+ *
3nSJ.B8w . hF IFi
tmi imt"                                                                 +       0       4        0  004
Consttructio                                 .4  .* 4*  44 4* 44 4*
Vsznitur./tquip.eu                                 44" 444 4*+ +0 4#. +6*
ixpaft aervic..                         4*+ 44 44* 4*  444- +4* *' 4*+ 4*+ 4* 4*+ 4+
oveme" ta tntiig                                   4*  4*4* +4*f +*  4*+ 4*+ +* 4*  4* 4*
LcAl mtining                                                                4+ J4'44#44 4*444
Operation                                                                +-  #  #   +4-  #
Cosa1trutics4'44 4*~ 4* 4
Foe"totslZquipmeat                              44* 4
Ee"rt aei                               4* t4: .,. *i. 4*4*4*        * 4* 4* 4*             4*4 44 4
ove0uan tratltnn                                4* 4* +
operation                               44+ +#+ 4* 4*  +f+    4* 4+' +4+    ++             .44+   444 4*
LOaend/L,Ade
+ 1I South
soy dat., Uffectiven.es         Jaso0, It6
Caqetics            0. camber 31, 101
Cis"n  Date         JUNo 30, 1992



COW)ROS
Second E      datIon Project
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEVEUNTS AND DISBURSM5TS PROFILESI
CALENDRIER ET PRDFIL DOS DEBOURSEES
_                                                            -_                                                            - r 
PlecalTear   qarter    lebteaeaeate    Accum3ated    Utileas"i
1987 IJ     3           0.3              0.3           7.6                     _
4           0.3              0.6             .3                a0                        /
1988        1           0.3              0.9           7.0                     _
2           0.4              1.3           6.6     1
3           0.3              1.6           6.3                702  _
4           0.4              2.0           5.9                     _t
1989        1           052.5                          5.4 
2           0.5              3.0           4.9    j
3           0.5              3.5           4.4                                              I
4           0.4              3.9           4.0     4               -                      f 
1990        1           0.5              4.4           3.5                     _
2           0.5              4.9           3.0 0                                        /                              a
3           0.4              5.3           2.6                                           -
4           0.4              5.7           2.2    4°
1           0.4              6.1           1. A _
2           0.3              6.4           1.5    4                _             */
3           0.2              6.6           1.3    4                       .f
4           0*2              6.8           1..                                           ' -  /         "-
1992        1           0.3              7.1           0.8                 m        *os  i;  /      e..   vn s            roJ.eg
2           0.4              7.5           0.4
3           0.2              7.7           0*2                     _  .                          ?t.pelc
4           0.2              7.9           0.0                        .
Iteetive Date eantate: J        1aryI 198I                     1 "?
CleSle Date:            Jve 30, 1992                           1                / r       I    I    I    II          I    l
1    2    3             S      -i     a *    S
,!



---,mll  __ 49'
_  r .  i}l i}  1   l  EX1
in~~~~~I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fm



I~ ~~~~~~gg-~(.)om~*s
141                                                       wwrap
e qt-q 4~~-a- .t* 
..  ~ ~ ~~,                         . , I  IU 
V*_
.. ~~~~-.                                                                    :1
,) - - , ' '. wns~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~96
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eA .opop pmujSaOfifi
bB              ~~~~~~gooo



COMObO6
II                                                    F
21S-1
N   __  ~22                                           t5 82.                                     
14 119                                         9.
-g$ __                                                                         t____3 ;-                          _          &
L I                                                 E 2  1    'Irsv    l   
c.rui  a  "|tD |                                            |.. 1?j_               
|       |2 4 |I                                                                                                11    |I1         .                 | 
I        2  7                                                                                         I    .  8   I~l
cm.w mt s I41A                                     1M 13
=,I,5 l l 3 i s-l 16M                                                                                       J- I - I , :  ,  :  '  ',',ij
_ k 26"_E t               g = s st
pe_         >     w    jsl _



-49_               .
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
s fm uomi. ,All . 'mor                 n.
C_feae          Ojtiwa/j.±ts                   ?mt_ ektsat.               Un t tagei atlt                      Potd                               ehd
Ueutid "tos"                      do gejet                      "uteb        fite  a thot
damagetetOn 4 SCllO
Gomm            1. Catmi of ofdnttUm        1. Udoctt   above of        1. edtate sh.t Mt                 1. 1    9         1. _t owdk     of
tlsasa*s '5a  Coot         dov  mt ttutet              mxnd 86/ln Co t de                                  govrnm   ad Miao
I      attun   d         budgets 26.09fa   de        rautattee tut""" A6. be l.tusoersttIntift O  m sa
acts at d fma4mut          asm Isi        -                                                                    - doaa de 1-t t a to
- lI_est_aa             463mm. IeeSdtoo   d&A
*msslaowtnt M.
S. date comb"               . 1.           tahe,    S. Remit SUI T  s-a                   2.  860-1991     2. Ch  at only 66 am ZEN
mAge4teeet to th               s     t 1384, eI -       eeehagsigs reemtot qem ta                          bayou_  ae ea_ tnhee        a
taad at Ut .0*d3%/    I* 163/O  sten   mi-   wasatemnaawt "in as                   .                       qm ws at stulS  die
tOmeag Ii vogoga .mt       Iter  eein          1984.,  fgstos.                                             sontsta de       SC3 Ot
d'aaigsase. 4  e;          gum sa 193.1
:to  s a4," t35 at , _s  t6t
5. LimIt  OOtOmtl    . laf  elahj  sebet   S. Usl Sutoasaipep aobte  to,    3. 1984.19l             S. Check anua cob  and
fluasaop atdett ISbp  to181518    ei,             the. agtioti g sy  for uat                          aose St t*UOLvbuhpoIatLor
sheoad/ltudtog bs  d I Staer so 1914/83.    antoine) fiaoing is wt                                Ia          at S ocot _.mo
isasOMs. gat is                                        avall8bhWttsltag tI" booboo ,           d              oaurem..
goayftag t de bwoats 4                                 1tuttavw oS" imbus
ll twte*  .                                            plitttras VW  10d_8
au   ft saosavot ansm
4. LiI  alsan              4. doal snftlsa             4. _tlam   ouths at haa            4. 156.1991    *.  t  moat uv.ttat
grm.ba at lm             s          Oangoda  41 &Ss    a0  uppe ajoondan,  vsl$               _wftt er I_-  cma. 1a
IIpe,,oaIp la)s/            X aSt* t Oni sA pp       wasod beot 03 Iatas 651/84 and                       O  ectitf do rttS..
Undut  tlrtes" _at         s_oo       tn 1isMOW        68/89. 1X hOtuas 68/6  Mg
4" tos do scolautestids   Atototmaset let at to        9/914. ad I3 thegat/!An
am  at nogn eee do   eycla  stat de la at          docro*ssaaots  S   tia  /86
aOndago.                    229 so 1214185.            St U/89, 1s n    8$/$ ot
90'91 at /V   --tto.
I. oplantamtto  of. 1S see ottooistti  chagt   1. buttr atst5saant of                     l. 198           1 * Cach 04 i.l4mutotioo of
rsaw  efficient            ot abowtsotrt  to 84        wapaoaibiUttaa and                                  the Om. begamiuaelan thagt
a aatmotststtomilUe  -m       appateal- rport/foir       otwengtbasina of edoceeio                            loiftat lapp-tuttstl  do
place 4ro                  ogmngrawn do                ptenatngieittou*m  dttoittto                        anon  orantarmn.
aatmtto  pig.              Vablnittwe   aa to    at " but* S"aa                 aa<
anteos"g.                  oapporn deaalet              ile ast raorreomt do e
vlan eftsto de 1 Woe"tst.
2. Strenthenin             2. otld  a Specialiats      2. staff to ncloel, at toat.       2. 1068-1917     2. Statt to he *pposno  end
immettiao plennst/           sooptblA Ca eduttlett   a dttattt, an datatloA                                tralned, oav  two
_oo Jro. 1 pleifie-        plntgSeuoew        2 las-   plan   e n. M acoomit. *                            Iss"lataoxmet a teems,
ta. do telcatoo            paonbtS pne to *            Ostatto"s, S *eboe sapping                          avant 2 Sn.
plaoi*iattaoe is           ofeUac lfttamkool dant
I'gUcatioo.                i     ., as ot_, I
dgactmt. I pietgoo, I
Ste,Aist   I steotetit. I
epgcieltaft GMit atolail.
3.    idea                 S.    e     da              $. To twsai  I tad  tgtots         S. 1984.191      3. Chsek tfelaios etidle  ae
od ptono. 35 aittio                                 pat In  anuel Veriier to
adar  and eMo     te  1asot                        pi  de foett  we m-ane @
Osaft tfew heaadtagolomer                          1l-anca.
7 *bo .e ot at
plotftcataom. 35 oeotuetlot
p      UeflOgiqa  at orposa  do
thaft 5 .Vptsblt60mt.
4. Uua             *         . Uoml a*tdueato,         4. terly polbestlat   et           S. it" 30,   *      To euk de tisa
Statistics asiat at the    DduAtiot sStatistics SsOrt/        198?. ".,69,     ptepotetta  of the Uducatton
lay   at an t  d DZS0/    ltblicatot  dancnl. Vn             90.91.            sutatit te oot/ eritier is
Dus etoatetota, man        AnOURIte Statititqus                                pilparasta daem I" 412alo
offittolo  east atop.-                                                         Ptwoa is  dAmahue
sibta  4 Oft soucMt.                                                           Statiattqo.
t.       "S                lo shool ap/los de             To pnWpe  a Kbheol LOceAtO      D. Jns least   S. To thck the tac lc
attre stoleird            prua fog OVUM" 4ed last             Join 1966.       I tope-tattoo of tho plan
eamtr  sohoolfclr p dop1er gn                      "Wtt"n la papertat    do
ple  de loul"siiaattoo  seems                      pla am  I* "mept.        s.
piisatra  at meondoia..
S. Adopt a plan to         6. is 1984/s6, _tudane      4.   m       sudot/techar          6. 198t.1191     6. Shoaxontll aeA
=ttend otecam              toseta U outio  1t42.8      etics "Ad atadae/tsaew                              dientteO of "t "-t-a n
tt "  thRou  lottat    (PriMsup 0*etleeo.              cont    Igs. ornsn1 _   and me                      am  np#t q  otd  Sesog
06t of 4.1s"4              vow  t_mhwataos             gamelsa dhi sure/                                   31, l3l    tter che_e
aoaoeca    paSw M pua    coetat I . _hI       t 13.  _    otag Ias ratio tlim/                             softe aoo d"tmeaus
Pontto sF atee taours      dsla Oat triple shift        "it" at lo toutane 1_8N-                           Pladtfietea. fm. am
de ti'u tSoe PtS 4          pootly oocsad/ to          toiwc 1ldoo/vn aters;  anat                         copagt _4 fit pouw h
go saltta  tUtoetie.   54/83 taCt. tn0.                et g Utetit  to 4041 flue.                          3113/t6
ta i  ssoroa azateattat    s ttot  1.3t.8, coeat
_Xdo"tn ut #i
hUe,l itres Is haste
doabl* at triple f(I ant
orgses.



-   50  -
-                                ~~~~~~~ANNEX 2
Page  2 of '3
1. To ht                e   "silty  t.t    1 ani  ueli.    1. To .sau Priem  ta-                  i. ago-ma       a. .A     t .
zm"iiat/     ir osedteaul  at s th      ptery taths.c     s          cst. asbbc  oate ad le"d                           405 te..hwm.5oocie
Ca_ly Issuo,or              U&Iatal   far S*heeee .   pt         ad m. Sinup tieiao ld  Os heit 4aeo1
~~   I~~a "0106t 4. 1e..saOQ   whort tnoioiu  Iiawte                 troalagt amaxame. ftw 35                           00M.Ua  *ba68 .s
-iven Igmit                 tot ipratt*w              - u      Ius aftseg a.d -.1                           d      4L     *d*t" .
ptotoaaoel t.a                - -    -      -                                  coueotl.t uidogess ,sg   t as
swimtr  1000 "stew"o  we    intero  a on"t do emit.w etaaoed4o
-qu.1tt11.. seem  for.-W   loops. pitied". et o_g to
t 1f pat p   ea rI istw. e    a elm.t 40 otas" d
d't.ste, .00*3.3w  do       fomsottnsou "a . InI
cotootLe  Ied  pow to       caseilie    podescogqueset.
p_e_  ata deo esarto        t0" Use dlotrteors ddfolo.
pziof.stolo.
2,,ida                      2. A toweopodso             2. To Podf.em a ca_1gsi.ws    t . 19s -199         2. To Chouc       pSwo et #
Coee  to stting. s          taet  ad "adh  Pgo/d.t eL tes o She mesa_ ad
tootsb, golsdaelc/ous       Orpleao   - cmatn gw                               gddn~Wetauv l*dea
CPU. eW  c.ma,"aec         .otreaposdaec  et psodutr. 4o                       'I.   I      do cats et dee
dEtar,. 1I oaaito p.    guide" d a t  tlgiaws do  Limtt.
do guide du   ftte..
3.  1m                  S.tudent tmtbodoa           3. Pod---elae of otodoo             . 90-91         .t prepos of*rpomuto
aset tar the tat           fbtbooa edapt to lal                                 eubos  ad tet t1
asode/On e v "3w.eaesot   Gvitiowast/1reductice de                             hipste  doe lIVMe post -s
PaW  la tut dome.           live  adopt" mu edltLon                            path. aqilteLta.
locals..
a.       1440 e             2.  dagocl Od t             4. T ptowd* e       mstotcstto 0    . IJsl=1l    4. to nhec  tLies  ptecua
-ves5   *t.me              educatio  dfte &ed coutrol          I90             mm .d  maUn of .5t.13.
oeboole/La. cuuseillers     Lbs male of mail .10lt. to                         quftt l'chet de
Sdaaos$qa. so .10130t    scbooollpou"tu  4.0 vabylecLoo                        too duals. puiu et I3. as
jamis I.. Uc               OUe Re COUs11llr e *pOGl       .t                   d. vit"e   mllo*.
OlolgulIa.                  odotfIuleI. mbresdd visit*.
ainnall o at dalm.
S. TO imp"" Lbs gaUlp    S. lb toal  tuttteulo.
ot adm1t.s ast L  laws   techf guido  ad                S. To IrI.,   tlta,                5. 41-1991      I. To       the        titLo_
aweoatap lqowllA/ atiot     epocitt ta.Lboa/Pa  do        tom   solde" old  eu                             neatme o of tLbs UTInlCA.
1* quell  8. 1...igus-    praso officIate 0*           theaeb  _od Lo                     -tteooches gu   ad
mat so It cycle do          do guidg umiwo ui.gd ,u 00 ooUinmti/PedstcLL   de                              Lm~aW5 Iut lt.
soctodgei.                  Ii.,.. adept0s eu satlom    ptorm.. sold-. odogogiqus                          4P0006.inse as. remanamo.
cosorLo. l1 list.. edptele sur                                                 goIdd.e  _ldstomme de l it  
touditloes locale.0. TO                            MOcslS,es.  AMAMI C1111Isg
6.       lide               0. 330 ao" temporary        tcrodwco t4tit"eale ed                             of aboult 350 t_eotpdt
toc.tsre a e te tox 3.ut back  to twangoy                      . 190-tt9    to.inhef,eJ?omta ealle
e  ac  pr/3SO oelI          tJ tof dZelitit  l... esILtee                      4eoss   350 mktt
eaftes  tionpoatto  Mat    Lptotrie ox as essau                               tLapsust,s. Cheok amal
recrutas chaqia seoso.      PsomUsa St aUt guide"                                   ourptr/WNtfw _1.
p8damiquoe.7. lucto.  tLb                          p1odtlo. omaU d  v se       .
umbe of tOather 31..0  lron
7.       idea               7. about 30 Luatwe          So to, 70 aesmally/ogomLew le
tiabad at  1/Untl          asmbre do et ofe0ouro *eot  de    7. 1t9l-100
la prot"oaaaa   -t          30 1 to ps aso.
0S      .                   0. we Ieputors/Pa           B. le troai S 5s.spoctor/Ior    S. 1980-3999    S. Chee  ciesIp vadoetl  atm
dbuapect"r.                   ltwlatosuro.           tJ states /11titl  la solot£tl
"e " ea. *t Iet   fouestlos



ANNEX 2
page   of 3
(<.tt~truea)(1b~. zI .1.         Ptt.e  at,uat irni              *un~c.t tat..,                         Pwect.E       aepen f          nt I  t re  inOh
e*^nt-                             ~~~~~~Su..tu¢on *s"etull         e.tif  du PtItOt                       Pdc.ade       J'.adsA  auIo.  St_
To.    e stablish a. -ectstcet .dwced,                         U. To aetbltP by deta  -,                 art. tWO      I. AM,          of   tat WI
-ti ttwl*lsoa -  t.hlc)y t lt                     dtw tedree            _      tl!_ watll-apa(l  foralt   .. tala*t__t
eiotdpf      veimp .r     t.               IV    t hbIthy  t tof          ta ltaleadtll                                                 a          a e     at
tteF        *a,,ittete,tl, tleatC. to       Dtreuot *f OI1T1              tcalaIu/ltetfe go plae  pa                       -       deae he$fe    aae~       1U
4it~~.eon- qurhlen W§ii.                   taaal"ega.inat techftqu          errt _ bata  reeabl. it                                O     pt_tt_ Em  _t Eu 
fl guoowa  dndn,  end *0w. 1- r.a stito                                                    t " fo rgtu aetoalle lt                      t d     _m ea.laae t.eOaqu
ih.tguO *soati Iq  enploapent              itract. E  O ttIeat d             tl    . Ot,                                                              ttt_. E tu t   _
eotottuftlaait-  etttt en      Ia CISCt.                               -1r90 1 1
Pite wal  Iorltloen
*oupl* "Mr  avwe  tte de
lpo"dre  t      epldoent 6 la
da"dafd dac; aptop.ut ot
uea p0*4h1110a
2. Oeal Vecatl li              2. to t etaUhlat * >rtdtst,s          1. ObC  lId?      2. att   ttle low    pvatla. at
taining Coster waC tow   gawt atia  aw*slNert*t aa Vince                               the  .e         totftlt   ta
UlAtlatn oft LeboMtlCt         wete   a.  cat pae  la toatoaa-                         geftgaatiaa do. teatet
de POwat_loe  rdeeele_'    owest du Ceatro do Otell.
_mIle  de OeI  gas    E u
NIlatdot du tte.u1.
I. Olp 1 ec t aekna           1.  toealts    lecal                  I. tlalI.         1. mChort tno  td, Weiae-
taoefttr  trala.dI             te,tt.taltf"oCatoal geatatla                             eal dat aof ehaealltov 3.
-tepinat I protaeaura          ttaeheal tp, r I' oataolgeata roctmas  E.. o                               ee *k   l1e
d'aae_lgam t lorhelqu         gout  Is f osttea                                       .....  Oa ttrt beWtter.
f.ref.                        pgraftoolotlle of t {fellue.
6. About 260 $9 te.,.          &. T. trao.  t lIetd warlert  am      C   me-lu' AI Aimolt astultledtitaoa
Crasled at the Nutd mud.       totrarl,8l * wlalita *etoditm                            gainlo   to Mtlin
Tehto t*al Late.  lbe tr  couatru  m.d etPe_   do.                                     ae*akdla     l11 14tatS
tuoatag a,t f1waftt'oetvir     euttvre egt ellek  t Ef at t                                           StOthttI
161 ftsojeftl  #.t* du         *,,u,.tete** oto"gas 00118"                             24ng  bwwi 
Lrs Tothdata tdeiSt  dw  te o   elU                                                     la go le   hIs  C ttira  *  t   Uel 
~.A sttep" for ahout !ht    1. To ronelioldt.                       w. IV"m           I.dglg            teeheleal ecta
etoelrto .te_dl ot the                                toeing                             1                          t ot
ticbo of                       a uMott"                                                 I      o ngiet ?eoc uq.
iTlnr  prout sacet ho W       g prafeaql.  ll* of tertiatw C                          eV ibae*w.
ituElaslo wmiottk au lto,*     f%uact.
T.o *tifl thef bsalaeea     0. "Mot fit at da,             0. To  soatellh a bate...s            P.iWu'IIO'         0. hemol amtg.tlftuewtta.
*n4 Wnouaant awlpceet    teIfAnd at the kaloeea               Nttabaels, S       *et,  at                              aamellae
needed 4t th* roustwt          get s      atotPare et tve*    hcoat i"et c.  PIe.. u                                   II t     t nlta tto
or1aru Iv.ualoede -to          taile.I   fll Studto*ct        Ltted. (er,tel. ot do rqoleo"                            li      t n t/lS"  S
rra  u      e  ado lot-        tort"S  daoe   t fIllS.        a h fto.t                                                  fetsl        ttlt
tatP  t4 .t to P0-0 0          -AdeIs"Wt tlt   o tea  u P                                                              21 rontata  *tatie
I h  local toarhe#'Paf            To  ,*Io a letel twarthut              I*eto-lO4      I cletb Ote ttld.t
do pt        t  natleoa,       T.vtr a p O,E0*uiWo                                      Spotatel at local teehgsve,
Viti i., If tuc#taaaat d4.
protwaertta, 1coul gade toe
4100prieum,
sm... ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 41                           * I%        * %  luti"0u



- S2 -                                ANNEX 3
Eage 1
THE FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Documents Related to the Education Seccor
1.  Education Sector Memorandum - The World Bank, report No.5598-COM,
June 25, 1985
2.  L'Education en perspective, Diagnostic et PrioritEs - Unesco,
report No.ASMS/ED/EPP/010, Paris,:. Avri.- 1979
3. Annuaire Statistigue, Annges 1980/81, 1981/82 - Ministry of
Education, Education Planning Division, Moroni
4. L'elaboration des curricula par la d6finition des objectifs
d'Educatlon - Ministry of Education -INE-, December 1980,
Moroni
5. ProJet de ruralisation du syst8me &ducatif comorien - Ministry of
Education -INE-, Moroni, Juin 1980
6. La Carte Scolaire - Ministry of Education, Education Planning
Unit, Moroni 1981
7. Plan Interimaire de Developpement Economique et Social - Ministry
of Planning, August 10, 1983, Moroni
8. The Coworos, Problems and Prospects of a Small Island Economy - a
World Bank Country Study, July 1979
B.  Documents Related to the Project
1. Emploi et Besoins en Main d'Oeuvre Qualitflee - Unesco/EFD Study,
February 1985, Paris
2.  Projet de Regufte du Gouvernement de la Ripubligue FEderale
Islamigue des Comores a la Banque Mondiale - Unesco,
February/April 1985, Paris
3. Administration et Planification de l'Education - Working Paper
Component no.1, Government/World Bank, April 15, 1986
4. AmElioration de la Qua4itd de 1'Enseignement, Working Paper
Component no.2, Government/World Bank, April 15, 1986
5. Enseignement Technigue et Formation Professionnelle, Working Paper,
Component no.3, Government/World Bank, April 15, 1986



-53-                                ANEX 3
Pige 2 of 2
Selected Documents end Data Available in the Project File (Cont'd)
6. Formation a la Gestion - Working Paper Component no.4 -
Government/World Bank, April 15, 1986
7. Administration du Projet-- Working Paper Component no.5 -
Government/Norid-Bank, April 15, 1986



*   430                                                                 440
-OM
MiumolI __...  O
C   eChezamt            -SECOND EDUC
IVem=befi  i      GRANDE  COMORE
-Hah.ia4,  
4i    ,!    Koumbani
tIORONI 9      -
iconi (s     °ivi
Icani          9 BadwWaji
1' tvFoumbouni
Dembenj 
-120
4
Ouani'
MUTSAMUDUVU
MOHELI                                                      2
Hoanl i 
0    FOMBONI
Mirinioni o
Wananj                                MoyI
*eaw o  s,    e   sflM n nrs   I^I T M S^            g ,:
..ou   vfZ Nnuwhu L                   0W ITT 
,Irn,.,mas Or me fldl 84,6                                                      AANJOUAA
7^Dt@.d-Tt&aw1            CANZONI It
d t &~   gmA  S   O*JENEFOU IS.
oI6OM MW Pd I0c0t80 anIeo t
*,..,Tn. 1406   WW n   n.p
in., n0.6hZ  Ll Slit  legal -L!o
C'fA O,FJ4 CWd ' Shy
430   *'O t  a    <CO
I     BUSINESS TECHt
ws*/           s                                                                     SCHOOL- MOROF
et- TANZANIA                             ..                                    .... 2  INDUSTRY TECH
N                          SEYCHELLES                                               TRAINING CENTI
SEYCHEL _ES                                       *      CAPITAL CITY
)    t \   COMOROS  0t                                    o     OTHER TOWNS
<    E r-,     9,0                1                                  -        EXISTING ROADI
'0.e.%>  °                                                    f-- q~~ ROADS UNDER C
,Pw,_'K,^;   ^ps,                       MAURITIUS                         4     PORTS
48it   AIRPORTS
C) .s  $                                        -.-   INTEIRNATIONAI
0          /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
'In, ji<,_                                                                          0            20
Reunion h5.                13        KILOMETERS
MILES
s0Uf                                                                                0    6
FRI A                                                              44°



IBRO 1952q
45
COMOROS
EDUCATION PROJECT
Ouani
SAMUDNA
4NJOUAN
NESS TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL TRAINING
OOL'MORONI (GRANOE COMORE)
JSTRY TECHNICALtVOCATIONAL      MAYOT7E
INING CENTER - OUANI (ANJOUANc
I1AL CITY                             M.?ar
ER TOWNS                             iw'Zym xr             t
;TING ROADS                              DzuMwu
,DS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                   Chinpnl O
XTORTS                                                   Q 4j   DZAOUDZI
3SORTS                                      Sf
.ENATrIONAL BOUNDARIES
20        40
s                                                          13Q
460
JANUARY 1986



