Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15231
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1751-COM)
DECEMBER 29, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit: Comorian Franc (FC)
(Period Average)
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
US$ per SDR:       1.29  1.34  1.28   1.36  1.37  1.41   1.40   1.40
FC per US$:        300   298   319   272   282   265   255   400*
* devaluation of 50 percent vis-a-vis the French Franc as of January 1994
MEASURES
1 meter           =            3.28 feet
1 kilometer       =           0.62 mile
I square kilometer  =    0.39 square mile
1 hectare         =          2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
September to July
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BIT         Bureau International du Travail (International Labor Office)
CNGEPE      Centre National de Gestion et d'Execution des Projets Educatifs (National
Center for Management and Implementation of Education Projects)
CTARIAP    Comite Technique d'Ajustement et de Renforcement Institutionnel de
l'Administration Publique (Technical Committee for Adjustment and
Institutional Strengthening of Public Administration)
DTS         Droits de Tirages Speciaux (Special Drawing Rights)
ENES        Ecole Nationale d'Enseignement Superieur (Teacher Training Institute,
Secondary Level)
ENNI        Ecole Normale Nationale d'Instituteurs (Teacher Training Institute,
Primary Level)
IFERE       Institut de Formation des Enseignants et de Recherches en Education
(Institute for Teacher Training and Research in Education)
INE         Institut National d'Education (National Institute for Education)
MEN         Ministere de l'Education Nationale (Ministry of National Education)
PARSEC      Projet d'Aide a la Restructuration du Systeme Educatif Comorien (Project
to Support Restructuring of the Comorian Education System)
PNUD        Programme des Nations Unies pour le Developpement (United Nations
Development Program)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Diredor-General
Operations Evaluatlon
December 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Comoros
Second Education Project (Credit 1751-COM)
The Comoros Second Education project (Credit 175 1-COM for US$7.9 million) was
approved in FY87. Parts I and III of the Project Completion Report (PCR) were prepared by the Africa
Regional Office and give an adequate assessment of project history and results. Part II, prepared by the
Government, is in substantial agreement with Parts I and III.
The project aimed to: (a) strengthen the capacity of the Government to plan and manage the
education sector, (b) improve the quality of instruction in schools, and (c) strengthen technical and
vocational training. To improve institutional development, the Ministry of National Education was to be
reorganized. To improve the quality of education at the primary and lower secondary levels, the project
trained educational personnel, developed-textbooks, and promoted distance education programs.
Institutional support was provided to improve the quality of vocational education. Project components
financed civil works, equipment, instructional materials, training and technical assistance.
The initial years of project implementation coincided with political and economic turmoil in
Comoros. Lengthy delays, in part due to prolonged teacher strikes, created serious disbursement and
implementation problems during the first four years. The risks anticipated at appraisal (e.g., limited
availability of counterpart funds, weak institutional capacity, and lack of qualified specialists)
materialized. The implementation schedules agreed with the Government proved unrealistic. In the last
two years of the project, however, a great deal of activity took place. Following a reorganization and
three project extensions, the Ministry of Education was able to disburse all credit proceeds, and the
project achieved all its construction and equipment related goals. However, expected improvements in
the quality of primary and secondary education were not fully achieved. Years were wasted in
developing instructional materials, which were eventually purchased from other countries, leaving
students without suitable textbooks for long periods of time. Teacher training was only weakly adapted
to local circumstances, fewer teachers were trained than expected, and teacher inspection teams proved
ineffective. The considerable planning efforts made by the Ministry of Education were undermined by
heavy staff turnover. Efforts to meet the objectives of this project continue in the Third Education
project, which is under preparation.
Project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory. Sustainability is rated as likely on the
expectation that ongoing sectoral management improvement will continue. Institutional development is
rated as modest, given the heavy staff turnover and the difficulties encountered in establishing a core of
trained professionals. Bank performance is rated as satisfactory because both the Bank and the borrower
made a highly commendable effort to reorganize the project after 1991. Credit covenants were
substantially fulfilled, albeit with delays. An audit is planned.
Attachment                                             c
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                                               iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                    iv
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE ASSOCIATION'S PERSPECTIVE                              1
Project Identification                                                          1
Background                                                                      1
Project Objectives and Description                                              2
Project Design                                                                  2
Project Implementation                                                          4
Project Results                                                                 5
Planning in the Education Sector                                         6
Sector Administration                                                    6
Primary Education                                                        7
Lower Secondary Education                                                9
Teaching Materials                                                      10
Technical and Vocational Training                                       11
Project Sustainability                                                         12
IDA's Performance                                                              13
Borrower Performance                                                           14
Technical Assistance Performance                                               15
Project Documentation and Data                                                 15
Main Lessons Learned                                                           15
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                               17
Background                                                                     17
General Context                                                                17
Objectives and Design of the Second Project                                    18
Implementation and Results                                                     19
Sustainability of Achievements                                                 23
Conditions of Sustainability                                                   23
Borrower and IDA Performance                                                   24
Conclusion: Main Lessons Learned                                               25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.  l



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                                 27
Table 1:  Projects Linked to the Second Education Project                   27
Table 2:  Project Timetable                                                 28
Table 3:  Implementation Indicators                                         29
Table 4:  Cost and Financing of the Project                                 30
Table 5:  Project Results                                                   31
Table 6:  Compliance with Credit Agreement Conditions                       33
Table 7A: Utilization of IDA Resources                                      34
Table 7B: Data on Missions                                                  35
Chart 1:  Organizational Structure of Comoros Educational System (1992-93)  36



-iii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1751-COM)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) describes the preparation, appraisal
and implementation of the Second Education Project, for which Credit 1751 -COM in the
amount of SDR 7.0 million (US$7.9 million equivalent) was approved on January 6,
1987. The Development Credit Agreement became effective on No vember 12, 1987. The
Credit was closed on October 31, 1994 after 3 extensions of the closing date from the
original date of June 30, 1992. The entire amount of the credit was disbursed by the
closing date.
This Project Completion Report (Parts I and III) was prepared by the
Population and Human Resources Operations Division of the Central Africa and Indian
Ocean Department of the Africa Regional Office. It was based on information furnished
to the project completion mission in June 1994, project progress reports, the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports and a review
of existing files. The Government's report (Part II of the PCR) was received by IDA on
October 17, 1994.
Overall the project was satisfactorily completed, although with severe
delays in the first 4 years after signing, leading to a 2-year delay in closing. The project
achieved all quantitative objectives and led to substantial institutional development.
However, quality improvements in primary and secondary schools were not fully
achieved, due partially to teacher strikes that have disrupted every school year since 1991.
Sustainability of project results is considered likely, but rests on resolution of the labor
relations situation and on improved allocations and management of the national budget.






-iv-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1751-COM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          At the time of project preparation and appraisal the donors and the
Borrower considered primary and lower secondary education of priority importance for
the country's development. However, due probably to a lack of conviction on the part of
the Borrower concerning the strategy to be developed in this sector, it took two years
from project appraisal (October 1985) to effectiveness (November 1987), plus an
additional two years for the Borrower to agree to put into practice the covenants of the
Credit Agreement in terms of the organization of the technical and vocational training
sector.
2.          From effectiveness until 1991, the project suffered from an isolated project
management structure and from a policy-making authority unsure of its strategy. These
two elements had major repercussions on project progress in terms of: (a) delays in
completion of project activities, particularly in the case of the technical and vocational
training component, which accounted for 50% of project cost; and (b) the lack of project
leadership needed to ensure donor coordination, particularly with respect to the design of
educational materials and teacher training. At the end of 1991, i.e. four years after it
became effective, the project had only disbursed 18% of the Credit amount (as compared
to the 72% planned).
3.          In 1990-91 major changes took place at the national level and in terms of
the management structure. In early 1992 a midterm review provided the opportunity to
redefine project priorities in relation to original objectives and to program the actions to
be undertaken with the new Management Unit. In 1992 France financed a new program
(PARSEC), whose objectives complemented those established at the time of the midterm
project review.
4.          A major effort was made to complete the work following the midterm
review, thanks to the new Project Management Unit. There were three extensions of the
closing date for a total of twenty-eight months, from July 1, 1992 to October 31, 1994.
Seventy-two percent of the Credit amount was disbursed during these final twenty-eight
months of the life of the Credit. At the closing date, the entire amount of the credit had
been disbursed.



5.          Although well behind the schedule agreed upon at appraisal, and allowing
for the political events of 1990-91, the main objectives were achieved in quantitative
terms: the training of teachers, pedagogical advisers, and school principals; provision of
student textbooks and teacher guides; establishment of an efficient Planning Directorate;
and provision of two schools, along with their programs of study, for technical and
vocational training. The reorganization of the Directorates of the Ministry of Education
(MEN) was carried out, but the objectives in terms of providing MEN staff with
management training were not met. The Directorate of Education Planning component
did achieve its objectives in qualitative terms. This Directorate now has an effective
methodology and efficient staff who are currently receiving on-the-job training from
technical assistance personnel (financed externally), who are not expected to stay for
more than one year.
6.          The quality of education at the primary and lower secondary levels does
not appear to have improved, however: (a) teacher training was not much adapted to
local circumstances; (b) many years were lost in designing appropriate educational
materials and it was not until the end of the project that a coherent series of materials for
the two levels was purchased; and (c) the inspection team is ineffective. It was only in
June 1994 that the two vocational schools awarded diplomas to their first graduating class
of students so that it is too early to judge how well their programs are adapted to
employment market needs.
7.          The three risks anticipated at appraisal materialized: limited availability of
public funds to finance project activities, poor institutional capacity to implement project
objectives and lack of sustained availability of qualified specialists limited achievement
of developmental objectives, especially in earlier years. However, since 1992, conditions
for ensuring the good future management of the education system are in place, thanks to
closer working relations among MEN Directorates, the new Project Management Unit
and the donors: (a) the reorganization of MEN has been carried out and job descriptions
have been established. However, for the ministry to fully benefit from rationalization of
its structure and streamlining of processes, major investments are still needed to develop
professional and managerial skills of staff; (b) the Directorate of Education Planning has
a dynamic team working with tested data collection and processing methodology; (c)
MEN officials are now aware of the currently mediocre quality of the education system
and are taking steps to improve it, preparing a master plan for education by mid 1995; (d)
representatives of community leaders and associations have actively participated in
formulating the Master Plan for Education; (e) the training courses for teacher trainers
were reorganized in 1993 and placed under the responsibility of a central agency
(IFERE); (f) the recent (1994) procurement of coherent educational materials for all the
primary and lower secondary grades should enable better teaching and learning, and
permit the Education and Teacher Training Inspectors to achieve greater efficiency; (g)
the technical and vocational training system now has good facilities; and (h) the various



- Vi -
donors are anxious to help the Government in its efforts to improve the quality of
education (a round table is planned for late 1995).
8.           It should be kept in mind, however, that these conditions for the efficient
future management of the education system can only lead to a lasting improvement in the
education system if there is political and social stability, accompanied by sufficient
financing of operating expenditure. Resolution of labor issues which have led to repeated
teacher strikes in 1990-94 will also be needed if the education sector in the Comoros is to
fulfill its potential and the benefits of this and future projects are to be substantially
realized and maintained.
Main Lessons Learned From The Project
9.           The main lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a)    projects should be based on  government's own strategy  in the  sector
(Part II);
(b)    deadlines established in the Credit Agreement need to be realistic and to
be substantively agreed with sector shareholders in order to enable
subsequent implementation. (para. 5.2);
(c)    an overall financing plan for the sector, including projected sectoral
recurrent costs, needs to be developed and government counterpart
funding of specific project activities needs to be carefully evaluated.
(para 4.4.);
(d)   training alone will not improve the quality of education when it does not
form part of a comprehensive process to improve quality (para. 6.4);
(e)   technical Ministries and IDA  should work in unison with national
government initiatives on public service reform, rationalization of the
fiscal situation and improvement of public management (para. 6.3. (a));
(f)   technical assistance needs to be clearly defined in order to allow the
Borrower to effectively monitor and control its efficiency and output
(para. 9. 1.);
(g)    human  resources necessary  for project implementation  and  sector
development need to be identified during project preparation (Part II, para.
7.2);



- vii -
(h)   for a country with a small population, it is faster and less costly to
purchase educational materials (student textbooks with teacher guides)
than to design and reproduce these materials locally (para. 6.6);
(i)   training of data collectors, prior to conducting a survey, makes it possible
to obtain school statistics more rapidly and of better quality (para. 6.2(b));
(j)   in accordance with the experience in other countries, payments out of the
proceeds of IDA Credits are made more quickly if the Special Account is
opened at a commercial bank rather than at the Central Bank (para. 5.6);
(k)   high turnover of staff at all levels in the Ministry of Education makes
training and other investments in human resources much less cost-
effective. (para. 6.3(e));
(1)    management of all aid projects with a Ministry should be well coordinated
by the Ministry, preferably by a single unit (para. 6.3(b)); and
(m)   communication between the implementing agency and IDA needs to be
good, particularly on disbursements (Part II).
10.         In Part II of the PCR the Government raises a number of questions
regarding the simplification of IDA procurement procedures, especially for small
payments. Recent decisions by IDA's Loan Department would permit statements of
expenditures to be used for specific categories of expenditure (e.g. consultants' fees)
which would only be subject to review a posteriori. These decisions should be reflected
in future credit agreements.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1751-COM)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE ASSOCIATION'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identification
Name                     Second Education Project
Credit Number            1751-COM
RVP Unit                 Africa Region
Country                 Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Sector                   Education
2.    Background
2.1         The Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, with GNP per capita
estimated in 1983 at $345, was one of the poorest developing countries. With a
population estimated in 1984 at 390,000 in an area of 1,900 km2, density was 205
inhabitants/km2, i.e. among the highest in Eastern Africa. The economy was essentially
rural and highly dependent upon external aid and had poor natural resource potential.
The country suffered from an acute shortage of trained personnel in agriculture, health,
industry and public administration. The lack of qualified personnel was partially made
up by substantial technical assistance from external donors.
2.2         At independence in 1975, the Government's policy was to provide all
citizens with access to free primary education. The Government therefore allocated a
very large proportion of its resources to the quantitative expansion of the education
system at the primary and secondary levels. This growth was achieved at the expense of
the quality of the instruction provided.
2.3         The First Education Project (Cr. 1195-COM), in the amount of
$6.0 million, was closed in June 1988. Its objective was to help the Government improve
primary education through a teacher training program and the provision of school
textbooks and educational materials.
2.4         At the end of the project period, GNP per capita was estimated at $520
(1993), no longer amongst the poorest countries although still a lower-income country.
Reliance on foreign technical assistance had decreased and democratic institutions were
consolidating. The population had risen to about 530,000 and the gross enrollment rate in



- 2 -
primary school had risen from about 80% to about 90% (equal for boys and girls) but
with very low and declining efficiency.
2.5         Chart 1 presents a schematic of the Comorian education system.
3.    Project objectives and description
3.1         The purpose of the project was to help the Government improve the
efficiency of the education system at the primary and lower secondary levels. The three
major objectives of the project were to: (a) strengthen the capacity of the Government to
plan and manage the education sector; (b) improve the quality of education; and (c)
strengthen technical and vocational training.
3.2         The primary objective (institutional development) was to be achieved by:
(a) reorganizing and training the administrative personnel of the Ministry of National
Education (MEN); and (b) providing resources to enable the MEN Planning Directorate
to accomplish its mission.
3.3        In order to improve the quality of education at the primary and lower
secondary levels the project comprised:
(a)   Primary education: in-service training of 2,000 underqualified teachers,
35 pedagogical advisers and 250 school principals; provision of vehicles
for pedagogical advisers; provision of teacher guides and, on an
experimental basis, new student textbooks; preparation of a
correspondence course and radio programs; remodeling of classrooms for
continuing teacher training and of offices for the pedagogical advisers;
(b)   Lower secondary education: continuing training for 350 teachers and 80
school principals; preparation and distribution of teacher guides and
student textbooks; and training of 3 inspectors.
3.4         The  technical  and  vocational  training  component  comprised:
(a)preparation of programs designed to respond quickly to employer demand; (b)
creation within MEN of a Directorate of Vocational and Technical Training; (c)
remodeling of the Technical Center in Anjouan (260 places) and construction of the
Business/Management School in Moroni (365 places); and (d) tutor training and finding
for training.
4.    Project Design
4.1         Exploratory discussions began with the Government in December 1983.
A list of priority problems was prepared by the Government and IDA in July 1984.



-3-
Project preparation was completed by the Government in January 1985 with the
assistance of the UNESCO Cooperative Program. An Education Sector Memorandum
prepared by IDA in conjunction with the Government (May 1985) confirmed the major
problems in the sector. In the course of project preparation, an agreement was reached
among the Government, the Association and the bilateral assistance agencies on the
policies, strategies and objectives of the project.
4.2         At the time of appraisal the programming and management capacity of the
MEN Directorates was overestimated. Project design placed too much emphasis on
teacher training and not enough on the management training of administrators. In 1991
the Borrower obtained a Macro-economic Reform and Capacity Building Credit from
IDA (MERCAP; Credit 2270-COM) including the formulation of Cadres Organiques 1
and a Civil Service Reform, which have been the back bone of management improvement
in MEN.
4.3         As a rtsult of the Government's delays in meeting certain conditions (of an
institutional and legal nature) required by IDA for project negotiation and
implementation, two years elapsed between project appraisal (October 1985) and
effectiveness (November 1987), including: 7 months from negotiations to Board, 4
months to project signature, and 6 months to effectiveness.
4.4         Lessons learned from the past education project were incorporated in the
design of the project. To ensure timely provision of counterpart funds which had slowed
down implementation and to minimize difficulties in implementing efficiently the
"software" components, special attention was paid to strengthening of planning and
management capacity, preparation of action plans and appointment of qualified staff to
key positions.  Still, failure to take sufficient account of the weakness of the
Government's financial prospects at the time of project design resulted in the funding of
project-related operating expenditures (except for salaries) out of the proceeds of the
Credit, which had not been originally provided for in the Credit Agreement.
4.5         After a period of political unrest (para. 5.3) the midterm review mission
(February 1992) recommended, and the Government and IDA agreed, to retain the
original objectives but to refocus some of the actions: (a) to strengthen MEN's planning
and management capacity; (b) to switch to the strategy of purchasing textbooks and
teacher guides, instead of designing and reproducing student textbooks and teacher guides
locally; (c) to equip the technical and vocational training sector; and (d) to finance the
preparation of a human resource development project and of a future education project. It
was also in 1992 that the French Foreign Aid Agency approved its Projet d'Aide a la
New organizational chart and plan for the reorganization and supervision of the staff of
Government agencies.



- 4 -
Restructuration du Systme Educatif Comorien - PARSEC (Project to Assist with the
Reorganization of the Comorian Education System), whose primary objectives were to
provide support for planning, primary teacher training and technical and vocational
training. The objectives of PARSEC were consistent with those of this project.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1         The project was declared effective on November 12, 1987. Despite the
previous delays, project start-up took longer than planned because of: (a) the isolation of
the project management structure from the other structures with which it had to work; (b)
the lack of training in disbursement and procurement procedures among the
administrative staff; and (c) the almost total lack of any planning in the sector.
5.2         The technical and vocational training component did not start until three
years after the Credit became effective. The technical and management training began in
October 1990 in premnises that were unsuitable while awaiting the construction of the
Business/Management School in Moroni and the rehabilitation of the Technical School in
Anjouan. It was not until October 1989 that the Government decided, as required by the
Credit Agreement, first, to use the existing premises in Anjouan and, second, to issue a
decree stipulating that technical and vocational training would henceforth be under the
exclusive responsibility of MEN. Since this component accounted for 50% of total
project costs, the delays in this component meant that by the time the project had already
been effective for three years (end of 1990) disbursements accounted for only 12% of the
Credit amount, compared to the 49% planned.
5.3         For about a seven-month period in 1989-90 political unrest virtually
brought all project activities to a standstill (the 1989-90 school year was canceled). By
the end of 1991 only 18% of the Credit had been disbursed, as compared to the 72%
planned. At the end of this period, all the activities had to be rescheduled. In 1991,
several changes were made that helped to revitalize the project: appointment of a new
Secretary General of MEN, a new Project Manager, a new Director of Planning, a new
Director of Technical and Vocational Training (all dynamic and competent, and still in.
office at project completion), along with a change in the technical assistance teams which
were now funded by the French.
5.4         In February 1992, a midterm project review involving new actors resulted
in the redefinition of the priority actions to be taken under the project. A reallocation of
the Credit proceeds among the various categories took place in October 1993,
implementing the decision to focus remaining project funds in four areas (para. 4.5).
5.5         Project implementation suffered from high staff turnover at all levels of
MEN. The country's development has, since 1991, been hindered by strikes and by
teachers' strikes in particular. As a result of these strikes and because of the cash flow



problems of the National Treasury in financing the counterpart funds, no school year has
started on schedule (in October) since 1991 and most have not succeeded in providing a
full year of education.
5.6         The supervision and audit missions discovered, during the first three years
of the project, some irregularities in the use of procedures for disbursement and
procurement.  In 1990, disbursements from the Credit were held up because the
Government had transferred the Special Account from the commercial bank, where it had
been opened, to the Central Bank. Some months later the Special Account was returned
to a commercial bank and payments were once again made within the normal time
periods.
5.7         Due to the project's delays during its early years and the decisions taken
during the midterm project review, the Credit closing date, initially June 30, 1992, was
extended three times to October 31, 1994 (seven and three-quarter years after Board
presentation).
5.8          At the closing date, the project had disbursed the entire amount of the
Credit (SDR 7.0 million) including almost 50% during the last two years of the project.
The Government contribution amounted to only 2% of project costs, instead of the 11%
expected at appraisal.
5.9         A few cost discrepancies between appraisal estimates and actuals deserve
mention: (a) higher costs of equipment due to the delays and changes that occurred
during implementation; (b) lower technical assistance costs due to external financing not
originally planned; and (c) lower training costs due to the refocusing, in 1991, of the in-
service training and to the training of fewer teachers than originally planned in the
technical and vocational sector.
6.    Project Results
6.1         In general, despite substantial delays due to management difficulties
during the first four years of the project (until 1991), the project outcome was satisfactory
and led to substantial institutional development.  It has resulted in quantitative
achievements in the main areas of concern: reorganization of MEN, statistical tools,
training, construction and equipment.
6.2         Planning  in  the education  sector:  the main objectives were
accomplished.
(a)   since 1991, the Directorate of Planning has been reorganized and is now,
with the parallel support of the PARSEC project, operating with the
human and technical resources planned. This Directorate might need



- 6 -
additional training in school mapping, school statistics/planning and
education financing;
(b)   since 1992, the Directorate has produced a statistical yearbook each year
on the components of the education system (schools, teachers, students).
A participatory survey methodology with data collectors (teachers, school
principals, pedagogical advisers and inspectors) has been prepared. The
prior training of the data collectors was helpful in producing the 1993-94
yearbook in a timely fashion (June 1994), hence providing decision-
makers with up-to-date and reliable data; and
(c)   the Directorate has played an active role in: (i) preparing a general
education forum [Etats Generaux de l'Education] (June 1994), the
conclusions of which will be used in preparing a Master Plan for
Education (mid 1995); (ii) formulating, within the framework of the
Macro-economic Reform and Capacity Building Credit (MERCAP, Credit
2270-COM), the Cadres Organiques and the Civil Service Reform of
MEN which was implemented in late 1994; (iii) formulating MEN's
investment and public expenditure programs; and (iv) coordinating donor
activities in the education sector.
6.3   Sector administration: the organizational objectives were accomplished, but a
major effort is still needed in the area of training.
(a)   MEN adopted a new organization chart in October 1987 which was
modified in March 1993. After some delay MEN now (1994) has a new
organizational structure (Cadres Organiques, terms of reference for
services), which was implemented in late 1994. The development and
implementation of this new organizational structure was only possible due
to close cooperation between the Ministry of Education and the national
public sector reform team, which was also supported by the MERCAP
project. Staff responsible for managing the sector now have more reliable
school statistics and will, by mid 1995, have a Master Plan for Education.
However, the project has not financed all the training that was plarfned for
MEN administrators because of inadequate programming and lack of
budgetary resources;
(b)   Until 1992 the project was managed by a Bureau d'Execution des Projets
Education - BEPE (Project Implementation Unit). In 1993 an Education
Projects Steering Committee was established, made up of representatives
of all the main MEN Directorates. The Steering Committee set up a
Second Education Project Monitoring Unit. In 1994 BEPE was converted
into the Centre National de Gestion et d'Execution des Projets Educatifs -



-7 -
CNGEPE (National Education Project Management and Implementation
Centre), which is responsible for coordinating all donor-financed projects.
This agency was too large in view of the very small number of projects
currently in progress in the education sector, but has been reduced
substantially by the completion of the project;
(c)    The grouping in 1993 of all the separate agencies 2 under the umbrella of
the Institut de Formation des Enseignants et de Recherches en Education -
IFERE (Teacher Training and Educational Research Institute), in
accordance with one of the project's objectives, now makes it possible to
coordinate the design and scheduling of basic and continuing teacher
training programs based on coherent teaching materials for all grades of
primary and lower secondary education;
(d)    The project thus helped with the administration of the sector by funding:
(i) equipment and vehicles (although in unjustified large numbers at times,
especially in the early stages of the project); and (ii) studies for the
preparation of the Population and Human Resource Project and also for a
possible third education project;
(e)    During the project period, the sector's administration has been weakened,
however, by: (i) heavy staff turnover at all levels of MEN in the early
stages of the project; and (ii) social instability in the form of frequent
strikes. Since 1991, there have been delays in the start of each school year
because of either strikes or elections.
6.4    Primary education: the quantitative training objectives were nearly met, but the
qualitative results of the education system are unsatisfactory. Teacher training has just
been reorganized.
(a)    The consensus is that the quality of education in the primary sector does
not seem to have improved although longitudinal data is not available to
provide a good comparison to the prior situation. A recent in-depth survey
cofinanced by PARSEC and the project (referred to as the PARSEC
survey in this report) indicates that students in grade 6 are two years
behind, on average, in relation to the objectives set. The average repeater
rate has remained constant, but extremely high, at about 40%. It was
estimated, at appraisal, that the average time spent in the classroom at the
Institut National de l'Education (INE): research, continuing teacher training; Ecole Normale
Nationale d'Instituteurs (ENNI): basic teacher training for primary school teachers; Ecole
Nationale d'Enseignement Superieur (ENES): basic training for lower secondary school teachers.



- 8 -
primary level was 15 hours per week; it is probable that this has decreased
even further, particularly since 1991, because of the teachers strikes. It is
estimated that these strikes cut the number of days of school by about 25%
per year;
(b)    Teacher qualification rate: it was estimated that 27% of teachers were
qualified in 1987-89 and only 29% in 1992-93. The increase is therefore
very small but, in the absence of inspector evaluation, teachers'
qualifications are measured only in terms of diplomas/degrees obtained;
(c)    Continuing teacher training ': Teachers have a very low average level
of academic achievement 4. The number of participants who have taken
advanced training is probably in the region of 1,400 (compared to 2,000
planned). During the first four years of the project, the training can be
described as inadequate: (i) priority was given to those teachers who were
the least capable rather than establishing a threshold below which training
was no longer worthwhile; (ii) the training was not geared to the
individual teacher's career plans; (iii) many teachers who received training
left their jobs (actual number unknown); (iv) the absence of any evaluation
of these training activities; and (v) the payment of high per-diems resulted,
as an effect quite the contrary to what was intended, in many of the
teachers taking refresher courses several times while others did not benefit
at all 5. This training was provided by local instructors, pedagogical
advisers and inspectors, under the supervision of non-project-financed
technical assistance. This training was stopped in 1991 and is, since the
second quarter of 1994, now being gradually taken over by IFERE. The
correspondence and radio training courses were abandoned in 1990,
because it proved impossible to monitor participants;
(d)    Primary education inspection. The project provided for the basic and
continuing training of 35 pedagogical advisers (as planned), together with
the continuing training of inspectors (15). A few months prior to project
closure, the Inspectorate was reorganized into 14 Circonscriptions
d'Inspection Pedagogique Regionale - CIPR (Regional Pedagogical
3      The project barely financed the basic training of teachers provided by ENNI.
The results achieved by candidates (school-leavers) who sit the ENNI entrance examination (basic
teacher training) are, in terms of the tests given, comparable to those obtained by good French
students at commencement of sixth grade (Source: PARSEC survey).
Over 60% of the teachers say they have not received any training in the last five years (Source:
PARSEC survey).



- 9 -
Inspection Districts). In 1994 IFERE is taking over the continuing
training of pedagogical advisers. The project rehabilitated and equipped
the offices (13 instead of the seven planned). At the Borrower's request
the project financed seven vehicles instead of the 35 motorized bikes
planned, but these vehicles have been out of order for several months by
mid- 1994 6 and fall short of the number really needed;
(e)    All school principals have received in-service training, as planned. While
this training has been satisfactory in quantitative terms it has served more
to sensitize the school administration than to provide training in how to
manage a school. This activity is also being taken over by IFERE;
(f)    Noting the lack of proper care and planning of the training organized
before the end of 1991, the Borrower decided to reorganize the training
(basic and continuing) given to teachers and pedagogical advisers and the
continuing training given to school inspectors and to primary and lower
secondary school principals by bringing all the various agencies existing
(para 6.3(c)) under the umbrella of a single agency (IFERE). IFERE is
currently developing: (i) a system of training for teachers leading to a
diploma; and (ii) a system for evaluating the performance of teachers and
pedagogical advisers. It will be possible for this training/evaluation
mechanism to be used by the inspectors. IFERE has a nominal operating
budget ', however. It is too soon to evaluate the work of IFERE.
6.5    Lower secondary education: the quantitative objectives were attained but do not
seem to have had an effect on the quality of education.
(a)    The quality of education at this level seems to be poor and has not
improved during the project. The recent survey conducted by PARSEC
shows that the level worsens from sixth down to first grade. In terms of
the legal age for each grade, only 13% of the students fall into the
appropriate age bracket in the case of sixth grade, while this figure is only
6% in the case of third grade, which represents no change from before and
reflects high levels of repetition at earlier levels;
(b)    The percentage of qualified teachers increased very rapidly from 35% in
1987-88 to an excellent 91% in 1992-93 as a result of the replacement of
6     As the result of poor budgetary programming by the Project in October 1993.
IFERE's authorized budget for 1994 is CF83.4 million (about US$200,000). To be cautious the
management of IFERE only committed CF 25.0 million for the first half of the year, based on
previous experiences of low payments on allocations.



- 10-
teachers called up for national service by teachers trained at ENES. The
project financed courses for teachers of French language, starting in 1993
(about 600 compared to the 350 planned). It is too early to determine the
impact of these refresher courses on the quality of education. The project
financed the training of nine teachers and 50 pedagogical advisers
(professeurs-relais) at the primary level;
(c)    Detailed programs of study were prepared. Pedagogical documents were
designed by INE, but this aspect was soon abandoned for reasons of
quality and reprographic delays;
(d)   The project trained three inspectors as planned (Mathematics, French,
Sciences). As in the case of primary education, the role of the Inspectorate
has still to be reviewed; and
(e)    By 1990 about 70 lower secondary school principals had been trained
(compared to the 80 planned), but given the high turnover of principals,
few principals currently in their posts have received this training.
6.6   Teaching materials: the objectives were changed at the time of the mid-term
review. The education system now has a coherent series of educational materials.
(a)   It was planned, at the start of the project, that funding would be provided
out of the Credit and French Foreign Aid for the preparation and
reproduction of student textbooks and teacher guides adapted to the
national culture. School textbooks and teacher guides were produced 8 for
French for grades CPI, CP2 and CEI (three levels) and school textbooks
and worksheets for mathematics for the CP grades through CM2 (six
levels). About 60,000 copies of the French textbook were distributed 9
between 1989 and 1992. A certain number of inspectors, pedagogical
advisers and lower secondary school teachers complain that this method
places too much emphasis, in the case of French, on oral expression and
not enough on written expression and reading;
(b)   It was decided at the mid-term review, for reasons relating to methodology
and pedagogical coherence throughout primary and lower secondary
education, and also for the sake of speed, to purchase ready-made school
textbooks and teacher guides, making slight changes to them to reflect
The cost of designing these textbooks and guides can be estimated at 20 person-years of non-
project funded technical assistance (two specialists for six years, plus two for four years).
About 50% of students in CPI, CP2 and CEl, and all the students in grades 5 and 6.



- II -
Comorian cultural characteristics. A large contract '" for textbooks and
teacher guides was signed in March 1994 ($1.43 million). The delivery
and distribution of these new materials was completed in October 1994, in
time for the start of the 1994-95 school year, with the introduction of a
system of book rental to students' parents.
6.7   Technical and  vocational training:   the  quantitative  objectives were
accomplished by the time of project closure, but it is too early to evaluate the job-related
training.
(a)   It was not until the end of 1989 (three years late) that legislation on the
organization and structure of technical and vocational training was issued,
in compliance with the Credit Agreement. This component was also
delayed by the political events of 1990 and by difficulties with
procurement and sites. The buildings were first operational (along with
the equipment) at the start of the 1994-95 school year;
(b)   The first two grades of the three-year training program for technicians (30
students) and managers (13 students) graduated in July 1994. Because of
a shortage of buildings and equipment, the one-year training programs
were not offered in 1993-94. It was originally planned that 72 technicians
and 30 managers would be trained in the three- and two-year programs
each year. It is probable, now that the facilities have been completed, that
it will be possible to accomplish these objectives in 1995-96. The training
programs seem to be of a good standard in the two schools, but they have
yet to be validated by having their diplomas accepted on the labor market;
(c)   The Directorate has made increasing numbers of contacts with future
employers in connection with both the long and the short training courses.
When the new cadres organiques of the government were approved in
early 1994, the two schools (the technical and management training
schools) were endowed with their own statutes, and financial autonomy, in
order to be able to charge for their services as a better means toward
becoming self-financing;
(d)   The education in the two schools is provided by 23 teachers (plus eight
technical assistants) and by free-lance instructors from the business
community. Five technical assistants (Belgian) left in 1994, but have been
French, Mathematics and Geography books for grades CE I through CM2, French, Mathematics,
Physics, English and Natural Sciences books for grades 6 through 3. Every child has his/her own
books.



- 12 -
replaced by Comorian nationals. The plan was to train 18 teachers for the
two schools, but it has only been possible to train five because of
difficulties in reaching agreement on the criteria for selecting training
candidates. The differences in the employment status of teachers has a
detrimental effect on the atmosphere of the two schools (strikes or threat
of strike).
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1          Sustainability of project results is considered likely, buts rests on
resolution of the labor relations situation and on improved allocations and
management of the national budget. Other factors, both within the sector and in the
external environment, may reduce project sustainability. Personnel turnover at all levels
significantly endangers the continuity of project activities.  Strikes are frequent,
particularly in the education sector. Political stability is key considering that the events
of 1990-91 halted or hindered all activity for almost a year. At project closure, certain
conditions for project sustainability, which are necessary but not sufficient, had not been
met.
7.2          The chronic shortfall of counterpart funds under this project could lead to
underfinancing of critical activities. Overall, improved financing for the sector is being
reviewed as part of the Master Plan. In addition to the civil service reformn, improvement
in budget preparation and control should raise the level and reliability of public financing
for the sector. These reforms were initiated in 1994 and have already resulted in
improvements which have permitted the release of the second tranche of the MERCAP
credit in late 1994. However, sustainability may continue to depend in part on continued
external support.
7.3          The management capacity of MEN staff has improved but is still weak.
Structures are now in place within the framework of the Administrative Reform and the
Cadres Organiques. In order to consolidate the gains made so far, management capacity
needs to be developed and managerial and technical skills enhanced for the staff of MEN
Directorates/Departments.
7.4          The reorganization of the Directorate of Planning and the outputs resulting
(statistical yearbook, budget, investment and public expenditure plans, Master Plan, etc.)
are good indications that there is hope for better management of the education system.
The human and physical resources exist and all that is needed is continued professional
development of staff. Teacher training (basic and continuing) has been entirely rethought
and has much better prospects under the responsibility of a single institution (IFERE). A
Pedagogical Inspector and Adviser structure is in place, but remains very weak.



- 13 -
7.5          The Project Management Unit (CNGEPE) is organized and has gained
good experience in the procedures and methods of working with donors. It is important,
however, that CNGEPE take care to adapt its resources to the tasks to be accomplished
and that it put in place a more rigorous forward-looking management system. It will also
be important that the Steering Committee coordinate effectively all education sector
projects.
7.6          Work on the physical plant for the technical and vocational training will
soon be complete. Most of the technical assistants have trained their counterparts and the
schools will be able to utilize free-lance teachers from the business community. Very
close attention will have to be paid to job-related training ", considering how tight the
employment market is (essentially made up of small-scale family businesses).
7.7          A decision was taken to purchase coherent school textbooks, teacher
guides and worksheets for all primary and lower secondary grades. This base of
educational materials will, in parallel with reliable statistical data, make it possible to
draw up coherent and efficient training programs within the framework of IFERE.
Recovery of book costs by requiring a payment for book rental from parents will be
brought into effect at the start of the next school year. The proposed cost recovery policy
seems to be accepted by parent associations. There are plans to set up a small unit (Book
Office) to supervise these recovery activities, thereby ensuring the sustainability of this
major investment.
8.    IDA's Performance
8.1         IDA overestimated the Government's management and financial capacity,
although it was also aware of the risks that these posed to project implementation. The
project was prepared using 101 staff-weeks to Board, a little less than average. Overall,
supervision effort was below average (74.6 staff/weeks over the life of the project), with
only one mission per year from 1987 to 1990 at a time when project required close
monitoring. Subsequently, the number of supervision missions increased, especially at
times when the project was rated a "problem project". A midterm project review mission
(February 1992) provided the occasion for adjustments to be made to all aspects of the
project, in close collaboration with the Borrower and bilateral donors.
8.2          During the first few  years the supervision missions provided the
opportunity for identifying a certain number of problems in project management:
procurement, monitoring of critical activities and lax accounting. The supervision
missions' recommendations to strengthen management and streamline procedures were
The French Foreign Aid Agency will shortly finance a technical assistant who will specialize in
this area.



- 14 -
ineffective, due in large part to lack of continuity and follow-up. From 1991 onwards,
project management improved with the appointment of a new project director and the
establishment of the position of Secretariat General in MEN, who provided continuity
and constant support to project activities. Also, the levels of expenditure authorization
were raised.
8.3         Missions often complained about the non-payment of counterpart funds,
but these complaints did not yield results and it proved necessary for the Credit to provide
emergency funding for educational supplies and other unplanned expenditures. The
supervision missions were particularly appreciated by the Borrower in that they led to
disbursement authorizations reflecting real needs that evolved as the project progressed,
albeit in keeping with original project objectives.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1         During the first few years of the project until 1991, the Borrower
appointed a Project Management Unit, which failed to: establish good working relations
with the Directorates of MEN and the other Ministries or with the donors; utilize
effectively some of the technical assistance (imprecise terms of reference, poor
monitoring of activities); and use the funds earmarked for the training of MEN staff.
9.2         The project's progress, particularly with respect to the technical and
vocational training component, was delayed as a result of two years' resistance by the
Borrower to implementing the Credit Agreement covenant concerning the structure and
location of this component.
9.3         In 1991 the Borrower appointed a Project Director and other key managers
within MEN who, thanks to their spirit of cooperation and forcefulness, succeeded, with
the donors, in restoring vitality to the project. It should be pointed out that the Borrower
did make a highly commendable effort to organize the project after 1991 and managed to
obtain disbursement of about 50% of the Credit proceeds during the last two years of the
project.
9.4          The turnover of staff at all levels and the social unrest (strikes or strike
threats) significantly impeded Project implementation, however.  Because of poor
programming, the Borrower did not utilize all the funding opportunities offered by the
Credit, particularly where the training of MEN staff was concerned.
9.5         Audits were completed on time. However, the Project Management Unit
was slow in implementing recommendations made by the auditor to strengthen
accounting procedures and financial management.
10.   Technical Assistance Performance



- 15 -
10.1        The project received cofinancing from other donors: ILO/UNDP, Belgium
and France, in the case of some of the technical and vocational training; and Belgium and
France, in the case of some of the technical assistance for other components (institutional
support, trainer training, educational materials). This parallel financial assistance was not
planned at the time of appraisal and partially replaced the technical assistance provided
for under the Credit.
10.2        It seemed, particularly at the outset of the project, that there were
difficulties in coordinating the activities that were receiving financing from different
sources. Perhaps the Borrower lacked a sufficiently clear strategy at that time to enable it
to draw up precise terms of reference for certain technical assistants and to be able to
make the most of the presence of these assistants. Following the changes that took place
in 1991 on both the Borrower's front and that of the bilateral aid donors, cooperation
between the Borrower and technical assistance became very positive and based on precise
terms of reference.
11.   Project Documentation And Data
The Project Management Unit has virtually no documents for the years
prior to 1991. Project staff found the working documents attached to the appraisal report
very useful. However, the main documents needed for the preparation of this Project
Completion Report were available from both the Association and the Borrower.
12.   Main Lessons Learned From The Project
The main lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a)   projects should be based on government's own strategy in the sector
(Part II);
(b)   deadlines established in the Credit Agreement need to be realistic and to
be substantively agreed with sector shareholders in order to enable
subsequent implementation. (para. 5.2);
(c)   an overall financing plan for the sector, including projected sectoral
recurrent costs, needs to be developed and government counterpart
funding of specific project activities needs to be carefully evaluated.
(para 4.4.);
(d)   training alone will not improve the quality of education when it does not
form part of a comprehensive process to improve quality (para. 6.4);



- 16 -
(e)   technical Ministries and IDA  should work in unison with national
government initiatives on public service reform, rationalization of the
fiscal situation and improvement of public management (para. 6.3. (a));
(f)   technical assistance needs to be clearly defined in order to allow the
Borrower to effectively monitor and control its efficiency and output (para
9.1.);
(g)   human resources necessary  for project implementation  and  sector
development need to be identified during project preparation (Part Il);
(h)   for a country with a small population, it is faster and less costly to
purchase educational materials (student textbooks with teacher guides)
than to design and reproduce these materials locally (para. 6.6);
(i)   training of data collectors, prior to conducting a survey, makes it possible
to obtain school statistics more rapidly and of better quality (para. 6.2(b));
(j)   in accordance with the experience in other countries, payments out of the
proceeds of IDA Credits are made more quickly if the Special Account is
opened at a commercial bank rather than at the Central Bank (para. 5.6);
(k)   high turnover of staff at all levels in the Ministry of Education makes
training and other investments in human resources much less cost-
effective. (para. 6.3(e));
(I)    management of all aid projects with a Ministry should be well coordinated
by the Ministry, preferably by a single unit (para. 6.3(b)); and
(m)   communication between the implementing agency and IDA needs to be
good, particularly on disbursements (Part II).



- 17 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Ministry of National Education
National Center for Management and Execution of
Education Projects
COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit No. 1751-COM
1 -   Background
In 1985, the Government of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros and the
International Development Association (IDA) were already laying the foundations for a
second education project that would take into account the economic and social situation
prevailing at the time.
1.1   General context
At that time, population density in the Comoros was among the highest in Africa,
while the country's economy (a) was essentially rural and dependent on external
assistance, (b) offered little potential in the area of natural resources, and (c) suffered
from a serious lack of skilled human resources in the most sensitive areas of development
(agriculture, health, industry, public administration, etc.),
1.2   Situation of the education system
1.2.1  Since independence, the Comorian Government had been allocating a very large
proportion of its resources to the quantitative growth of the education system,
particularly at the primary and lower secondary levels.
1.2.2  This focus on quantitative growth was detrimental to the quality of the system
(under-qualified teachers, inappropriate infrastructure, inadequate supply of
teaching materials).
1.2.3  It was in this context that a first education project was launched in 1981, with the
following objectives, (a) qualitative improvement of primary education, (b)
teacher training, and (c) provision of textbooks and other teaching materials.



- 18-
1.2.4  This project, completed in 1988, resulted in the construction, furnishing and
equipment of (a) the Ecole Normale de Patsy (Patsy Teacher Training College) in
Anjouan, (b) the Centre de Formation Agricole (Agricultural Training Center) at
Moheli, and (d) the Ecole de Sante (Health School) at Moroni. It also facilitated
continuing training for teachers and textbook procurement.
2.    Objectives and design of the Second Project
2.1   The project objectives were to strengthen the Borrower's capacity to plan
effectively for the education sector at all levels, to improve the quality of
education at the primary and lower secondary levels, and to strengthen vocational
and technical training (Credit Agreement, Schedule 2).
2.2   The institutional development component focused on (a) the setting up of
functional institutions and the training of administrators, and (b) substantial
support for the Direction Generale de la Planification de l'Education et de la
Statistique Scolaire (Education Planning Directorate), which would be provided
with the necessary resources to make it operational (training of professionals,
logistical support).
2.3   Quality improvement was to be sought at both the primary and lower secondary
levels:
2.3.1  Primary: (a) continuing training of teachers, managers, pedagogical advisers, (b)
provision of vehicles for the advisers, (c) general knowledge upgrading through
correspondence courses and educational radio broadcasts, and (d) remodeling of
classrooms and offices.
2.3.2  Lower secondary: (a) in-service training of teachers and school principals, (b)
preparation of teaching guides, and (c) training of three lower and upper
secondary school inspectors (for French, math, and natural sciences).
2.4   Technical/Vocational training:   Project activities would focus on (a)
establishment of a Directorate responsible for organizing and supervising training
and programs in this sector, (b) construction and equipping of two establishments:
the Ecole Nationale Technique et Professionnelle (National Technical and
Vocational School) at Ouani, and the Ecole Nationale de Gestion (National
School of Management) at Moroni, and (c) training of teachers in technical
disciplines.
2.5   In parallel with the Credit Agreement, a working document was drawn up
containing a detailed description and cost estimate of the following five
components:



- 19-
Component 1: Education management and planning
Component 2: Improvement of education quality
Component 3: Technical and vocational training
Component 4: Management training
Component 5: Project management
2.6   Supervision missions were to be carried out by Bank experts, to (a) work with the
Government in evaluating the progress of the project, and (b) make any changes
to the original project focus to cope with any contingencies arising.
3 -   Implementation and results
3.1   Between preparation of the project and its effectiveness in November 1987 two
years elapsed, mainly as the result of a lack of planning and of clearly defined
implementation procedures at the Ministere de l'Education Nationale - MEN
(Ministry of National Education).
3.2  In addition to the climate of political instability, which resulted in disruption of
school year schedules and of the services delivered by the technical directorates,
the Government ran into treasury problems affecting its counterpart contribution.
3.3   Starting in the 1989/90 school year, which was interrupted by the political
upheavals, it became clear that there was a need to overhaul the programmniing, if
not actually refocus the project's goals. Having noted at the end of 1991 that only
28% of the credit had been disbursed, the new BEPE teams and IDA took
advantage of the February 1992 midterm review to redefine the project's priorities.
3.4   Since additional time was needed to implement the project in its new
configuration, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to October 31, 1994.
3.5   The refocusing exercise led to the identification of three new actions:  (a)
institutional assistance for MEN as of the start of the 1992/93 school year, (b)
purchase of one textbook per student in the core subjects, from first through ninth
grade, with a plan to recover costs through community participation, and (c)
financing of preparation of the Fonds d'Appui au Developpement Communautaire
- FADC (Community Development Support Fund).
3.6   All of the credit was utilized by the Borrower
3.7   Overall, the original objectives and those defined at midterm were achieved:
3.8   The Education Planning Directorate:



- 20 -
3.8.1 received substantial support for the equipping of premises and the purchase of
materials and furniture;
3.8.2  was able to train the professionals it needed and to operate throughout the life of
the project;
3.8.3  is now able to publish a statistical yearbook, which serves as a working table for
the sector as and when needed, so that ...
3.8.4  ... now being provided with a data base, it can effectively handle school reopening
arrangements and carry out specific studies designed to improve the operation of
the sector;
3.8.5 all these activities were well coordinated with component 1 of the Projet d'Appui
a la Restructuration du Systeme Educatif Comorien (PARSEC) signed with
French Cooperation in 1992.
3.9   Education Sector Administration
3.9.1  Starting in the 1991/92 school year, the new BEPE management team was able to
benefit from the more stable situation within MEN at Director-General and
Secretary-General level, and from the newly-established General Inspectorate,
which immediately became involved in the project activities.
3.9.2  The transparency proposed by the BEPE led to the official appointment of a
Steering Committee which comprised 15 members of MEN and would be
overseen by a Coordination Unit.
3.9.3  The institutional assistance mentioned in paragraph 3.5 was important in that it
covered (a) the purchase of one vehicle for each directorate, (b) the training of
five professionals in project management, (c) rehabilitation of administrative
offices, (d) two years of support for the organization of school reopening
arrangements, and (e) financing of the Status Reports for the preparation of the
Etats Generaux.
3.9.4  The establishment in 1993/94 of the two Instituts de Formation des Enseignants
et de Recherche en Education - IFERE (Teacher Training and Educational
Research Institutions), one at Ngazidja (Grande Comore) and one at Ndzuwani
(Anjouan), with a subsidiary at Mwali (Moheli), each with administrative and
management autonomy, was not specificalty financed by the project, but the



-21 -
logistical support made available to ENES, INE and ENNI under the credit was
allocated to the IFEREs.
3.9.5  Preparation of the cadres organiques * did not come directly under the project,
which did, however, finance several priority survey and monitoring operations.
PARSEC, with its specialized technical assistants, was much more directly
involved.
3.9.6  Under a decree signed in 1993, BEPE became the Centre Nationale de Gestion et
d'Execution des Projets Education - CNGEPE (National Education Project
Management and Implementation Center); it is now headed by a director general
appointed by presidential decree.
3.10  Improvement of Primary Education
3.10.1 An internal survey conducted under PARSEC's Pedagogical Component revealed
that during the course of the project there was no improvement in terms either of
efficiency of the system or of numbers of qualified teachers.
3.10.2 In-service training of primary school teachers, the responsibility of the Institut
National de l'Education - INE (National Institute of Education), represented a
major facet of component 2, but was not effective because (a) schedules were
often disrupted by sociopolitical events, (b) the statistical data were not reliable,
(c) constant changes in the teaching teams detracted from continuity, (d) the
training courses were too short, of uneven content, and not always suited to the
target populations.
3.10.3 Training at the supervisory level was efficiently provided for school principals,
pedagogical advisers, and primary school inspectors, despite the inadequacy of
resources at the trainers' disposal (vehicles, documentation, etc.).
3.11  Improvement at the Lower Secondary Level
3.11.1 The survey (mentioned in 3.10.1) pointed up a paradox: while the percentage of
qualified teachers had risen considerably, the level of students appeared to have
decreased. To cope with this problem, the project financed the training of nine
instructors in practical subjects and refresher courses for 50 lower-secondary level
pedagogical advisors in literature. This refresher course for liberal arts teachers is
expected to be extended to teachers of practical courses on the science side.
New administrative structure for the Ministry



- 22 -
3.11.2 Concerning in-service training, the comments at this level are the same as those in
3.10.2 above. The only aspect to function more or less correctly was individual
monitoring, since this was performed by pedagogical advisers who were working
under the auspices of INE and followed a set program for each subject.
3.11.3 Three inspectors at the lower and upper secondary levels were trained at the Ecole
Normale Superieure de Saint Cloud (Saint Cloud Advanced Teacher Training
College), and are currently in active service. Not all the lower secondary school
principals trained in 1989/90 are in post today. Lower secondary school teachers
received short-term training courses, basically in French language, math, and
natural sciences.
3.12  Material Resources
3.12.1 Together with French Cooperation, the credit financed the design and compilation
of student textbooks and teachers' guides suited to the Comorian sociocultural
context. Because of problems related not only to the methods but also, and
principally, to the inadequacy of primary teacher training, the fact that the guide
books were difficult to use, and the schools' lack of access to pedagogical support
services, the MEN decided to purchase books marketed by publishing houses, and
3.12.2 ... this came about following IDA's February 1992 mission. Close to 200,000
school books arrived in the Comoros at the end of September 1994, and were
delivered to the parent-teacher associations, Associations Parents-Maitres -
APMs and Associations Parents-Professeurs - APPs, which will be responsible
for managing the stock and replenishing the textbooks after 3-5 years.
3.12.3 Eight covered pickup trucks and two cross-country vehicles were provided to the
inspection teams and to INE under the training component. The pickup trucks are
at the end of their useful life.
3.12.4 Rehabilitation work was carried out in the primary school inspection units, which
became Circonscriptions d'Inspection Pedagogique Re'gionales - CIPR (Regional
Pedagogical Inspection Districts).
3.13  Technical/Vocational Training
3.13.1 Since the Direction de la Formation Professionnelle et Technique - DFPT
(Vocational and Technical Training Directorate) at MEN was not effectively
created until June 1990, components 3 and 4 were combined; however, the delay
in the launching of these two units under the same directorate jeopardized the
effective operation of the two schools.



- 23 -
3.13.2 By the start of the 1994/95 school year, the Ecole Nationale d'Enseignement
Technique et Professionnel - ENTP (Technical and Vocational Training School)
and the Ecole Nationale d'Administration et de Commerce - ENAC (National
School of Business and Trade), formerly the Ecole de Gestion (School of
Management) have been completed and fully equipped for operation.
3.13.3 In July 1994, a long training course was provided for 43 graduates, comprising 13
administrative support staff and 30 technicians, trained at ENAC and ENTP,
respectively. In addition, 36 workers and 60 secretaries received short refresher
courses.
3.13.4 Of the estimated total of 18 teachers, the project succeeded in training five
recipients of fellowships for study abroad. The cost of these five training items,
however, accounted for over 60% of the respective budgetary allocation.
3.13.5 In addition to school building costs and the purchase of machine tools, the project
financed the purchases of one small truck and one light vehicle.
4 -   Sustainability of Achievements
4.1   The adoption of the cadres organiques, and the strengthening of the MEN
agencies and enhancement of the management capacities of its senior staff are the
first indicators of sustainability. What is still needed is an efficient training
program for operational staff and the introduction of incentives to keep them in
the sector once they have been trained.
4.2   The Education Planning Directorate is now ready to fulfill its mission.
4.3   The CNGEPE now has some good experience with project management. The
second AfDB project, once in place, will be able to benefit from that experience,
as will the World Bank's Third Education Project.
4.4   By their very structure and operations, the newly-created IFEREs will provide an
effective framework for training. Planning of pre-service and continuing training
programs is already in progress, with technical assistance from PARSEC.
4.5   With the newly-established CIPRs providing monitoring services and pedagogical
support, the IFERE training programs should be able to receive on-the-spot
supervision.
4.6   The purchase of 196,675 school books is undoubtedly the event most looked
forward to by the community. The possibility of replenishment every 3-5 years
will depend on the success of the cost recovery plan. There seems to be a definite



- 24 -
need for an agency to be set up to manage the textbooks together with parent
associations.
4.7   The Technical and Vocational Training and Management Schools have been
completed and equipped. However, they need to be strengthened in order to
better meet the sector's needs.
5 -   Conditions of Sustainability
5.1   Generally speaking, all the achievements mentioned in the foregoing chapter will
be reliable only if the budgetary allocations for education are adequate to allow
for the harmonious and sustainable operation of the system.
5.2   The counterpart funding for every project should be systematically budgeted each
year.
5.3   If professionals can be retained in the positions for which they received high-level
training, it should be possible for future projects to continue the actions
undertaken over the past few years.
5.4   Enhancement of the training (administrative and pedagogic) of the pedagogical
advisers and primary education inspectors (within the IFERE framework) would
provide a basis for the success of the CIPRs. There is a definite need for training
to be provided for secondary school inspectors in subjects not yet covered, and
for inspectors in technical education and school administration.
5.5   The training plan for administrators needs to be formulated without delay.
5.6   Transparency on the part of the donors and of their local offices responsible for
management of the funding should lead to improved utilization of the human and
financial resources invested and prevent duplications. This would place CNGEPE
in a better position to coordinate and manage all of the projects in the sector.
6 -   Borrower and IDA Performance
6.1   The Borrower's performance is reflected throughout this report. Highlights are:
(a) the speeding up of disbursements after the main project goals were refocussed
by MEN and IDA in 1991/92, despite the slow pace of implementation during the
first years of the project, (b) the creation of a steering committee and its
coordination unit, (c) the involvement of PARSEC in certain operations, mainly
in the form of technical and material support, (d) a start on the training plan for
administrators designed to promote institutional strengthening, and (e) qualitative
improvement in the area of project planning, management, and implementation.



-2 -
6.2   IDA's performance may be linked to (a) the effectiveness of most of its specialists
during their supervision missions, (b) its capacity to understand the problems
encountered by the Borrower, particularly with respect to its counterpart
contribution, and to react positively to requests for support in exceptional
circumstances (help with the past two school reopenings, for example), and (c) its
readiness to find adequate solutions whenever the need arose.
6.3   Education is without any doubt the most complex sector and the most difficult to
manage because of the large number of people involved and the size of the
relative budget. It is essential that the strategy for the sector be clearly defined,
and that, thanks to the Master Plan and the subsequent donor conference, the
objective of quality education for all is achieved.
7 -   Conclusion: Main Lessons Learned
7.1    Make an even more detailed evaluation of the sector's recurrent operating costs.
7.2    At the time of project preparation, take inventory of the human resources that will
be available during implementation.
7.3    Whenever it is possible to foresee difficulties in the area of the public finances, it
would be wise to arrange for a PPF to be put in place one year before closure of
an ongoing credit.
7.4   Negotiate a project based on an education master plan.
7.5   Ensure that the project management has optimal conditions within which to
operate, vis-a-vis both IDA and the supervisory ministry.
7.6   Establish the necessary confidence in that ministry to enable it to effectively carry
out the missions entrusted to it.
7.7   Relax disbursement procedures to give the Project Unit a threshold below which it
may finance certain operations, notably the most urgent, without a no-objection
from IDA being required.
7.8   Seek balanced rates of compensation and fees for both expatriate and local
missions, which would take into account the value of the work performed and the
country's real situation.



- 26 -
7.9    Clarify the objectives to be achieved by formulating precise plans geared clearly
to qualitative as well as quantitative targets, for example targeting training as a
means of improving the quality of teaching.
7.10  Programming capacities need to be effectively assured at all levels of MEN
directorates.
Moroni, October 10, 1994



Part III: Statistical Data                                                                           Page 27
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1751-COM)
TABLE 1 - PROJECTS LINKED TO THE SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Name        Agreement Date        Objectives       Credit Amount       Status
(US$ million)
Education I (Cr. 1195-COM)      1981       Improve quality of          6.0         Closed on
primary education and                 June 6, 1987.
train extension agents.
Health and Population (Cr.      1983       Training of midwifes        2.8         Closed on
1048-COM)                                and pharmacy                          June 30, 1991.
assistants.
MERCAP (Cr. 2270-COM)           1991       Assistance for a macro-     13.0        On-going.
economic reform and
reinforcement of
Government manage-
ment capacity.
Population and Human            1993       One component               13.0        On-going.
Resources (Cr. 2553-COM)                   includes aid to commu-
nity development,
mainly in education



Part III: Statistical Data                                                                             Page 28
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1751-COM)
TABLE 2 - PROJECT TIMETABLE
Activity              Planned Date           Actual Date               Observation
Identification                                       September 1984
Preparation                                            January 1985
Pre-Appraisal                                           May 1985
Appraisal                                             October 1985
Credit Negotiations               May 1986              June 1986
Board Approval                                       January 6, 1987
Credit Signature                  July 1986           May 12, 1987
Credit Effectiveness            October 1986        November 12, 1987          Three extensions.
Credit Closing                  June 30, 1992        October 31, 1994    Two Closing Date Extensions.
Completion Report                                       April 1995



Part III: Statistical Data                                                                             Page 29
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1751-COM)
TABLE 3 - IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
Item                 Estimates at            Current                  Comments
Appraisal             Estimates
1. Technical Assistance                                                 Plus French Cooperation
a. Planning Unit                                                       Idem
administration                   3 s/rn                2 s/m         Idem
plannning                        24 s/m           Other Financing
education financing              3 s/rn               1.5 s/m
b. Primary school teacher
training                         n.a.                 2 s/m          Plus French Cooperation
c. Technical Training
technical advisor                18 s/m           Other Financing     By ILO
training                         24 s/m           Other Financing     By French and Belgian Gov't
d. Project Management
purchases / contracts            2 s/m                 1 s/m          Bidding documents organiza-
project preparation              2 s/m                 5 s/m         tion and preparation of "Etats
Gdn6raux"
2. Managers Training,
Supervision
a. Planning Management
administrators                   10 s/m                4 s/m
planning, school maping          18 s/m                21 s/m
no. of study trips                 8                     1           Burundi and Mauritius
secretarial tasks                 n.a.                 10 s/m        Office Automation
b. Project Management
higher level staff               6 s/m                 5 s/m         Accounting, project manage-
ment, data processing, contract
secretarial tasks                 n.a.                 10 s/m        Office automation
no. study trips                    4                     2           Madagascar
3. School Rehabilitation,                              Completed       Ready in October 1994
Equipment, Buildings in
Anjouan
4. Construction of Manage-                             Completed       Ready in October 1994
ment School
5. Pedagogical Centers,              7                     13          Ready in October 1994
Inspection
6. Vehicles for MEN, INE and         15                    1 1
Education Advisors            35 motorcycles              7
s/m: staffmonths
n.a.: not available



Part III: Statistical Data                                                                          Page 30
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1751-COM)
TABLE 4 - COST AND FINANCING OF THE PROJECT
(As of June 1994)
I - PROJECT COST
Items                    Appraisal Estimates                  Current Estimates
Million FC       Thousand SDR          Million FC   Thousand SDR
Civil Works                          390.0                980.0            380.0           960.0
Equipment, Supplies,
Vehicles and Materials             670.0               1,700.0          1,390.0        2,900.0
Consultants, Studies                 320.0                810.0            270.0           680.0
Training, Fellowships                680.0               1,730.0           510.0         1,280.0
Operating Costs                      230.0                570.0            230.0           590.0
Unallocated                          790.0               1,990.0              0.0            0.0
Total                              3,080.0               7,780.0          2,780.0        6,410.0
1 - FINANCING OF THE PROJECT
Items                    Appraisal Estimates                  Current Estimates
Million FC       Thousand SDR          Million FC   Thousand SDR
A. IDA
Civil Works                          380.0                950.0            380.0           960.0
Equipment, Supplies,
Vehicles and Materials             650.0               1,650.0          1,390.0        2,900.0
Consultants, Studies                 320.0                800.0            270.0           680.0
Training, Fellowships                690.0               1,750.0           510.0         1,280.0
Operating Costs                       50.0                130.0             170.0          450.0
Unallocated                          680.0               1,720.0              0.0            0.0
Sub-Total                          2,770.0              7,000.0           2,720.0        6,270.0
B. Government                        310.0                780.0             60.0           140.0
Total                              3,080.0               7,780.0          2,780.0        6,410.0
Note: Government contribution steadily decreased from an average of FC 13 million between
1988 and 1989 to an average of FC4.8 million between 1992 and 1993.



Part III: Statistical Data                                                                           Page 31
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1751-COM)
TABLE 5 - PROJECT RESULTS
Items                Objective at  Current Level             Comments
Appraisal
1. Institutional Framework: job created
* education planner                  1              1
* education financing                1              1
* school mapping                     1              1        Changed appointment.
* pedagogical advisors              35             35
* lower sec'ry school inspector      3              3
* teacher training                   10             0        Not hired; training done by pedagogi-
cal advisors.
* teachers for Anjouan School        8             11
* teachers for Moroni School         8              7
2. Trained Staff:
primary level
* teachers                        2,000       about 1,400
* pedagogical advisors             35             35
* school directors                 250            271
secondary level
* teachers                         350         about 600    Due to high turnover
* inspectors                        3              3
* school directors                 80          about 70    High turnover
technical training
* work supervisors                  1              1       By French Cooperation
* technical teachers                13             3       1 Building, 2 Mechanics
* management teachers               4              2       1 Accountancy, 1 Secretarial Services
graduates (1- and 3-year programs)
* Anjouan Technical School       72/year        30/year    Expected to be reached by 1996
* Moroni Business School         30/year        13/year
3. Local Production of Books      no estimates   60,000 copies In 1992, it was decided to purchase
(50 titles) a    (11 titles) b  the books and manuals
(a) Five subjects for 10 grades.
(b) French for 3 grades; Math for 6 grades; Geography for 2 grades.



Part III: Statistical Data                                                                              Page 32
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1751-COM)
TABLE 5 - PROJECT RESULTS (Continued)
EVOLUTION OF KEY EDUCATION INDICATORS
Level of Education                Indicator                    1987-88           1992-93
Primary            Number of students                            64,737           72,759
of which repeaters (%)                       39%              41%
of which girls (%)                          44%               46%
Number of teachers                           1,777             1,771
of which qualified (%)                      27%               29%
Student / Teacher Ratio                        36               41
Average Enrollment Ratio
gross ((7-12 years)                         80.4%            86.1%v'o
net (7-12 years)                            62.4%            58.3%
Percentage of students enrolled in Grade
6 who reach Grade 7                          31%              28%
Percentage of students of "normal" age
(12 years old) in Grade 6                    31%              36%
Lower Secondary    Number of students                            15,537            8,860
of which repeaters (%)                       28%              25%
of which girls (%)                          41%               45%
Number of teachers                            599               391
of which qualified (%)                       53%              91%
Student / Teacher Ratio                        26               23
Percentage of new entrants who reach
upper secondary schooling                    17%              28%
State Budget                                                     1987              1993
Total budget for Ministry of Education
(million of FC)                             2,289            2,814
MEN budget as a % of total government
budget                                       20%              20%
MEN operating budget as a % of govern-
ment operating budget                        28%              28%



Part III: Statistical Data                                                                                     Page 33
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1751-COM)
TABLE 6 - COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT AGREEMENT CONDITIONS
Section                Covenant                Estimated Date    Current Status of Compliance
3.01.a       The Borrower will release the necessary Over the life of   Borrower financial contribution has
funds whenever needed to ensure the   the project   been insufficient. IDA financed
smooth running of the project                       part of the operating costs.
3.01.b       Maintain BPE in operation           Over the life of   Complied with since 1991
the project
3.03.i       Restrict enrollment between 1987-88                  Complied w;h until 1988-89
and 1988-89 to teachers trained by ENNI
3.03.ii      Restrict fellowships not financed by                 Complied with, except in 1989
bilateral assistance
3.03.iii     Restrict number of students in secon-                Complied with, except for 1991-92
dary schools
3.04         Review MEN organization             June 30, 1987    Complied with in October 1987;
reviewed in March 1993
3.05         Appointing staff for planning unit  December 1987  Education planner takes care of
planning unit.
3.06         Specify the roles of INE and ENES   December 1987  Complied with.
3.07.a       Establishment of vocational training    Draft in October Decree signed in October 1989.
management unit                     1987
3.07.b       Place ENTP and ENG under control of                 Included in the decree signed in
vocational training unit in MEN                     October 1989.
3.08         Presentation of an Action Plan in order  June 1988  Complied with (see 3.04). Recruitment
to improve cost effectiveness of                    standards not always applied.
education
3.09.a       Enrollment of 4 higher level staff in the October 1987    Complied with belatedly. The 10
planning unit, 3 high school inspectors            teacher training specialists have not
and 10 teacher training specialists.                been recruited.
3.09.b       Enrollment of 8 teachers for Technical  October 1989    Complied with belatedly.
School and 8 for Management School.
4.01         Audit                               Every year      Complied with, but problems with
quality of accounting and manage-
ment (*).
(*) SDR amounts of Credit disbursed as indicated in the audit reports do not tally with those given by the
IDA Disbursement Department. Mismatch arises from: (a) category 3 for year 1992; (b) all categories for
year 1993.



Part m: Statistical Data                                                                                   Page 34
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1751-COM)
TABLE 7 - UTILIZATION OF IDA RESOURCES
A. HUMAN RESOURCES (staff-weeks)
Fiscal Year  Preparation        Appraisal       Negotiation      Supervision          PCR           Total
1985          56.9                                                                               56.9
1986           6.4             31.4              2.7                                             40.5
1987                                             3.8              1.7                            5.5
1988                                                              4.5                            4.5
1989                                                              4.9                            4.9
1990                                                              6.6                            6.6
1991                                                              13.9                           13.9
1992                                                             15.5                            15.5
1993                                                              13.2                           13.2
1994                                                              14.3             5.0           19.3
Total         63.3              31.4             6.5              74.6              5.0          180.8



Part III: Statistical Data                                                                                  Page 35
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1751-COM)
TABLE 7 - UTILIZATION OF IDA RESOURCES
B. DATA ON MISSIONS
Purpose      MonthfYear          Staff       Days in Field     Specialisms        Rating         Problems
Pre-Appraisal     May 1995            5                19           Educator
Architect (2)
Economist
Appraisal        October 1985         4                15          Educator (2)
Architect
Economist
Supervision     September 1987        2               10          Educator (2)          2           Management
Supervision       June 1988           1                3            Educator            3           Management
Supervision     February 1989         2               10          Educator (2)          2           Management
Supervision       June 1990           3                7          Educator (2)          3              Policy
Architect
Supervision     December 1990         3               12          Educator (2)          2
Architect
Supervision      March 1991           2                8            Educator            3           Management
Architect                       and Policy
Monitoring        June 1991           2                15           Educator
Architect
Supervision      October 1991         4               15          Educator (2)          3           Management
Economist
Sociologist
Supervision     February 1992         3               21            Educator            3           Management
(mid-term review)                                                  Economist
Sociologist
Monitoring        June 1992           1                8            Educator            3           Management
Supervision     November 1992         3                8          Educator (3)          3           Management
Supervision      March 1993           3                5           Educator (2)         2
Implementation
Supervision       May 1993            1               10            Educator            2
Supervision      October 1993         1                4            Educator            2
Supervision      March 1994           3                5          Educator (2)          2
Implementation



- 36-                                                           CHART 1
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
OF COMOROS EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
PUBLIC SCHOOLING 1992-1 993                                                       TRAINING ABROAD
E. N.E. S.
fiBACCALAUREAT                                                 / / 
2nd yer:  140
titer o candid     2 0 17
HIGHER SECONDARY
SCHOOL
19 years old
Lltemry secwons   Math/ scwexcs stn   Gaet atia                        E. N. N. 1.
Graduats    641   Graeuats       623    Gratuats   28
Senior     729   SWniO           605   senwIo     0            2nd year: 29
Junior     997   Junior:         802   Junior     0             'at year: 5
17 years old                                                                                     0
E. N. G.
B. E.P.C.                           
tNber Of candidates 4                                                                           d87  yr   32
Ad,mitted :29%                                                                             nI
ISt yewr   Is        _
16 years old                                                       SECONDARY SCHOOL                                        ET.P.
Freshmian    1 967                                      Comnmon-corn eyiabue.
Grade 9       2152 1       '52 -
13 years old                                              Grade 7       2 512
G Crade 6 CompetitIveX                               yN./                                  V VP PS Thc&tdS.NPlGrd7 2.1
Entrance Examinaton
tiNber ot cendidates 8 376
Admltted 21S%
12 years old                                                           PRIMARYSCHOOL
Grade 6    11070
Grade 6:    8 708
Grade 4:    9 984
Grade 3:  12 073
Grade 2:  14 020
Grade 1:  16 904
7 years old    '_                                                     _        ___
6 years old
PRE-PRIMARY SCHOOL
(Coranic schools and kindergartens)
4 years old    _
Legal age












R e A;Z tA  t I i:;1 d-     
r&epc'r I   Nc           i
Type:  UP~~~~~~~~ C:. I 



