                                           Document of
                                       The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                            ReportNo: 28968-EC




                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              O N A

                                       PROPOSED LOAN

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$34MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OFECUADOR

                                             FOR A

     SECOND INDIGENOUS AND AFRO-ECUADORIAN PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT
                                            PROJECT

                                          MAY 21,2004




Environmentally andSocially SustainableDevelopment Department
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela County Management Unit
LatinAmerica andthe Caribbean Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                       Currency Unit = US$

                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1   - December31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIP      Annual Implementation Plan
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CODAE    Afro-Ecuadorian Development Corporation (Corporacidnde Desurrollo
         Afroecuatoriuno)
CODENPE  Council for the Development of Nationalities and Peoplesof Ecuador
         (Consejode Desarrollo de las ~acionalid~esPueblos del Ecuador)
                                                       y
CPAR     Country ProcurementAssessmentReport
FA0      Foodand Agriculture Organization
FE       Facilitatingand Coordinating Entity (usually an OSG or OTG)
FMR      Financial Management Report
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOE      Government of Ecuador
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
FAD      International Fundfor Agricultural Development
INDA     AgrarianDevelopment Institute (InstitutodeDesarrolloAgrario)
LG       Local government
MEF      Ministry of Economy andFinance
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
O M      Project OperationalManual
OSG      Second-Tier Organization (Organizacidnde Segundo Grado)
OTG      Third-Tier Organization (Organizaci6nde Tercer Grudo)
PDL      Local Development Plan-LDP (Plande Desarrollo Local)
PIP      Project ImplementationPlan
PIU      Project ImplementationUnit
POP      PersistentOrganic Pollutant
RPIU     Regional Project Implementation Unit
SOE      Statement of Expenses
TA       Technical assistance
TOR      Terms of Reference




                     Vice President:     David de Ferranti
         Country ManagerDirector:        Marcel0 Giugale
                    Sector Manager:      John Redwood
                 Task Team Leader:       David Tuchschneider

                                                                                          FOROFFlcLALUSEOM,Y
                                                              CONTENTS



     A STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE
      .
       1. Country and sector issues .................................................................................................... 1
       2. Rationale for Bank involvement................ .........................................................................                 2
       3. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes.....................................................                             2
     B PROJECT DESCRIPTION
      .
       1. Lendinginstrument.............................................................................................................. 3
       2. [IfApplicable] Programobjective andPhases....................................................................                            3
       3. Project development objective and key indicators ..............................................................                          3
       4. Project components.............................................................................................................. 4
       5. Lessonslearned andreflected inthe project design ............................................................                            5
       6. Alternatives consideredandreasonsfor rejection...............................................................                            6
     C IMPLEMENTATION
      .
       1. Partnershiparrangements(if applicable) .............................................................................                     7
       2. Institutional andimplementation arrangements...................................................................                          7
       3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeslresults .................................................................                          ;9
       4. Sustainability .....................................................................................................................     10
       5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                         10
       6. Loanconditions andcovenants..........................................................................................                    12
     D APPRAISALSUMMARY
      .
       1. Economic andfinancial analyses........................................................................................                   12
       2. Technical............................................................................................................................    12
       3. Fiduciary ............................................................................................................................   13
       4. Social ................................................................................................................................. 14
       5. Environment ......................................................................................................................       15
       6. Safeguardpolicies.............................................................................................................. 17
       7. Policy Exceptions andReadiness......................................................................................                     17


                                                                                                                                                     .
  This document hasa restricteddistribution andmay beused by recipients only in
1 theperformanceof their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                   .
  without World Bank authorization                        .

Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                 ..........................................................      18

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank andlor other Agencies                                                       ..................21
Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring                       .........................................................................        23

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription              ......................................................................................         35

Annex 5: Project Costs................................................................................................................          57

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                  ..................................................................................         58

Annex 7: Financial Managementand Disbursement Arrangements                                            ......................................    61

Annex 8: Procurement  ................................................................................................................          66

Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis                    ..............................................................................        74

Annex 10: Safeguard PolicyIssues         .............................................................................................          84

Annex 11:Project Preparationand Supervision                        ......................................................................        87

Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File                ..................................................................................          88

Annex 13: Statementof Loans and Credits                  ...............................................................................         90

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       ..................................................................................................           91

Annex 15: LegislativeFramework for Indigenousand Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples                                                          ................92
Map: IBRD28022

                                     ECUADOR

                 SECOND INDIGENOUSAND AFROECUADORIANPEO

                          PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                          LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                      LCSEO

Date: May 21,2004                          TeamLeader: DavidTuchschneider
CountryDirector: Marcel0Giugale            Sectors: Other socialservices (75%);General
Sector MangerDirector: John Redwood        agriculture, fishing andforestry sector (25%)
                                           Themes: Indigenouspeoples(P)
ProjectID: PO77257                         Environmentalscreeningcategory: Partial
                                           Assessment
LendingInstrument: SpecificInvestmentLoan Safeguardscreeningcategory: Limitedimpact

[XILoan     [ ]Credit  [ ]Grant  [ ]Guarantee   [ 3 Other:

For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Total Bankfinancing (US$m.): 34.00




INTERNATIONALBANKFOR                         31.81               2.19             34.00
RECONSTRUCTIONAND
DEVELOPMENT
LOCAL FARMER ORGANIZATIONS                   4.92                0.00               4.92
Total:                                       42.77               2.19             44.97

Borrower:
Republic of Ecuador
Ecuador

Responsible Agency:
CODENPE-Consejode Desarrollode las Nacionalidadesy Pueblosdel Ecuador
Ecuador
CODAE-Corporacionde DesarrolloAfroecuatoriano
Ecuador

hnnual           5.00     10.00    11.00     12.00     6.97       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
hmulative        5.00     15.00    26.00     38.00    44.97     44.97     44.97   44.97     44.97




Doesthe project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Ref. PADA.3                                                                       [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project require any exceptions from Bankpolicies?
Ref. PADD.7                                                                       [ ]Yes [XlNo
Havethesebeen approvedby Bank management?                                           ]Yes [ IN0
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                       [ ]Yes [XINO
Doesthe project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                      [XIYes [ ] N o

Doesthe project meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?
Ref. PAD D.7                                                                      [ ]Yes [XINO

Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
To promote the empowerment and improvedaccess to natural and financial resourcesfor
indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian communities within the framework of their own development
and interculturalism.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each com~onen~]       Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
A.      Strengthening Social Organizations
  This component would strengthenindigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian membership organizations
with the following TA and training activities: (1) managementcapacity building; (2) strategic
and local participatory development planning; (3) legal, management, andtechnical training; and
(4) equity ingender andgenerations.

  B.    Knowledge andCulture for Development
  This component will help target groups improve their humancapital as well as their knowledge
base and cultural assets, thus contributing to increasedincomes. It will include: (i)
                                                                                   a scholarship
programfor higher education (ii)  trainingandtechnical assistancefor culture-based initiatives,
among others, intourism and handicrafts.

  C.    Natural Resources
  This component will helpthe target population improve managementof natural resources
through increasedaccess andcontrol of land, water and other natural resources vital for their
livelihoodthrough: (i) landtitling; (ii)pilot programs inmangrove management; and (iii)
                                        a                                                   a
pilot programincommunity natural resource management.

  D.    RuralInvestments
  This componentwill finance demand-driven small-scale investmentslsubprojects by eligible
communities for: ((i) investment studies; (ii) investments; (iii)
                                               social                   communityproductive
investments; (iv) and environmentallnatural resource management.

 E. Project Management andInstitutionalStrengtheningof CODENPEandCODAE
 This component will increaseGOE's capacity to formulate intercultural policies andprograms
taking into consideration the concerns of indigenous andAfro-descendant peoples. Itwould
provide specialized technical support to CODENPEand CODAE for the implementationof their
public role. As part of this component, the project will also include support for aProject
Implementation Unit, including a central coordinating office andup to sevenregional
implementing units.

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD D.4, Tec~niculAnnex 10
The World Bank SafeguardPolicies applicable to this project are Environmental Assessment,
Natural Habitats, Forests, PestManagement,CulturalProperty, and Indigenous Peoples.

Significant, non-standardconditions, ifany, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
None

Loadcredit effectiveness:
-Adoption of an operational manualsatisfactory to the Bank;
  -Staffing of the Project ImplementationUnit satisfactory to the Bank;

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
As acondition of disbursementfor the loanproceeds allocated to landtitling: (a) issuanceof the
revisions to the regulations to the Agrarian Development Law covering requirements for the
titling of Indigenous lands under ancestralpossession [or equivalent measuresatisfactory to the
Bankto institutionalize the procedures], (b) agreementbetween CODENPEKODAE andINDA
satisfactory to the Bank signed, and (c) agreementbetweenCONDENPElCODAE and the
Ministryof the Environment satisfactory to the Bank signed.


A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE
1. Countryandsectorissues
        As a result of ahistory of social, economic andpoliticalexclusion, the ruralindigenous
and Afro-Ecuadorian communities are the largest social groups suffering from poverty in
Ecuador. Ineffect, while on anational levelpoverty strikes 56% of all Ecuadorians, 86 of every
100indigenous persons are impoverished. While the overall country illiteracy index is 10.8 %,
this indicator reaches42.5 % inindigenous populations and53.2 5% amongindigenous women.
Consequently, indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian people havethe worst living conditions, the
lowest schooling levels with inappropriate educational systems, serious unemployment levels,
minimalaccessto health services, andoftensuffer from social andeconomic discrimination.
These groups lack secure access to landandwater resourceswhich restrains investment
opportunities and creates conditions for social unrest.
        The Government's statedtarget i s to reducepoverty to 31.0% andextreme poverty from
25.0% to 10.3% of the population by 2007. However, the poorest groups have almost no access
to the Government's centrally-managed, productivity-enhancing public services. Their local
communities are usually poorly organized anddependent on centralized services that are seldom
delivered. There is a general recognition that the current systemdoes not work well and cannot
be fixed, andthat proper decentralization i s the most likely answer. Although Congress passeda
law in 1997 which lays out the framework andprinciples for decentralization, no regulations
have been written andunfortunately the new political and administrative modelhas not been
devised.
        Public policy regardingindigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian peopleshas beenbetter defined
with the adoption of anew Constitution in 1998recognizing Ecuador as a multicultural and
multiethnic country. This instrument is one of the most advancedof Latin America, recognizing
a series of collective rightsto indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian peoples inthe realms of culture,
landor territory, and self-determination. Shortly thereafter GOE createdthe Consejode
Desarrollo de las ~acion~lidudes    y Pueblosdel Ecuador (CODENPE) and the Corporacidn de
Desurrollo Afroecuatoriuno (CODAE). Their policy objectives center on implementingkey
constitutional rights, broadening access to resources and improvingthe delivery of services for
indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities.
        Upon takingoffice inJanuary 2003, the Government announceda medium-termprogram
aimingto reducepoverty through coordinated advancesoneconomic and social fronts, ina
three-pronged strategy: (i)  Promoting economic growth andcompetitiveness; (ii)       Reducing
poverty and promoting social inclusion; and (iii)  Improving governanceto fight corruption and
increase security. Since then, it has been more successful inimplementingstabilization
measuresthan inlaunching longer-term reforms; particularlygiventhe break-up of its electoral
coalition, the increasedpolitical instability and the opposition of a restive indigenous movement.
Recognizing this, the Ecuadoriangovernment has embarked on an effort, led by the Ministry of
Economy andFinanceandwith the support of international donors, to define the National
Strategy for Poverty Reduction. This Strategy provides a key focus inthe effort to reduce
poverty, by aimingto improve the quality andquantity of social investments, andits
focalization on the poorest sectors of the population. One of its policies is to support special
development programs for the most vulnerable groups.




                                                   1

2. Rationalefor Bank involvement
        During 1997-98GOE, supportedbythe BankandFAD, developedaninnovative
project called the Indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian PeoplesDevelopment Project (PRODEPINE
I) channelingassetsandservicestoimpoverishedindigenousandAfro-Ecuadorian
  for
communities. I t went largely outside the centralized government system, usingethnic affinity
groups to transform dependentcommunities into proactive groups empoweredto address their
development problems directly. PRODEPINE 11i s meant to buildon the success of its
predecessorbut with improvements to take into account institutionalchanges andlessons
learned.
        The PRODEPINEmodel of participatory development has proven to be an effective
mechanism for fightingpoverty, but it was able to only reach a third of the target communities,
which make up only a quarter of the population. PRODEPINE11's strategic value will lie in
improving CODENPE and CODAE's capacity to helpthe Ecuadorian Government to focus on
the poorestruralinhabitants while adding ethnic, gender andspatial considerations to fight
againstpoverty. The project thus focuses on ethnicity: a dimension of poverty that permeatesthe
whole country. Like its predecessor, it articulates a modelof development with cultural identity
or ethno development. It builds on the positive qualities of indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian
peoples such as their highsocial andcultural capital to promote activities that lead to higher
employment, production, improveddelivery of services, and growth.
        PRODEPINEI1will buildon the lessons learned inthe first project by: (i)    deepeningits
involvement inthe most successfulareas (community investments, landtitling, training and
institutional strengthening); (ii)expanding into related areas (natural resourcesmanagement);
(iii)mainstreaming attention to indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian issuesin selectednational
sectors and local governments; and (iv) approaching key issuesof ethno development
(community tourism, culturalassets, ethno biologicalproduction and handicrafts) innew ways.
        The Bank hasbeenone of the few lendersldonors directly involvedinhelpingthe
Ecuadorian Government efforts to reduce indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian poverty. Ithas
accompanied--through PRODEPINE I-- the process of legal and institutionalreform and the
focusing of aspirations on local level demands. The Bank has played akey role engaging inthe
development dialogue with indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian organizations as well as with
government institutions createdto serve their needs.
        This model has proven so successfulthat GOE with Bank financinghasdeveloped a
similar project (PROLOCAL) in2001to focus on ruralpoverty outside the areas covered by
PRODEPINE for indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian people. The project also complements efforts
by the SpanishCooperation to strengthenmunicipalities managedby indigenous mayors and
IDB's financing of FISEinthe province of Esmeraldas, which will be targeted at the afro-
descendantpopulation of the province.

3. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes
        The Government's medium-term program, announcedin2003, aims to fight against
poverty through coordinated advances on social andeconomic fronts. Iti s organized along three
thematic areas. On the economic front, the Government's priorities are to consolidate the fiscal
situation, increasecompetitiveness andefficiency, promote a more flexible anddynamic labor
market, and strengthenthe banking system. On the social front, it aims to improve the provision
of social assistance and reform the education and health sectors. Inthe area of governanceit
proposesto fight corruption and increasethe transparency of public services.



                                                 2

     The Bank's strategy mirrors the Government's through actions inthree areas: (i)
 consolidating the macro framework and layingthe foundations for growth; (ii)      broadening
 access to resourcesandensuring reforms are socially sustainable; and (iii)    strengthening
 governance to ensure accountable, efficient and accessiblepublic services (World Bank 2003.
 CAS). The project i s included inthe current CAS andwill contribute fundamentally to the
 secondarea, but its strategic value lies intacklingthe lack of social inclusion which constitutes
 one of the key obstacles to poverty reduction inEcuador, To reducepoverty, sustainedeconomic
 growthneedsto be complementedwith reforms that address inequality andincreasethe access of
 the poor to basic services. The project will contribute to this objective by increasing the
 capacities and assets of the target groups, by decentralizing decision-making to the level of the
 communities themselvesandby helping the Government raise the profile of indigenous and
 Afro-Ecuadorian issuesin selectedsector ministries.

 B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
 1. Lendinginstrument
         The proposedproject largely repeatsthe objectives anddesign of the first PRODEPINE
 project, so it is to be financed with an BRDLoan.
         The Borrower selectedthe option of aU S dollars fixed spreadloan with graceperiodof 4
 years and a total repayment term of 18 years. The Borrower choseto keep all conversion options
 open. The FSLloan was chosenbecausethis type of loan would allow the Republic of Ecuador
 proactive debt management makinguse of all embeddedoptions whenever the Republic would
 like to exercise such options.

 2. [If Applicable] Programobjective and Phases
 NIA

 3. Project developmentobjective and key indicators
         To promote the empowermentandimprovedaccess to natural andfinancial resourcesfor
 indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities within the framework of their own development
 andinterculturalism.
         (See Annex 3).

 Key PerformanceIndicators
     The success of the project will be measuredby following indicators (additional indicators
 .withThe
       which to measure progress of eachof the Project's components are found inAnnex 3):
         Institutional Capacity Index of the facilitating entities (EEs)has improvedby an average
of 25%
 ..  The communities' share of cofinancing for the subprojects i s at least 27%.

.    80% of the FEsthat are facilitatingsubprojects have receivedfavorable technical audits.
     30% of the FEs have receivedadditional funding from other institutions and the total
investment received by the FEs is increasedby 25% to meet the demands of the Local
Development Plans (PDLs)
     The total investment of local governments andNGOs, inrelationto the demands of the
PDLs, has increasedby an averageof 20 %.



                                                  3

.    35% of the,PDL demandshavebeenfinanced by different sources during the execution of
PRODEPINE 11.
 .   Of all the subprojects financed, 10%were executedby women's groups and40%
incorporated a gender equality focus.
..   95% of the investment subprojectshave favorable environmental audits.
     Government adopts National Development Policy for Nationalities and Peoples.

4, Project components
A.       Strengthening SocialOrganizations ($2.2 million)
         This component will benefit indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian membership organizations
with the following TA and training activities: (1) managementcapacity building; (2) strategic
and localparticipatory development planning; (3) legal, management, andtechnical training; and
 (4) equity ingender and generations. Finally, (5) it will provide technical assistanceto local
governments inorder to help them improve their targeting andparticipatory practices and
increasecofinancing of investment subprojects. Intercultural relations, gender and other equity
issueswill be incorporated systematically inall these programs.

 B.      Knowledge and Culture for Development ($2.7 million)
         This componentwill helptarget groups improvetheir human capital as well as their
  knowledge base andcultural assets, thus contributing to increasedincomes. It will include the
 following activities: (i)
                         a scholarship program for higher education; and (ii) and
                                                                               training
 technical assistancesubprojectsfor culture-based initiatives intourism andhandicrafts among
  others.

   C.    NaturalResources($2.6 million)
         This componentwill help the target population improve managementof naturalresources
through increasedaccess andcontrol of land, water and other natural resources vital for their
 livelihood. It will support the following TA activities: (i)
                                                            landtitling; (ii)pilot program in
                                                                            a
mangrove management; and (iii)pilot program incommunity natural resource managementfor
                                    a
the improvedhandling of soils, water and reforested areas. Investments associatedwith these
pilot programs would be financed as subprojects under the Rural Investments Component.

D.       RuralInvestments($25.9 million)
         This componentwill finance demand-driven small-scale investment subprojectsby
eligible communities for: (i)  investment studies; (ii) investments; (iii)
                                                      social                    community
productive investments; (iv) and environmentallnatural resource management. Beneficiaries of
this componentmustbe residentsof theparroquias includedinthe Operational Manual(OM),
butnon-target peoplelivinginthe project areas may partiallybenefitfrom project investments.
Financing of subprojects would be on a grant basis matchedby varying amounts of community
labor or co-financing sources.

E.       Project Management and Strengthening of CODENPEand CODAE ($9.3 million)
         Thiscomponent will increaseGOE's capacity to formulate interculturalpolicies and
programs takinginto consideration the concerns of indigenous and Afro-descendant peoples. It
would provide specializedtechnical support to CODENPE andCODAE for the implementation



                                                 4

of their public role. The component will aim to increasepublic participation inpolicy-making,
improve transparency and accountability, and increasethe shareof the GOE's budget targeted at
these communities andpeoples. The Component comprises three programs to be implemented in
bothgovernment institutions: (i) policies anddevelopment management; (ii)
                                   Public                                             Legal
development in selectedareas; and(iii)    Institutional Development and Intercultural
communication.
         As a complementary part of this component, the project will also include financing of
staff, training and goods for aProject Implementation Unit (PIU), including a central
coordinating office and up to sevenregional implementing units (RPIU).

5. Lessonslearned and reflectedinthe project design
         The ICR for PRODEPINEIrated it fully satisfactory. Key lessonslearned are
incorporatedinto the project design as follows:
a) Strengthening of Social Organizations.
         Givenchangesinthe legal framework and the political evolution of the indigenous
movement, the project would explore the ways to operationalize the vision of nationalities and
peoples as new forms of social organization, inaddition to the existing organizations. As a
consequence,besides localdevelopment plans, the project will support the formulation and
implementation of strategic development plans for selectednationalities andpeoples.
         A project design which emphasizes decentralized implementation is crucial for
successfully dealing with ethnic andcultural diversity of beneficiaries. Insuch instancesthe
designcannot rely on "one size fits all" methodologies, but proceduresneedto be tailored to
different cultures, types of organizations, and settings. Designof this project differentiates its
methodology indealing with coastal, Sierra andjungle cultures.
         Capacity buildingandinstitutional strengthening ingeneral require systematic
monitoringof inputs which may affect social relationships within communities andbetween
them and their higher organizations. A project focused on empowerment should monitor ina
systematic way how its own inputs may affect the relationships between communities and their
higher level organizations, becausewhen the latter handle implementation they should remain
accountable to their members. Financing for national andregionalorganizations will be focused
on improving transparency, accountability andparticipation.
         Participatory planning can increase the capacity of beneficiaries to define and implement
their own vision of development; inparticular, localparticipatory plans can provide communities
and their organizations with a key instrument for negotiating priorities with government and
development organizations. The project designencouragesthe expansion of linkages with those
local governmentsand agencies which share this vision of empowerment, by rewarding them
with training and technical assistance, if they participate inimplementation.
b) Knowledge andCulture for Development.
         Any successfulmodel of "development with identity'' mustovercome atraditional basic-
needs approach and must facilitate opportunities to generate wealth through productive
initiatives basedon culture. The design of this project expands the eligible activities to include
handicrafts, tourism, ethno biological products andtheir marketing. Experience shows that
cultural producersreside inbothruralandurbanareas and often provide basic linkages between
the two. Thus indigenous and afro-descendantproducer groups located outside of the project
area will be eligible for participation inthis component.



                                                   5

        Participation andsocial capital do not guaranteethe absence of discretionality. For
example, when administering scholarship programs, care should be taken to design checks and
balances inthe process of beneficiary selection inorder to reduce favoritismand co-option by
indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian elites. The design of this project changesthe operation of the
scholarship program so that it will be subcontractedto a specializedentity which will follow
transparentprocedures and strictly defined rules for selection of candidates.
c) NaturalResources.
        Lessonslearned at the international level show that, inorder to be sustainable, natural
resource managementpracticessuch as soil recovery, water managementand reforestationmust
be linkedto income generation. The project will carry out a pilot program of inter- and intra-
community contests, accompaniedby technical assistance, to develop such opportunities.
d) RuralInvestments.
        An integrated participatory approach applied at grassroots level can create in
beneficiaries a sense of ownership and responsibility for self development; yet the sustainability
of public infrastructure will ultimately depend on the availability of public budget resources to
maintain it. This project has increasedits TA budget so that more TA will be providedduringthe
investment phase in order to help consolidate operational capabilities and to establish cost-
recovery mechanismsat the community level.
        The concept of social capital andthe notionof community, when applied to development
issues, should be temperedby the reality of differing income levels and personal interest
imperatives. Inparticular, the mechanismsof reciprocity do not seemto extend easily into the
managementof community micro-enterprises. Consolidated organization, productiodmarketing
experience andpersonal commitment are key elements for greater success. The project will
require an increaseinlocalcounterpart for community micro enterprise subprojects from 30% to
40%.

6. Alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection
        Giventhe success of PRODEPINEI, Government of Ecuador requestedthe Bank to
                                               the
preparea repeaterproject to continue successful activities andto finance the subprojects of
communities not reachedby the first project. Duringthe identificationphase, the possibility of
having separateoperations for indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian peoples was considered. This
option was rejected after representatives of beneficiary organizations expressedstrong opinions
infavor of aunifiedproject that emphasizedaninterculturalapproach. The Project's
Consultative Committee will use proceduresto reinforcethis approach.
        The first project's model of participatory development usingethnic affinity groups was
reaffirmed with the recognition that links to all levels of government neededto be strengthened,
as the latter provided valuable normative, technical and financial assets. Likewise more TA for
CODENPEandCODAE will be tailored to their respective needs, so they can more effectively
representthe policy interestsof their primaryconstituents inthe public sector.
    Inordertoimprovethesustainability of investments, theProjectwouldalsoplacemore
emphasison naturalresource managementand subprojects that merge cultural assets
(handicrafts, tourism, etc.) andincome generation. Inthis context financingfor the rehabilitation
of archaeological sites was considered, but i t was dropped.




                                                   6

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements(ifapplicable)
        Only Bank andlocalcounterpart financing are contemplated.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements
Implementing Agencies
        The Project will be carried out by the Republic of Ecuador through the Councilfor the
Development of Nationalities and Peoples (CODENPE) and the Corporation for Afro-
EcuadorianDevelopment (CODAE). The former was established by GOE in 1998 as a
decentralized agency within the Presidency, to encouragethe participation of nationalities and
peoples inall levels of planning anddecision making of the State. Iti s a NationalCouncil, with
representativesof eachpueblo andnationality, and an Executive Committee. CODAEwas
established in 1998 as a decentralized agency to attendto Afro-Ecuadorian affairs buthada
slow start, as its constituency was less well organized. It is linkedto the Presidency of the
Republic, andempowered among others: (a) to promote the organization of its Afro-Ecuadorian
communities andto carry out capacity buildingprograms; and (b) to carry out studies relatedto
Afro-Ecuadorians and carry out its recommendations.The delegate representing the Ecuador's
Presidencyi s the legal representativeof the agency.
Directorate and Consultative Committeeof PRODEPINE
        Both institutions are formally dependenton the office of the Presidenciade la Repu'blica,
andfor the purposesof the project it will createaDirectorate (JuntaDirectiva), conformedby
CODENPE's Executive Secretary andCODAE's PresidentialDelegate. The PIU's Executive
Director will participate inthe Directorate as Secretary, without a vote. Decisions will be taken
by consensus; incase such is not possible, the decision will be taken by the SecretarioNacional
de laAdministracibn Pbblica. The project's directorate will approve the project's annualbudget
and operational plan, delegate its implementation to the PIU, and supervise regularly its
execution.
        CODENPE andCODAE have createda Consultative Committee (Comite`Consultivo
Am~liado)which, at the moment, includes representativesof the largest national ethnic and rural
organizations, inter alia, CONAIE, FEINE,FENOCIN, FEI, CNA, Consejo Regionalde
Palenques, Coordinadora Nacionalde Mujeres Negras, five representatives of CODENPE's
Executive Committee and three representativesof CODAE's Directorate. The Consultative
Committee will meet four times per year, providinga forum for the participationof the target
population's key representativeorganizations. Its mainfunctions will be: i)     to provide strategic
guidancefor project implementation; andii)     to ensurethat the project allocates funding under
clear andtransparentrules, basedon the LoanAgreement andthe Operational Manual. The
compositionandfunctionsof the Directorateand ConsultativeCommitteewill be
establishedinthe OperationalManual.
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
        A project unit, reporting to the Directorate, with core fiduciary and technical staff will be
establishedinQuito with upto sevenregional offices located inEsmeraldas (Costa Norte), Ibarra
(Sierra Norte), Riobamba (Sierra Centro), Cuenca (Sierra Sur), Tena (Amazonia Norte), Macas
(Amazonia Sur), and La Libertad(Costa Sur). The Project ExecutionUnit (PIU) has maintained
a satisfactory record inFinancial Management (FM)and procurement duringthe implementation
of PRODEPINE I;however, as a result of the FMand Procurement Assessments described inthe



                                                  7

PartD-2of this report, time-bound action planshavebeenagreedand are being followedup
closely. Such unit will be staffed with key members to the satisfaction of the Bank as a
Condition of Effectiveness of the Project.

Coordinating1Facilitating entities (FEs)
        Followingthe successfulexperience inPRODEPINEI, project will provide training
                                                                  the
and technical assistanceto second- andthird-tierorganizations (OSGs and OTGs) which group
the target's population basecommunities. FEs will also assume the role of coordinating activities
inthe benefit of beneficiary communities through the implementationof subprojects, after
signingtripartite Beneficiary Agreements with the PIU. Eligibilityrequirements and
implementation arrangementsfor the different activities involvingthe close to 250 existing FJ3s
andbeneficiary communities are detailed inAnnex 4.

Other agencies
        Other agenciesinvolvedinthe implementation of the Project are: the Agrarian
Development Institute (INDA), responsiblefor the landtitling activities to be carried out as a
subcomponentof the NaturalResourcesComponent, and the Ministryof the Environment (MA),
responsible for the conservation andmanagementof forested areas, includingthose where
indigenous peoples are located. These agencies will fulfill their respective roles under
ImplementationAgreements (convenios), similar to those under the first Project, to be entered
into with CODENPEKODAE for the secondProject. Signing of such agreements will be a
Condition of Disbursement for the LandTitling activity.
OperationalManual
        The Operational Manual (OM), which i s substantially the same as that used inthe first
project,
shall include all rules andregulations for implementation of all project components and
operation of the PIU(project planning, monitoring, evaluation, institutionalarrangements,
environmental review, reporting, communication, human resources, risk, coordination,
procurement, andfinancial management). Updates to the O M would require the no objection of
the Bank. Adoption of such Manual,satisfactory to the Bank, will be a Condition of
Effectiveness for the Project.
Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
        The Project ImplementationPlan (PIP) will be brokendown into AnnualImplementation
Plans (AIP) andwill include four sections: i)description of project activities to be executed
duringthe time period; ii)Gantt Chartlproject schedulewith timingof activities, relationship
with other activities, facilitatingentity responsible; iii)budget plan; and, iv) procurement plan.
The AIP will be the principal tool for coordination between the PIU andthe regional units. AIPs
would be preparedby the PIUand regional units, approved by CODENPE and CODAE and
presentedto the Bank for no objection before the beginningof the budget year.
isb burs em en^ and Procurement
        Disbursementswill betransaction based (Le. against Statements of expenditure (SOEs),
full documentation,direct paymentsor special commitments). Uponreceipt of notificationfrom
the Bank allowing the establishment of the Special Account, the Borrower may, for purposes of
the Project, open and maintain a separatespecial deposit account. The Special Account will be
maintained and operated by the PIUinthe Central Bank inUnited States dollars (TE Account).



                                                  8

Deposits into the Special Account andreplenishmentsupto the authorized allocation set out in
the legal agreement would be made on the basis of applications for withdrawals preparedby the
project and accompaniedby the supporting documentation inaccordance with Bank
disbursement procedures. To facilitate paymentsandreceipts of funds Regional Offices will
open localcurrency T- Accounts. Paymentsto F E s andproviders will be effecteddirectly from
the PIU's central office. Accounting and financial reporting will be done by the PIUunder Bank
rules spelled out inthe Operational Manual. Audits will be carried out under TOR andby firms
acceptable to the Bank, which will be hiredby the ContruEoriaof Ecuador. The project includes
financing for audits.
        Most relevant capacity constraints relate to the decentralized approachto procurement
anddisbursement for implementation of relatedinvestment subproject components and a weak
capacity inPRODEPINEto assist facilitatingentities (second- and third- tier organizations) in
dealing efficiently with managementof their procurement processes, and for the PIUto put in
place mechanisms so as to ensure effective oversight andproject supervision at boththe pre-
contractual andcontractual stages. To strengthencapacity the PIUwill delegate clear
responsibilities for technical assistance, oversight and supervision to its Regional Offices
(RPKJs) andreinforce the quality andquantity of technical and administrative staff assignedto
them. Bankprocurement trainingof RPIUstaff may also help them to assistfacilitating entities
inmanagingefficientlyprocurementprocesses. As for the ImplementationAgreements tobe
enteredinto with facilitating entities, PRODEPINEwill specify minimumcapacity requirements
to be metby said entities, inparticular, inmanagementof procurement and contract
administration functions for an efficient and timely contracting and execution of works, goods
and consultant services to be procured under such agreements. Whenever an facilitatingentity
can not meet minimum requirements, the beneficiary implementation agreement should include
provisions for the entity to incorporate experts to assist them inthose tasks.
        Further details on the implementation arrangements are inAnnexes 4 and6 of the PAD.

3 Monitoringandevaluation of outcomedresults
        DuringPRODEPINE I, M&Esystemwas developedandimplemented to track the
                                 an
physical and financial implementation of the project. The systemhasbeenevaluatedby an
external consultant and recommendations made for improvingthe system to function as a more
useful day to day managementtool and to institute performance-basedbudgeting.
Recommendationshave also beenmade to increase the capacity for planning, monitoring,
control andevaluation at the regional units, PJU, CODENPE and CODAE. This capacity
buildingwill take placewithin the first six months of project execution.
        The M& Esystemwill monitor the indicators inthe project's Results Framework, see
annex 3. The systemwill consist of four aspects: (i)   a Management Information System (MIS),
which will track the Project's progress on a set of results indicators, financial performance and
feed into management'sdecision-making; (ii)    baseline study and annualbeneficiary assessments,
which will provide the target group's perceptions of and reactions to Project progress; (iii)impact
evaluation studies, which will quantify the midterm and final impact which canbe attributed to
the Project; and (iv) standardauditing and supervision missions, which will review the technical
andfiduciary aspects twice a year or more oftenifrequired. The regional units would monitor
directly their operationsand localfacilitating entities would provide monitoring inputsto the
regional units. The PIUwill aggregateall monitoring andevaluation inputsfor project-level
decision makingandreporting. The baseline, beneficiary assessments andthe impact evaluation



                                                  9

studies will be contracted out, and the PIUwill be incharge of the coordination andtechnical
supervision of the studies, CODENPE and CODAE will provide overall project oversight and
World Bank staff and consultantswill be responsiblefor periodic supervision missions. Once
per year, and before the Mid-Term Review, incoordination with MEF, a specialized firm will
carry out an independent technical and financial evaluation of the project. Specific procedures
for carrying out project monitoring and evaluation will be included inthe OM.

3. Sustainability
         The previous Government of Ecuador requesteda follow up to PRODEPINEI,          before the
Bank's loanclosed. This commitment was confirmed by the present Government through the
project's inclusioninthe CAS and continued engagementwith the Bank duringpreparation.
Enforcement of the Ley de ~ e ~ ~ o ~ ~ u b Fiscal d
                                               i z i d uhasmeant that counterpart fundingfrom the
Government must now include the PTu's operating costs, which implies a substantial increasein
Government's historical share of financing. Giventhe effect of spending restraints on the overall
budget, this requirement will be hardto satisfy.
         PRODEPINEIhas demonstratedhow the project's participatory process at every level
will helpmakethe sustainability of its benefits likely. The project design respondsto issues that
are apriority for indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian peoples. The project beneficiaries play a key
role indecision-making, implementation andcost-sharing, thus increasing ownership. This
project will implement procedures to require government institutions or communities to cover
recurrent costs of rural investments when feasible. TA i s designed to create a cadre of
experiencedtechnicians infacilitatingentities andbeneficiaries at all levels to carry on the
development process. CODENPEandCODAE will help their constituent organizations in
mainstreaming indigenous demands and viewpoints into the operation of selectedgovernment
institutions. A key element of the institutional strengthening activities for CODENPEAND
CODAE is to enhancetheir capacity, by the mid-termreview, to start to transition and
ultimately assume all operational functions and fundingof the RegionalOffices. The objective
i s by the endof the project to have all 7 regional offices completely integrated into CODENPE
and CODAE. BothInstitutions have agreedto prepare a proposed Institutionalizationand
Sustainability Plan for 7 regional offices by end of year 1and submit to the Bank for no
objection. Duringthe Mid-termReview the Bank will assess advances inthis institutionalization
plan andagreeto any changesinthe institutionalframework. Ina few words, the project will
havebeenlargely appropriated by the beneficiaries andgovernment andits longterm impacts
ensuredbythe focus on an enabling policy andinstitutionalenvironment.

4. Critical risksand possible controversial aspects
         Risks that may affect the achievement of the projects development objective are
economic andpolitical. On the economic side, the ability of the government to sustaina fiscally
responsibleframework and generate economic growth are key to the success of project
investments. On the political side, tensions between the indigenous movement and the
governmentmay derail commitments on either side to make the project work.
         Key implementation risks are derived from the fact that operational costs will befinanced
with governmentcounterpart provisions. Due to the provisions of Ecuador's Fiscal
Responsibility Law, the government must cover the estimated operating costs of the PlU
(totaling about US$6 million over five years andequal to 13% of Project costs ). Inorder to
accommodateto the government's fiscal restrictions, the salary scale for PIUpersonnelhasbeen



                                                   10

lowered and operating costs calculated tightly. The new salary scale may restrict hiringof
qualified personnel with a potential knock-on effect on quality duringimplementation. In
addition, given Ecuador's poor track record of counterpart disbursements, there is a risk that the
PIUmay at times be forced to paralyze activities due to the lack of funding. Mitigation measures
for this risk include: (i)   ensuring that selection andevaluation o f personnel be carried out by
private firms, following procedures includedinthe OM and under the supervision of MEF; (ii)
allocating a proper budget for training of PIUpersonnel; and (iii)     ensuring that counterpart
funds are available immediately after the project's Boardapproval. Agreement would be
reached during negotiationsthat GOE will meet its annualfinancial obligations inthis
respect, and that the number and quality of stafffor the PIUwill be maintainedas agreed.


                    Risk                     Risk Rating             Risk MitigationMeasure
 From Outputsto Objective

 communitiesand government                        H        community participation inidentification
 institutions do not cover recurrent                       and investmentandformal agreements with
 costs                                                     responsiblegovernmentinstitutions

strengthenedorganizations and local               H        active participation of local leadersin
governments do not maintain trained                        project evaluationsto demonstrateresults
personnel

 selectedGOE institutions maintain                S        capacity-building of CODENPE, CODAE
 current budget allocation principles                       and social organizations to demand
                                                            improvement of rules

 From Componentsto Outputs

 Lack of GOEbudget meansPIU                       H        Loan covenant ensuringyearly counterpart
 cannot function properly                                  fundingamountsof US$1.2 million.


 Socialorganizationsprioritize non-               H         Continuous involvement inthe Consultative
 project specific objectives                               Committee anddirect dialoguewith
                                                            organizations

 Social organizationscarry out                    N        training andtechnical assistanceto social
 activities that go againstproject                         organizations andtheir membersto
 objectives                                                emphasizetransparency andaccountability

 selected local governmentsandNGOs                H        provision of technical assistanceand
 continue investing outsideLocal                           training; cofinancing for local governments
 DevelopmentPlans                                          andorganizations

 project slips into discretional                  M        Cornit6 Consultivo exercisesproper
 allocation of resources                                   oversight and adequate Banksupervision

Overall risk: HIGH. The project requires intensive supervision, and continuous dialogue with
GOEandindigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian organizations.


                                                    11

5. Loanconditionsand covenants

EffectivenessConditions:
    0   PIUstaff hiredby anexternal firm, with the endorsementof MEFandunder aprocedure
        included inthe OM, to the satisfaction of the Bank.
    0   Adoption of an Operational Manual, endorsedby MEFand satisfactory to the Bank.

Disbursement Conditions:
        Loanproceedsallocated to landtitling: (a) issuanceof the revisions to the regulations
        to the Agrarian Development Law covering requirements for the titling of Indigenous
        lands under ancestralpossession [or equivalent measuresatisfactory to the Bank to
        institutionalize the procedures], (b) agreementbetween CODENPEKODAE and INDA
        satisfactory to the Bank signed, and (c) agreementbetweenCONDENPElCODAE and
        the Ministry of the Environment satisfactory to the Bank signed.

D.APPRAISAL SUMMARY
6. Economic and financial analyses
        PRODEPINE IIactivities include (i)     TA for buildinghuman, social, andinstitutional
capital; and (ii) resource andphysical capital associatedwith rural investment
                  natural
subprojects. Cost-benefit analysishas beencompleted for the ruralinvestments component,
makingup 58% of Project costs (Annex 9).
        The ICR for PRODEPINEIprovidedeconomic andfinancial return estimations. Based
onrecent ICR revisions, FAO-CPestimated that this component had an economic rate of return
(ERR) of 24% andafinancial rate of return (FRR) of 37%. Duringthe preparation for the
secondproject, the old operation manual procedures andthe process of beneficiary selection of
subprojects were reviewedwith the aim to increasethe share of successful subprojects andto
improve their return duringthe secondproject. These changes should be includedinthe
proposedproject's OM. Assumingnew quality control procedureswould be implemented inthe
future andthat the costs of subprojects would be increasedby 10%to account for higher TA
costs to improve outcomes, FAO-CP calculated that the ERRfor the RuralInvestment
Component for PRODEPINE 11will be about 39% andthe corresponding FRR would be about
53%
        Basedon analysisresults, every dollar investedinPRODEPINE 11is estimated to
generate an Economic and Financial Net Present Value (NPV) of US$1.46 andUS$2.36
respectively. Ifoverall rural investments amount to US$25 Millioninconstant prices (US$4
Millionfrom beneficiaries), the aggregate economic and financial NPV would be around US$36
Million andUS$59 Millionrespectively. These net benefits safely cover other associatedcosts
(around US$3 Million), such as: investment technical assistance, supervision services and
training.

7. Technical
        The community demanddriven approach of PRODEPINE i s inline with government
strategy, international standards andbest practices of ruraldevelopment. Community priority-
setting of rural investmentsi s commonly used inmanydevelopment projects. However,
PRODEPINE Iexperience with participatory schemes for subproject preparation, execution and



                                                  12

evaluation has substantially contributedto the development of new international standards.
Multilateraldevelopment agencieslprojects such as FA0 and RUTA have systematizedand
promoted this experience inother LatinAmerican and African countries. The revised O M will
incorporate latest developments on this front. Associated technical and environmental guidelines
for subproject preparation would be substantially enhanced. Based on lessonslearned,
CODENPE will differentiate intervention methodologies for Andean, Afro-Ecuadorian,
Amazonian and coastal groups. The meaning of community and the forms of social capital vary
between these groups requiringthe project to provide adequate ways of servicing these distinct
populations.

8. Fiduciary

Procurement issues
        The overall procurement risk of Ecuador's portfolioi s ratedHighinthe Country
ProcurementAssessment Report (CPAR). Consequently, the GOE and the Bankhave agreedon
specific issuesandnecessaryreforms that are essentialto achieve transparency, competition,
economy, andefficiency inmanaging the public contracting system. These are included inthe
CPAR's Action Planthat was acceptedby the GOE in2000. Procurement inthis project will
follow the Bank's guidelines.
        The overall risk assignedto eachproject implementation agency i s HIGH. Basedon the
project implementation experienceof PRODEPINEI,          issues identified as potentially affecting
project implementation andoverall quality of procurement managementandcoordination tasks
at the PIUwere closely related to the lack o f i)clear and adequate responsibility lines to manage
procurement andcontract administration functions; ii)clarity on whether organizational and
staffing arrangementsused at project preparation stage will be maintained at the subsequent
implementation stage; iii)experiencedand capable staff to implement Bank-financed project
procurement; iv) a professional andreliable project filing system; and v) an integrated project
managementinformation systemto enable a more efficient coordination and decision-making.
        For the mitigation of the identifiedrisks: i) the PIU's organizational structure and project
staffingmustbedefined; ii) responsibilities andtasks shall be assignedto the Procurement
                             clear
Officer, the BiddingCommittee, andthe Executive Director, includingthe latter's ability to
awardcontracts incases when the PIUi s responsible for the management of procurement
processes inthe OM; iii)a capable Procurement Officer with professional experience inthe
implementation of Multilateral Development Bank-financed projects will be hiredbefore
effectiveness; iv) the PIU will implementa professional project filing system at boththe central
andregional levels of PRODEPINE; andv) PRODEPINEwill implement anIntegratedProject
ManagementInformationSystem (PMIS) 6 months after effectiveness. The PMIS will have the
capability to record each of the project procurement and administrative transactions so as to
monitor and follow up management of procurement andfinancial transactions ina timely
fashion andto provide on-line informationfor reportingand decision makingpurposes all of
which would helpincreasequality of project coordination andresponsiveness.

Financialmanagement issues
        The Project Execution Unit (UEP) has maintained a satisfactory record inFinancial
Managementduringthe implementation of PRODEPINEI.The FMrisk profile is considered
substantial, nevertheless, becauseof a mix of inherent risks andcontrolrisks that havebeen
demonstratedinthe first phase and which continue to be relevant inthe new project. The


                                                 13

principal inherent risks are (1) the decentralized natureof funds flow arrangementsand the
participation of multiple facilitating agenciesinsubprojects, and (2) uncertainties surrounding
the extent to which existing institutional and staffing arrangementswill continue in the second
phase. The most important capacity constraints that give risk to controlrisk are inthe areas of
(1)Programming andFinancialPlanning (2) Proceduralanddesignweakness inthe transfer of
funds to regional offices andsubprojects which resultedinnoncompliance with disbursement
rules inphaseone, (3) insufficient supervision of regional activities and (4) limitations inthe
accounting andfinancial reporting system.
         As aresult of the assessment, a time-bound Financial Management (FM)actionplanhas
been agreed. Successful implementation of the action plan would result inadequateproject FM
arrangementsinplace by the effectivenessdate.

9. Social
         On the basis of estimates madeduringimplementationof PRODEPINEI,           the beneficiary
population of PRODEPINEI1is approximately 1.53 millionrural people, the overwhelming
majority of whom are indigenous (1,445,000) and the rest afro-descendants (85,000). The
definition of the concept "indigenous" is basedon self-identification, membership inrural
organizations identifiedas beingindigenous and acceptance as such by other members of these
organizations. The definition of "afro-descendant" i s basedon self-identification and
membership inan organization known by others as Afro-Ecuadorian.
         The beneficiary population is found in 19of the 21 provinces of Ecuador, 94 cantones
and323 ruralparroquias. It is important to note that indigenous andafro descendantpeoples,
with a few exceptions, do not live inisolation; rather they are usuallyliving inareas where there
i s also people of white and mixedracial backgrounds.
         Ecuador is characterizedby a great cultural diversity, particularlyamong indigenous
peoples. Thus, the country recognizes the existence of 13 indigenous nationalities (socio-
linguistic groups). The Kichwa nationality is the largest, comprising 14peoples, bothinthe
Sierra andAmazon regions.
         Inaddition to severalevaluations of PRODEPWEI, analyzedproject performance
                                                               which
intermsof goals andobjectives met, duringpreparation of PRODEPINE 11,a social assessment
and participation process (SA) was carried out by an external contractor, an NGO specializing in
rural and agricultural development (for details, see listing of project documents).
         The SA methodology was essentially basedon a desk review of available project
documents and field work usingqualitative methods, including interviews with key informants,
work with focal groups and regional workshops to validate the information gatheredby the desk
reviews and fieldwork. The aforementioned activities includedrepresentativesof grassroots
organizations, secondand third-tier organizations (most of the implementingagencies of
PRODEPINE I),      project staff, and local authorities.
         According to the SA and Consultation, PRODEPINE 11should maintain the main
objectives of the first phase. Thus, it should aim to reducepoverty among indigenous and Afro-
Ecuadorian peoples, by strengthening productive activities to improve family income, as well as
by promoting localself-managementcapacities, the rescue and appreciation of cultural identities,
health, education, landregularization, and natural resources management.
         Somekey additional findings of the SA are: (a) a demand by national indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian organizations for the creation of a Project National Executive Board; (b) second
and third-tier organizations demandthe decentralization of the project, givingautonomy to



                                                   14

regional offices inthe approval of sub projects, managementof financial resourcesand
simplifying administrative procedures; and (c) community organizations demandsfor their
active participation the localplanning process andinthe entire project cycle through a
Subproject Administration Committee.
         Some of the social risks identifiedby the SA for PRODEPINEI1are the following: (a)
the exclusion of some national indigenous federationsdue to an excessive focus on ethnic
organizations (representedby CONAIE); (b) politicizationof the implementing agency andlack
of project continuity; (c) fragmentation of secondand third-tier organizations along religious
lines and inan effort to access project benefits; (d) duplication of efforts; (e) lack of
consideration to cultural andregional diversity; (e) insufficient traininginadministrative and
accounting topics, thus affecting sub project implementation: and (f)undue influence of project
staff on procurement decisions, affecting project credibility.
         Besides the social assessmentdone inpreparation of PRODEPINE11,project design has
also benefitedfrom other evaluations of the first phase, among them the case studies of 17
completed subprojects inthe three mainregions of the country (Doughty, 2003). Some of the
mainrecommendationsof the study are:
     InPRODEPINEII,isessentialto builddirectly uponthe foundations already laidinthe
                          it
OSGcommunities. The next phaseinthe work can solidify the experience gainedby OSGs and
their constituent membersinorder to institutionalize a "culture of development" within local
organizations. This again, would constitute an innovative break with past tradition where so
many programs simplydie after their first years, andcommunity levelprojects are one time,
chance events.
     Learning any culture requires repetitive experience and consistent patterns of behavior that
allow for prediction with reasonablepotential for attaining the outcomes expectedand desired. It
i s the cumulative experiencethat will coalesceas a "culture of development" with ameaningful
set of operational values andprinciples to support it and basedupon repeatedexperience that
validate the process. If effect, this kindof processwould parallel that described as a "business
culture" beingdeveloped amongthe ranksof PRODEPINE's sponsoring agencies. The logical
goal of the overall program itself with respectto the Indigenous andAfro populations, if not all
Ecuadorians.
         Severaldesignfeatures of this project seemparticularlyrelevant for other operations of
this kind. First, the design should reflect the capacity of indigenous peoples andethnic or racial
minorities to mobilize social capital and include efforts to consolidate and strengthenthis
capacity, includingits cultural dimensions. Second, the design should incorporate a range of
complementary inputs, includingthe formation and strengthening of human, environmental and
physical andfinancial capital. The exact specification of interventions inthese fields should take
into account how they interact with and complement existing forms of social capital. Third, to
ensure relevance of the activities financed under the project, its investments should reflect
priorities establishedinlocal development plans elaborated ina participatory fashion. Fourth, to
ensure ownership and ultimatelythe sustainability of the investments financed under the project,
the institutionalizing of self-managementshould be the guidingprinciplefor project
implementation.

10. Environment
         As part of the Mid-termReview for the PRODEPINEIProject, an independent
consulting firm, OIKOS, carried out an audit (Znforme de Verificacion y EvaluacionAmbientul



                                                  15

de 10s ~ ~ b ~ r ~ y eJanuarys2001) of how environmental criteria andprocedureshadbeen
                          c t ~ ,
applied to a diverse rangeof subprojects. Basedupon the OIKOS andWorld Bank
recommendations, the Borrower has produced a new Environmental Manual, Politicu y
Procedimientos de GestionAmbientul: C ~ ~ E N P E - C O ~ A ~ - P ~ O(March~2004). The
                                                                                ~ E P N E
Environmental Manual indicates the environmental requirements for all relevant project
activities, particularly inComponents 3 (Natural Resources) and4 (Rural Investments). It
specifies the criteria and proceduresfor environmental management (including screeningand
follow-up mitigation and supervision, as needed) of all PRODEPINE11subprojects. It
incorporates the environmental lessonslearned from PRODEPINEI, as prohibiting support
                                                                        such
under PRODEPINE11for forestation ofpdrumo areas with pines or other non-native trees. The
Environmental Manual will be incorporated within the PRODEPINE 11OperationalManualprior
to loan effectiveness.
        The Environmental Manualalso serves at the free-standing Environmental Assessment
(EA)report for PRODEPINE11,aCategory Bproject. Priorto appraisal, the EAreport was sent
to the Banks Infoshop; the report is also available orpublic review inPRODEPINE's National
Office inQuito, as well as each of sevenPRODEPINERegional Offices throughout Ecuador,
        PRODEPINE I1ruralinvestment andnatural resource managementsubprojectswill be
relatively small (most less than $30,000 and none over $90,000). PRODEPINE's Environmental
Manual specifies the types of environmentally sensitive subprojects that are ineligiblefor
PRODEPINEI1financing, includingthose involving (i)        deforestation or other clearing of natural
habitats (including mangrovesandpdrumos); (ii)     new roadconstruction; (iii) improvements
                                                                                 road
within natural forests; (iv) dams which would flood areas of forest or cultural property; (v) use of
risky (potentially invasive) non-native species; or (vi) activities adversely affecting protected
areas. PRODEPTNE I1subprojects are expectedto be largely benign or positive from an
environmental standpoint. At least 10percent of Rural Investment subprojects are expectedto
be primarily environmental intheir focus (see Annex 4); many NaturalResourcessubprojects
will also emphasize environmental improvements. Some subprojects should leadto the
improved protection and managementof forests and other natural habitats on indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian community lands. The proposedmangrove restoration subprojectswould work
exclusively with native species. PRODEPINEI1activities to improve landtenure security for
indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities (part of Component 3) are expectedto be largely
positive from an environmental standpoint; lands within Ecuador's NationalProtectedAreas
Systemwould not be titled.
        The Bankhas reviewed the institutional capacity of PRODEPINE(including CODENPE
and CODAE) to (i)    apply the Manual'scriteriaandprocedures effectively and (ii)     otherwise
ensure that good environmental practices will be followed throughout the project. The existing
environmental managementcapacity within PRODEPINEi s adequate; however, it will be
important for the project to maintain a sufficient number and quality of natural resources
specialists inthe NationalandRegional Offices. These natural resources specialists will also
coordinate the environmental review and follow-up environmental management(including
mitigation, enhancement, and supervision) of relevant natural resourcesand ruralinvestment
subprojects. The project includes funds for training within eachcomponent; this will include
environmental training when requestedby project staff, service providers, or beneficiary
communities. Project monitoringwill include environmental audits of subprojects of all types
(see Annex 3).




                                                 16

11.Safeguardpolicies

All safeguards, other thanindigenous, are addressedinthe environmental guidelines (Forests,
Cultural Property, Natural Habitats, andPestManagement) included inthe Operations Manual.


  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                          Yes                   No
  Environmental Assessment (OPIBPIGP 4.0 1)                                             [XI                    [I
  Natural Habitats (OPIBP 4.04)                                                         [XI                    [I
  PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                              [XI                    [I
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP4.11)                                  [XI                    E l
  Involuntary Resettlement(OPIBP 4.12)                                                  [I                    [XI
  Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                  1x1                    E1
  Forests (OPIBP 4.36)                                                                  [XI                    11
  Safety of Dams (OPIBP 4.37)                                                           [I                    Ex1
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OPIBPIGP 7-60)"                                             [I                    [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OPIBPIGP 7.50)                                   [I                    [XI



12. Policy ExceptionsandReadiness
0    The financing plan for the project establishes that GOE will cover 100%of operational costs
     (personnel and incremental operating expenditures) incurred by the PIU, and the Bank's loan
     will cover 100%of all investment costs, including taxes, This i s consistent with the country
     financing parametersfor Ecuador.
0    The first year's procurement planwill be approved before negotiations.
0    The project is ready to implement about 200rural investment subprojects.
0    All disclosure requirementshavebeenmet including Environment andSocial Safeguards.




* By supportingtheproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determinationof theparties' claims on the
disputedareas


                                                            17

                     Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground

Indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian peoplesinEcuador face chronic poverty levels which dateback
to the colonial period, which initiateda history of social exclusion, inequality anddiscrimination
which persistsuntiltoday. Facedwith this situation, indigenouspeopleshave spawned well-
organized and increasingly articulated political movements which are having a growing voice in
setting national policy and raising the profile and situation of their members and leaders on the
national stage. Though hamperedby the social, economic andpoliticalcrises of the last decade,
Government policy with respectto the target population has evolved since the Constitutional
Reformof 1998 into better focusing on the sourcesof indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian poverty:
low levels of education, insufficientassets and legal rights; and a new found emphasis on the
positive qualities of the target population: its social capital and organizational strength andthe
income-generating capacities of its cultures. The first project facilitated this shift inpolicy.
PRODEPINE 11aims to support government policy by helpingto consolidate this new vision
while at the same time providinga solidtargeting mechanism for the fight againstruralpoverty.

Indigenousand Afro-Ecuadorian poverty
        Inthe last 20 years, Ecuador has sufferedfour severerecessions,three hyperinflationary
periods, anda banking and exchangecrisis inwhich led to the adoption of the US dollar as the
nationalcurrency. These crises havedeepenedpoverty andincreasedinequality. Between 1995
and 1999, the overall population below the poverty line (measuredby consumption) increased
from 34% to 56%. The situation inruralareas deteriorated even more dramatically, with 77% of
the populationbelow the poverty level, hittingover 90% inindigenous communities. Ecuador
has one the highest Ginicoefficients of income inequality and of inequality inlanddistribution
inthe world. Thewealthiest 10%of the population earn42% of GDP, while the poorest lo%,
control 0.6%. The trendhas persistedeven during the recovery of the last years, when the Gini
coefficient increasedfrom 0.52 to 0.54. Interms of income, in2001one-third of the urban
population and 60% of the rurallived on less than $2 per person per day. Close to half a million
Ecuadorianshave migrated abroadsince 2001 (CountryAssistance Strategyfor the Republic of
Ecuador. The World Bank, 2003, Report No. 25817; andEcuador, UnaAgenda Econdmicay
Socialdel Nuevo Milenio. V. FretesCibils et al reds.], The World Bank, 2003.)
        The situation is mirroredinaccess to basic needs. Although 52.8% of the Ecuadorian
population lack access to basic services, this reaches92.7% of all indigenous andAfro-
Ecuadorian communities. Ineducation, while the overall country illiteracy index is 10.8%, this
indicator reaches42.5 % inindigenous populations and 53.2 % among indigenous women.
Similarly, although the nation-wide average for schooling i s 7.6 years, indigenous people have
an averagelevel of 2.4 years andindigenous women barely 1.7. Inhealth, 30% of the
Ecuadorian populationhave no access to basic health care services. Inshort, indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian people tend to have the worst living conditions, the lowest schooling levels
with inappropriate educational systems, minimal access to health services, and often suffer from
social and economic discrimination.
        Ruralindigenous andAfro-Ecuadorians communities lack secure access to landand
water resources, restraining investment opportunities and creating conditions for social unrest.
The situation differs by region andsocial group. Inthe Amazon, indigenous groups struggle to
achieve clear titles to communal lands which are under increasedpressure from oil exploration
andproduction. Inthe highlands, peasant communities face shortages of land andincreasing


                                                  18

degradation due to agricultural intensification andunregulated expansion into the upper reaches
of water basins (pdramos). Inthe coastal regions, communities face growing encroachmentover
their lands from large landholdings as well as degradation of mangrove swampsdue to
unsustainableexploitation by commercial shrimp producers.

Government policy
        Publicpolicy regardingindigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian peopleshasbeenbetter defined
with the adoption of anew Constitution in 1998 recognizing Ecuador as a multiculturaland
multiethnic country, andwith the creation of the Consejode Desarrollo de las Nacionaljdadesy
Pueblos del Ecuador (CODENPE) andthe Corporacio'nde Desarrollo Afroecuatoriano
(CODAE). The 1998 Constitution is one of the most advancedinLatinAmerica, recognizing a
series of collectiverights to indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian peoples inthe realms of culture,
landor territory, andself-determination. CODENPE andCODAE's policyobjectives center on
implementing key constitutional rights, broadening access to resources andimprovingthe
delivery of services for indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian communities.
        Upontakingoffice inJanuary 2003, the Government announceda medium-term program
aimingto reducepoverty through coordinated advancesonthe economic and social fronts. It
announced a three-pronged strategy: (i)   Promoting economic growth andcompetitiveness; (ii)
Reducing poverty andpromoting social inclusion; and (iii)     Improving governance to fight
corruption and increasesecurity. Since then, it has been more successful inimplementing
stabilization measuresthan inlaunching longer-termreforms; particularlygiven the break-up of
the electoral coalition, the increasedpolitical instability andthe opposition of a restive
indigenous movement. Recognizing this, the Ecuadorian government has embarked on an effort,
ledby the Ministryof Economy andFinance andwith the support of international donors, to
define the National Strategy for Poverty Reduction (NSPR). (Propuestade EstrutegiaNacional
para la Reduccidnde la Pobreza MEF, Febrero, 2004.) The NSPR provides a key focus inthe
effort to reducepoverty, by aimingto improve the quality andquantity of social investments,
and its focalization on the poorest sectors of the population. One of its policies i s to support
special development programs for the most vulnerable groups.
        The Government's stated target is to reduce poverty 31.O% and extreme poverty from
25.0% to 10.3% of the population by 2007. However, these groups have almost no access to
centrally-managed, productivity-enhancing public services such a technical assistance, market
information, transport infrastructure, etc. Their local communities are usually poorly organized
anddependentoncentralized servicesthat are seldom delivered. There is a generalrecognition
that the current system is broken andcannot be fixed, andthat decentralization i s the most likely
answer. Although Congress passeda law in 1997 which lays out the framework and principles
for decentralization, no regulations have been written andunfortunately the new political and
administrative model has notbeen devised. PRODEPINEI(and now 11)goes outsidethe current
systemto a large extent, to work directly with ethnic affinity groups to channel GOE resources.
As with its predecessorproject, PODEPINEI1attempts to transform dependentcommunities into
proactive groups, empowered to address their development problems.

Project's contribution
         The project i s includedinthe Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CountryAssistance
Strategyfor theRepublic of Ecuador.The World Bank, 2003, Report No. 25817). The Bank's
strategy mirrors the Government's through actions inthree areas: (i)   Consolidating the macro



                                                  19

framework and laying the foundations for growth; (ii)     Broadening access to resourcesand
ensuring reforms are socially sustainable; and(iii)   Strengthening governance to ensure
accountable, efficient and accessible public services (World Bank, 2003). PRODEPINEI1will
contribute fundamentally to the secondarea, though it touches on all three; its strategic value
lies intackling the lack of social inclusion which constitutes one of the key obstaclesto poverty
reduction inEcuador. PRODEPINE I1is also consistentwith the mainobjectives of NSPRin
that it helps the government to target ruralsocial, productive and infrastructure investment on the
poorest population inthe country through means of anon-traditional channel
        To reach the government's ambitious poverty-reduction goal, sustainedeconomic growth
needsto be complemented with reforms that address inequality and increase the access of the
poor to basic services. The project will contribute to this objective by increasing the capacities
andassets of indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian communities andtheir higher levelorganizations,
by decentralizing decision-making to the levelof the communities themselves andby helping the
Government raise the profile of indigenous issues inselectedsector ministries. It will contribute
to the sustainability of the reforms by broadening indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian access to
resources and services andby improvingthe dialogue betweensocial organizations and central
andlocalgovernments.
        A key contribution of the project will lie inits capacity to shift decision-making to
communities, involving them inprioritizing, implementing andoperating investments and
services. Generalizing a demand-driven approachwhich involves communities andlocal
governments is seen as a key measureto improve the lot of the ruralpoor. The project aims to
broadenthe asset base, improve the capacities of organizations andindividuals, and help
diversify the ruraleconomy. The project will link up with municipalgovernments inthe rural
areas where it operatesinorder to help them improvethe efficiency andeffectiveness of local
expenditures.
        Finally, it is expectedthat the project will help Ecuador to channel the demands from the
indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian movements for greater participation inpolitical strategy setting
anddecision making, thus contributing to socialpeace andto the sustainability of reforms.




                                                 20

        Annex 2: MajorRelatedProjectsFinancedbytheBankandlor other Agencies

PROLOCAL
         The project supports localdevelopmentby improvingthe quality of local services and
increasing the access to productive assetsbythe ruralpoor insix micro-regions of the country.
As inPRODEPINE, PROLOCAL aims to empower localorganizations to establish a demand-
driven modelfor public investment and services. PROLOCAL initiatedimplementation on June
2002 andcurrently is beingimplementedinthe following micro region: Cuencaaltadelrio
Jubones, Sur de Manabi, Los Nos, Oriental de Loja. The total loan amount is ~ ~ $ m. 5 2 PDO
andImplementationprogress ratings: S.

PRAGUAS
         The project aims to improve water sector performance, by strengthening the sector
institutions and increasing the service coverage in about 40 rural municipalities, as well as six
smalltowns. PRAGUAShas beenimplemented since November 2001 The total loanamount is
                                                                         ~


~ ~ $m. PDO and Implementation progressratings: S.
         3 2

MODERSA
         The purpose of the project is to contribute to the improvement of the health status of the
poor in the medium term, particularly that of mothers and children under five years of age. The
project seeks to expand access to and improve the quality and efficiency of ambulatory and
hospital services, by developing new health care organization, financing and managerial
programs in selected municipalities. The loan amount i s us$ 45 m. The project has been
implementedsince November 1998. PDO andImplementation progressratings: S.

SICA
    The development objective i s to improve the availability, consistency, validity andtimeliness
of information of the Ecuadorianagricultural Sector so us to facilitate decision-making by the
public andprivate sector. The total loan amount i s ~ ~ $ 2 4million andhasbeen implemented
                                                              . 7
through Minister of Agriculture and INEC (Instituto NacionalEcuatoriano de Estadisticasy
Censo). The project has beenimplemented since August 1998. PDO and Implementation
progressratings: S.

NATIONALSYSTEMOFPROTECTEDAREAS
    The objective of this project is to ensure conservation for a sustainable development through
strengthening of the National System of Protected Areas. This GEF donation supports the
institutional strengthening and participatory management of two protected areas (Machalilla and
Cotacachi - Cayapas). The GEF donation totals $ 8 m. PDO and Implementation progress
ratings: S.

CONSERVATIONOFBIODIVERSITY INPASTAZA
        This $763.000 GEF donation has beenimplemented since April 2003 through local
NGO's. I t aims to manageecosystemsin situ and the biodiversity of the Amazonian forest.
Three indigenous community of the PastazaProvince carry out the territorial planning andissue
the managementplans for their communities. Inits approach and beneficiaries, this project plays
a complementaryrole to PRODEPINE. PDO andImplementationprogress ratings: S.


                                                 21

Other development agencies

PRODECO
       PRODECO's targeted population are indigenous people settled in the Province of
Cotopaxi. The seven million Euro donation currently i s in its second year of implementation.
The project implementing agencies are the Cotopaxi parishes which were affected by a seismic
movement in 1997.The focus of the investments are public services provision (health education,
and sanitation) and supporting community productive initiatives. PRODECO's governmental
counterpart is CODENPE.

FORMIA
       FORMIA's      targeted beneficiaries are the      so called "Indigenous     Alternative
Municipalities" at national level. The focused of the 300 thousand Euros donation is to support
human capital formation for Indigenous Municipalities management and administration. The
three year project is in its second year of implementation and CODENPE i s the government
counterpart.




                                               22

                              Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring


                                           Results Framework

      Project Development                                                         Useof Outcome
              Objective                      Outcome Indicators                      Information

 To promote the empowerment and      4    The Institutional Capacity Index The results of the Institutional
 improved access to natural and     of the facilitating entities(EEs)has   Capacity Index will be used to
 financial resourcesfor indigenous  improvedby an average of 25%           determine areas of training and
 andAfro-Ecuadorian communities                                            technical assistance.
 and organizations within the
 framework of their own                                                     FEs that improve their capacity
 developmentand interculturalism.                                          sufficiently will be eligible to
                                                                           executeprojects larger than
                                                                           US$30,000.


1                                         The communities' share of        This is measuredto confirm that
                                    zofinancingfor the subprojectsis at    the community is meeting its
                                    least 27%.                             commitments. Every year the
                                                                           methodology for community co-
                                                                           financing will be reviewed and
                                                                           adjustments made as necessary.

                                                                           Duringyears 3 and5 of the project
                                          80% of the FEs that are          there will be an assessment of
                                    Facilitatingsubprojecthavereceived     whether the investmentshavebeen
                                    Favorable technical audits.            used and administeredadequately.
                                                                           This will supportthe process of
                                                                           accountability. It will also be used
                                                                           to adjust the capacity building
                                                                           methodologies.

                                          30% of the FEs have received      FEs that have achievedthe goal
                                    additionalfunding from other           will receive support for
                                    institutionsand the total investment   strengtheningallianceswith other
                                    :eceived by the FEs is increasedby     development actors.
                                    25% to meet the demands of the PDL.
I                                                                          The FEs that cannot attain the
                                                                           expectedobjective will be
                                                                           reinforced with the necessary
                                                                           technical assistance and training.


                                         The total investment of local     The successfulexperiencesshall
                                    ;overnments and NGOs, in relation to   be replicated amongother local
                                    he demands of the Local Development    governmentsandNGOs
                                    ?lam(PDLs), has increasedby an
                                    iverageof 20 %.

                                         35% of the PDLs demands have      At the project midtermthe
                                    Ieenfinanced by different sources      strategy to consolidatealliances
                                    luring the execution of PRODEPINE      will be evaluated




                                                       23

                                         Of all the subprojectsfinanced,       Weasure the participationof
                                     10% were executedby women's groups        Nomeninthe project. Reviseand
                                     md40% incorporatedagender equality        3djust the methodologyof
                                     :ocus.                                    women's participationduring the
                                                                               :xecution of subprojects

                                         95% of the investmentsubprojects      Monitor compliancewith the
                                     lave favorableenvironmental audits.       xvironmental norms of the
                                                                               ?reject


                                         Governmentadopts National
                                     levelopment Policy for Nationalities
                                     indPeoples.


     Intermediate Results                  ResultsIndicators for Each          Use of ResultsMonitoring
     Oneper Component                              Component
ComponentOne: Strengtheningof        ComponentOne:                             ComponentOne:
Indigenousand Afro-Ecuadorian
Nationalities,Peoplesand
Organizations                             50% of the FEsare trained in         FEsthatrequire training and
Improved managementcapacityof           participatory planning and auditing    strengtheningwill be identified.
Indigenousand Afro-Ecuadorian           throughtheir technical specialists.
nationalities,peoples, communities,
and organizations,using their own         100updatedPDLs and 10new             Will permit measurementof the
type of organization, to promote        PDLs                                   paceof execution and
services to their members with a                                               adjustments.
equality focus and to negotiatetheir
demandswith governmentaland               20 subprojectsfor training and       The level of organization and
nongovernmentalinstitutions             technical assistance in management     participation as well as the
                                        systems carried out with national      capacityof the participating
                                        and regional organizations.            organizationsis determinedand
                                                                               better assistanceprovided for
                                                                               those that need it.

                                          10%increase inthe number of          The level of advancement and
                                        women with director levelposts in      incorporation of women inthe
                                        the FEs.                               developmentprocess is
                                                                               determinedand FEcapacity
                                                                               building activities reorientedas
                                                                               needed.

                                          20% of the women's                   Measurefulfillment of goals and
                                        organizationsclassified as B and C     make necessary adjustmentsto the
                                        are upgradedto a higher category       training strategy.Women's groups
                                                                               incategoryA areeligibleto
                                                                               execute subprojects


                                     I    PRODEPINE conductstechnical          Programimplementation
                                        assistance activities with at least 40 mechanismsand localgovernment
                                        localgovernments.                      requirementswill be reviewed.




                                                      24

____
Component Two: Understanding         Component Two :                      Component Two:
and Culture for Development

Consolidate the development of           Graduationof 150technicians      [fprogresstoward the targetgoals
human resources and recoverboth        and university students.           is insufficient there will be a
tangible and intangible cultural                                          review of the administration,
heritage, thereby helping to                                              distribution, and selectionprocess
strengthenidentity and improve                                            for scholarships.
incomes.
                                         250 cultural promotersreceive    The results will be usedto
                                       technical assistance incultural    promote successfulexperiences
                                       production'and strengthening
                                       activities.

                                         60 training coursesfor promoters Ifprogresstoward thedesired
                                       in cultural initiatives            objective is not sufficient the
                                                                          strategy and operationof the
                                                                          programwill be reviewed.

                                                                          Iftheresultsareasexpectedthis
                                                                          will spur the creation of networks
                                                                          of cultural promoters.Inaddition
                                                                          the linkswill be formed between
                                                                          the cultural promotersand the
                                                                           F E S .
Component Three: Natural             Component Three:                      Component Three:
Resources

Improvecapacityto managenatural     .    300,000 hectaresof INDA y M A     Ifthereisinsufficient progress, the
resourcesthrough better access and     lands legalized                     strategiesand principle actors in
control of soil, water, and other                                          land titling will be examinedon a
natural resourcesfor the                                                   yearly basis.
development of the target
population.                               15,000 hectares of mangroves     Ifthereis insufficient progress, the
                                       grantedto communities.              program strategy will bereviewed
                                                                           andlor adjustedtwice a year.

                                         At least 2,000 families           Inyears 2,3, and4, ifthe program
                                       sustainably managetheir             does not progressas expected, the
                                       community resources.                methodologies, technical
                                                                           assistance, incentives, and location
                                                                           of the communities will be
                                                                           reviewed.
Component Four: Rural                Component Four:                       Component Four:
Investment

Improve the management capacity          700 investment studies            Pace of execution will be
of rural indigenousand Afro-                                               measuredtwice a year and
Ecuadoriancommunitiesand                                                   corrections made if necessary.
improve their access to goods,
services, and markets, thereby           1,800 km. of community            Inyears 2 and 3 studies considered
diversifying their sourcesof income.   irrigation channels have action     for financing by PRODEPINEwill
                                       plans.                              be identifiedand partnershipswith
                                                                           other organizationswill be
                                                                           supported to carry out the other
                                                                           studies.


                                                       25

                                          70,000 families benefit from 803   [fthereis insufficient progress
                                         community investmentsubprojects.     :owardquarterly goals, the type of
                                                                             xojects executed, their
I                                                                            listribution, the role of the
                                                                             FacilitatingFEs, and communities
                                                                              w i l l be examined, and monitoring
                                                                              mechanisms andtechnical
                                                                              assistance will be improved.
                                           80% of the subprojectsare in
                                         operationafter a year and have       Every year the sustainability of
                                         been ratedsatisfactoryby the         subprojects by type and category
                                         beneficiaries.                      andthe quality of pre-investments
                                                                              will be checked, andtechnical
                                                                              assistanceand monitoring
                                                                              improved.

 ComponentFive: Project                ComponentFive:                        ComponentFive:
 Administration and Institutional
 Strengtheningof CODENPEand                        CODENPE
 CODAE                                    Systemof Social Indicators for     Compliance measuredannually.
                                                                              CODENPE will establish
 Managethe project and improved          IndigenousNationalities and          developmentpolicies and focus
 institutionalcapacity of the State to   Peoples (SIDENPE) updatedbased       population .
 formulate policies, laws, plans and     on national statistics starting in
 programsandprojects oriented            2001.                               Updatedinformation to generate
 towards the Nationalities, Pueblos                                          and guide developmentpolicies
 and indigenousorganizations and                                             for indigenouspopulations
 afro-Ecuadorian.                                                            available to civil society.


                                          Reformulation of Indigenous        I nyears 1,2, and 3 the pace of

                                         JusticeLaw, and Collective          execution is measuredand

                                         Intellectual PropertyLaw,           CODENPEadjustsits

                                         consultedand presentedto             methodology for drafting legal

                                         Congress.                            proposals.


1                                                     CODAE

                                          Systemof Social Indicators for      Compliance is measuredin year 1.
                                         Afro-Ecuadorian Nationalities and    CODAE establishesdevelopment
                                         Peoples(SISPAE) updatedbased         policies and focus population.
                                         on national statisticsstartingin
                                         2000.

                                          Draft Collective Rights of Afro-    Inyear 1 the paceof executionis
                                        EcuadorianLaw, consult and            measuredand CODAE adjusts its
                                        presentto Congress.                   methodology for drafting legal
                                                                              proposals,


                                       PROJECTCOORDINATINGUNlT                Informationon performanceand
                                                                              achievementsof the project will
                                          Sevenregional offices and one       be reportedto the principal actors
                                        central office inoperation            involvedand serve as an input for
                                                                              the systemization of experiences.



                                                       26

                                       Administration and monitoring   The functionality andutility of the
                                     systems operating                 systems will be checkedand
                                                                       updatedtwice a year.

                                       Five auditscompleted            Ifrequiredbythe audit results,
                                                                       administrative systems and
                                                                       training for Coordinating Unitand
                                                                       FEs will be strengthened.

                                       Personneland midterm            The recommendationsand
                                     evaluationsconducted              findings of theevaluationswill be
                                                                       incorporatedinto the program
                                                                       strategy, which will be adjustedas
                                                                       necessary.

                                  Five beneficiary evaluations         Every year the evaluationsand
                                  completed.                           opinions of the beneficiarieswith
                                                                       respectto the executionand
                                                                       results of the project will be used
                                                                       to reorient project programs.

                             Arrangements for results monitoring

The monitoring and evaluation process will functionas a mechanismfor assessing project
impacts and as a day to day managementtool. The M& Esystem will provide accountability and
incentives at both the national and regional field offices levels, and strengthenbothCODENPE's
and CODAE's capacity for planning and monitoringof overallproject activities. The M& E
systemwill also support the project supervision processby ensuring that baseline and follow-up
data for the key performance indicators are collected andmade available on an ongoing basis and
at strategic times includingproject start-up, mid-termreview andproject closing. A baseline
study will be required at inception. Follow-up evaluations at both mid-termandproject closing
will include impact andimplementation assessments and will be carried out incoordination with
MEF Specific project monitoringdatawillbeprovidedon agreeduponreport formats, included
inthe operationsmanual, andwill berequiredfor the 6-monthly supervision
missions. The proposed monitoringprogram i s basedon the monitoring systemdeveloped
duringPRODEPINEIandwill require significant participation at allregional field leveland
national level (PTU andCODENPE and CODAE). The system will also be modifiedto allow for
greater accesses to planningand monitoringdata for more day to day managementof the project.
        The project will have assignedstaff to accomplish the monitoring andevaluation function
inthe national andregionalcoordination units. They will havethe responsibility to collect,
analyze, archive anddistribute relevant andtimely information to assist ineffective decision
makingfor project managementat the national andregionallevels. These unitswouldbein
charge of M&Eactivities and will have inplace an updatedand improved monitoringsystem
which would monitor the financial andprocurement management, planning, physical
implementation includingsubprojects, performance of national and regional coordination units
andlocaltechnical assistanceserviceproviders anddevelopment objective indicators from the
project's Results Framework.
        The project will have regional andnational administrative units to monitor the financial
management for the project as a whole includingthe national andregional coordination units.


                                                   27

Financialinformation on inputs, outputs, budgeting, treasury, accounting and audits would be
monitored. The financial information neededfor the quarterly financial managementreports
would be providedfrom the financial managementmodule of the monitoringsystem. Monitoring
and processing of procurement of services, goods, works and subprojectswould be carried out by
the procurement system andalso by the subprojects informationsystem module. The
procurement managementreports will be generatedfrom this module. Both the annualplanning
processesfor the coordination unitsand local development planning would be monitored with
specific indicators on planningperformance defined inthe Results Framework.
         The physical implementation of the project would be monitoredbasedon the specific
outputs and monitoringindicators for the project components as defined inthe Results
Framework below. The subprojects module would be designedto provide most of the
information neededto monitorthe actual progresson the implementation of eachcomponent,
The project progressreports would be preparedutilizing the above output monitoringindicators.
The overallperformance of national and regional coordination units andtechnical assistance
service providers would be monitored from various modules of the informationsystemof the
project, Le., project personnel, communications, planning, riskmanagement, beneficiary and
external evaluations of the project. Additionally, information on the development objective
indicators will be housedinthe subprojectsmodule with one of the indicators.
         Regional coordination unit staff would be responsible for obtaining physical
implementation progress, localprocurement andfinancial informationon subprojects and
maintainingthe informationinthe subprojects, financial andprocurement informationsystem.
This informationwould be sent electronically every week to the nationalcoordination unitfor
review, approval andaggregation.
         Informationfrom the monitoring system would be analyzedby project managementand
disseminatedaccording to the project's communication strategy to appropriate stakeholders. The
project would provide project progressreports quarterly and an update on legal covenants
compliance every six months to the Bank.
      Performanceand impact indicators will play a much greater role inday to day project
managementand modification to the existing M& E systemto linkphysical progress with
financial monitoringwill be needed to introduce performance-basedbudgeting. Currently there
i s limitedroutine datacollection and analysis at the Indigenous institutionallevel and one
expectedoutcome of the M& Eprocesswill be the institutionalizationof the monitoring system
inbothCODENPE andCODAE. Key elements of the monitoringprogram include:

      e  Incorporationof a set of agreeduponperformance indicators that are relevant for the
         regional operations, the PIUand CODENPE andCODAE that enable the project and
         facilitating agenciesto assess their own performance and to specify desired interventions
         andallow aggregationof project datafrom the regional to national level.

      0  Implementation of a regular and timely reportingmechanism which would be linkedto
         the CODENPE andCODAE's planningprocess.

      e  Assurance that a minimumamount of data required by the project Results Framework
         will be included inthis M& E system. For evaluation purposes, the M& Esystem will
         utilize a datacollection strategy at project inception, midterm andproject closeout. A
         program of intermittent and intensive data collectionwill be established and
         institutionalized at CODENPE and CODAE. The resulting time-series data will be of



                                                  28

       benefit to the regionalfield offices, the PIUfor project execution and CODENPE,
       CODAE, the Ministry of Finance, the World Bank and other donors for project oversight.
       The baseline study, midtermandproject closeout impact evaluation studies, utilizing the
       indicators inthe ResultsFramework, will be contracted out to an independenteconomic
       researchorganization or University, for an independentandrigorous assessment of
       project impacts. The baseline study will be underway before project effectiveness. The
       principal data for the project's outcome andresults indicators will from formulated laws
       and regulations, participative evaluations of impact, annual reports on localmember
       organizations, audit reports, project monitoringreports, Environmental Ministry,
       CODENPE, CODAE, reports on facilitating agencies advancementsand project
       evaluation. The regional field offices will be responsible for collecting ongoing
       monitoringdata from their respective areas and the PIUwill have the mainresponsibility
       to aggregatethe datafrom all regions andaugment it with specific monitoringdata at the
       national level. CODENPEand CODAE will have responsibility for monitoringoverall
       project performance data. By incorporating CEDENPE and CODAE into overall project
       monitoring andoversight, the project will strengthenGOE capacity to use indicators by
       managers andpolicy-makers to assessthe project' s effectiveness duringimplementation
       and after the project is completed.

The proposeddesign modifications to the existing M& Esystemare basedon a review of the
capacity of regional office and PIUstaff. Past workloads were assessed andrecommendations
madeto reducethe burden of excessive data collection and reporting. Project execution staff
capacities for project planning, monitoring, control andevaluation were examined and a planfor
strengtheningthesecapacitieshasbeenpreparedfor implementation duringthe first six months
of project execution.




                                                 29

g g             e
3 -          %    52

       F.
       N   s
                  e
                  m
                  M

             3
             m




       e,
       3

      2E


      a
       E
       m
      2
      E
      aB
      am
      892

IU.   - E

             I-        d



         Y        s  f

                            0

5   R                       R
         0        0
                 I-    2    2 s2

       0 0
       g 2   %
              EQ


/ B                      m
                         m




       0            1

-.-.-8
d

Q
3ci
8




          3   e

                          Annex 4: Detailed Project Description


                                    Target Population

On the basis of LocalDevelopment Plans (PDLs) preparedby indigenous andAfro-
Ecuadorian organizations inPRODEPINE Ianda censusconducted by an independent
NGO CODENPE and CODAE haveestimatedthe total ruralindigenous andAfro-
Ecuadorian population at approximately 1,342,127, out of whom 1,172,174 are
indigenous and 169,953 are Afro-descendants, respectively. "Indigenous" is defined as
pertaining to membersof a socio-culturalunit who affirm that they belong to an
indigenous community andor organization. Afro-Ecuadorian" i s defined by members'
                                                "
self-identification as belonging to acommunity that i s recognized as Afro-Ecuadorian.
        The Project's target population featurestremendous culturaldiversity, throughout
the coastal, highland and Amazon regions of Ecuador. The indigenous peoples describe
themselves as nationalities andpeoples. There are 12indigenous nationalities of which
the Kichwa nationality is the most widespreadinEcuador, inboth the highlandsandthe
Amazon region. According to the Inter-Cultural BilingualEducationDirectorate, the
Kichwa population (both urbanandrural) numbers approximately 3.9 million.
According to the information providedby the census conducted by PRODEPTNE, the
rural Kichwa communities of the Ecuadorian highlands comprise a population of 1.1
million.
        The nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon regionare: Secoya, Siona, Cofrin,
Huaorani, Zripara, Shiwiar, Shuar andAchuar. The Amazon peoples share a
geographical region that is tropical rainforest. They all have at least an organization on
the basis of their nationality. They occupy territories that are rich inbiodiversity. At
present, there are multipleinterestsintheir territories' renewable and non-renewable
resources, which have enteredinto conflicts with their traditional uses of these resources
e.g. petroleum and miningversus huntingandfishing.       .
        At present,most of the Afro-descendant populationof Ecuador is concentratedin
the province of Esmeraldas, inthe Chota-Mira River Basin, and inthe provinces of
Imbabura and Carchi. There i s also a large concentration incities such as Guayaquil in
Guayasprovince, Quito (Pichincha) and smaller populationgroups inthe provinces of El
Oro, Los Rios, andSucumbios. It is not possible to indicate an accuratenumber of the
total Afro-Ecuadorian population, partly becausethe data from the national census are
not itemized by ethnic'or racial composition, although this was supposedly "corrected" in
the last (2001) census. These last figures estimate the Afro populationat some 420,000.
InEcuador'spoverty maps, basedonlevels of incomeand satisfaction of basicneeds, the
cantonswith amajority Afro population are among the poorest. They lackbasic services,
feature highinfant mortality and under-nutrition rates, andhave deficient health and
education services and infrastructure. For the Afro-Ecuadorianpopulation, especially in
ruralareas, the greatestthreat to their ability to make a sustainable livingis the rapidloss
of their natural resourcebase: land(territory belonging to them by ancestralrights),
forests with great biodiversity and mangrovesteeming with marinewildlife. Intheir
situation of poverty, marginalization andmanifold vulnerability, the Afro-Ecuadorian
peoplehave few resourceswith which to stave off the pressures of contemporary society,
as itplunges into a globalized world.


                                              35

 REGION            NATIONALITY                  PEOPLE                  BASEPOPULATON

 SORTHERN          Kichwas of the Amazon KichwaSapo                               30.273
 AMAZON            Region

                                                 Kichwa Orellana                  11,621
                                                 Kichwa Pastaza                   11,000
                                                 Kichwa Sucumbios                 15,000
                   CofAn                                                             730
t                IHuorani
                 1Secoya                       I                      I            2,100
                                                                                     400
                 IShiwiar                      I                     I               686
                 ISiona                                                              350
                   Zipara                                                            150
 SOUTHERN          Shuar                                                          39,067
 AMAZON

INORTHERN        I                             1Afro - Esmeraldas     I           68,608 I
 COAST
                   Chachi                                                          8,040
                   Eoera                                                             283
                   Tsachila                                                        1,338
 SOUTHERN                                       Manta                             91,673
 COAST
                                                Huancavilca                      104,798
 NORTHERN                                       Afro Imbabura-Carchi              32,782
 HIGHLANDS
                   Awa                                                             3,500
                   Kichwas of the Sierra        Natawela                           3,832
                                                 Karanki                          27,733
                                                Otavalo                           75.301
                                                 Kayampi                          62,079
                                                 Kitu-Kara                        57,471
                                                Afro - Chota Mira                  16,513
 CENTRAL                                         Salasaka                          12,365
 HIGHLANDS
                                                Tomabelas                         21,232
                                                Quisapinchas                       8,759
                                                Puruwa                           255,677
                                                Pilahuines                         15,160
                                                Panzaleo                         260,629
                                                Chivuelo                          45,702
                                                Waranka                           58,662
 SOUTHERN                                       Kaiiari                          146,629
 HIGHLANDS
                 I                             IISarakuros              1         37,290

ITOTAL                                                                          1,532,064
                 I                             I                      I
   * A definitive list will be included in the Operational Manual                        I




                                                 36

SocialOrganization
         The indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorians have formed national, regional andlocal
organizations, which have encourageda gradual reinforcingof their ethnic identity.
There are at present 3695 ruralindigenous grassroots organizations and 251Afro-
Ecuadorian grassroots organizations (communities, centersand cooperatives). These
grassroots organizations have grouped together into 231second levelorganizations
(OSGs -- 205 and 26, respectively). These OSGs are known as associations, unions,
federations, and so on, and often belong to the provincial, regional andnational
organizations. These apex organizations are also known as thirdlevel or third-tier
organizations (OTGs).
         Indigenous ruralorganizations share their sense of belonging to a community,
territorial ties, solidary mutualassistancethrough collective work activities, and
community festivity schedules. The Afro-Ecuadorian population has had, historically, a
lower degree of organization than the indigenous peoples. The mainagenda of the Afro-
Ecuadorian organizations often involves defenseof their territory. More than community
societies, Afro-Ecuadorian grassrootsorganizations are family networks of actual
relatives andfriends.
         The community i s the basic level of ethnic social organization legally recognized
by the government, andhas become the core of cultural and social reproduction for the
indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian peoples. Inthe context of development OSGs and
OTGs, these two levels have several advantages: (i) gather grassroots organizations
                                                         they
together; (ii) they bringtogether the political andtechnical groups of the indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian peoples who have significant experience andaction capacity for
development; (iii)    they work on a micro-regional scale; and (iv) the nature of these
organizations is closely linkedwith localdevelopment. Moreover, OSGs belong inturn
to national organizations, which facilitates indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian
organizations' participation innegotiations with the government andwith other societal
anddevelopment organizations.
         The mainbeneficiaries of this project are members of community-based
organizations that havejoined OSGs or OTGs, though unaffiliatedcommunities will be
able to have access to project resourcesand activities if they comply with the eligibility
requirements. This project will work mainly with communities grouped into OSGs, and
with local governments.

LegalFramework
         The legal framework for implementation of the Project i s one of the most
advancedinLatinAmerica, and consists of the Constitutional provisions that grant
extensiverightsto the indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian peoples, including landrights,
natural resourcesrights, and cultural andintellectual property rights, ratification of ILO
Convention No. 169and subject specific laws such as the landtitling law. (See legislative
framework Annex 15)

Potential,Limitationsand Strategies
         The indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian peoples, despite their great diversity,
comprise one of the country's relatively most homogenous sectors, sharing a collective
identity and culture: the existence of biodiverse natural resourcesintheir respective
territories (land, water, forests, etc.); organizational capacity and social assets. Important


                                                37

additional elements couldinclude the decision to face the challengesof managing
development; traditional knowledge; negotiating andconsensus-building capacity.
          Nevertheless, indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian peopleshave suffered the
consequencesof their historical social exclusion and are at a disadvantage within
Ecuadorian society. For instance, in 1998,85.8% of the ruralindigenous population
living inindigenous communities was under the poverty line (defined as a monthly per
capita consumption under US $48.30, representinga monthly household income under
US $243). Interms of unmet basic needs, boththe indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian
population groups have higher percentagesthan the rest of the population, inat least 6 out
of 10indicators.
         To summarize the issuesfacing the indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian peoples and
their organizational and development managementcapacity inthe ruralareas, the
project's intervention strategy will take the following goals into account:


0   To develop participatory, consensus-basedorganizational processesinevery phase.
0   To support the strengtheninganddevelopment of Afro-Ecuadorian andindigenous
    identities within the framework of interculturality, understood as organized action
    with respectfor diversity.
0   Todevelop the necessary aptitudes, skills and abilities to enablethem to take part in
    and contribute fully to improvingtheir own communities andon a regional and
    national levelunder conditions of equality.
0   Todevelop an awarenessof the implications for development of the genderissue, that
    i s to grant due attention to the particular issuesof indigenous women in contexts of
    internal and external exclusion anddiscrimination.
    To emphasize sustainabledevelopment wherein resourceuse follows the
    organizational model andproduction process of communities as a whole,
    strengthening their culturalcontents.
    Tofoster sensitization of national society, to contribute to promotingand
    disseminating the Afro-Ecuadorian and indigenous cultures and identities as a way of
    eliminatingpractices of social exclusion and buildinga more equitable society on the
    basis of recognizing differences andrespectingdiversity.

Duringimplementationof PRODEPINEI, Development Plans (PDLs) were
                                               Local
formulated with consensus-building leadership, materializingactions that have
contributed to sustainabledevelopment with identity inEcuador. PRODEPINE2 will
continue institution-building with the project's Facilitating Entities (EEs), and will
emphasize the project's sharedvision of objectives, pursuingeminently democratic, inter-
cultural consensus-building processes, decentralized and participatory, on the basis of
localinstitutions or an integratedlocalmanagement system.

Basic Characteristics of Development with Identity
         The vision of development among the indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian peoples of
Ecuadorhas grown up inthe context of development with identity or ethno-development.
Untilabout 1990, the indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian perspective hingeduponfour
fundamental postulatesof ethnic development: (i)      strengthening of their own culture, (ii)
identityas peoples andnationalities; (iii)   self-determination and territoriality, and (iv)
self-reliant management.

                                               38

        Inrecentyears, however,thisperspectivehasbeenrenewedinthefollowing
terms:
a) Interculturality: Originating inthe needto strengthentheir own culture, with a clear
identity that would enablethemto encouragethe indigenous or Afro-Ecuadorian peoples
or nationalities, ininteraction with national society.
b) Politicalautonomy andco-management: The principleof self-determination of
peoples and territorialityhas progressedtoward political autonomy, which i s synonymous
with decentralization of public administration, resourcemanagementandindigenous I
Afro-descendant representationon the national level and inagencies empowered by law
to administer indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian territorialcircumscriptions.
c) A viable development model: Although insistingearly on that the development model
mustincorporateidentity, now elements may be adoptedfrom exogenousmodels when
they are culturally appropriate, includingproject managementand evaluation, new
technologies, socio-economic growth objectives andthe involvement of multiple
stakeholders inthe process.
d) Generation of well-coordinated governmental policies: Gradually, the redefinitionof
relations with the State has resulted inthe adoption of State policies that still needbetter
enforcement.
e)   A nationwide approach: New indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian approaches are
relevant for national society as a whole. This change i s because indigenous and Afro-
Ecuadorian organizations have realized that changes infavor of the indigenous andAfro-
Ecuadorianpeoples are not workable without coordinating with the non-indigenous.
f) Redefinitionof identity: The originalproposal defining "identity" interms of an
individual member of an ethnic group has made it possible to approachthis idea of a
person'sbelonging to an ethnic group more flexibly, but also defines "Indianhood" in
terms of a rural-indigenous continuum, recognizing the existence of indigenous persons
who do not belongto a specific ethnic group.

                                     Project Activities

Component 1. Strengthening SocialbOrganizations(US2.2 million)
        The mainobjective of this component i s to improve the capabilities of indigenous
andafro descendantpeoples andcommunities, through their ownforms of social
organization, so that they provide services to their memberswith equity, and help themto
negotiatetheir demands with governmental andnon-governmental organizations. To
achievethis objective, the component supports the provisionof technical assistanceand
trainingfor participatory planning processes at various levels andfor improvedself-
development skills (autogestio'n).
        The componentpursuesessentially the same activities as the first project and
includes the following programs: (1) strengthening facilitating entities (OSGs and
OTGs); (2) strategic andlocaldevelopment planning; (3) technical assistance (TA) and
training to national and regional organizations; (4) equity ingender and generations; and
(5) relations with local governments.
        Technical supervision of this Component will be carried out by a national level
consultant andeight regional levelconsultants who, working as a team, will be incharge

                                             39

of planning, coordination and systematizationof activities, as well as technical assistance
and training,

Strengthening the managementcapacity of facilitating agencies
        The Project provides technical assistance andtrainingto FEs for among other
things to increasetheir managerial,technical andimplementation capacity. Among the
activities supported by this program are:
    0   traininginparticipatory implementation andaccountability methodologies
    0   training of OSG andOTGpersonnelinadministration andmanagement
    0   training of community membersininvestment implementation andoperation

The regional PIU will select andthe central PIUwill pay entities to provide the TA for
this activity.

Strategicand local developmentplanning
        Most FEs that participated inthe oldproject prepared local development plans
(LDPs) as aconditionfor the formulation andimplementation of subprojects, so
PRODEPINEI1will finance activities to updatetheir LDPsand, inafew cases, formulate
new ones during the first two years of project implementation. Through TA subprojects,
participating FEs will take responsibility for implementing these activities and receive
tranche payments from the central PIUbasedon accomplishments.

Technicalassistanceand training to national and regional organizations
        Technical assistanceand training will also providedto national and regional
organizations that have formally agreedto collaborate with the project. The following
organizations are among the potential beneficiaries of this program: CONAIE, FEINE,
FENOCIN, FEI, CNA, CONAICE, CONFENIAE, ECUARUNARI, CANE,
CONAMUNE andWarmikunapac JatunTantanukuy (Dolores Cacuango). Newly
formed nationalities and peoplesorganizations will also be eligible for this activity.
        Many of these organizations received TA from the old project, but can benefit
from additional, more focused help with clear deliverables and incentives to complete
them. For this purpose, these organizations will submitproposals oriented, among others,
to strengthentheir capacity for strategic planningand project administration, including
accounting and financial management. Those organizations that get their proposals
approvedwill be financed through TA subprojects. They will sign an agreement with the
Project stating the proceduresfor selecting consultants, their commitment to obtain the
expectedoutcomes and to provide periodic reports. Only when they make satisfactory
progressinthese outcomes will the consultants they have hired receive additional
payments.
        Inaddition, the PIUwill organize trainingactivities, directly or through
consultant firms, focused on strengthening Afro-Ecuadorian organizations.

Equity in gender and generations
    Although the project has incorporated a gender dimension inall components, this
activity concentratesonly on women as a target group for:
    0   formal training of young women leaders
    0   strengtheningof women's organizations

                                             40

     The central andor regional PIUwill select entities to provide this training; payments
will be handledby the central PIU.

Supportfor Local Government
          Local Governments (LGs)could play an important role inhelping target groups
achieve project objectives, as they may havejurisdiction regardingphysicalplanningof
their territories, rural property and population rosters, basic infrastructure works, policy-
makingandcanton-level norm-setting. They may alsoberesponsiblefor meeting their
communities' requirements for basic services: water supply for domestic use,
electrification, health centers, feeder roads, etc. Insome cases local governments are
politically controlledby indigenous or Afro-Ecuadorian organizations, inothers they may
share the vision and respectthe values of these constituencies. Insuchcases the Project
would co-finance consulting services for establishing links betweenthese governments
andthe participatory planning andimplementationprocessessupportedby the project.
Municipalities inthe project area would receive trainingand TA provided by consultants
selectedandpaidby the central PIU. SuchLGs would be encouragedto co-finance rural
investments prioritizedby beneficiaries inLocal Development Plans.

Component 2. Knowledge and Culture for Development (US$2.7 million)
         This component will helpindigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian peoplesimprovetheir
humancapital as well as their knowledge base and cultural assets, thus contributing to
increasedincomes. Itwill include the following programs: (i)      a scholarship program for
higher education (ii)  training and technical assistancesubprojects for culture-based
initiatives, among others, intourism and handicrafts.

S ~ h o l a r s h ~
                programfor higher education
         PRODEPINEIprovided scholarships for a total of 1351university students;
however, at the time of the project's closing date, only 67 had managedto graduate (21
women and46 men), though 300 were still inschool by March 2003 (121 women and
179men). The large attrition rate is mostly related to the dryingup of funds after the
project closed, showing that the initial design was unsustainable. Discussions with
beneficiaries duringfield evaluations also showed that FEs hadmanagedthis program
with discretionality, not ensuringthat those who received scholarships were the best
among the neediest. Programdesign inPRODEPINEIIaims to tackle these issuesby
subcontracting management of the program to an existing specialized entity, which will
select and support indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian students on the basis of merit and
need, under simple, clear andexplicit rules. The entity would select scholarship
beneficiaries after eligible candidates (who posses a minimumaverage schooling grade
and arepromoted by a OSG or OTG) pass an entrance exam. Program activities will be
timed insuch a way as to ensure that those who receive scholarships can be supported
untilgraduation. Itisexpectedthat theexperience will also permit the entity incharge to
widen the scope of usual practice to include the target populationafter project closing.
         A total of 150students will receive a scholarship, 120of these inZicenciuturu
programs (bachelor degrees) and a further 30 intechnologist degrees. A wide rangeof
careerswill be supported, includinglocalmanagement, computer science, nursing,
engineering, and administration.


                                              41

         Students will receivea scholarship that includes tuition, andsustenance. The
central PIUwill makeperiodic paymentsfor this purposeto the managing entity basedon
student accomplishments. Terms of referenceand a model contract will be included in
the OM.

Trainingand technical assistancefor culture-based initiatives
         PRODEPINEIdidnot try to work directly with culturalproducers andso lost an
important opportunity to merge income generation objectives with cultural strengthening
ones. Some of these groups, by necessitymay be located inurbanareas not included the
project area, so it will have aprovisionthat treats suchgroups as exceptions for the
purposesof this activity.
         The project will deploy a pilot schemeto co-finance technical assistance
subprojectsfor producer or marketing groups dealing with: handicrafts, community and
culturaltourism, andethno biological products. Other areas of support may be included,
depending on demand and viability. Eligible beneficiaries would request specific
technical assistanceservices on the basis of a businessplan. The expectedresult of the
technical assistancewill be measuredinincreasedincomes or profits. Cofinancing will
be awardedon a competitive basis, as demand from these groups is expected to exceed
supply of funds. The project will transfer funds to abeneficiary group for payment of a
TA contract intranches, following certification on the partof the beneficiaries that the
service hasbeenprovided according to contractual terms. Beneficiaries will provide their
counterpart financing upfront, upon approval of the TA, andwill be eligible for up to 3
rounds of contracts. Administration of this program may be contracted by the PIUwith a
specialized entity.
         The project will also providetrainingthrough workshops ina set of identified
subjects, includingformulation of simple businessplans, basic accounting for small
initiatives, marketing techniques, contract management, and export rules as well as
technical training indesign, production, etc. This training will be administeredby a
specializedconsultant entities to be selectedby the PIU. Terms of reference and a model
contract will be included inthe OM.

Component3. NaturalResources (US$2.6 million)
         Ecuadori s a country with highbiodiversity, which representsan enormous
potential for conservation and sustainabledevelopment. However, due to a high
populationdensity andpredatory methods of natural resource use, many natural habitats
are beingdegradedand destroyed, with the consequentloss of biodiversity andreduced
options for the populationthat depends on the use of some of those resourcesfor their
livelihoods.
         This componentwill help the target populationto improve the managementof
natural resourcesthrough increasedaccess and control of land, water, forests andother
natural assets vital for their livelihoods. To achieve these objectives, it will support the
following programs: (1) securing landtitling and userights; and (2) TA for mangrove
concessions; and(3) TA for the improvedhandlingof soils, water and reforestedareas.
         This componentcontinues the work on landregularization andwater resources
begunby PRODEPINE I, creates a stronger emphasis on environmental
                             but
management. The processof landtitling includes a requirement that the applicant
include an integratedlandmanagementplan andthose covering areas managed by the
Ministry of the Environment mustbe approved by this ministry inaccordance with a

                                               42

recent agreement betweenINDA andthe MAE. The previous project financed these
managementplans as part of the titling process, but experience showedthat beneficiary
groups placed little emphasis on implementation of their plan. The new project will
include an activity to train andpromote communities to carry out these plans which could
also qualify for financing under the RuralInvestment Component. The previous project
included an activity to finance the purchaseof landin special cases, but the new project
will not include it. The new project would continue to support the preparation of
additional action plansto improve community-owned irrigation systems but this time as
part of the investment studies of Component4, Rural Investment.
        This component would also promotepilotTA activities innatural resource
management which would seek to demonstratehow best practice can yield economic,
cultural and social benefits to the target groups. Activities identifiedas pilots would
include: (i) concessioning andpreservationof mangrove swamps with afro-descendant
communities inthe coastalregion, and(ii)      community natural resourcemanagement
with selectedindigenous groups inthe Sierra. Successfuloutcomes would helpto
demonstrate their feasibility for financing from other sources such as GEF inthe future.
        Technical supervision of this component i s the responsibility of a national level
consultant and sevenregional level consultantswho, working as a team, carry out
planning, supervision of implementation, technical assistance and training, coordination
within the team and with outside institutions working on relatedareas, as well as
monitoringandevaluation.

Land titling
        The landtitling subcomponent, covers demarcatiodtitlingof indigenous and afro
peoples landsunder two possibilities contemplated inthe existinglaw: (i)      titling of lands
of ancestralpossessionby indigenous and Afro groups inthejurisdiction of INDA; (ii)
regularization of rights of indigenous and Afro peoples inareas declared~ a ~ r i m o n ~ u ~
(patrimonio forestal del estado) within thejurisdiction of the Ministryof the
Environment. All titling activities underthe Project will follow proceduresthat only
authorize titling when the boundaries are mutually agreed among of claimants, and there
i s no possibility of involuntary resettlementunder such procedures.
        The AgrarianDevelopmentInstitute (Instituto Nacional de DesarrolloAgrario,
INDA), establishedby the Agrarian Development Law of 1994(the AD Law), is the only
agency or institute authorized to adjudicate State lands (mostly vacant or expropriated
landsor those inpossessionof farmers for a specified periodof time). INDAis
authorized to issue titles under three different procedures, one exclusively applicable to
the indigenous and Afro communities in ancestralpossession, the second after a 5 year
possessionandthe last with no prior possessionrequirement.
        The Ministryof the Environment assumed the powers andresponsibility for
forests heldby the Ecuadorian Institute for Forests and Natural and Wildlife Areas
(Instituto Ecuatoriano Forestal y deAreas Naturalesy de VidaSilvestre)(INEFAN), and
owns the national forest patrimonium(Patri~onioForestal del Estado) and the protected
areas (Patrimonio deAreas Naturales).
        The Patrimonio Forestal del Estado i s constituted by the forested lands that
according to law are owned by the State, andthe natural forests, andthe flora and fauna
therein. Forest lands that are acquired or revert to the ownership of the State are also
included. Of these lands, the Ministerof the Environment i s authorized, free of charge,


                                              43

to set the boundaries of the landsinownership or possessionof indigenous andAfro-
Ecuadorians.
        The Bank will only finance titlingof landsinancestralpossessionwhich is
granted by INDA through adjudication, free of charge, to the communities and ethnic
groups. Such adjudication can be done subject to the conditions specified inthe AD Law
that: (a) the traditions, cultural life, and social organization of suchpeoples are followed;
and (b) incorporating, in addition, under INDA's responsibilities, measures aimed at
improvingtheir production systems, the ancestraltechnologies, recovering and
diversifying the seeds anddeveloping other elementsthat would enablethe indigenous
groupsto raise their standardof living. All the applicable proceduresandinstruments to
achieve the above, are to preservethe environment.

Requirements for ancestral landstitling are:

    e   The communities or ethnic groups mustbe part of the indigenouspeoples,
        ~ontubiosor Afro-Ecuadorian.
    e   The territory to be adjudicated shouldbe the one originally heldby the ancestors
        of those claimingthe titling incontinued occupation.
    e   The community should provide evidence of peaceful and uninterrupted possession
        of four generationsfor the Afro-Ecuadorian and~ o n t u ~andtwo generations
                                                                        ~ o s
        for the indigenouspeoples.
    e   The community mustprovide the written consent by the neighbors to the lot to be
        titled.
    e   The communities must maintain their mother tongues.
    e   The Afro-Ecuadorians and ont tub^^^ mustmaintaintheir folklore.
    e   The communities or ethnic groups must maintainancestralcultural practices
        relatedto the preservation of the ecosystem.
    e   At least 90% of the inhabitants of the communal lands claimed shouldbe
        indigenous, ~ o n t u ~or
                                i oAfro-Ecuadorian.
    e   The sizelareato be titled wouldbe related to the number of people andcultural
        practices maintained on the lands claimed.

        The socio-cultural andhistory study required for eachadjudications reviews:

    e   The physical characteristics of the land.
    e   A census of the membersof the communities.
    e   History of the Community.
    e   Cultural practices.
    e   Language.
    e   Traditions.
    e   A proposalto rescue andmaintain their identity within the national development.

As a Condition ofDisbursementfor the Land Titling activity: (a) issuanceof the
revisionsto the regulationsto the Agrarian Development Law covering
requirements for the titlingof Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian lands under
ancestralpossessionor equivalent measure satisfactory to the Bank to


                                               44

institutionalize the procedures; (b) CODENPEKODAEwill enter into an
agreement with INDA for the implementation of the titlingcomponent.

Two types of areas would be subjectto demarcation of indigenous and Afro landsunder
the Project, ForestedLands and ProtectedAreas which at the time of its establishment
had already excluded the areas ancestrally occupied by communities. Inorder to enable
titling inforested areas the Ministry of the Environment needs to "release" those lands
from its patrimony andmakethem available to INDAfor titling. Inbothcases, through
MinisterialResolution the Minister of the Environment: (a) approved the demarcated
boundaries; (b) separatedfrom its patrimony, and from the ProtectedAreas, the areas
demarcatedby the Project; and (c) orderedthat INDA be notifiedto proceedwith titling.
Ifthe areaswere tobemaintainedforested, theMinistryoftheEnvironment would
approve the managementplans of the forests. An inter-institutional agreementwas
signedinMay 2002 and amendedlater inJuly 2003. The agreementsets forth norms for
the approval of managementplans of incases where INDA intends to adjudicate titles to
landcovered with native forests or native vegetation ecosystems. Insuchcases the
Ministry of the Environment decides whether; (a) that planmeets the requirements for
sustainable forestry and(b) the forested landcouldbe separatedfrom the Ministry's
domain. The agreement foresees a systemof public or private forested lands.
         As a Conditionof Disbursement for the LandTitlingactivity: anagreement
will be signed between CODENPEKODAEand the Ministry of the Environment
setting forth their respective responsibilities inthe demarcationhitling process.
         Although the first project exceededits goals intitling landsunder ancestral
possession, with titling andregistration of 252,424 hectares benefiting93 indigenous
andafro communities of the Coast andAmazon regions, demand for these services from
target groups remainshigh.Recent studies by the Project estimate that there remain about
1.1millionhectares (excluding lands near international bordersof 588,247 hectares) that
could be transferredto target groups with possessionof ancestralrights. PRODEPINE11
would aimto title an additional 260,000 ha under thejurisdiction of INDA and40,000 ha
controlled by MAE.
        The PIUwill hire consultants to evaluate landtitling demands andto assess their
viability. Inaccordancewith current legislation, the project will then support land
tenancy regularization activities under the patrimony of INDA, under service contracts
managedby the PIU. These contracts may specifically cover: i)     technical assistancefor
indigenous and afro organizations and communities, to obtain legal status whenever
needed; ii) preparation of inspectionreports; iii)demarcation activities; iv) preparation of
managementplans and trainingfor their implementation; v) technical assistanceto obtain
certificates from MAE and the institutionresponsible for coastal lands, whenever needed;
vi) inscription inthe Property Registry; vii) preparation of socio-historical assessmentsto
prove ancestralrights.
        Landregularization activities will be organized undertwo implementation
agreementsamongCODENPE, CODAE, INDA and the Ministry of the Environment
(dependingonjurisdiction over the land) and will be implemented by contractors
(including NGOs) selectedby the PIU.
        The componentincludes financingfor a study, carried out by the PIUin
coordination with INDA and MAE, to evaluate the impact of titling over landuse,
incomes andwelfare of beneficiary communities.


                                             45

 Mangrove SwampsRecovery
        Mangrove swamps are a valuable sourceof biodiversity for coastalregions.
Mangroves inEcuador are also essentialfor the livelihoods of many coastal communities,
who gather mollusksand crustaceans, as well as non-forest products bothfor their
internal consumption and for the market. Unfortunately over halfof these coastal
mangroves have beendestroyedor severely degradedby the establishment of shrimp
farms over the last 20years. Mostrecently many of these farms havecloseddown
operations due to the White Spot disease. Afro-Ecuadorian communities inthese areas
express strong interest inrestoring some of the degradedmangrove swamps. The
potential for mangrove recuperation is very high, potentially reaching an estimated
135,000 hectares. The project aims to helpabout 3400families (mostly Afro-Ecuadorian)
restore about 15,000 ha of highpriority mangrove swamps inthe Northern Coast project
region. B y national law, title to coastallands such as this cannot be transferred from
Government, but only concessionscanbe grantedby the Ministry of Environment
(MAE).
        This activity would provide financing for TA subprojectsto obtain the required
concessions. Investment studies andinvestments to recuperatethe productive capacity of
mangroves andrepopulate themwouldbeeligible for financing from the Rural
Investment Component 4.

Improved~anagementof communi^ Natural Resources
        Preparation activities for PRODEPINE I1included preliminary natural resource
managementassessmentsfor a sample of communities inthe various project areas. This
work confirmed that the pressureof poverty and a low level of awarenessof sustainable
production techniques inmany communities results in acontinuingdeterioration intheir
environment and livingstandard. This activity would develop pilot interventions with
selectedgroups of communities to demonstrate that their traditionalculture and social
capital canbe mobilized to raise awareness and change behavior. Consultants would use
participatory techniques to train communities innatural resource managementpractices at
the locallevel such as sustainableforest production, soil conservation, water source
protection, etc, which can reverse deterioration or preserve their environmental assets.
The project will finance TA subproject to selectedFEs who will explore a variety of
methodologies under the guidanceof the PIU. These TA alternatives would be explored
before project mid-term, and will include competitive mechanisms for access to grant
financing for subprojects inthe RuralInvestment Component 4.

Component 4 RuralInvestments (US$25.9 million)
                -
        This component will finance subprojectsdriven by the demandof grassroots
communities. It will finance subprojectsof publiclcommunitybenefit, through matching
grants. Basedon the results of PRODEPINEIthe most demanded investments financed
by this component are expectedto be: micro irrigation, potable water, agro-industry, eco-
tourism, spot improvement of roads, pedestrianbridges, healthposts, and school
buildings.
        This component's objectives are to: (i)  respondto the perceivedneeds of
indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities; (ii)     involvebeneficiaries inimplementing
investmentsinorder to promote their empowerment and sense of ownership; (iii)
diversify andor intensify ruralproduction; and (iv) improve beneficiaries' access to


                                             46

services and markets. Activities underthis component will be governedby the provisions
established inthe Public InvestmentsRegulations section of the OM.
        The expectedresult for this componentis: improvedcommunities' management
capacity and access to assets, services, markets thereby improving anddiversifying
sources of income. The target indicators would be: (i)    FacilitatingEntities involved inthe
preparation of at least 700investment studies; and (ii)   around 70,000 families receiving
benefits from the execution of at least 800 community investment subprojects. It is
expected that: (i) least 10%of subprojects will executedby women groups anda total
                   at
of 40% will incorporate a gender focus; (ii)   at least 95% of subprojects will have
successfully implemented environmental measures; and (iii)       at least 75% of subprojects
will be inoperation after one year of implementation andevaluatedas satisfactory by
beneficiaries.

Criteriafor Eligibility :1)Forbeneficiaries: Indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian
communities living inrural areas are the target group for the RuralInvestment
Component. This important factor will guaranteea focus on poverty andon
beneficiaries' organizations. Peoplewho are not indigenous or Afro-Ecuadorian, living
insurrounding areas, may alsobenefit partiallyfrom this component. 2) Eligibility
criteriafor subprojects are: (i)focus on a specific geographical area (see Table 1)as
defined and revised inthe Operational Manual andon the target group, as defined above
(note: eligible production or marketing groups involvedinculturalhandicrafts, tourism,
etc may by necessitybe located inurban and rural areas not included inthe Table below);
(ii) throughparticipatory,demand-drivenmechanisms(PDLs,Management
    selection
Planfrom titling process, Mangroveconcession); (iii)      possibilityto be managedby
beneficiaries or by the designatedFacilitatingEntities; and (iv) technical, economic,
social and environmental feasibility and sustainability.
        PRODEPINEIwas able to finance 663 subprojects for an average cost
US$20,000, while PRODEPINE IIaims to finance 792 subprojects at an average cost of
(US$24,000). The increaseinaveragecost i s accounted for by inflation and additional
budgeted technical assistancefor each subproject.

                                 Table2. InterventionArea"

 REGIONALOFFICE          NATIONALITYIPEOPLE               CANTON
  1. Northern Amazon     Siona, Secoya, Cofiin, Huaorani, Archidona, Coca,El Chaco, Tena,
                         Shuar, ZApara, Shiwiar,Kichwa of Aguarico, LaJoya de 10s Sachas,
                         the Amazon, Afro-Ecuadorian      Loreto, Orellana, Arajuno, Pastaza,
                                                          Sacha, Shushufindi

 2. SouthernAmazon       Shuar, Achuar                    Gualaquiza, Huamboya, Limbn,
                                                          Indanza,Logroiio, Mtndez, Morona,
                                                          Palora, Santiago, Suciia, Taisha


 3. Northern Coast       Afro-Ecuadorians, Tsiichila,     Atacames, Esmeraldas, Muisne, Eloy
                         Epera, Chachi                    Alfaro, San Lorenzo, Quinindt, Rio
                                                          Verde, Santo Domingo de 10s
                                                          Colorados




                                               47

 4. SouthernCoast                    Manta, Huancavilca, Afro-       Guayaquil, 24 de Mayo, SantaElena,
                                     Ecuadorian                      Jipijapa, Manta, Montecristi, Puerto
                                                                     Lopez, Portoviejo
 5. Northern Highlands               AwA, Afro-Ecuadorian,           Bolivar, Mira, TulcAn,Antonio Ante,
                                     Natabuela, Karanki, Otavalo,    Cotacachi, Ibarra, Otavalo, Pimampiro,
                                     Kayampi, Kitu                   Urcuqui, Cayambe, Mejia, Pedro
                                                                     Moncayo, Quito

 6. Central Highlands                Panazaleo, Kichwas of Cotopaxi, Chillanes, Chimbo, Echendia,
                                     Kichwas of Tungurahua,          Guaranda, SanMiguel, Alausi,
                                     Chibuleo, Salasaca, Waranka,    Chambo, Chunchi, Colta, Guamote,
                                     Puruhi                          Guano, Pallatanga,Riobamba, La
                                                                     Man& Latacunga, Pangua, Pujili
                                                                     Salcedo
 7. SouthernHighlands                Kichwas of Azuay, Kaiiari,      Cuenca, Gualaceo, Nabbn, Oiia,
                                     Saraguro                        Azogues, Biblian, Caiiar, ElTambo,
                                                                     Suscal, Loja, Saraguro, ElPangui,
                                                                     Nangaritza, Zamora
*A definitive list will be.includedinthe OperationalManual.

           As inthe first project, this one will finance upto a maximumof US$90,000 per
subproject, though bigger investments may be contemplated incases where several
communities join their efforts to scale upimpact or local governments express interest in
co-financing subprojects. To enhance equity, a yearly limit of US$800per beneficiary
will be applied as before, not counting transport expenses, subject to review over time
and considering the component's overall expenditures. Subprojects will be selectedand
prioritizedaccording to participatory, demand-driven mechanisms andidentifiedinthe
respective LDPs or ManagementPlans. Subprojects with a total investment amount
underUS$30,000 will be approvedby the regionalprojectoffices (RPIU), whereasthe
Central Project Office will approve subprojectsfor over US$30,000. Allocations will be
basedon three criteria: (i)            indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian population; (ii)         poverty
indicators; and (iii)          an indicator of the FEs' managementcapacity. Beneficiaries must
participate insubproject financing and will be able to contribute (inlabor, localmaterials,
cashor inkind)from 10to 40% of the subprojectscosts (see Table 3). Additional
contributions can also be madeby local governments or other partners. These differences
inco-financing contributions havebeenset as anincentive for training, technical
assistance and investment studies. Inorder to increasethe efficiency of the Investments
component, the project may introduce 2 new forms of financing of subprojects: (i)                       lump
sum, fixed price contracting of communities and(ii)                 co-financing of municipalities and
NGOs ("partner institutions") which are investing indemandsgeneratedthrough PDLs.




                         Table 3. Co-Financing Matrix for Rural Investment Subprojects

                                                           48

Type of Subproject                  Project Contribution (%)      Beneficiary Contribution (%>

Training, Technical Assistance and
Investmentstudy                                90                             10
TA for ProductionandMarketing                   80                            20

SocialInfrastructure                            80                            20

Community               Productive              80                            20
Infrastructure
EnvironmentalandNRM                             90                            10

CommunityMicro-Enterprises                    60                               40


Eligibility criteria for FacilitatingEntities (EEs).
        Ifthe beneficiary community doesnothavesufficient capacity to implement a
subproject, PRODEPINE11will enter into a tripartite agreementswith the beneficiary
communities and a FEs inorder to channel funds for subprojects. FEs mustmeet the
eligibility criteria outlined inthe Investment Regulations inthe OM, including technical
andfinancial capacities, as well as experiencewith the community andthe beneficiary
region. For those FEs that cannot meet these requirements, an agreement may be made
with a local NGO to provide technical assistance. If the entity has no prior experience in
implementing subprojects, the size of the first subproject will be limited to US$30,000.

OrganizationandManagement
        The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and up to seven Regional Units (RPIUs)
would be involved with different levels of responsibility in subproject selection,
appraisal, approval, implementation, disbursement, technical follow up, monitoring, and
evaluation.     Beneficiaries will be the primary parties responsible for subproject quality.
Beneficiaries will be guided by technicians through a participatory planning exercise,
duringwhich they will receive support inattaining quality subprojects.
        Responsibility for evaluating whether subproject proposals respectthe principles
establishedin the Investment Regulations inthe OM will be as de-concentrated as
possible. Inview of modest local-level experience, evaluation of a subproject costing
over US$30,000will be reviewed by the central PIU, who will check the evaluation by
the RPIU. The operational management of this component will be thus be sharedby the
central andregional PIUs. Two specialists ineachregional office will be engaged-one
specialist insubprojects andone inspector, for day-to-day operations, andthey will be
responsible for administering and operating the entire component. The Operations
Manualsets forththe central andregional-level functions andresponsibilities.

Participatory Planning,Follow-up andEvaluation
        PRODEPINE 11will support active participationby the beneficiary populationin
identifying, planning, designing, negotiating, implementing, supervising, following up on
and evaluationrural investments. Participatory planningi s designed to enable grassroots
communities to be effective stakeholdersintheir own development. The objectives of
this planning processare to: (i)  contribute to decentralizing decision-making; (ii)
encourage societal participation inlocal planningand ingenerating demand; (iii)      help

                                              49

rural communities formulate development strategiesandinvestment plans; (iv) enhance
the sustainability of each investment by intensifying the participants' commitment to
implementing and supervising ruralinvestments; and(v) facilitate investments by other
institutions inlocal development priorities.
        Methodologies for Participatory Planning, Follow-up andEvaluation have been
very well developed by PRODEPINE 1and are basedon the practical experiences
attainedina number of countries, such as the procedures developed by the Rural
MunicipalitiesProject inNicaragua, the RuralDevelopment FundinBolivia and
Objective-Oriented Project Planning by GTZ (ZOPP). Community workshops will be
organized to plan, prepare, implement andsupervisesubprojects. Inworkshops, field
promoters from the FacilitatingEntities (EEs) will help communities formulate and
update their development strategy, by applying group dynamics methods. Workshop
participants will be community delegates, representativesof development organizations
and other interested individuals. The outcomes of workshops will be madeknown
through the communities inorder to buildconsensus.
        Participatory Planning, Follow-up andEvaluation will be applied inthe area of
influence of the FEs, which averages two parishes each, over seven stages:

(a)     PreparatoryPhase. PRODEPINEIhada census of FEs, which contains an
indicator gauging managementcapacity and outlining eachorganization's legal status, its
membership's ethnic characteristics, the estimated population, grassroots organizations
comprising it, available technical personnel, property andequipment it owns, andincome
from outside cooperation and member contributions. On the basis of this information, the
regional office will assist each FEinpreparingan institution-building plan, explaining
the programs andproceduresincluded inthe project.
(b)     Promotion. LocalNGOs andlor technical experts will disseminate the project's
purposesand methodology and, inparticular: (i)      the eligibility criteria for subprojects; (ii)
steps inthe process for eligible subprojects identified intheir corresponding Local
Development Plans, includingtechnical, administrative andlegaldocumentation and
timeframes; and (iii) mechanismsfor implementation and supervision;
(c)    Updating the Local Development Plan (PDL). All FEs have LDPs. The LDPi s a
prioritizedlist of subproject ideas studied according to the local development proposal
andstrategyfor institutional partnership with the various localstakeholders. LDPswere
preparedin 1999and must be updated.
(d)     Formulation of the subproject to transform subproject ideas into fundable
proposals.

Preparationof the subprojectfollows three stages:
(a)     Subpro-iectIdealProfile. This i s a first description of the subproject, preparedina
participatory way by the community with support by localtechnical assistantsfrom FEs.
Itcontainsa simple explanation, with reasonsfor the activities, outcomes, effects and
impacts expected, as well as the approximate cost.
(b)     Pre-feasibility Analysis. This is an analysis of the subproject profile, by the
RPIUs, interms of the provisions of the Investment Regulations anda database
containing unitcosts, and expectedenvironmental impacts according to each type of
subproject. After examining the subproject profile, if the RPOfeels that it looks feasible
andmeets the Investment Regulationscriteria, funds are allocated for subproject design.


                                               50

(c)     Design of the Subproject. This is adetailed technical description of the
subprojects, andinvolves a technical engineering study; social, environmental and
financial assessment of the subproject; aproposal for administration and managementin
the operational phase; a detailed estimate of investment costs, as well as technical
specifications, blueprints and legal documents. Phase Iof PRODEPINEdevelopedan
electronic form that facilitates the subproject's financial assessment by FEs who also use
several forms available inthe Investment Regulations.

The Subproject Cycle. Proceduresfor subprojectprocessing involvethe following
phases:
a) Identification. The project will process subprojects originating in: (i) and(ii)
                                                                            LDPs
eligible FEs.
b) Formulation. The Facilitating Entity (EE) is mainly responsible for formulating the
subproject. The preparationprocesswill follow one of the three possible courses: (i)    the
subproject profile is properly preparedaccording to the requirements andguidelines and
requires no additional work prior to the initial evaluation; (ii)the subproject profile meets
the general eligibility criteria butrequires detailed design; this designwill be fundedas
an investment study; or (iii) subproject profile fails to meet the eligibility criteria and
                               the
requires for the FEto discard it or redesignit under the RPIUor PIU's guidance.
(c) InitialEvaluation. PRODEPINE I1will evaluate the subproject initially, including
any discrepanciesbetweenproposedunitcosts and standardcosts by project category.
The initial subproject evaluation will take into account its priority-settingprocess, cost-
effectiveness, focus on poverty andsustainability. Additionally, the FE's institutional
capacity will be assessed and the significance of the counterpart contribution. Approval
criteria include analysis of alternatives, social impact andmultiplier effect. Some
subprojectsrequire an environmental analysis (see below). The PIUor RPIUmay, if           `


necessary,obtain support from outside specialists. A subproject may be rejected only if it
has failed to observe the requirementsset forth inthe Investment Regulations.
(d) Amroval. Subprojectsare approvedbythe RegionalProjectOffice. Ifthe
subproject costs over US $30,000 it will be reviewed by the PIU, who will check the
evaluation done by the RPTU. Then approved subprojects are included inthe annual
operational plan.
(e) Implementation. Responsibility for subproject implementation is sharedby the FE
andthe community. Rules for subproject implementation include: (i)       PRODEPINE2
signs atripartite contract with the FEandthe participatory community. Inthis contract,
among other things, the FEandthe community promise to follow the procurement
proceduresoutlined inthe Investment Regulations;(ii) the target community approves
contracts with consultantsI outside subcontractorsby the FE, who conduct the technical
managementfor the subproject; (iii))   for subprojects requiringa Technical Manager at
the worksite (such as most infrastructure subprojects), the tripartitecontract will also
include that Director or serviceI goods supplier; (iv) the FEwill hire an accountant, who
will present an accountingreport to the RPIUevery two months; and(v) the FEwill post
abondfor the funds received andensure appropriate supervision according to its
contractual obligations.
(f) Disbursements. Fundswill bedisbursedwhen the tripartitecontract hasbeensigned
by the RPO, the FEand the community. Pursuant to this contract, disbursementsare
scheduled(the disbursement schedulei s part of the tripartite contract) and the maximum


                                              51

advance payment will be for three months. The longest that subproject implementation
cantake i s one year.
(g)        Subproiect supervision andtechnical oversight. Responsibilities for these
activities are divided amongbeneficiaries andRPIU. Participatory supervision and
societal monitoring are the mainstaysof project methodology. However, inview of the
difficulty of technical issues insome subprojects (e.g. irrigation) it will be essentialfor
technically trained professionals to take part. Suchcases will be coordinated with the
available governmental or non-governmental bodies. Additional contracts may be
required, between an independentsupervisor and the RPIU.
(h)        Monitoring. Subproject monitoringis shared by the FE,the target community
and the project (RPIUand PIU), according to a predeterminedwritten agreement. The
three parties issue a certificate of formal approval of due, appropriate perfomance of the
subproject under the project. The PIUhas a planning, monitoring andevaluation system
that outlines the specific instruments and responsibilities. The project's long-term goal is
to emphasize monitoring, although at the beginning more intensefollow-up will be
required. A list of monitoringindicators was agreeduponduringthe negotiations.
(i) Operation,MaintenanceandEvaluation. Thetargetcommunityremainsmostly
responsible for subproject operation. However, the FEwill remain present through this
phaseinorder to ensure due, appropriate subproject operation, provision of technical
assistanceservices as required, maintenanceand evaluation. Additionally, CODENPE
andCODAEwill engageoutside auditors to evaluatethe success of investments funded
by the project, interms of meeting subprojects' specific objectives, andtheir quality,
efficiency andsustainability.

                 Table 4. Classification, by subproject type and category


        Type                    Category                               Description


a) Natural Resource  ENV~ONMENTALAFFORESTATION, Protectionof water sources; tree planting inopenareas;
Management            TREE NURSERIESOR BOTANICAL flower regenerationor repopulation; reforestationof
                                 GARDENS           degradedareas


                          SOILRECOVERY AND/OR       Cangahuasoilrestoration; wind-breakers; construction of
                              CONSERVATION         accumulationditches; constructionand rehabilitationof
                                                   terraces andraisedfields

                     PROTECTIONAND MANAGEMENTOFMangroverehabilitationandreforestation; management of
                           FRAGILE ECOSYSTEMS      wetlands, lakes, lagoons, estuaries,etc.



                     WATERSHED PROTECTIONAND/OR Managementof paramos, reforestationof basinsand
                              MANAGEMENT           catchmentareas; rehabilitation andconstructionof
                                                   albarradas

                           MANAGEMENT PLANS        Formulationof managementplans

 2. SOCIAL INVESTMENT
 a) Public service  IWATER FOR HUMANCONSUMPTION/Infrastructureto providewater supply for a community or
 infrastructure                                 settlement.

                         SEWERAGEAND WATER      /Rehabilitationandconstruction of waste watercollection
                               TREATMENT        andtreatment infrastructure

                              CLASSROOMS        Rehabilitation, construction andequipmentof school
                                                classrooms
                      SCHOOLDININGFACILITIESAND Rehabilitation, construction andequipmentof school
                                SHELTERS        infrastructure
                            HEALTHCENTERS       Rehabilitation, construction andequipment of centers, sub
                                                centers andposts for the provision of healthservices


                      INTERCONNECTEDELECTRICITY Installationof electricity distribution systems;
                                                infrastructureandequipmentfor the provisionof energy


 b) Community social  CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS Rehabilitation, construction andequipmentof child care
 infrastructure                                 facilities
                       COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT    Rehabilitation,construction andequipmentoftraining
                                CENTERS         communityinfrastructure

                          ALTERNATIVE ENERGY    Rehabilitation,constructionandequipmentof systems for
                                                the provision of electricity for communities that cannotbe
                                                connectedto conventionalsources

                         2-WAY RADIO STATIONS   HFcommunicationsystems

                         SPOT IMPROVEMENTS OF   Rehabilitationof communal roadsthroughspot
                      COMMUNITY ROADS AND FOOT  improvements; rehabilitationandconstruction of foot
                                BRIDGES         bridges

                         TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE   Healthcampaigns; maintenanceandoperation; etc.



 a) Support to               HANDICRAFTS        Rehabilitation,constructionandequipmentof community
                                                infrastructurefor the productionandsale of handicrafts
~




                        POST-HARVESTFACILITIES  Rehabilitation,constructionandequipmentof
                                                infrastructureto facilitate storage, distributionand
                                                commercializationof agricultural products; market
                                                facilities.

                               IRRIGATION       Rehabilitationandequipment of civil works for irrigation
                                                Constructionof small community irrigationsystems.


                         TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE   TA to improve productiveprocesses,including innovatioi
                                                post-harvestandcommercialization.

                          ORGANIC FERTILIZER    Worm farming; productionof humusandcompost from
                                                organicwaste.
                             AQUICULTURE        Raisingaquatic species, e.g. fish, shrimpandfrogs.
                          ANIMAL HUSBANDRY      Raisingof sheep, goats, pigs, poultry, guineapigs, bees
                                                andother small livestock. Productionof animals indange
                                                of extinction; Andean camelidproduction.
                           PERENNIALCROPS       Crops with a life cycle of overtwo years.

                          COMMUNITY TOURISM     Tourism associatedwith appreciationof the community's
                                                culture andenvironment.

                      SMALL-SCALE AGRO-INDUSTRY  Activities for transformingagricultural products(e.g.
                                                production ofjuices, pasta, flour, cheese, frozen anddriec
                                                foodstuffs).

                               RECYCLING        Classification andtreatmentof solidwaste.

RisksandMitigationMeasures
         The specific risks of the rural investment component are as follows: (i)low
subproject quality; (ii)political interference in operational decisions; (iii)excessive
emphasis on privatelindividual investments; (iv) generation of a negative environmental
impact. Several measures havebeenincorporated inthe project's designto mitigate these
risks: (i) investments will be accompanied by various forms of technical assistance; (ii)
political interference would be reducedby the transparency of the process; and (iii)strict
requirements for economic and financial justification of privatelindividual subprojects
would discourage abuse.

Component 5. Project Managementand Strengthening of CODENPEand CODAE
(US$9.3 million, of which PIUUS$8.5 million)
         The Council for the Development of Nationalities and Peoplesof Ecuador
(CODENPE) was createdthrough legislation inDecember 1998inresponseto the
constitutional changesestablishing the State's obligationto enable nationalities and
peoples to take part inplanning, prioritizingactions andmaking decisions. CODENPE's
institutionalactivities havefocused on organizational reconstitution of indigenous
nationalities andpeoples, inorder to achieve sustainabledevelopment with identity, At
about the same time GOE createdby Decree the Corporation for Afro-Ecuadorian
Development (CODAE) to formulate policies to encouragedevelopment of the Afro-
Ecuadorianpeople. Havinga slower start to i s operations and a constituency that i s
relativelyless politically sophisticated, CODAE faces more organizational challenges.
         For PRODEPINEIIto attain its strategic development objectives it must
strengthenthe program andpolicy managementcapacity of CODENPE and CODAE.
Lessons from PRODEPINEIindicate the need to strengthen the capacity of both
institutions to work inthe formulation of development policies for indigenous
nationalities and peoples; and to strengthenthe existing coordination mechanismswith
provincial, andlocal government and state institutionswith the view to mainstream
culturally appropriate responsesto the local development needs of their constituencies,
Similarly, bothinstitutions seek to more strongly promote and createeffective
coordination- for increasedresourcesandprogramimpact- with a variety of development
actors working inthe same geographical area of influence of their constituencies andof
PRODEPINE
         Continuing the work of the first project, PRODEPINEIIwill provide specialized
technical support to CODENPEandCODAE for the implementation of their public role
inamoreefficient, effective andtransparent way. Mainstreaming activities includedin
the component will aimto increasepublic participationinpolicy-making, improve
transparency and accountability, and increasethe share of the GOE's budget targeted at
the poor indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities and peoples. This Project
Component comprises three programs to be implemented inbothgovernment institutions:
(i) policiesanddevelopmentmanagement;(ii) developmentinselected
   Public                                              Legal
areas; (iii)Institutional Development; and (iv) Interculturalcommunication.
        While recognizing similarities inthe institutionalroles playedby CODENPEand
CODAE inworking for the betterment of their respective constituencies, the
implementation of this Project Component and its programs, takes into consideration
strengths andweaknesses of eachinstitution andtailors the program's strategic priorities
and activities accordingly.


                                              54

        As acomplementary part of this component, the project will include support for a
Project ImplementationUnit(PIU) includingfinancing of staff, training and goods,
which inaddition to the national unitincludes upto seven regional implementing units
(RPIUs). Personnelandincremental operating costs will becovered with government
funding. Training, goods, audits andother studies will bepaidout with loanproceeds.
The PIUwill report to a Directorate madeupof CODENPEandCODAE.

Public Policy Program
        Basedonprogress achievedandlessons learnedduringthe implementation of
PRODEPINEI, program will strengthenthe capacity of CODENPE and CODAE to
                 this
promote, implement andmonitorpublic policies directed towards integrated, sustainable
and culturally appropriate development for indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorians.
 Itwill provide CODENPE with TA to: (i)     strengthenindigenous nationalities and
peoplesthrough design, implementation and monitoringof public policies andpublic
budgetexpenditure directed towards the indigenous peoplesandnationalities; (ii)    update
development indicators of indigenous nationalities and peoples- SIDENPE-; (iii)   design
and implement aeffective monitoringand evaluation systemof CODENPE's Facilitating
Units( Unidadesfac~l~~adorasProyectos).
                               de
Inthe caseof CODAE, theprogramincludes: (i) design of Ethno-education programs
                                                  the
for Afro-Ecuadorians; (ii) the development of a system of social indicators for the Afro-
Ecuadorian population- SISPAE-; and (iii)  monitoringof public expenditure regarding
Afro-Ecuadorian communities..

k g a l DevelopmentProgram
        This program seeks to provide CODENPEandCODAE with technical assistance
so that bothinstitutions havethe capacity to formulate legal proposals for the
enhancement of their constituencies rights ,incoordination with the rest of the public
sector. Inthis regard, selective legal consultant assistance will be providedfor :(i) the
formulation of proposalsfor the legislative framework of the indigenous nationalities and
peoples; (ii)dissemination of existing legal framework andthe new legal proposals; (iii)
elaboration of regulations and other proceduresrelated to the law of nationalities and
peoples; (iv) the completion of the legalrecognition of the indigenous and Afro-
Ecuadorian organizations. In addition, CODAE will work on: (i)     the formulation and
dissemination of the law of Afro-Ecuadorian development andrights ;and (ii)     the
validation amongits constituencies, of the Legal and InstitutionalFramework for
CODAE.

Insti~tionaldevelopmentprogram
        This program would provide TA to CODEMPE to continue the development of its
administrative capacity, while CODAE isjust beginning to establish itself, so it needs a
complete set of TA activities inareas of administration, accounting, finance, personnel
management, internal control andmonitoring, etc. The same type of TA would be
providedto CODAE's lower level grass roots community organizations. Inaddition,
CODENPE andCODAE will work incoordination for the preparation, implementation
and evaluation of the annualand monthly programplans. Management information
systems wouldbe designedto meet GOE and Bankreportingrequirements.



                                            55

~nter-culturalcommun~ationprogram
       This programwill support the designandimplementation of anintercultural
communications policy as abasisfor CODENPE and CODAE to disseminate
information about their programsandactions and to facilitate coordination with relevant
government and non-governmental institutions. This program will basically support: (i)
the creation of a network of community communication agents; (ii) production of inter-
culturalradio programs able to communicate indigenous communities andcommunity
development actors; and (iii)the design and implementation of an effective
multicultural communication policy for CODENPE-CODAE-PRODEPINE as abasis to
strengtheninthe public view the work beingundertakenby these institutions andto share
lessonslearned and accumulatedexperiences




                                         56

                                  Annex 5: Project Costs


                                                       Local         Foreign        Total
      PROJECTCOST BY COMPONENT                        us$000        us$000         us$000
1. StrengtheningSocial Organizations                     1,847.2          317.8        2,165.0
2. Knowledge andCulturefor Development                   2,578.6          128.4        2,707.0
3. Natural Resources                                     2,578.6           29.3        2,607.9
4. RuralInvestments                                     25,872,4           57.6       25,930.0
5, Project Managementand Strengtheningof
        CODENPE andCODAE
   -CODEWE andCODAE                                        539.6          220.4          760.0
   -Project ImplementationUnit                           7,622.7          914.8        8,537.5
   SubtotalManagementandStrengthening                    8,162.3        1,135.2        9,297.5

Total BaselineCost                                      41,039.2        1,668.2       42,707.4
 PhysicalContingencies                                   1,715.2           83.4        1,798.6
 Price Contingencies                                         14.1         103.1          117.2
                             Total Project Costs'       42,768.4        1,854.8       44,623.2
                       Interestduring construction
                                   Front-endFee                          337.0         337.0
                       Total Financing Required         42,768.4       2,191.8      44,960.2


'Identifiable taxes andduties are US$ 1.7m, andthe total project cost, net of taxes, is
US$42,9m. Therefore, the share of project cost net of taxes is 96.1%.


                               FinancingPlan by Financier



                        The              The World
                    Government              Bank             Beneficiaries      Total
                                           Amount              Amount          Amount
                      us $000
                      Amount
                                   %       US$OOO        %     US$OOO      % US$OOO       %

  I.ForeignI/                  0.0    -         2,191.8 100.0                 - 2,191.8    4.2
  11. Local (Excl.
  Taxes)                   5,316.8 12.8        30,797.7 75.0      4,923.1 12.041,037.5    92.0
  111.Taxes                 125.0 42.6          1,005.8 58.1                  - 1,730.8     3.9
                           6,041.8 13.4        33,995.3 75.4      4,923.1 12.044,960.2    100.0

I/Includesfront-endfeeintheamountUS$340,000




                                             57

                        Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
The Project will be carried out by the Republic of Ecuador through the NationalCouncil
for the Development of Nationalities and Peoples(CODENPE) and the Corporation for
Afro- Ecuadorian Development (CODAE).
        Followingthe Constitutional reformof 1998(incorporating collective rights of the
nationalities andpeoples) CODENPE was establishedby PresidentialDecree 386 of 1998
modifiedby Presidential Decree 1206of 2001, It is a decentralized agency within the
Presidency, grantedjuridical personality and establishedto allow for the participation of
nationalities and peoples inall levels of planningand decision makingof the State. It i s
composedby a National Council and an Executive Committee. The Council is formed by
the Executive Secretary, arepresentativeeachof the following peoples (pueblos):
Saraguro, CGari, Puruhu6, Waranka, Panzaleo, Chivuleo Salasaka, Quitu, Cayambi,
Caranqui, Natabuela, Otavalo Manta, and Huancavilca; two representativesof the
Quichuas of the Amazon, andone representativeeach of the following peoplesthat
identify themselves as "nationalities": Shuar, Achuar, Shwiviar Huaorani, Siona Secoya,
Cofhn, Ziparo Chachi, Tsachila, Epera andAw6. The decree allows for other groups
differentthan those listed to be recognized andincorporatedinthe Council.
        The Executive Committee is formed by a representative each of the nationalities
of the Coast, Amazon andSierra (Highlands) andthe Executive Secretary. CODENPEi s
empowered: (a) to define the policies for the strengthening of nationalities and peoplesof
Ecuador; (b) to co-manage with them sustainable development programs; (c) to propose,
incoordination with suchnationalities andpeoples,draft laws affecting them; and(d)to
promote the legal organization andregistry of the nationalities andpeoples.
        CODAE was establishedby Presidential Decree 1747 of 1998 as amendedby
Decree 3104of 2002. CODAE was grantedjuridical personality and is linkedto the
Presidencyof the Republic. CODAE is empowered among others: (a) to promotethe
organization of its Afro-Ecuadorian communities andto carry out capacity building
programs; and (b) to carry out studies relatedto Afro-Ecuadorian and carry out its
recommendations. The delegate representingthe Ecuador's Presidency is the legal
representativeof the agency.

Directorateand ConsultativeCommitteeofPRODEPINE
        Bothinstitutions are formally dependent on the office of the Pvesidenciade la
Repziblica,andfor the purposes of the project it will create a Directorate (Junta
Divectiva),conformed by CODENPE's Executive Secretary andCODAE's Presidential
Delegate. The PIU's Executive Director will participate inthe Directorate as Secretary,
without a vote. Decisions will be taken by consensus; incase such i s not possible, the
decision will be taken by the SecretarioNacionalde laAdministracibn Pliblica. The
project's directorate will approve the project's annual budget and operational plan,
delegateits implementation to the PlU, and supervise regularly its execution.
        CODENPE and CODAE have createda Consultative Committee (Comite`
Consultivo Ampliado) which, at the moment, includes representatives of the largest
nationalethnic andruralorganizations, inter a h , CONAIE, FEINE, FENOCIN, FEI,
CAN, ConsejoRegional de Palenques, Coordinadora Nacional de MujeresNegras, five
representativesof CODENPE's Executive Committee and three representatives of
CODAE's Directorate. The Consultative Committee will meet four times per year,
providinga forum for the participation of the target population's key representative

                                            58

organizations. Its main functions will be: i)to provide strategic guidancefor project
implementation; and ii)to ensure that the project allocatesfundingunder clear and
transparent rules, as detailed inLoanAgreement and the Operational Manual. The
compositionandfunctions of the Directorate and Consultative Committee will be
establishedinthe Operational Manual.

Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
         A project unit,reporting to CODENPEand CODAE, with core fiduciary and
technical staff will be establishedin Quito with up to sevenregional offices located in
Esmeraldas(Costa Norte), Ibarra(Sierra Norte), Riobamba (Sierra Centro), Cuenca
(Sierra Sur), Tena (Amazonia Norte), Macas (Amazonia Sur), andLaLibertad (Costa
Sur). The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has maintained a satisfactory record in
Financial Management (FM) andprocurement duringthe implementation of
PRODEPINE I;       however, as a result of the FMandProcurement Assessments described
inthe PartD-2 of thisreport, time-bound action planshavebeenagreed and arebeing
followed upclosely. Staff selection will be conducted by a specialized firm, selected
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and endorsedby MEF. The PIUwill
be staffed with key membersto the satisfactionof the Bank as a Condition of
Effectivenessof the Project.
         The PIUwill preparea Project Implementation Plan(PIP), which will bebroken
down into Annual Implementation Plans (AIP) and will include four sections: i)
description of project activities to be executedduringthe time period; ii)Gantt
Chdproject schedule with timing of activities, relationship with other activities,
facilitating entity responsible; iii)budget plan; and, iv) procurement plan.The AIP will
be the principal tool for coordination between the PIU and the regionalunits. AIPs would
be prepared by the PIU andregional units, approved by CODENPE andCODAE and
presentedto the Bank for no objection before the beginning of the budget year.

C~~rdinuting   IFu~ilitutingentities(FEs)
         Following the successfulexperienceinPRODEPINEI, project will provide
                                                                  the
training and technical assistanceto second- and third-tier organizations (OSGs and
OTGs) which group the target's population basecommunities. FEs will also assume the
role of coordinating activities inthe benefit of beneficiary communities through the
implementation of subprojects, after signingtripartite BeneficiaryAgreements with the
PIU. Eligibility requirements andimplementation arrangementsfor the different activities
involving the close to 250 existing FEis and beneficiary communities are detailed in
Annex 4.

Other agencies
        Other agencies involved inthe implementation of the Project are: the Agrarian
Development Institute (INDA), responsible for the landtitling activities to be carried out
as a subcomponent of the Natural ResourcesComponent, andthe Ministryof the
Environment (MEA), responsible for the conservation and managementof forested areas,
includingthose where indigenous peoples are located. These agencies will fulfill their
respectiveroles under ImplementationAgreements (convenios), similar to those under
the first Project, to be enteredinto with CODENPEKODAEfor the secondProject.
Signingof such agreementswill be a condition of disbursementfor the landtitling
activities.
                                               59

Operational Manual
        The Operational Manual(OM), which is substantially the same as that usedinthe
first project, shall include all rules and regulations for implementation of all project
components and operation of the PTU(project planning, monitoring, evaluation,
institutionalarrangements, environmental review, reporting, communication, human
resources, risk, coordination, procurement, andfinancial management). The manual shall
provide regulations for the coordination of Project implementation, including: (i)   detailed
disbursement, accounting, auditing andreporting procedures; (ii)    specific procurement
responsibilities, processes and internal controls; (iii) precise monitoring and evaluation
plansfor the Project; (iv) appropriate standards for the design of Local Subprojects,
includingeligibility criteria and selection procedures; (v) simplified proceduresfor
identification, preparation, approval and supervision of Local Subprojects, includingthe
Environmental Proceduresand Guidelines; (vi) applicable eligibility criteria and selection
proceduresfor LocalBeneficiary Groups, Local Governments, and Local Services
Providers; (vii) independentcomplaint resolution mechanisms; and (viii) effective
mechanismsfor dissemination of informationrelated to Local Subprojects. Updates to the
OMwouldrequire the no objection of the Bank. Adoptionof the Operational Manual,
endorsedby MEFand satisfactoryto the Bank is an EffectivenessConditionof the
Project.




                                              60

          Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements


A Financial Management (FM)Assessment was performedduringthe identification
mission of the SecondIndigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian PeoplesDevelopment Project, in
order to evaluate the proposedfinancial managementarrangements andthe implementing
entity's capacity to provide the Bankwith accurateandtimely informationregarding
resourcesand expenditures. The assessment was performed from November 7-14,2002,
inaccordancewith OPBP 10.02 andthe Guidelinesfor Assessmentof Financial
Management Arrangements inWorld Bank FinancedProjects. Three (3) other visits
were done to updatethe assessment inMay, 2003, February and April, 2004, and to
evaluateprogress on the action plan designed to addressthe important weaknesses
identified.

Overall Summary and Conclusion
        The Project Implementation Unit) (PIU) has maintained a satisfactory record in
Financial Management duringthe implementation of PRODEPINE I.The projects FM
riskprofileis consideredsubstantial, nevertheless, becauseof amix of inherent risks and
controlrisks that havebeendemonstratedinthe first project andwhich continue to be
relevant inthe new project. The principalinherent risks are (1) the decentralized nature of
funds flow arrangementsandthe participationof multiple facilitating agenciesin
subprojects, and (2) uncertainties surrounding the extent to which existing institutional
and staffing arrangements will continue inthe secondphase. The most important
capacity constraints that give risk to control risk are inthe areas of (1) Programming and
Financial Planning (2) Procedural and design weakness inthe transfer of funds to
regional offices and sub projects which resulted innon compliance with disbursement
rules (3) insufficient supervision of regional activities and (4) limitations inthe
accounting andfinancial reporting system.

Major strengthsobserved
    Organizationand Sta@ng:- The project has an adequatenumber of skilled and
    qualified staff with prior experiencewith aWB financed project. Job descriptions and
    allocations of responsibility are clearly defined. Regular staff meetings are heldto
    clarify difficult accounting issues andensure that staff remainup to date with new
    financial requirements. Continuance of such experienced staff or the hiring of other
    similar people, would be crucial for project implementation.
   Internal Controls:- There is adequatesegregation of duties, regular reconciliations of
    accounting records, bank statements, transfers between the NationalAccounting
    Office andthe Regional bank accounts.

Major weaknesses observed:
   Programming and~nanciazplanning. This becomes one of the most important
    weaknesses, bothinterms of proceduresand system facilities.:- Financialstatements
    analysis and comparisons between actual andbudgeted performance is not performed
   on a regular basis. Inadequateattention to significant variations could prevent timely,
    appropriatecorrective action from being taken.
    Transfer of funds to Regional O@ces. The procedures implemented were inefficient
   and involved a chain of bank transfers, beforereachingthe final beneficiary.

                                              61

    Inadequate supervision of regional financial activities.
    ~ ~ s ~ u r s eProcedures:- Statements of Expenditure are preparedmanually. Given
                    ~ e n t
    the volume of transactions, this increasesthe risks of errors andmisstatements.
    Proceduresneedto be improved to monitorthe timing andefficiency of transfers to
    the regional levels.

RiskMitigation
        Since the assessment, the project has continued to take corrective action to
address capacity constraints, and update visits were performed inFebruary and April
2004.
        A draft OperationsManualhasbeen submittedto the Bankinwhich: (1)the
organizational structure has beendefined; (2) the flow of funds anddisbursement
arrangementsconcerning regional offices and facilitating entities implementing
subprojects have beenredesigned; and (3) proposals have beenmade for the design of
budgeting, programming andmonitoringof regional financial activities.
        Improvement to the information system will be financed by the Project
Management and Institutional Strengtheningof CODENPE and CODAE component.
Adoptionof the Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank is aConditionof
Effectiveness.

Supervisionduringimplementation
        The project should be monitored on a semi-annual basis inthe first two years of
implementation and thereafter through at least one supervision visit each year.
Furthermore, the audit reportswill be reliedupon. The Annual Audit Report Review will
highlight the adequacy of internalcontrols, integrity of financial reporting andefficiency
inthe useof projects funds. Desk Reviews will also.beperformedonthe semi-annual
FMRs,preparedinform andsubstance acceptableto the Bank, which wouldbe
submitted not later than 45 days after the endof each six monthperiod.

Audit Arrangements
        The annual audit reports, covering the project financial statementsshall be
preparedin accordancewith terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and would be
furnished to the Bank not later than four months after the endof each year. The terms of
reference shall be preparedinaccordancewith current Bank regional guidelines. The
process of selection andcontracting shallbe overseenby the Controller General of the
Stateof Ecuador (CGE). A Memorandum of Understanding hasbeen signed by the Bank
and the CGE to ensure selection of eligible audit firms, delivery of acceptable reports
within the time frames set out inthe legal agreement and adequatequality control.

Disbursementarrangementsandfundsflow
        Disbursementswill be transaction based(Le. against Statements of expenditure
(SOEs), full documentation, direct payments or special commitments). The project will
open a SpecialAccount (SA) which will be maintained and operatedby the project
central PIUinthe Central Bank inUnitedStatesdollars (called TE Account within the
Central Bank). Deposits into the SA, andpayments madefrom the SA should be made in
accordancewith the provisions set out inthe Legal Agreement. To facilitate payments (if
needbe) andreceipts of funds the regional PIUoffices will open bank accounts (called T-


                                            62

Accounts) inlocal commercial banks. The project central PIUwill prepareand
consolidate eligible expenditures inwithdrawal applications accompaniedby the
supporting documentation inaccordance with Bankdisbursementprocedures, which will
be submitted to the Bank on a regular basis. MEFwill approve all withdrawal
applications. Inthe case of replenishmentsof the SA authorized allocation, the project
should submit monthly withdrawal applications, or at aminimumon a quarterly basis at
beginningof implementation.

Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
        Withdrawal from the loan account couldbe made on the basis of SOEs for the
following expenditures: (a) goods under contractsnot exceeding $250,000 equivalent;
(b)consulting servicesfrom individuals andfirms under contracts not exceeding $50,000
equivalent respectively; (c) service contractsfor landtitling not exceeding $250,000
equivalent; (d) expendituresfor investment subprojects, includingtechnical assistance;
(e) training; and (f) scholarship grants, All supporting documents for which withdrawal
applications from the loan account are madeon the basis of SOEs, the borrower will
retain full documentation (including contracts, purchaseorders, invoices, receipts and any
other documentsevidencing such expenditures) and make them available for review and
examination to Bank staff insupervision missions andto the external auditors when
performingthe audit of the project accounts.

Funds Flow and SpecialAccount
        As describedpreviously, the project will have access to funds advancedby the
Bankto the SA for processingdisbursementsto beneficiariesfor those eligible
expendituresunderthe project activities. Inorder for the Bank to authorize the
establishmentof the Special Account the Borrowercannot have any pending refunds for
SA advances madefor any other Bank loans to Ecuador. The Bank will deposit, upon
borrower's request, an amount of $3,000,000 as authorized allocation. This amount
should be limited to the amount of $1,500,000 untilthe disbursementsfrom the loan
account exceed$5,000,000.
        Giventhe CDD implementation nature of this project, with more than 40% of the
loan funds beingchanneledthrough second and third-tier organizations (FEs) that group
severalcommunities, special attention was given to facilitate a funds flow mechanism to
ultimate beneficiaries inthe most efficient manner but takinginto account the capacity
and implementation arrangementswithin the central and regional PIUs, the inherent risks
alreadydescribedinthe FMand Procurement capacity assessments andthe risk
mitigationfor the identified areas where improvements are expected to be observed
during implementation of the project. Thus a hybrid decentralization criteriafor
managing the project funds, including approving and processingof payments hasbeen
designedfor this project. The criteria set inthe implementation arrangementsfor
managingprocurement anddisbursementsof project components are defined inthe
Operational Manual indetails, but overall will be functioning as follows:

    Delegationfrom the central PIUto regional PIUs (up to seven intotal) for training
    capacity buildingand technical assistance activities relatedto: (1) strengthening the
    managementcapacity of facilitating agencies (FEs), (2) strategic and local
    developmentplanning(LDP) of the FEs, and (3) technical assistanceto local


                                             63

  governments. Procurementprocessis either delegatedentirely or sharedbetween
  central and regional PIUs; however, most monitoringand evaluation of satisfactory
  completion of such activities before payment could be madeto consultants is being
  delegated to the regional PIUs. Once the regional PIUcertifies satisfactory
  completionof the contractedactivity, the payment would be madedirectly by the
  central PIUto consultantsusingdirect transfers from the SA to the beneficiary
  account.


0 Scholarships grants would be managedby the central PIUand as such any payment
  for this program (i.e. to the entity administering the program andlor to beneficiaries of
  the programfor tuition andliving expenses) wouldbe executedby the central PIU.


0 All consulting servicesand servicecontractsfor the landtitling programwill be
  contracted andmanagedby the PIUincoordination with INDA. Payments would be
  made directly by the central PIUto the contractor bank accounts.


0 Goods andconsulting services and training activities for CODENPE and CODAE
  will be managedby the central PIU, including processing of paymentsfor such
  activities.

e Technical assistancesubprojects: Activities financed by TA subprojectswill be
  implemented directly by the beneficiaries. InComponent 1, these activities include
  Local Development Planformulation or updates; and training andtechnical assistance
  for regional andnational organizations (including Nationalities' and Peoples'
  organizations). Incomponent 2, TA subprojects will be used to finance consulting
  services basedon businessplans and managedby the producer groupsthemselves. In
  component 3, selectedcommunities andFEis will manageTA subprojectsfor securing
  mangrove concessionsandimplementing community natural resourcemanagement
  activities. Incomponent 4, TA subprojects will be usedto finance investment studies.
  As detailed inAnnex 4, inall these cases, responsibility for selecting training and
  technical assistanceservices restswith the beneficiary; however, payments may in
  some cases be madedirectly from the central PIUto the consultant's bank account
  and, inother, through tranches to the bank accounts of beneficiaries. Depending on
  the case, either the central or the regional the PIU will verify satisfactory completion
  of services prior to issuingpayments.

e Investment subprojects:      With the exception of the global investment study for
  irrigation systems, the Rural Investments Component will be implemented by FEs
  (OSGs, OTGs, communities, and also possibly by local governments, and NGOs)
  under the supervision of regional PIUs which, as explained in Annex 4, involves
  different levels of responsibility in subproject implementation, including, among
  others, technical follow up, monitoring and evaluation of activities and disbursements
  of loan proceeds to beneficiaries by the central PIU and the seven regional PIUS. In
  general terms, the regional PIUs will approve subprojects with a total
  investment amount under $30,000, whereas the central PIU will approve
 subprojects over $30,000.           Funds will be disbursed by the central PIU to
 beneficiaries when the tripartite financing agreement (Le. contract) has been signed

                                            64

    by the FE, the regional PIU and the community. It i s also important to note that the
    project should determine the readiness and ability of the FEs to handle and account
    for the funds transferred to them before funds are channeledto their respective bank
    accounts. Following a CDD approach, the funds would be transferred to the bank
    account of the entity in charge of the implementation (OSGs, OTGs, communities,
    local government or NGO) and will be released in tranches as described in the
    tripartite financing agreement (contract). These tranche payments will be released
    basedon a lump-sum basis as described in the agreement. The initialtranche will be
    released on signature of the financing agreement as an advance. This advance
   payment could not exceed 90 days of estimated expenditures and no additional
   transfers should be made to the FE account until a satisfactory physical progress
   report is presented and received by the regional PIU. Since funding is made on a
   lump-sum basis as described in the financing agreement, the periodic payments
    (tranches) to the FEs are eligible expenditures. The initialtranche payment (advance)
   could not be reported as eligible expenditure untilthe first physical progress report is
   received and accepted as satisfactory. The progress payments are not considered
   advances since they are made against physical progress reports and as such could be
   reported as eligible expenditures immediately when payment i s executed. It should
   be notedthat all transfers made to the FEs are only eligible to the extent that the work
   of the community subproject is completedby the closing date of the loan.


                               Allocationof LoanProceeds

        Expenditure Category                Amount inUS$               Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                          830,000                        100%

2. Consultant Services andTraining              5,190,000                        100%

3. Investment Subprojects(Grants)              19,390,000                        100%

4. Service Contracts for titling                1,800,000                        100%

5. Technical Assistance Subprojects             3,700,000                        100%

6. HigherEducation Scholarships                 1,400,000                        100%

7. Unallocated                                  1,350,000                           -

8. Front-end Fee                                  340,000                           -

                                 Total         34,000,000




                                            65

                                  Annex 8: Procurement


A) General

        Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out inaccordance
with the World Bank's "Guidelines: ProcurementUnderIBRDLoans and IDA
Credits'' dated May 2004; and"Guidelines: Selection andEmployment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" datedMay 2004, andthe provisions
stipulated inthe LoanAgreement. For eachcontract to be financed by the Loan, the
different procurement methodsor consultant selection methods, the needfor pre-
qualification, estimatedcosts, prior review requirements, andtime frame are agreed
betweenthe Borrower andthe Bankproject team inthe Procurement Plan. The
Procurement Plan will be updatedat least annually or as requiredto reflect the
actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutionalcapacity.

Procurement of Works: No civil works contracts will be financed underthe
project, except as part of Subproject Grants, with the use Commercial Practices
acceptableto the Bank. Details on the use of this one method can be found inthe
procurement chapter of the Project Operations Manual.

Procurement of Goods: Contracts of goods andservices will be procured under
this project for procurement of vehicles, computer equipment, software andsmall
office equipment as part of strengthening of CODENPE, CODAEand
PRODEPINE. Vehicles will be procured by the PRODEPINE usingBank standard
procurement documents under International Competitive Bidding(ICB) procedures
and contracts grouped inpackages with values of $300,000equivalent or more.
Goods (other than vehicles) and services costing $50,000equivalent or more but
less than $300,000will be procured and awardedwith the use of National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, basedon standarddocuments acceptable
to the Bank. Contracts for procurement of goods and services estimated to cost less
than $50,000 will be awardedwith the use of Price Comparison (Shopping)
proceduresof at least three quotations obtained from qualifieddomestic suppliers,
andstandardproject documentsacceptableto the Bank.

Procurement of non-consultingservices: contracts for provisionof services in
support of INDA Patrimony's new landtitling andMA Patrimony's activities will
be awardedwith the use of NCB proceduresandgroupedinpackages estimated to
cost not less than $120,000 equivalent per contract. Non-consultingservices to be
financed will include also logistics services for the organization of workshops and
trainingactivities addressedto beneficiary communities participatingunder
Subprojects andwill be procured with the use of shopping procedures for contracts
estimatedto cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract. The PIU, insome cases
incoordination with CODENPE andCODAE, will be responsible for procurement
of such services.

Selection of Consultants : Consulting services for employment of firms and
individuals will be procured under this project inthe following areas of expertise:

                                             66

institutionalcapacity buildingof project implementing agenciesandparticipating
communities; community member training inmanagementsystems, financial
management, investment management,culture-basedinitiatives specialized training
to indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian people; workshops; technical assistance;
investment studies for preparationof investment subprojects; scholarship program
administration; specializedlegal studies; andfinancial andprocurement audits.
Total costs of consulting services are estimated to cost $5.23 million equivalent and
will be procuredto the extent possible with the use of QCBS procedures andBank
StandardRequestfor Proposals, regardlessof contract price.
        (i)     Firms. All contracts for hiringof consultant firms estimated to cost
        $100,000 equivalent or more will be procuredusingQCBS, except for
        small-value and simple contractsestimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO
        equivalent that will be procured usingthe QCBS, CQ andLCS methods, as
        agreedinthe selectionplan. Servicesfor specialized training, evaluation of
        beneficiaries, andproject procurement audits to be contracted with firms
        may be procuredwith the use of the Consultant's Qualificationmethod.
        Total costs of consulting services providedwith firms are estimated at $4.32
        million equivalent.
        (ii) I~div~d~Individualconsultantsforspecializedadvisory,
                              ~ Z s .
        technical assistanceand training services aimed to improve productive
        capacity; identification of beneficiary demands; managementof natural
        resources; andlocal community capacity shall be selectedthrough
        comparison of qualifications and CVs obtained from at least three qualified
        individuals, inaccordancewith the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3
        of the Consultant Guidelines, upto an aggregate amount of $1.1lmillion
        equivalent. Under TA SubprojectsandInvestment Subprojects, selection of
        individualconsultantsto be employed by participatingcommunities will
        follow private sector or commercial practices, acceptableto the Bank.Said
        practices will be basedon the comparison of qualifications andthe use of
        criteria such as academicbackground, experience, knowledge of local
        conditions and language, andoverall suitability for the assignment. The
        comparison of qualifications will be carried out with at least 3 candidates
        who shall meet minimumrelevant requirements andconsultants will be
        selectedon the basis of the best qualifiedamongst the candidates considered
        for a particular assignment.

Short lists of consultantsfor services estimated to cost less than $200,000
equivalent per contract may be composedentirely of national consultants in
accordancewith the provisions of paragraph2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

OperationalCosts: recurrent costs for employmentof technical and administrative staff
insupportofproject coordination tasks, as well as servicesfor the PTUoperation suchas
materials, office equipment maintenance, utilities, per diem and transportation, totaling
US$6.04 millions will be funded only with government counterpart funds. Goods,
specializedtraining, audits and other studies for the PTUwill be financed by loan
proceeds. The relevant procurement methods for procurement of operational costs have
beenagreedinthe procurement planalready cleared.


                                             67

Others:
Subproject Grants: under this category, civil works, goods and services, will be
procured as part of Infrastructure andSocial Subprojects-included into Institutional
Agreements to be enteredinto with Facilitating Entities- with the use of Community
Procurement proceduresfor contractsestimatedto cost $30,000 equivalent or less inthe
aggregate, inaccordancewith the provisions of paragraph3.7 of the Guidelines; and
Three Quotations proceduresfor contractsestimatedto cost more than $30,000
equivalent andless than $90,000equivalent, inthe aggregate. Although not foreseen,
whenever a contract priceestimatefor procurement of goods or works may be estimated
to cost $90,000equivalent or more, the FacilitatingEntity will follow National
Competitive Biddingprocedures to award contracts.

Scholarship Grants: the project will fund scholarshipsfor a total of 150 students to be
selectedby a designatedspecialized entity on the basis of merits and needunder explicit
and clear rules. Studentswill be selectedupon results of a pass entrance exam. The
selection method to hire a managing entity for scholarships administration hasbeen
establishedinthe selection planagreedwith PRODEPINE. The scholarships managing
entity will be remuneratedon the basis of student accomplishments. Terms of Reference
and a model contract will be included inthe Operations Manual.

TA Subprojects: Under Component 1, indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian
organizations will hire consultant services to improve their technical, managerial
and implementation capacities. Under Component 2, producer groups will hire
consultant services in areas of management, design, procedures and so far , as
requiredto fulfill their businessplans. Incomponent 3, communities andFEs will
hire consulting services to secure mangrove concessions and implement natural
resourcemanagementactivities. Under the RuralInvestments component, technical
assistance will be procured for consultants to help participating communities to
formulate their investment studies. Contracts required for TA Subprojects for
employment of firms and individuals estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent per
contract or less     will be awarded under Commercial Practices procedures,
acceptable to the Bank, up to an amount not to exceed $3.96 million. Details on
the use of this one method can be found in the procurement chapter of the Project
Operations Manual.

B. Assessmentofthe agency's capacity to implementprocurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by the PRODEPINE's PIU on behalf of
CODENPE and CODAE. The agency's Procurement unit will be staffed by one
Procurement Officer to be hired before effectiveness.       The Project Operations
Manual will include in addition to the procurement methods to use, the Standard
Bidding Documents to be sued for each procurement method as well as model
contractsfor goods and consultant services to be procured.
       An assessment of the capacity of PRODEPINE to implement procurement
actions for the project has beencarried out by Keisgner Alfaro on July 14,2003 and
updated later on March 31, 2004. The assessment reviewed the organizational
structurefor implementing the project and the interaction between the project's staff


                                            68

responsible for procurement Officer and the Ministry's relevant central unit for
administration and finance.
         Most of the issues/ risks concerning the procurement component for
implementation of the project have been identified and include: i)the lack of clear
and adequate responsibility lines to manage procurement and contract
administration functions; ii)some uncertainty on the extent to which current
organizational and staffingarrangements at project preparation stage will be usedat
the secondphase and the lack of experiencedand capable staff to implement Bank-
financed project procurement; iii)lack of a professional and reliable project filing
system; and iv) the lack of an integrated project managementinformation systemto
enable a more efficient coordination and decision-making. The corrective measures
which have been agreed are i)the Operations Manual will provide a detailed
description of responsibilities assigned to the Bidding Committee and
PRODEPINE's Executive Director, including the responsibility of the latter for
contract award. The Committee will not be entitled to award contracts andperform
contract administration responsibilities, as it was the case in PRODEPINE 1; ii)a
Procurement Officer with professional experience in the implementation of
Multilateral Development Bank-financed projects must be selected and hired not
later than October 30, 2004; iii)with technical assistancefrom an expert consultant,
the PIU will implement a professional project filing system not later than July 15,
2005 at boththe central and regional levels of PRODEPINE. The selection process
for hiring of the Consultant has been included in the draft procurement plan
submittedto the Bank for review and clearance; and iv) PRODEPINE has decided
to implement an Integrated Project Management Information System (PMIS) with
the capability to record each of the procurement and administrative transactions in
the project; to timely monitor and follow up management of procurement and
financial transactions; and provide on-line information for reporting and decision
makingpurposes.

The overall project riskfor procurement is HIGH

C. Procurement Plan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project
implementation which provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan
has been agreedbetween the Borrower and the Project Team on April 26,2004 and
i s available at the PRODEPINE's PIU offices located on Calle Bosmediano 1150,
Quito, Ecuador. It will also be available inthe Project's database and inthe Bank's
external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the
Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation
needs andimprovements ininstitutional capacity.

D.Priorreview thresholds
         Thresholdsfor Bankprior review are indicated inTable B below. They
correspondto those assignedto highrisk agencies, consistent with thresholds issuedby
the RPA Office for LAC Countries, per e-mail dated as of 12127/2002.



                                            69

         Table B: Thresholdsfor Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
                                      ContractValue                                            Contracts Subjectto
  Expenditure Category                   Threshold                ProcurementMethod                Prior Review
                                     (US$ thousands)                                             (US$ thousands)
1.Goods and Services            Contract=>300                             ICB                  All contracts
                                      50 <Contract <300                 NCB                 Eachcontractestimated
                                                                                               to cost $250equivalent
                                                                                            or more; and first two
                                                                                                   contracts.

                                Contract <=50                         Shopping S(N)         First two contracts, and
                                                                                            annualreview of
                                                                                            procurementplan.
                                                                                            Post Review: random
                                                                                            sample of contracts.

2. ServiceContracts             Contract=> 120                          NCB                 Each contractestimated
                                                                                               to cost $250 equivalent
                                                                                            or more, and first two
                                                                                                   contracts

3. ConsultantServices
and Training

Firms                           Contract=> 100                         QCBS                 All TOR, WP, short
                                                                                             lists of firms, full review
                                                                                             of evaluationreports,
                                                                                             and draft contract

                                Contract< 100                        QCBS; LCS; CQ               Only TORs
                                                                                             Postreview: random
                                                                                             sample of contracts, and
                                                                                             annualreview of
                                                                                               selectionplan

Individuals                        3 <= Contract<= 100                     IC                All TOR, CVs and form
                                                                                               of agreement
                                     Contract =< 15                        IC                    Only TORs

4. TA Subprojects                     Contract=<30           Commercial Practices                        None

5. SubprojectGrants                  Contract=< 30           Commercial Practices                        None

                                                                                                         None.
                                   30 <Contract<90           Three Quotations [S(N) I        Postreview: random
                                                                        PSW]                 sample of contracts

                                                                                             Postreview: random
                                     Contract=>90                       NCB                  sample of contractsand
                                                                                             annualreview of
                                                                                             procurementplan
'Thresholds generally differ by country andproject. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement




                                                           70

E. Frequency of ProcurementSupervision

Inaddition to the prior review supervision to be carried out fromBank offices, the
capacity assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommended one
supervision mission to visit the field to carry out post review of procurement
actions.




                                          71

I

W
a
c,
e
0

U
G
85a
Y
E?0
Y
c
8

                        Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis


                                    Cost Benefit Analysis

IIndicators                    I        PresentValue of Flows inBase-line Scenario         I
                                      Economic Analysis               Financial Analysis

 Net Benefits                           US$36 million                  US$59 million


 Internal Rate of Return                     39%                              53%



                                         Introduction

 PRODEPINE activities are inessence aimed at buildingsocial, human, natural and
 physical capital of indigenous andafro communities. Such a wide range of activities
 eventually translateinto identification, preparation andexecution of investment
 subprojects. Thus, cost-benefit analysis of rural investments i s essential to understand
 long-term impacts of the project.
         PRODEPINEIhas operatedbasedon the principle of community demand
 priority-setting of ruralinvestments. To assess the effects and likely impacts of project
 rural investments, 50 subprojectsrandomly selectedwere evaluated with beneficiaries.
 Subprojectswere assessedinterms of importance (Le. priority needs addressed),
 operativelfinancial sustainability, beneficiaries' participation and appropriation, likely
 benefits or impacts andbeneficiaries' satisfaction (see EvaluationReport inProject files).
 Inlightof evaluation results, PRODEPMI1will maintain the participatory planning
 and subprojectpreparationapproach, usedduringPRODEPINE I.However, enhanced
 quality control measureswill be introduced to avoiddeviations.

 Subproject cycle
         The subproject cycle involves four stages, namely investment study, execution,
 operation andevaluation. The investment study stage involves: promotion, participatory
 rural assessment andlocaldevelopment planning, participatory preparation and ex-ante
 evaluation of subproject profiles, preliminary appraisal, detailed preparation and ex-ante
 evaluation of subproject proposals; final appraisal and approval. The execution stage
 involves: subproject contract agreements, disbursements, procurement, works, financial
 accounting, supervision and technical follow-up, and implementation completion report
 preparation. The operation stage involves the regular or recurrent service and operation of
 executedinvestments. The monitoring stage involves assessment of beneficiaries'
 perceptionsof investment subproject effects and likely impacts.




                                  74

Eligible Investments
         PRODEPINEIsupportedinvestmentson: public infrastructure such as schools,
feeding centers, health centers and nurserieslinfant centers; social community
infrastructure such as lodging facilities, community centers, radio communication
facilities, drinkingwater distribution systems, electrical energy generation facilities and
information centers; productive community infrastructurelinvestmentssuch as pasture
improvements, irrigationsystems, secondaryltertiary road improvements andpedestrian
bridges; associativeenterprises such as plantations, agro-industries, tree nurseries,
compost production, green-housesandhandicraft workshops; and natural resource
investmentssuch as sustainablewatershedmanagement,community forestry andsoil
improvements.

                                    Evaluation Results

Inbroadterms, evaluationresultsleadto the following inferences: on average75%of
resourcesrequired for subproject investments came from PRODEPINE and 25% from
beneficiary communities; 95% of subprojects directly addressedpriority needs of
communities; 40% of subprojects neededbudgetary increasesto face price adjustments
duringimplementation; 85% of subprojects are currently inoperation; 75% of
subprojectshave clear responsibilities assigned; 80% of subprojects were infact decided
by the communities themselves or with the support of OSG's;for 75% of subprojects,
communities express satisfaction with investments executedand services generated.
Around 30 subprojectswere analyzedingreater depth to estimate net benefits to
communities. The resultsof the analysis are shown inTable 1. Communities valued
benefits of analyzed subprojectsinterms of different criteria. Subproject costs included
purchasedinputs, contracted labor and communitylfamily labor (valued at marketwages).
Flows of net benefits of analyzedsubprojects were calculated considering the expected
life of maininvestment items. Annual costs for replacing subproject investments were
also calculated to estimate net benefits after eventual savings for replacing investments
(re-investment).
         Public infrastructure. Analyzed school facilities brought about some savings on
transportation and feeding costs of children who usedto travel for schooling. Benefits of
school facilities inisolatedcommunities were not quantified. However, they are
significant insofar as these school facilities were essential inobtaining teachers and thus
makingchildeducationpossible. Moreover, analyzed infant centers allowed women more
time available for domestic andproductive activities. Healthcenter facilities brought
about some savings on transportation costs and time of people who traveled for medical
attention.
         Social community infrastructure. Solar energy systems brought about some
savings on expenses for domestic and community lightning. Drinkingwater systems
brought about some savings on healthtreatments andreduced water transportation
efforts. Behavioral impacts of bothtypes of investments were particularlyinteresting,
since their operation requiredenergy or water use regulations and savings for systems'
maintenance. Service regulations have been gradually adopted. However, savings for
maintenance seldom occur.



                                  75

         Productive communitv infrastructure. Irrigationsystems andpasture
improvements brought about significant production increases. However, impact
estimations provided by beneficiaries were reducedby 50% considering future price
variations of agricultural production. On the other hand, pedestrianbridges brought about
some savings on transportation costs associatedto commercialization of traditional
products.

         Associative enterprises. Some associativeenterprisesgeneratedadditional income
to participating partieslcommunities. Successfulexperiences included: tree nursery,
cheese factory and radio broadcasting.Associative greenhousesproved to be difficult to
operate inhighlands.
         Naturalresourcesinvestments.Soil recovery brought about modestproduction
increases. Incontrast, watershedmanagementsubprojectsproved to be difficult to
operate with minimumtechnical assistance. Assessedcommunities vaguely perceivedthe
benefits of watershedmanagement.
         Considering the above-mentionedbenefits, andthe relative weight of subproject
categorieswithin the whole sample (50 subprojects), the overall Internal Rate of Return
(IRR) of ruralinvestmentswas around 24%. The overallIRRcouldbehigher ifnon-
quantified social and environmental benefits are taken into account.

                                       LessonsLearned

The Evaluation Report inproject files contains adetailed analysis of major problems
observedinassessed subprojects. However ingeneral terms, the major limitations
included: community involvement duringthe whole subproject cycle; technical design
appropriate to the social andenvironmental conditions; and appropriate, opportune and
sufficient technical assistanceand working capital, duringstart-up operations. Other
major factors limiting benefit generation includedthe following:
         Public infrastructure. For this type of investments, the specific locationand
potential demandfor facilities played a critical role. Schools and health centers
constructed incommunities relative close to already existingschools andhealth centers
were not supportedby concernedpublic institutions (such as Ministry of Health).
Without the support of public institutions with professors anddoctorslnurses, such
investmentsproved to be difficult to operate on a regular basis.
         Social community infrastructure. For this type of investments, the potential users'
demandwas critical. Solar energy systems or drinkingwater distributionsystems for very
small communities will face major sustainability problems since benefits seemto be
smaller than operation andmaintenancecosts.
        Productive community infrastructurelinvestments and associative enterprises. For
this type of investments, community or group organization for effective operation was
essential. However, forced group activities provedto be counter productive. Irrigation
andpastureimprovements seemed to work well since individual agricultural production
and pasturemanagementresponsibilities were not affected, Group activities only
involvedinputpurchases, infrastructure construction andinfrastructure maintenance. On
the other hand, associativeenterprisesfor newly formed groups proved to be difficult,



                                  76

since managementandoperation responsibilities were not clear. Sugar cane plantation
andgreenhousesareconcrete examples.
        Natural resourceinvestments. For this type of investments, effective and clear
communication with beneficiary communities proved to be critical. Weak technical
assistanceduringimplementation was amajor drawback of analyzed watershed
management subprojects. However, even with appropriate assistance, these investments
would be conflictive as long as participating communities don't clearly understandtheir
purpose and eventual benefits. Communities better valued soil recovery investments
since associatedbenefits were easily perceived.

        These lessons learnedwould be incorporated ina revised RuralInvestments
Regulation ManualandReferenceMaterials. The revised manual andreference materials
would be ready prior to implementation. Major adjustments include: i)revised co-
financing arrangements, so as to increasethe proportional contributionof beneficiaries
for investments inassociativeenterprises such as machinery, equipment and livestock; ii)
the possibility to finance working capital when no alternative sources are available; and
iii)asystematicapproachforspecializedtechnicalassistanceduringinvestmentstudy,
execution and operation of subprojects; v) closer guidance/supervision of community
participation duringthe whole subproject cycle; vi) enhanced subproject monitoringand
evaluation, includingbase-line (without project situation), ex-ante (with project situation)
andex-post assessments; andvii) tighter environmental screening.

                                   Ex-anteEvaluation

To forecast economic feasibility of PRODEPINE 11,a second scenario was prepared,
takinginto account lessonslearned andmajor adjustments of regulation manual. The
expectedeffects of these adjustmentswould be: the solution of problems mentioned
above as lessons learned; and exclusion of subprojects with greater difficulties, such as
greenhousesandpoorly conceivedwatershedmanagementinitiatives. Investments costs
are also expectedto increaseby 1096, due to additional technical assistance requirements.
        Incaseof schools, infant centers, healthcenters, solar energy systems and
drinkingwater distribution systems, feasible increasesof subproject beneficiaries were
consideredto reflect investment decisions basedon improved communities'
demandheeds analysis. School beneficiaries should be 13% more inArmenia school (73
rather than 65 children), and45% more inKayamas school (46 rather than 42 children).
Infantbeneficiaries should be 30% more (39 rather than 30 children) inChinipamba
infant center. Familybeneficiaries shouldbe 30% more (23 rather than 18families) in
Changuaraland Campanita solar energy systems. Family beneficiaries should be 3-4
times more (220 rather than 50 families) inOcpote and Verdepamba drinkingwater
distribution systems.
        Incase of associativeenterprisessuch as humusproduction, grain millsand
plantations, increasednet benefits were considered to reflect investment subprojects
better equippedwith working capital and technical assistance. Mascarillahumus
production, costs and benefits should be 5 times more since current productionis only
17%of infrastructure capacity. Incase of SantaTeresita grain mill,costs andbenefits
should also be 5 times more, since available equipment i s currently usedon week-ends


                                77

only, that is 4 dayslmonth when it could be used24 dayslmonth. Finally, Tsurakusugar
cane plantation couldproducebetter yields if some organic fertilizers are used.
        Considering the same parameters applied for the current evaluation of
PRODEPINEI, base-lineIRRfor ruralinvestments inPRODEPINE11would be
                 the
39%. The results of the analysis are shown inTable 2. Ifnon-quantified social and
environmental benefits are taken into account, the expectedoverall IRRcould be higher.
        For a sensitivity analysis, four scenarioswere considered: i)
                                                                    abase-line scenario;
ii)asecondscenariowherecommunityllaborcostswerenotvalued(orsetatzerowages)
andinessence constitutesafinancial feasibility analysis; athirdscenario where
costsheserves for replacing investmentsare subtractedfrom net benefits over a 20-year
period; and a fourth scenario, combining scenarios2 and 3. IfPRODEPINEII
improvements are not effective, the expectedIRR would be similar to the one obtained in
PRODEPINEI. resultingIRR's would be: 24% under first scenario; 37% under
                 The
secondscenario; 19%underthird scenario; and 27% under fourth scenario.
        IfPRODEPINE11improvements areeffective, theexpectedIRRof rural
investments wouldbe: 39% under first scenario; 53% under second scenario; 37% under
thirdscenario; and48% underfourth scenario. Higher IRRunder scenariosat zerocost
for communitylfamily labor (Le. financial analysis) simply reflect that in-kindlabor
contributions seem to be higher thanbenefits interms of time savings. Insummary,
economic IRRfor ruralinvestments inPRODEPINEI1could range from 19%to 39%,
andfinancial IRRcouldbefrom 27% to 53%. A summary of these sensitivity analysis
results are shown inTable 3.

                           Table 3. Sensitivity Analysis of IRR

Scenario                                           Analysis    PRODEPINE11measures
                                                               Ineffective    Effective
Base-line scenario                                 Economic          24%           39%
Zero in-kind labor costs                           Financial         37%           53%
Cost or replacing investments over 20 years        Economic          19%           37%
Re-investmentsandzero in-kindlabor costs           Financial         27%          48%

Finally, basedon results shown inTable 2, every dollar invested inPRODEPINE11i s
estimatedto generate an Economic andFinancial Net PresentValue (NPV) under base-
line scenario of US$1.46 andUS$2.36 respectively. If overall ruralinvestments are
estimatedto be inconstant prices, around US$25 Million (US$4 Millionfrom
beneficiaries), the aggregate economic andfinancial NPV would be around US$36
Millionand US$59 Millionrespectively. These net benefits could easily cover other
associatedcosts (around US$3 Million), such as: investment study technical assistance,
supervision services and training.




                                 78

                                      FiscalImpact

To avoidnegative fiscal impacts, specialcare should be takenduringinvestment study
stage that Government resources are available and budgetedfor operational or recurrent
costs for public services, to be supportedby investment subprojects such as schools,
infant centers and health centers. Investment subprojects for public service provision
without proper operational funding must not be approved. Ifthis control i s effective,
PRODEPINEI1would have a modest butpositive fiscal impact. Fiscalrevenues would
be generatedby a greater economic activity inducedby production support and income
generating investments, such as irrigationimprovements and associativeenterprises.
Basedon the 30 subprojectsanalyzedingreater depth, every dollar invested in
PRODEPINEI1is estimatedto generatea FiscalNPV of US$0.02. Ifruralinvestments
amount US$25 Million, overall FiscalNPV would be around US$500,000.




                                 79

B


~




0 0
"h




              0
              00




       E
       d2
       P13

t ' I '   c-
           I



I
r
r


~~

c i l
0
0

lilr




        W
        (u


                                 Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues

The World Bank SafeguardPolicies applicable to this project are Environmental Assessment,
NaturalHabitats, Forests, Pest Management, CulturalProperty, and IndigenousPeoples. This
Annex summarizes the ways inwhich PRODEPINE11is expectedto comply fully with the letter
andspiritof eachof these policies. This project has beendeterminednotto trigger the Bank
policies on InvoluntaryResettlement(OP 4.12), Safety of Dams (OP 4.37), InternationalWaters
(OP 7.50), nor DisputedAreas (OP 7.60).

EnvironmentalAssessment(OP4.01). Thisproject is classified as Category B, consistent with
(i) typesofdemand-drivenruraldevelopmentandnaturalresourcesmanagementprojects
    similar
(including PRODEPINEI) the     and (ii) guidanceprovidedinthe BanksEnvironmental
Assessment Good Practices (GP) 4.01,Annex B for typical subprojects such as small-scale
irrigation, small-scale agro-industries, roadrehabilitation, ruralwater supply and sanitation, and
ruralelectrification. PRODEPINE I1ruralinvestment andnatural resourcemanagement
subprojects will be relatively small (most less than $30,000 andnoneover $125,000).
PRODEPINE's Environmental Manual specifies the types of environmentally sensitive
subprojectsthat are ineligible for PRODEPINE11financing, includingthose involving (i)
deforestation or other clearing of naturalhabitats (including mangroves andpa'ramos);(ii)      new
roadconstruction; (iii)  road improvements within naturalforests; (iv) dams which would flood
areas of forest or cultural property; (v) use of risky (potentially invasive) non-native species; or
(vi) activities adversely affecting protected areas.
         The Borrower has prepareda free-standing EnvironmentalAssessment (EA) report,
Politica y Procedimientos de GestionAmbiental: CO~ENPE-CO~AE-P~O~EPINE                    (March
2004). The EAreport also serves as this project's Environmental Manual, and will be fully
incorporated within the PRODEPINE 11Operational Manual prior to loaneffectiveness. The EA
report was preparedby PRODEPINE's technical staff, including some of the natural resources
managementspecialistswho will beresponsible for the environmental management(screening
and follow-up mitigationand supervision, as needed) of PRODEPINE 11subprojects. EA
preparationtook into accountthe findings of an independent environmental audit of the
PRODEPINEIproject (Infome de Verificaciony EvaluacionAmbiental de 10s Subproyectos,
OIKOS, January 2001), the Bank's recommendations, andextensive prior consultations with
indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities and their representative organizations, along with
other stakeholders. Prior to appraisal, the EA report was sent to the Bank's Infoshop; the report
i s also available for public review inPRODEPINE's National Office inQuito, as well as each of
sevenPRODEPINERegional Offices throughout Ecuador.

NaturalHabitats(OP 4.04) andForests(OP4.36). The PRODEPINE I1Environmental
Manualspecifiesthat the project will not support activities that couldresult insignificant natural
habitat loss or degradation. On the contrary, many subprojects should lead to the improved
protection and managementof forests and other natural habitats on indigenous andAfro-
Ecuadoriancommunity lands. The proposed mangrove restoration subprojects would work
exclusively with native species. PRODEPINE I1(unlike PRODEPINEI)              will not support pine or
other non-native tree plantations inhighland piramo ecosystems, thereby avoiding adverse
biodiversity impacts and ensuringcompliance with both OP 4.04 and4.36.



                                   84

          PRODEPINEI1would support titling and related activities to regularize the status of
communal indigenous lands that are under thejurisdiction of the NationalAgrarian Development
Institute (INDA) or the Ministry of Environment (MAE), the latter as either Forest Patrimony
( P a t r i ~ o ~Forestal)or ProtectionForests(Bosques Protectores). The project would also
                 i o
support the granting of long-term concessionsof coastalmangrove lands by MAEto Afro-
Ecuadoriancommunities for sustainablemanagement, inaccordancewith managementplans
requiringMAEapproval. However, PRODEPINE 11would not support the titling or
concessioning of lands within the NationalProtectedAreas System(SNAP, includingNational
Parks, Ecological Reserves,Wildlife Refuges, andBiologicalReserves), which cannot betitled
under current Ecuadorian law. The project's activities to improve landtenure security for
indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities are expectedto be largely positive from an
environmental standpoint, because (i)    indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian populations traditionally
tend to conserve much more forest on their landsthan most other ruralEcuadorians; (ii)       all land
titles andconcessionswill be for relatively large, contiguous blocks at the community level--
these are much more amenableto forest-based landuses than smaller landparcels titled to
individuals; (iii) tenure gives community members a strong incentive to patrol their land
                    secure
andprevent invasions byoutsiders; (iv) indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian communitymembers
are often the only defucto forest guards inremote areas with little governmental field presence;
(v) secure tenure removespossible incentives to clear forested landsimply to show possession
and use; (vi) secure tenure enables indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian communities to insist upon
more favorable terms (including from an environmental standpoint) from oil and gas, timber, oil
palmplantation, or other commercial interests; (vii) the issuanceof titles andconcessionsis
contingent upon the participatory preparationof landmanagementplans, which are required to
show that the intended land uses will be environmentally sustainable (andwill maintain most
existing forest cover); (viii) PRODEPINE11will provide increased(relative to PRODEPINEI)
technical assistanceto communities to improve the quality of these managementplans, including
from an environmental standpoint; and (ix) other projects (including the GEFConservation of
BiodiversityinPastazaMid-SizedProject andthe USAID-supportedCAIMANprogram) also
rely upon the titling of large blocks of indigenous community lands as an explicit strategy to
promote long-term forest conservation and sustainableuse.

PestManagement(OP 4.09). Noprocurement of pesticides or pesticide application of
equipment is planned under PRODEPINEII.However, some subprojects (such as small-scale
irrigation) might indirectly induce relativelysmall increases inpesticide use. The Environmental
Manual (Section 3 andTable 1) specifies the compounds which cannot be financed or otherwise
supportedunder the project, including all those inthe World Health Organization's Class IA and
IBandthoseclassified asPersistentOrganicPollutants (POPS).Whererelevant, subprojectswill
include technical assistanceand training inthe proper use, handling, storage, and disposal of
agrochemicals, as well as inthe principles and techniques of integrated pest management. Due
to the expected small scale of any pesticide useunder the project, a free-standing Pest
ManagementPlan is not required.

CulturalProperty(OPN11.03). Ingeneral, the indigenous andAfro-Ecuadorian communities
requesting any PRODEPINE I1subprojects are quite knowledgeable about the archaeological,
historical, sacred, or other culturally significant sites or objects on their lands. Nonetheless, road
rehabilitation, smallirrigationcanals, or other small civil works under the NaturalResourcesor


                                  85

RuralInvestments componentscould conceivably uncover new items of cultural significance.
The Environmental Manual(Section 7 )outlines standardenvironmental rules for all civil works
contractors to follow. These rules specify the needfor chance finds procedures ineachcivil
works contract, to ensure that contractorsandconstruction workers will understandthe actions
they needto take incase they uncover objects of possible cultural significance.

Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20). Inaccordance with the Indigenous PeoplesPolicy, the entire
project is classified as an Indigenous PeoplesDevelopment Plan.




                                  86

                       Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision


                                                   Planned              Actual
PCN review                                       05/08/2003            05/28/2003
InitialPID to PIC                                04/08/2003            04/15/2003
InitialISDS to PIC                               04/08/2003            04/22/2003
Appraisal                                        04/26/2004            05/03/2004
Negotiations                                     05/05/2004            0511012004
BoardRVP approval                                0611012004
Planneddate of effectiveness                     09/03/2004
Planneddate of mid-termreview                    0210112006
Plannedclosing date                              09/15/2009

Key institutions responsiblefor preparation of the project:
CODENPE-Consejo de Desarrollo de las ~acionalidadesy Pueblosdel EcuadorandCODAE-
Corporucidnde DesurrolloAfroecuatoriano.

Bank staff andconsultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                               Title                      Unit
Keisgner Alfaro                        Sr. Procurement Specialist           LCOPR
MarkAustin                                Technical Specialist              LCSER
M c DonaldBenjamin                          Country Manager                 LCCEC
Din0Francescutti                            RuralEconomist                 FAO-CP
Ana LuciaJimtnez                   Financial Management Consultant         LCOAA
PilarLarreamendy                     SD andCivil Society Specialist         LCCEC
GeorgeLedec                                  LeadEcologist                  LCSEN
Patricia M c Kenzie               Sr. FinancialManagement Specialist        LCOAA
MartaMolares-Halberg                         LeadCounsel                    LEGLA
Xiomara Morel                            Senior Finance Officer             LOAG3
JonathanParker                                  Consultant
Teresa Roncal                              Operations Analyst               LCSER
Josefina Stubbs                    Sr. Social Development Specialist        LCSEO
DavidTuchschneider                         Task Team Leader                 LCSER
Jorge Uquillas                               Sr. Sociologist                LCSEO


Bankfunds expendedto dateon project preparation:
    1. Bankresources: $167,149.24
    2. Trust funds: N/A
    3. Total: $167,149.24
EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining coststo approval: $30,000.00;
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost: $100,000.




                               87

                          3. Annex 12: DocumentsintheProjectFile


PRODEPINE11. Preparationstudies

PRODEPINE(2004), Evaluacio'nSocial del PRODEPINE,UlrikeC (CESA).
PRODEPINE(2004), MetodologiaLinea Base Seguimientoy Evaluacio'n,GrandaJ.
PRODEPINE(2004), Metodologiay SeguimientoGastoPu'blico,PonceJ, LeonM,RoseroJ,
    CervantesR.
PRODEPINE(2004), Plan de Desarrollo de las Nacionalidades,Centrode Asesoria e
    InvestigacionesSociales(JuliAn Quito).
PRODEPINE(2004), Plan deDesarrollo Institucional del Codenpe,SangaV.
PRODEPINE(2004),Plan deManejo Recursos Naturales,Van Immerzeel G.
PRODEPINE(2004), Estudio TurismoComunitario,(draft).
PRODEPINE(2004), Estudioy Disefio Programa deBecas, (draft).
PRODEPINE(2004), Plan de Desarrollo Afroecuatoriano, (draft).
PRODEPINE(2004), Plan de Desarrollo Institucional Codae,(draft).
PRODEPINE(2004), ProgramadeAsistencia tkcnicay capacitacidna iniciativas de base
    cultural, RuthS, SaltosF, TorresJ, Vallejo M.
PRODEPW (2003), Rescatey puesta en valor de sitios arqueolo'gicos,historicos y culturales,
    Hylalea,Alvarez M.
PRODEPINE(2003), Identi~cacio'nde necesidades deAT y cupacitacidnde organizaciones
    nacionalesy regionales,Cedime.
PRODEPINE(2003), Estudiode Facti~ilidadTkcnicay Econo'micadeRecursosNaturales,
    Soria P,Afiazco M, Cotacachi C, YaguacheR. (ECODES).
PRODEPINE(2003), Mapeode orgnanizacionesde mujeres indigenasy a~roecuatorianas,CID.
PRODEPINE(2003), Us0de tecnologiaspara las obras del PRODEPINE, Funhabit.
PRODEPINE(2003), Capacitacio'ny Asistencia Tkcnicadel ComponentedeInversiones
    Rurales,DYA.


PRODEPINEI.Studiesandevaluations


FernandoL,Cobo A, GarciaM,Hernhdez E( (Heifer). 2004.Cauital Social, Ecuador
Asociaci6nPlanisoc. 2002.Dianno'sticoY Plan deAccio'n deAcequias Comunitarias,Ecuador.
Corporaci6nOikos. 2001. Evaluacio'nAmbiental Subwoyectos,Quito, Ecuador
Corporacih Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo Empresarial (CEDE). 2002. Andisis de Cost0 y
Eficiencia del Componentede InversionesRurales,Quito,Ecuador.
CESA-ECLOF.2002. Evaluacidndel Componentede InversionesRurales. Quito, Ecuador.
Fundaci6nAcci6n para el Desarrollo. 2002. Evalu~cio'nde Efectos e Indicios de impactos del
Pronrama de Fomzacidnde recursosHumanos.Ecuador
Ponce M. 2003. Evaluacio'n de la Implantacio'n de 10s Sistemas de Informacidn del
PRODEPINE. Quito, Ecuador
Coronel R. 1999.Dianndstico Y Censo de las Ornanizaciones de Senundo Y Tercer Grado del
Prodepine,Ecuador



                              88

CorporacidnRedFinanciera Global (CRF). 2002. Elaboracidn del Proarama Cujas Solidarias y
Elaboracidn de Estrateaias a 10s sistemas de Financia~ientorural, Quito, Ecuador.
Vallejo I.2002. Estudios de cas0 sobre Identidades Y Roles de Gbnero en la Nacionalidades y
Pueblos.Ecuador.
Camacho M. 2002. Estudio de Impacto de las Cajas Solidarias Implementadas por el
PROLIEPINE. Ecuador
EspinozaM.2000. Incorporur el Enfoque de akneroen las metodoloaias del Prodepine.Ecuador
Guadalupe Ledn. 2002. ~etodolo~iade Capacitacidn en dnero para Gobiernos Locales
Indigenas y Afroecuatorianos,Ecuador
k d nJ. 2002. Metodoloaia para control social y rendicidn de cuentus.Ecuador
Ninfa P, PaucarC.2002. ~etodolo~iade capacitacidnen aknero para las Entidades Ejecutoras
del P R ~ ~ E P I NQuito, Ecuador.
                    E .
AmparoE. 2002. Identidadesv Roles de Gkneroen las Nacionalidadesy Pueblos.Ecuador,
Aulestia, N. 2002. Impacto de la Perspectiva de Gknero en la Pluni~cacid~Participativa
Aplicada a1desarrollo local en Pueblos y Nucionalidades. Ecuador
Larrea S. 2002. Incorporacidn del Enfoaue de Gbnero en metodoloaiasde Inversiones Pu'blicas.
Ecuador
EscobarM.2002. S~stematizaci~nde Experienciasde Gbneroen el P R ~ ~ E PEcuador. I N ~ ~
Banco Mundial.2OO3.EvaluacidnFinal ProdepineBIRF
FDA. 2003. Evaluacidn Intermedia
Contraloria General del Estado (CGE) 2001. Auditoria de Gestidn sobre la probabilidad de
loavo de 10s objetivosdel Proyecto.Quito,Ecuador.


Bankdocuments

MissionAide Memoires:
        October31,2002;
    0   April 26,2003;
    0   August 22,2003;
    0   November25,2003;
    0   February 13,2004;
    0   April 2,2004.

Financial ManagementCapacityAssessment, November, 2002.

Procurementcapacityassessment, July, 2003.




                               89

                                         Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits


                                                                                                                     Differencebetween
                                                                                                                     expectedandactual
                                                               Original Amount inUS$Millions                            disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                                   IBRD      IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.    Ong.     Frm.Rev'd

PO63644     2002   EC PowerLCommSect Modemiz.&Rural           23.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     20.26   13.46        0.00
                   Servi
PO72527     2002   EC-Power&Comm.Sctrs Modmiz.&Rural           0.00      0.00    0.00      2.84     0.00      3.31     1.25       0.00
                   SrVS

PO74218     2002   EC Public SectorFinancialManagement        13.86      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     12.18     7.68       0.00
PO39437     2002   EC RURALPOVERTY (PROLOCAL)                 25.20      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     22.24    -2.96       0.00
PO49924     2001   ECRuralWater supply & Sanitation           32.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     22.81    18.41       0.00
Po64045     2000   ECFinSectrTALn                             10.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      8.18     7.68       0.00
PO39084     1998   EC- HEALTHSERVICES                         45.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     27.02   27.02       24.41
                   MODERNIZATION PROJ.
PO07135     1998   EC AGRIC CENSUS & INFO                     20.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.04      1.56    -3.20       0.00
PO07131     1997   EC AG RESEARCH                             21.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     1.20      4.84     6.04       4.84

                                                      Total: 190.05      0.00    0.00      2.84     1.24    122.40   75.38       29.25


                                                       STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                      HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                       InMillions of US Dollars


                                                                   Committed                              Disbursed

                                                                 IFC                                    IFC
        FY Approval           Company                  Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic.  Loan       Equity    Quasi    Partic.

        1999                  FVEcuacobre              3.44       0.00       4.00    0.00      3.44      0.00      4.00       0.00
        1998103               FavontaFruti             15.00      0.00       0.00    0.00      10.00     0.00      0.00       0.00
        1999                  LaUniversal              8.20       0.00       5.00    0.00      8.20      0.00      5.00       0.00
        1993                  REYBANPAC                2.00       0.00       0.00    0.00      2.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
        2004                  SFE                      2.00       0.00       0.00     0.00      1S O     0.00      0.00       0.00
        1997                  Agrocapital              3.50       0.00       0.00     0.00     3.50      0.00      0.00       0.00
        1969n3n5177181/82187 COFIEC                    0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
        0198                  Concessionaria           11.50      0.97       0.00    15.00     2.93      0.00      0.00       3.82
                                      Total portfilio:  45.64     0.97       9.00    15.00     31.57     0.00      9.00       3.82




                                                                             ApprovalsPendingCommitment
                       FY Approval    Company                           Loan       Equity      Quasi       Partic.




                                          Total pendingcommittment:      0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00




                                                   90

                                        Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                                                                                                   kcuador

PRICES and GOVERNM ENT FINANCE
                                        1982   1992     2001    2002         tnflation (96)
Domestic prices                                                                                                                  I
(%change)                                                               150

Consumerprices                           8.3     54.3    37.7    P.5       xx)
ImplicitGDPdeflator                      -1.3   -40.4    25.5    PA
                                                                             50
Government finance
(%of GDP,includescurrentgrants)                                                0

Current revenue                                  24.6    24.7    25.9                                          00   01        0
                                                                           -50
Currentbudgetbalance                              5.9     62      7.4      1                                                     I
Overallsurplusldeficil                             -ti   -0.5      1.0                      -GDPddlator        -CPI


TRADE
                                        1982   1992     2001    2002
(US$ miMons)                                                                 Export and import levels (USS mill.)

Totaleqorts(fob)                        2,08    3,102   4,678   5,000      7,500     T
 Oil                                    1257    1,260   1,900    1,839
  Bananas                                 193    683     865      981
  Manufactures                                   374    1247     1291
Total imports(cif)                       1,981  2,431   5,363    6,431
  Food
  Fuelandenergy                            83      0 1    297     284
  Capitalgoods                            7 6     9l7    1661   2,022

Exportpriceindex(1995=WO)                 159     108      114     115                     96  97    98  99     W

knportpriceindex(1995=WO)                  111     86      81       83                        Exports      EImports
Termsof trade(1995=100)                   ?44     P6      140      138


BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1982   1992     2001    2002
(US$ mi//ions)                                                                 Current account balance to GDP             ( O h )


Exportsof goodsandservices              2,489    3,718  5,697    6,081
Importsof goods andServices             2,704    3,016   6,100   7264       ~



Resourcebalance                          -26      702    -403    -183

Net income                               -783    -944   -1,772  -1,622
Net currenttransfers                       m       P O   I665    1590

Currentaccount balance                   -981     -e2     -50    -1,215

Financingitems (net)                      642      146    404    1038
Changesinnet reserves                     339      -24     x)6     m
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold( U S mi/lions)      429    1,034   1,074   1008
Conversionrate (DEC,/ocaVUS$)          120E-3  6.14E-2      t O     1.0


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1982    1992    2001    2002                      ~           ~




 (US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2001debt (US$ mill.]
Total debtoutstandinganddisbursed       7,705   P271    t3,9x)
  IBRD                                     174    783     889
  IDA                                      36       30      20

 Total debt service                                                          11
                                         2,w       981   1550
  IBRD                                     32      *37     a 9
  IDA                                        1       1        1              1
                                                                             1
 Compositionofnet resourcefiows
  Officialgrants                            14      83      73               1

  Officialcreditors                       -155      72       31
  Privatecreditors                          41   -203       It3                      F E,2
  Foreigndirect investment                 40      l78   1,330
  Portfolio equity                          0        0        1

 WorldBank program
  Commitments                              96       89      32
                                                                             , B - IDA
                                                                               A IBRD
                                                                                    -                              E- Bilateral
  Disbursements                             41      63     P4                                 D Other mltilateral
                                                                                                -                  F Private
  Principalrepayments                       19      75      76               I C - I M F                           G Short-tar
                                                                                                                    --




                                          91

       Annex 15: Legislative Framework for Indigenousand Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples

This Annex covers the Constitutional provisions related to Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian
peoples, the decrees related to the national authorities in charge of indigenous and Afro-
Ecuadorian affairs, and selectednatural resourcesand culturalpromotionlaws applicable to such
peoples.

1.      Constitutional Provisionsrelated to Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples

        The 1998 Constitution' contains within the chapter dealing with Collective Rights
(covering also environment and consumer rights) a separate section dealing with the Indigenous
and Afro-Ecuadorian or black peoples. Such section contains three articles, one (article 83)
which states that such peoples are part of the State, and two others (articles 84 and 85) setting
forth their rights.
        Article 83 reads as follows: "The indigenous peoples (in Spanish pueblos), who self
identify themselves as nationalities (in Spanish nacionalidudes) with ancestral roots, and the
black or Afro-Ecuadorian peoples, are part of the one and indivisible Ecuadorian State,"
        Article 84 sets forth the collective rights of indigenous peoples that the State shall
recognize and guarantee in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and the respect of
public order and human rights. Article 85 recognizes and guarantees the same rights of Article
84 to the black or Afro-Ecuadorians peoples as they may be applicable.
        Suchrightsare:
        1.      To maintain, develop and strengthen their identity and traditions in its spiritual,
cultural, linguistic, social political andeconomic aspects.
        2.      To maintain the imprescriptible ownership of their communal lands which shall
be inalienable, indivisible andnot subject to attachment.
        3.      To maintain the ancestral possession of their communal lands and to obtain the
recognition of such right (adjudicacidn)free of charge.
        4.      Participate in the use, usufruct, management and conservation of the renewable
natural resourcesexisting intheir lands.
        5.      To be consulted on prospecting and exploration plans and programs of non-
renewable resources existing in their lands and which could affect them environmentally or
culturally, to participate in the benefits of such projects, to the extent possible, and to be
compensatedfor the social andenvironmental damages caused.
        6.      To maintain and promote the management practices related to their biodiversity
andnaturalenvironment.
        7.      To maintain and develop their traditional forms of social organization and
authorities.
        8.      To not be displaced, as peoples, from their lands.
        9.      To the collective intellectual property of their ancestral knowledge, and to its
valuation, use anddevelopment accordingto law.
        10.     To maintain, develop and manage their cultural andhistoric patrimony.




1       Publishedinthe Registro Oficial on August 18, 1998.

                                   92

         11.     To access education of quality and to count with a system of intercultural and
bilingualeducation.
         12.     To formulate priority plans and projects for the development and improvement of
their economic andsocial practices, and to adequate financing by the State.
         13.     To participate, through its representatives, in the official institutions that the law
will determine.
         14.     To use symbols andemblems of their identity.

         The indigenous identity and cultures are also recognized in: (a) Article 1providing for
pluricultural and multiethnic state and deeming the quichua, shuar and other indigenous
languages as official; (b) Article 62 relating to culture in a pluricultural and multiethnic State;
and (c) Article 97 (20) which includes among the obligations of a11 citizens a traditional
"commandment" of the indigenous peoples (spelled out in quichua, as "Ama quilla, ama llulla,
ama shua" and Spanish) which requires arefrainfrom laziness, lies and robbery.
         Traditional medicine i s to be respected, recognized and regulated pursuant to Article 44
of the Constitution and bilingual and intercultural education is also contemplated in Articles 66
and69 of the Constitution.
         A political, territorial andadministrative subdivision of the State to consist of indigenous
andAfro-Ecuadorian territories is contemplated inArticle 224 of the Constitution in addition to
the existing provinces, cantons, and pavroquias. The organization and authorities of such
indigenous territories will be establishedby law (Article 228 and 241 of the Constitution).
         The Indigenous justice systems as well as the authorities, norms and procedures related
thereto, are applicable pursuant to Article 191 of the Constitution for dispute resolution within
the communities provided they are notcontrary to the Constitution andthe law.
         The extraordinary rights recognized in the Constitution are supported also with the
ratification of L O Convention 169 on April 14, 1998. Regarding indigenous rights, the
domestic legislation has hardly changed since the enactment of the Constitution or the
ratificationof ILO 169.
         Severaldraft laws have beenprepared by CODENPE, relatingto indigenousnationalities,
indigenous communities, traditional health systems, and indigenous administrativelpolitical
territories to incorporate the new Constitutional provisions but are all pending enactment*.

2.       National AuthoritiesinChargeof Indigenousand Afro-Ecuadorian Affairs

TheNational Councilfor theDevelopment of Nationalities and Peoples (CODENPE)

         Following the Constitutional reform of 1998 (incorporating collective rights of the
nationalities and peoples) the Council for the Development of Nationalities and Peoples
(CODENPE) was established by Presidential Decree 3M3modified by Presidential Decree 1206
of2001~.


2        The indigenouspeoples law was passedby Congressbut not promulgated by the Executive and a
CustomaryJusticeLaw was passedbut challengedin its constitutionality.
3        Publishedinthe Registro Oficial of December 11, 1998.
4        Publishedinthe Registro OfciaE of February 6,2001. The modification was called for by Resolution No.
187-2000-TPof the Constitutional Tribunal dated November 21,2000 -whereby article 2 was deemed
unconstitutional.

                                     93

CODENPE i s a decentralized agency within the Presidency, granted juridical personality and
establishedto allow for the participation of nationalities and peoples in all levels of planningand
decision making of the State. CODENPE i s empowered: (a) to define the policies for the
strengthening of nationalities and peoples of Ecuador; (b) to co-manage with them sustainable
development programs; (c) to propose, in coordination with such nationalities and peoples, draft
laws affecting them; and (d) to promote the legal organization and registry of the nationalities
andpeoples5.
         CODENPE`defines indigenous nationalities as "historic and political entities forming
the Ecuadorian State, which have in common an identity, history, language, and culture, live in a
specified territory, with their own institutions and traditional forms of social, economic juridical
andpolitical organization and own authorities".6
         CODENPE also defines:
         - Indigenous Peoples (Pueblos Indigenas) as ``collectivities of origin (colectividades
originarius) formed by centers7or communities with: (a) cultural identities distinct from others
inthe Ecuadorian societies; and(b) their own social, economic, political andlegal organization";
and      -   Indigenous communities (comunidades indigenas) as collective entities grouped in
families, with blood or affinity linkages, residing in a given territory who self identify to below
to a given nationality or peoples with: (a) collective practices in their way of life; and (b) their
own organizational, political, administrative, economic, spiritualand culturalsystem''.8

The Corporationfor Afr~-~c~udorianDevelopment(CODAE)

         The Corporation for Afro-Ecuadorian Development (CODAE) was established by
Presidential Decree 17479as amendedby Decree 3104of 200210.CODAE was grantedjuridical
personality and is linked to the Presidencyof the Republic.

         CODAE is empowered among others: (a) to promote the organization of its Afro-
ecuadoriancommunities andto carry out capacity buildingprograms; and (b) to carry out studies
relatedto Afro-ecuadorian and carry out its recommendations.




5        Currently juridical personality is grantedto communities as centers, communes, organizations, and
associations by the Ministry of Social Welfare, Agriculture or the Environment. CODENPE is also registering
"nationalities" pursuantto Decree 3104of 2002.
6        Fromthe glossary of terms use by the Nationalities for the Constitutional Reforms, as quoted in
CODENPE's publication "ElementosBdsicospura la Reconstit~ci~nde lus Nucionulid~esy Pueblosdel Ecuudof'
-FirstEdition, 1999,page10.
7        A form of associationfor which the Minister of Social Welfare grantsjuridical personality.
8        FromCONAIE's 1999draft law of Peoples, Nationalities andTerritories quoted inCODENPE's
fublications mentionedinfootnote 6, at page 10and 11.
         Publishedinthe Registro Ojiciul of August 10, 1998.
lo       Publishedinthe Registro Ojicial of September 20,2002.

                                       94

3.       Land Remiarization

         (a)       Applicable Laws

         The main lawslregulations applicable to land regularization are: (a) the Constitutional
provisions described above; (b) ILO Convention 169 which recognizes the right to own or
possess the lands the indigenous peoples traditionally occupy"; and (c) the following specific
laws: (i)  the AD Law; (ii) of the Organization and Regime of the Agricultural Communities
                                  Law
(comunas campesinas) and Tierras Baldias Law12; and (iii) Forestry Law and Regulations
                                                                              the
applicable to forest andnatural and wildlife areas conservation.

         (b)       Institutions in Charge: INDAhIinistry of the Environment

         The Agrarian Development Institute (Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo Agrario,
INDA), established by Article 23 of the AD Law, is the only agency or institute authorized to
adjudicate State lands (mostly vacant or expropriated lands or those inpossessionof farmers for
a specified period of time). The AD Law authorizes INDA to issue titles under three different
procedures, one (Article 36, Legalization) exclusively applicable to the indigenous communities
in ancestral possession, and the other two, one after a 5 year possessionand the other with no
prior possessionrequirement. 13
         The Ministry of the Environment assumed the powers and responsibility for forests held
by the Ecuadorian Institute for Forests and Natural and Wildlife Areas (Instituto Ecuatoriano
Forestal y de Areas Naturales y de Vida Silvestre (INEFAN), which had been created by Law
No. 8 of September 14, 1992 (the INEFANLaw) and owns, under Article 12 (a) (c) and (d) of
the INEFAN Law, the national forest patrimonium (Patrimonio Forestal del Estudo) and the
protected areas (Patrimonio deAreas Naturales).
         The Patrimonio Forestal del Estado is constituted by the forested lands that according to
law are owned by the State, and the natural forests, and the flora and fauna therein. Forest lands
that are acquired, or revert to the ownership of the State are also included(Forestry Law, Art. 1).


11       ILO ConventionNO. 169concerningIndigenousand Tribal Peoples in IndependentCountries (Article 14).
l2       Law publishedin the Registro Ofcial on October 5, 1976(hereinafter ComunasLaw); Law of Unoccupied
Lands (tierrasbaldfas) and Colonization, Supreme DecreeNo. 2172 publishedinthe Registro Oficial on September
28, 1964 (hereinafter TierrasBaldias Law).
13       - Under Article 37 of the AD Law, INDAis authorized to grant title to landsto those in possessionof the
land for an uninterruptedperiod of a minimum of 5 years, after paymentof the applicable assessmentprice. The
exploitation of these lands also needto follow the approvedwork plan. This type of title cannot be grantedby
TNDA in respectof Stateforest or natura1areas or inlands otherwise owned by INEFANnow Ministry of
Environment. Itcould be applicableto landsexpropriated by INDA from owners that were not utilizing the land in
a manner that would show that the social function was achieved. Article 17 of the AD Law states that the social
function is achievedwhen the land is in production and exploitation and the renewable natural resourcesare being
adequately preserved, the ecosystem is protected, and food for all Ecuadoriansis guaranteedand excess is generated
for exports.

- Under Article 38 of the AD Law, INDA is authorized to issue titles to other land that INDA may own tojuridical
persons, cooperatives,enterprises, indigenouscommunities, associationsand organizations, for an efficient
production with a work plan that will not becomea threat to the environment or the ecosystem. No prior possession
is required, it does not relateto ancestralrights, and a price is to be paid in cashfor the land so granted. Farmers,
indigenouspeoples, montubias and Afro-Ecuadorians, are, however, granteda 10year period (with 2 years of grace)
to repay.

                                        95

Of these lands, those in ancestral possession of indigenous peoples, the Minister of the
Environment is authorized, free of charge, to set the boundaries of the lands in ownership or
possession of indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities and such lands, will not be subject
to any possessionor adjudication to third parties. Such lands should have an area sufficient to
enable the maintenance of an adequate standard of living according to their ethnic, customary,
religious and other values to allow for development of such communities (Forestry Law, Articles
 1021103).
          The Patrimonio de Areas ~uturulesare wilderness areas with a scientific, educational,
scenic, touristic or educational value, already designatedby law or to be designatedinthe future
by the Minister of the Environment by resolution. National parks, ecological reserves, wildlife
refuges, and biological reserves are among such protected areas (Forestry Law, Articles 69/70).
These areas are inalienable and imprescriptible and no real property rights could be vested on
such areas. Private lands and the natural resources existing therein at the time the areas were
declaredprotected are to be expropriated to revert to the State.14
          Other forested lands canbe adjudicated through public auction or sale.

       4. CulturalPatrimony

          CulturalPatrimony is ruledby Law 3501of 1979 (the CulturalPatrimony Law)15and the
Cultural Patrimony Institute is the agency incharge of its implementation. This institute is
grantedjuridical personality and linked to the Ministry of Culture.

          Itispart of theCulturalPatrimony ofthe Stateamongothersthefol1o~in~:l6

          1.       Archeological monuments such as ceramic, metal and stone objects belongingto
pre-hispanic or colonial times, ruins, buildings, cemeteries, and archeological fields, as well as
humanremains, flora andfauna from such years.
          2.        Churches and convents constructed during colonial times.
          3.        Old manuscripts.
          4.       Ethnographic objects with scientific, historic or artistic value.
          5.        Cultural goods subjected to awards produced by contemporary artists after the
author's deathor after 30 years of production.



~



 l4       The Minister of Environment is authorizedto adjudicatelands included inthe Patrimonio Forestaldel
Estudo:
- to legally establishednational timber companies incases of national interest, through a public auction, and
provided a satisfactory managementplanis implemented (FR, Art. 65). The contract is rescindedif such
management plan is not implemented (FR, Art. 82);

- to ruralorganizations(cooperatives and other legally establishedagricultural associations),the mainactivity of
which is a forestry activity. Demarcationsladjudicationsare to the cooperative or other organization as such and the
title cannotbe subdividedandlor disposedof the thirdparties (FR, Articles 86/87). The adjudication resolution sets
forth the price andpaymentconditions for the land adjudicated and the "communal" use of the forestry resources,
the prohibition of sale and the obligation to maintain the resource(FR, Art. 95). All costs associatedwith the
demarcatiodadjudication are to be borne by the beneficiary. Ifthe cooperativelorganizationis dissolved, such lands
revert to the State without any compensation(FR, Articles 99,100).
 l5       Publishedin the Registro Oficiul of July 2, 1979.
 16       Law 3501, Article 7.

                                        96

        6.       Any object deemedto be of the Cultural Patrimony due to its artistic, scientific or
                 historic value.

        The declaration of Cultural Patrimony of goods does not affect ownership rights of the
owner of such goods, but has limitationinthe law as to the transfer abroadand others.I7
        To that extent that the continued existence of ethnic groups with indigenous cultures
shows the plurality of cultures in Ecuador, the Cultural Patrimony Institute will adopt measures
conducive to the conservation of customs, language, cultural manifestations, artisan techniques,
religions, musical or community based as identified by the indigenous as representative of their
culture.
         There is some recognition of the intangible culturalheritage of indigenouspeoples in
Ecuador inArticle 33 of the Law which provides that with regards to expressions of folklore,
music, choreography, religion, andliterature or linguistic corresponding to culturally
homogenousethnic groups, the Cultural Patrimony Institute or other institutes on its behalf, will
take measuresto protect suchexpressions. The compilationof any such expressionsfor
commercial purposesrequires the prior approval of the Institute. Examples of those expressions
registered by the Institute are: the Guarander Carnival andthe marumba.
        The Ecuadorian State is the owner of the archeological sites of prehistoric and colonial
times, including the human remains, regardless of the ownership of the land where the
archeological goods are situated. These goods are to be held by the Institute or deposited in
custody inmuseums.
        No person or private or public agency is authorized to undertake archeological or
paleontologic excavation without written authorization from the Cultural Patrimony Institute.
Technical expertise is one of the requirements for such authorization to be granted.'*




17      IbidArticle 11.
18      Ibid,Article28.

                                  97


