                                 PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                                 APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                                   Report No.: AB624
                                       SECOND INDIGENOUS AND AFROECUADORIAN PEO
 Project Name
 Region                                LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
 Sector                                Other social services (75%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
                                       (25%)
 Project ID                            P077257
 Borrower(s)                           REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
 Implementing Agency
                                       CODENPE-Consejo de Desarrollo de las Nacionalidades y Pueblos del Ecuador
                                       Ecuador

                                       CODAE- Corporacion de Desarrollo Afroecuatoriano
                                       Ecuador

                                       Republic of Ecuador
                                       Ecuador

 Environment Category                  [ ] A [X] B [ ] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Safeguard Classification              [ ] S1 [X] S2 [ ] S3 [ ] SF [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared                     April 15, 2004
 Date of Appraisal                     April 22, 2004
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval                June 3, 2004

1.   Country and Sector Background
         As a result of a history of social, economic and political exclusion, the rural indigenous and Afro-
Ecuadorian communities are the largest social groups suffering from poverty in Ecuador. In effect, while on a
national level poverty strikes 56% of all Ecuadorians, 86 of every 100 indigenous persons are impoverished. While
the overall country illiteracy index is 10.8 %, this indicator reaches 42.5 % in indigenous populations and 53.2 %
among indigenous women. Consequently, indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian people have the worst living conditions,
the lowest schooling levels with inappropriate educational systems, serious unemployment levels, minimal access to
health services, and often suffer from social and economic discrimination. These groups lack secure access to land
and water resources which restrains investment opportunities and creates conditions for social unrest.
         The Government's stated target is to reduce poverty to 31.0% and extreme poverty from 25.0% to 10.3% of
the population by 2007. However, the poorest groups have almost no access to centrally-managed, productivity-
enhancing public services. Their local communities are usually poorly organized and dependent on centralized
services that are seldom delivered. There is a general recognition that the current system is broken and cannot be
fixed, and that proper decentralization is the most likely answer. Although Congress passed a law in 1997 which
lays out the framework and principles for decentralization, no regulations have been written and unfortunately the
new political and administrative model has not been devised.
         Public policy regarding indigenous and Afro Ecuadorian peoples has been better defined with the adoption
of a new Constitution in 1998 recognizing Ecuador as a multicultural and multiethnic country. This instrument is
one of the most advanced of Latin America, recognizing a series of collective rights to indigenous and Afro-
Ecuadorian peoples in the realms of culture, land or territory, and self-determination. In the following years GOE
created the Consejo de Desarrollo de las Nacionalidades y Pueblos (CODENPE) and the Corporación de
Desarrollo Afroecuatoriano (CODAE). Their policy objectives center on implementing key constitutional rights,
broadening access to resources and improving the delivery of services for indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian
communities.
         Upon taking office in January 2003, the Government announced a medium-term program aiming to reduce
poverty through coordinated advances on economic and social fronts, in a three-pronged strategy: (i) Promoting

economic growth and competitiveness; (ii) Reducing poverty and promoting social inclusion; and (iii) Improving
governance to fight corruption and increase security. Since then, it has been more successful in implementing
stabilization measures than in launching longer-term reforms; particularly given the break-up of the electoral
coalition, the increased political instability and the opposition of a restive indigenous movement.


2.   Objectives
         To promote the empowerment and improved access to natural and financial resources for
indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities within the framework of their own development
and interculturalism.
         (See Annex 3).

Key Performance Indicators
     The success of the project will be measured by following indicators (additional indicators with which to
measure progress of each of the Project's components are found in Annex 3):

     ·   The index for executing entities strengthening has improved by 15%
     ·   30 % of the executing entities have received additional funding from other institutions.
     ·   The co-financing of subprojects by communities is at least 20%
     ·   75 % of the executing entities have a favorable opinion of financial audits.
     ·   The national budget earmarked for indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian populations has increased by 3%
     ·   The number of financed cultural subprojects has increased by 20%
     ·   The total investment of local governments and NGOs in relation to the demands of the Local Development
         Plans has increased by 10 %.
     ·   Of all the subprojects financed, 10% executed by women's groups and 40% incorporated the gender
         equality focus.
     ·   Of all the subprojects financed 10 % improved natural resource management and 75% favorable
         environmental audits.

         The Government's medium-term program, announced in 2003, aims to fight against poverty through
coordinated advances on social and economic fronts. It is organized along three thematic areas. On the economic,
the Government's priorities are to consolidate the fiscal situation, increase competitiveness and efficiency, promote
a more flexible and dynamic labor market, and strengthen the banking system. On the social front, it aims to
improve the provision of social assistance and reform the education and health sectors. In the area of governance it
proposes to fight corruption and increase the transparency of public services.
     The Bank's strategy mirrors the Government's through actions in three areas: (i) Consolidating the macro
framework and laying the foundations for growth; (ii) Broadening access to resources and ensuring reforms are
socially sustainable; and (iii) Strengthening governance to ensure accountable, efficient and accessible public
services (World Bank 2003. CAS). The project is included in the current CAS and will contribute fundamentally to
the second area, but its strategic value lies in tackling the lack of social inclusion which constitutes one of the key
obstacles to poverty reduction in Ecuador. To reduce poverty, sustained economic growth needs to be complemented
with reforms that address inequality and increase the access of the poor to basic services. The project will contribute
to this objective by increasing the capacities and assets of the target groups, by decentralizing decision-making to
the level of the communities themselves and by helping the Government raise the profile of indigenous issues in
selected sector ministries.


3.   Rationale for Bank Involvement
         During 1997-98 GOE, supported by the Bank, developed a non-conventional project called the Indigenous
and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples Development Project (PRODEPINE I) for channeling assets and services to
impoverished indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities. It went largely outside the broken centralized
government system, using ethnic affinity groups to transform dependent communities into proactive groups
empowered to address their development problems directly. PRODEPINE II is meant to build on the success of its
predecessor but with improvements to take into account institutional changes and lessons learned.

The PRODEPINE model of participatory development has proven to be an efficient mechanism for fighting poverty,
but it was able to only reach a third of the target communities, making up only a quarter of the population.
PRODEPINE II's strategic value will lie in improving CODENPE and CODAE's capacity to help the Ecuadorian
Government to focus on the poorest rural inhabitants while adding ethnic, gender and spatial considerations to fight
against poverty. The project thus targets ethnicity: a dimension of poverty that permeates the whole country. Like
its predecessor, it articulates a model of development with cultural identity or ethno development. It builds on the
positive qualities of indigenous and Afro Ecuadorian peoples such as their high social and cultural capital to
promote activities that lead to higher employment, production, improved delivery of services, and growth.
         PRODEPINE II will build on the lessons learned in the first project by: (i) deepening its
involvement in the most successful areas (community investments, land titling, scholarships and
institutional strengthening); (ii) expanding into related areas (natural resources management);
(iii) mainstreaming attention to indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian issues in selected national
sectors and local governments; and (iv) approaching key issues of ethnodevelopment
(community tourism, cultural assets, ethnobiological production and handicrafts) in new ways.
         The Bank has been one of the few lenders/donors directly involved in helping the Ecuadorian Government
efforts to reduce indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian poverty. It has accompanied ­through PRODEPINE I--the
process of legal and institutional reform and the focusing of aspirations on local level demands. The Bank has
played a key role engaging in the development dialogue with indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian organizations as well
as with government institutions created to serve their needs.
         This model has proven so successful that GOE with Bank financing has developed a similar project
(PROLOCAL) in 2001 to focus on rural poverty outside the areas covered by PRODEPINE for indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian people. The project also complements efforts by the Spanish Cooperation to strengthen
municipalities managed by indigenous mayors and IDB´s financing of FISE in the province of Esmeraldas, which
will be targeted at the afro-descendant population of the province.


4.   Description
A.       Strengthening Social Organizations ($2.3 million)
         This component would strengthen indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian membership organizations with the
following TA and training activities: (1) management capacity building; (2) strategic and local participatory
development planning; (3) legal, management, and technical training; and (4) equity in gender and generations. In
addition, it will provide TA to local governments in order to help them improve their targeting and participatory
practices. Intercultural relations, gender and other equity issues will be incorporated systematically in all these
programs.

B.       Knowledge and Culture for Development ($2.8 million)
This component will help target groups improve their human capital as well as their knowledge base and cultural
assets, thus contributing to increased incomes. It will include the following activities: (i) a scholarship program for
higher education (ii) training and technical assistance for culture-based initiatives, among others, in tourism and
handicrafts.

 C.      Natural Resources ($2.7 million)
         This component will help the target population improve management of natural resources
through increased access and control of land, water and other natural resources vital for their
livelihood. To achieve these results, it will support the following TA activities: (i) land titling;
(ii) a pilot programs in mangrove management; and (iii) a pilot program in community natural
resource management for the improved handling of soils, water and reforested areas.

D.       Rural Investments ($28.0 million)
         This component will finance demand-driven small-scale investments/subprojects by
eligible communities for: (i) pre-investment studies; (ii) social investments (iii) community

productive investments; (iv) community micro-enterprises; (v) TA for production and marketing;
(vi) environmental/natural resource management; and (vii) cajas solidarias. Beneficiaries of this
component must be residents of the parroquias included in the Operational Manual (MO), but
non-target people living in the project areas may partially benefit from project investments.
Financing of subprojects would be on a grant basis matched by varying amounts of community
labor or cofinancing sources.

 E.      Institutional Strengthening of CODENPE and CODAE and Project Management ($9.3 million)
This component will increase GOE's capacity to formulate intercultural policies and programs taking into
consideration the concerns of indigenous and Afro-descendant peoples. It would provide specialized technical
support to CODENPE and CODAE for the implementation of their public role. The component will aim to increase
public participation in policy-making, improve transparency and accountability, and increase the share of the GOE's
budget targeted at these communities and peoples. The Component comprises three programs to be implemented in
both government institutions: (i) Public policies and development management; (ii) Legal development in selected
areas; and (iii) Institutional Development and Intercultural communication.
         As a complementary part of this component, the project will also include support for a Project
Implementation Unit, including a central coordinating office and up to seven regional implementing units.


5.   Financing
Source:                                                                                             ($m.)
BORROWER                                                                                               6.00
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT                                                34.00
BENEFICIERARIES                                                                                        5.00
                                                                                        Total        45.00

6.   Implementation
         Only Bank and local counterpart financing are contemplated. In order to cover any shortfall in counterpart
funds, GOE may use other co-financing sources.


Implementing Agencies
         The Project will be carried out by the Republic of Ecuador through the Council for the Development of
Nationalities and Peoples (CODENPE) and the Corporation for Afro- Ecuadorian Development (CODAE). The
former was established by GOE in 1998 as a decentralized agency within the Presidency, to encourage the
participation of nationalities and peoples in all levels of planning and decision making of the State. It is a National
Council, with representatives of each pueblo and nationality, and an Executive Committee. CODAE was
established in 1998 as a decentralized agency to attend to Afro-Ecuadorian affairs but had a slow start, as its
constituency was less well organized. It is linked to the Presidency of the Republic, and empowered among others:
(a) to promote the organization of its Afro-Ecuadorian communities and to carry out capacity building programs;
and (b) to carry out studies related to Afro-Ecuadorians and carry out its recommendations. The delegate
representing the Ecuador's Presidency is the legal representative of the agency.

Directorate and Consultative Committee of PRODEPINE
         Both institutions are formally dependent on the office of the Presidencia de la República, and for the
purposes of the project it will create a Directorate (Junta Directiva), conformed by CODENPE's Executive
Secretary and CODAE's Presidential Delegate. The PIU's Executive Director will participate in the Directorate as
Secretary, without a vote. Decisions will be taken by consensus; in case such is not possible, the decision will be
taken by the Secretario Nacional de la Administración Pública. The project's directorate will approve the project's
annual budget and operational plan, delegate its implementation to the PIU, and supervise regularly its execution.
         CODENPE and CODAE will create a Consultative Committee (Comité Consultivo Ampliado) which will
also include representatives of the largest national ethnic and rural organizations, inter alia, CONAIE, FEINE,
FENOCIN, FEI, CAN, Consejo Regional de Palenques, Coordinadora Nacional de Mujeres Negras, five
representatives of CODENPE´s Executive Committee and three representatives of CODAE´s Directorate. The

Consultative Committee will meet four times per year, providing a forum for the participation of the target
population´s key representative organizations. Its main functions will be: i) to provide strategic guidance for
project implementation; and ii) to ensure that the project allocates funding under clear and transparent rules, as
detailed in the Operational Manual. The composition and functions of the Directorate and Consultative
Committee will be established in the Operational Manual.

Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
         A project unit, reporting to CODENPE and CODAE, with core fiduciary and technical
staff will be established in Quito with up to seven regional offices located in Esmeraldas (Costa
Norte), Ibarra (Sierra Norte), Riobamba (Sierra Centro), Cuenca (Sierra Sur), Tena (Amazonía
Norte), Macas (Amazonía Sur), and La Libertad (Costa Sur). The Project Execution Unit (PIU)
has maintained a satisfactory record in Financial Management (FM) and procurement during the
implementation of PRODEPINE I; however, as a result of the FM and Procurement Assessments
described in the Part D-2 of this report, time-bound action plans have been agreed and are being
followed up closely. Such unit will be established and key members (including
PRODEPINE I personnel) staffed to the satisfaction of the Bank as a condition of
effectiveness.

Executing entities (EEs)
Following the successful experience in PRODEPINE I, the project will transfer resources and provide training for
subproject implementation to second- and third-tier organizations which group the target's population base
communities. Eligibility requirements and implementation arrangements for the different activities involving the
close to 250 existing organizations are detailed in Annex 4.
Other agencies
         Other agencies involved in the implementation of the Project are: the Agrarian Development Institute
(INDA), responsible for the land titling activities to be carried out as a subcomponent of the Natural Resources
Component, and the Ministry of the Environment (MEA), responsible for the conservation and management of
forested areas, including those where indigenous peoples are located. These agencies will fulfill their respective
roles under Implementation Agreements (convenios), similar to those under the first Project, to be entered into with
CODENPE/CODAE for the second Project. Signing of such agreements will be a condition of disbursement for
the land titling Loan proceeds allocations.

Operational Manual
The Operational Manual (OM), which is substantially the same as that used in the first project,
shall include all rules and regulations for implementation of all project components and operation of the PIU (project
planning, monitoring, evaluation, institutional arrangements, environmental review, reporting, communication,
human resources, risk, coordination, procurement, and financial management). Updates to the OM would require the
no objection of the Bank.

Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and Operations Manual (OM)
         The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) will be broken down into Annual Implementation Plans (AIP) and
will include four sections: i) description of project activities to be executed during the time period; ii) Gantt
Chart/project schedule with timing of activities, relationship with other activities, executing entity responsible; iii)
budget plan; and, iv) procurement plan. The AIP will be the principal tool for coordination between the PIU and the
regional units. AIPs would be prepared by the PIU and regional units, approved by CODENPE and CODAE and
presented to the Bank for no objection before the beginning of the budget year.
         The Operational Manual (OM), which is substantially the same as that used in the first project, shall
include all rules and regulations on the operation of all components of the Project and the PIU (project planning,
monitoring, evaluation, institutional arrangements, environmental review, reporting, communication, human
resources, risk, coordination, procurement, and financial management). Updates to the OM would require the no
objection of the Bank.

Disbursement and Procurement
          Disbursements will be transaction based (i.e. against Statements of expenditure (SOEs), full
documentation, direct payments or special commitments). The Special Account will be maintained and operated by
the PIU in the Central Bank in United States dollars (TE Account). Deposits into the Special Account and
replenishments up to the authorized allocation set out in the legal agreement would be made on the basis of
applications for withdrawals prepared by the project and accompanied by the supporting documentation in
accordance with Bank disbursement procedures. To facilitate payments and receipts of funds Regional Offices will
open local currency T- Accounts. Payments to EEs and providers will be effected directly from the PIU's central
office, minimizing the use of secondary accounts. Accounting and financial reporting will be done by the PIU under
Bank rules spelled out in the Operational Manual. Audits will be carried out under TOR and by firms acceptable to
the Bank, which will be hired by the Contraloría of Ecuador. The project includes financing for audits.
          Most relevant capacity constraints relate to the decentralized approach to procurement
and disbursement for implementation of related investment sub-project components and a weak
capacity in PRODEPINE to assist executing entities (second- and third- tier organizations and
NGOs) in dealing efficiently with management of their procurement processes, and for the PIU
to put in place mechanisms so as to ensure effective oversight and project supervision at both the
pre-contractual and contractual stages. In order to mitigate the risks inherent to these
weaknesses, PRODEPINE will delegate clear responsibilities for technical assistance, oversight
and supervision to its Regional Offices (RPIUs) and reinforce the quality and quantity of
technical and administrative staff assigned to them. Bank procurement training of Regional
Office staff may also contribute to strengthen their capacity to assist Executing Entities in
managing efficiently procurement processes. As for the Implementation Agreements to be
entered into with executing entities, PRODEPINE will specify minimum capacity requirements
to be met by said entities, in particular, in management of procurement and contract
administration functions for an efficient and timely contracting and execution of works, goods
and consultant services to be procured under such agreements. Whenever an executing entity
can not meet minimum requirements, the Implementation Agreement should include provisions
for the entity to incorporate experts to assist them in those tasks.
          Further details on the implementation arrangements are in Annex 6 and on the legal framework for
Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorians peoples are in Annex 4, Natural Resources Component, of the PAD.


7.  Sustainability
          The previous Government of Ecuador requested a follow up to PRODEPINE I, before the Bank's loan
closed. This commitment was confirmed by the present Government through the project's inclusion in the CAS and
continued engagement with the Bank during preparation. Enforcement of the Ley de Responsabilidad Fiscal has
meant that counterpart funding from the Government must now include the PIU's operating costs, which implies a
substantial increase in Government's historical share of financing, and is problematic for the investment portfolio as
a whole. This requirement is seriously affecting the Government's capacity to follow up in its commitment,
particularly given the effect of spending restraints on the overall budget. Donor grant cofinancing for covering the
shortfall is now considered indispensable to ensure that the project will not run into liquidity traps during
implementation.
PRODEPINE I has demonstrated how the project's participatory process at every level will help make the
sustainability of its benefits likely. The project design responds to issues that are a priority for indigenous and Afro-
Ecuadorian peoples. The project beneficiaries play a key role in decision-making, implementation and cost-sharing,
thus increasing ownership. This project will implement procedures to require government institutions or
communities to cover recurrent costs of rural investments when feasible. TA is designed to create a cadre of
experienced EEs and beneficiaries at all levels to carry on the development process. CODENPE and CODAE will
help their organizations in mainstreaming indigenous demands and viewpoints into the operation of selected
government institutions. In a few words, the project will have been largely appropriated by the beneficiaries and
government and its long term impacts ensured by the focus on an enabling policy and institutional environment.

8.   Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
          The ICR for PRODEPINE I rated it fully satisfactory. Key lessons learned are incorporated into the project
design as follows:

a) Strengthening of Social Organizations.
          Given changes in the legal framework and the political evolution of the indigenous movement, the project
would explore the ways to operationalize the vision of nationalities and peoples as new forms of social organization,
in addition to the existing organizations. As a consequence, besides local development plans, the project will support
the formulation and implementation of strategic development plans for selected nationalities and peoples.
          A project design which emphasizes decentralized implementation is crucial for successfully dealing with
ethnic and cultural diversity of beneficiaries. In such instances the design cannot rely on "one size fits all"
methodologies, but procedures need to be tailored to different cultures, types of organizations, and settings. Design
of this project differentiates its methodology in dealing with coastal, Sierra and jungle cultures.
          Capacity building and institutional strengthening in general require systematic monitoring of inputs which
may affect social relationships within communities and between them and their higher organizations. A project
focused on empowerment should monitor in a systematic way how its own inputs may affect the relationships
between communities and their higher level organizations, because when the latter handle implementation they
should remain accountable to their members. Financing for national and regional organizations will be focused on
improving transparency, accountability and participation.
          Participatory planning can increase the capacity of beneficiaries to define and implement their own vision
of development; in particular, local participatory plans can provide communities and their organizations with a key
instrument for negotiating priorities with government and development organizations. The project design
encourages the expansion of linkages with those local governments and agencies which share this vision of
empowerment, by rewarding them with training and technical assistance, if they participate in implementation.

b) Knowledge and Culture for Development.
Any successful model of "development with identity" must overcome a traditional basic-needs approach and must
facilitate opportunities to generate wealth through productive initiatives based on culture. The design of this project
expands the eligible activities to include handicrafts, tourism, ethnobiological products and their marketing.
Experience shows that cultural producers reside in both rural and urban areas and often provide basic linkages
between the two. Thus indigenous and afro-descendant producer groups locates outside of the project area will be
eligible for participation in this component.
          Participation and social capital do not guarantee the absence of discretionality. For example, when
administering scholarship programs, care should be taken to design checks and balances in the process of
beneficiary selection in order to reduce favoritism and co-option by indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian elites. The
design of this project changes the operation of the scholarship program so that it will be subcontracted to a
specialized entity which will follow transparent procedures and strictly defined rules.

c) Natural Resources.
Lessons learned at the international level show that, in order to be sustainable, natural resource management
practices such as soil recovery, water management and reforestation must be linked to income generation. The
project will carry out a pilot program of inter- and intra-community contests, accompanied by technical assistance,
to develop such opportunities.

d) Rural Investments.
An integrated participatory approach applied at grassroots level can create in beneficiaries a sense of ownership and
responsibility for self development; yet the sustainability of public infrastructure will ultimately depend on the
availability of public budget resources to maintain it. This project has increased its TA budget so that more TA will
be provided during the investment phase in order to help consolidate operational capabilities and to establish cost-
recovery mechanisms at the community level.
          The concept of social capital and the notion of community, when applied to development issues, should be
tempered by the reality of differing income levels and personal interest imperatives. In particular, the mechanisms of
reciprocity do not seem to extend easily into the management of community micro-enterprises. Consolidated

organization, production/marketing experience and personal commitment are key elements for greater success. The
project will require an increase in local counterpart for community micro enterprise subprojects from 30% to 40%.


9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                               Yes                      No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                   [x]                     [ ]
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                              [x]                     [ ]
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                  [x]                     [ ]
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                    [x]                     [ ]
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                      [ ]                     [x]
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                     [x]                     [ ]
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                       [x]                     [ ]
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                                [ ]                     [x]
  Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                [ ]                     [x]
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                        [ ]                     [x]



10. List of Factual Technical Documents


PRODEPINE II. Preparation studies

PRODEPINE (2004), Evaluación Social del PRODEPINE, Ulrike C (CESA).

PRODEPINE (2004), Metodología Línea Base Seguimiento y Evaluación, Granda J.

PRODEPINE (2004), Metodología y Seguimiento Gasto Público, Ponce J, Leon M, Rosero J, Cervantes R.

PRODEPINE (2004), Plan de Desarrollo de las Nacionalidades, Centro de Asesoria e Investigaciones Sociales
     (Julián Quito).

PRODEPINE (2004), Plan de Desarrollo Institucional del Codenpe, Sanga V.

PRODEPINE (2004), Plan de Manejo Recursos Naturales, Van Immerzeel G.

PRODEPINE (2004), Estudio Turismo Comunitario, (draft).

PRODEPINE (2004), Estudio y Diseño Programa de Becas, (draft).

PRODEPINE (2004), Plan de Desarrollo Afroecuatoriano, (draft).

PRODEPINE (2004), Plan de Desarrollo Institucional Codae, (draft).

PRODEPINE (2004), Programa de Asistencia técnica y capacitación a iniciativas de base cultural, Ruth S, Saltos
     F, Torres J, Vallejo M.

PRODEPINE (2003), Rescate y puesta en valor de sitios arqueológicos, historicos y culturales, Hylalea, Alvarez M.

PRODEPINE (2003), Identificación de necesidades de AT y capacitación de organizaciones nacionales y
     regionales, Cedime.

PRODEPINE (2003), Estudio de Factibilidad Técnica y Económica de Recursos Naturales, Soria P, Añazco M,
     Cotacachi C, Yaguache R. (ECODES).

PRODEPINE (2003), Mapeo de orgnanizaciones de mujeres indígenas y afroecuatorianas, CID.

PRODEPINE (2003), Uso de tecnologías para las obras del PRODEPINE, Funhabit.



*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas

PRODEPINE (2003), Capacitación y Asistencia Técnica del Componente de Inversiones Rurales, DYA.


PRODEPINE I. Studies and evaluations


Fernando L,Cobo A, García M, Hernández K (Heifer). 2004.Capital Social, Ecuador

Asociación Planisoc. 2002. Diagnóstico y Plan de Acción de Acequias Comunitarias. Ecuador.

Corporación Oikos. 2001. Evaluación Ambiental Subproyectos, Quito, Ecuador

Corporación Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo Empresarial (CEDE). 2002. Análisis de Costo y
Eficiencia del Componente de Inversiones Rurales, Quito,Ecuador.

CESA-ECLOF. 2002. Evaluación del Componente de Inversiones Rurales. Quito, Ecuador.

Fundación Acción para el Desarrollo. 2002. Evaluación de Efectos e Indicios de impactos del
Programa de Formación de recursos Humanos. Ecuador

Ponce M. 2003. Evaluación de la Implantación de los Sistemas de Información del
PRODEPINE. Quito, Ecuador

Coronel R. 1999. Diagnóstico y Censo de las Organizaciones de Segundo y Tercer Grado del
Prodepine, Ecuador

Corporación Red Financiera Global (CRF). 2002. Elaboración del Programa Cajas Solidarias y
Elaboración de Estrategias a los sistemas de Financiamiento rural. Quito, Ecuador.

Vallejo I. 2002. Estudios de caso sobre Identidades y Roles de Género en la Nacionalidades y
Pueblos. Ecuador.

Camacho M. 2002. Estudio de Impacto de las Cajas Solidarias Implementadas por el
PRODEPINE. Ecuador

Espinoza M. 2000. Incorporar el Enfoque de género en las metodologías del Prodepine. Ecuador

Guadalupe León. 2002. Metodología de Capacitación en género para Gobiernos Locales
Indígenas y Afroecuatorianos. Ecuador

León J. 2002. Metodología para control social y rendición de cuentas. Ecuador

Ninfa P, Paucar C. 2002. Metodología de capacitación en género para las Entidades Ejecutoras
del PRODEPINE. Quito, Ecuador.

Amparo E. 2002. Identidades y Roles de Género en las Nacionalidades y Pueblos. Ecuador.

Aulestia, N. 2002. Impacto de la Perspectiva de Género en la Planificación Participativa
Aplicada al desarrollo local en Pueblos y Nacionalidades. Ecuador

Larrea S. 2002. Incorporación del Enfoque de Género en metodologías de Inversiones Públicas.
Ecuador

Escobar M. 2002. Sistematizaciòn de Experiencias de Género en el PRODEPINE, Ecuador.

Banco Mundial.2003.Evaluación Final Prodepine BIRF

FIDA. 2003. Evaluación Intermedia

Contraloría General del Estado (CGE) 2001. Auditoria de Gestión sobre la probabilidad de
logro de los objetivos del Proyecto. Quito,Ecuador.


Bank documents

Aide Memoires

Financial capacity assesment
Procurement capacity assesment

11. Contact point
Contact: David Tuchschneider
Title: Rural Development Specialist
Tel: 5356+350
Fax:
Email: Dtuchschneider@worldbank.org
Location: La Paz, Bolivia (IBRD)

12. For more information contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax: (202) 522-1500
         Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop

