Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18091
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER KRISHNA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(PHASE II)
CREDIT 2010-IN/ LOAN 3050-IN
JUNE 29, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
At appraisal (1985) US$1 = Rs. 12.0
Completion Year (1997) US$1 = Rs. 35.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles (mi.)
1 hectare (ha.) = 2.47 acres (ac.)
1 million cubic meter (Mm3) = 804 acre-feet (ac.-ft.)
1 cubic foot per second (cfs. or cusec) = 0.0283 cubic meters per second (m3/s)
I kilogram (kg.) = 2.2 lbs. (lb.)
I metric ton (t) = 2,205 pounds (lb.)
I thousand million cubic feet (TMC) = 28.317 million cubic meters (Mm3)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
Vice President                  Mieko Mishimizu
Director                        Edwin Lim
Sector Managers                 Michael Baxter/Ridwan Ali
Task Manager                    Anis A. Dani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
]NDIA
UPPER KRISHNA (PHASE II) IRRIGATION PROJECT
(CR. 2010-[N/LN. 3050-IN)
Table of Contents
PREFACE  .....................................................I
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ......................................................II
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ......................................................1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ......................................1..................................
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............................................3
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ..............................................5
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ................................................6
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE ................................................7
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............................7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ........................8
H. FUTURE OPERATION ........................8
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..............................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .........1.................. , 1
Table 1.  Summary of Assessments ..........................................................                 11
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Creclits ..........................................................            13
Table 3:  Project Timetable ..........................................................                      15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursemernts: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                              ..  15
Table 5:  Key Indicators for, Project Implementation ....................................................... 16
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation                     ........................................ 17
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project                     ............................................... 18
Table 8A: Project Costs ..........................................................                          19
Table 8B: Project Financing ..........................................................                      20
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................................            21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................................              22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .                          .......................................... 27
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................................           27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................................               28
APPENDICES
1. Mission's Aide M6moire ..........................................................                        30
2. Borrower's Evaluation Report ..........................................................                  52
3. Irrigation Component ................                                                                     64
4. Agriculture and Agricultural Services ...............................                                    75
5  Resettlement and Rehabilitation ................................ 101
6. Financial and Economic Analysis ...............................                                         118
7. Borrower's Comments on Draft Final ICR ...............................                                  126
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIAT:IONS AND ACRONYMS
AD          Agriculture Department
APM         adjustable proportional module
BTDA        Bagalkot Town Development Authority
CAD         command area development
CADA        Command Area Development Authority
CAF         canal affected families
DCA         Developraent Credit Agreement
DSRP        Dam Safety Review Panel
FD          field drains
FIC         field irrigation channels
GO          Government Order
GOI         Government of India
GOK         Government of Karnataka
HCG         house construction grant
IBC         Indi Branch Canal
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         international competitive bidding
IDA         International Development Association
ID          Irrigation Department
IGS         income generating scheme
IRR         internal rate of return
LPG         land purchase grant
MBC         Mudbal Branch Canal
NABARD    National Blank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NCB         national competitive bidding
NLBC        Narayanpur Left Branch Canal
O&M         operation and maintenance
OFD         on-farm development
PA          Project Agreement
PAP         project affected person
PAF         project affected families
PDF         project displaced families
POM         plan of maintenance
R&R         resettlement and rehabilitation
RWS         rotational water supply
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SBC         Shahpur Branch Canal
UKP         Upper Krishna Project
WALMI       Water and Land Management Institute
WUA         water users' association
ZP          Zilla Paris]had



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER KRISHNA (PHASE II) IRRIGATION PROJECT
(CR. 2010-IN/LN. 3050-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Upper Krishna
(Phase II) Irrigation Project (UKP II) in India, for which Credit 2010-IN in the amount of
SDR 119 million (US$160 million equivalent) and Loan 3050-IN in the amount of
US$165 million were approved on May 4, 1989 and made effective on August 17, 1989.
Following two suspensions, the project was closed on June 30, 1997. A total of
US$158.2 million from the loan was canceled during the disbursement period and upon
closing. Final disbursement took place on July 15, 1997.
This ICR was prepared by a Bank mission' which visited India from
September 6 to 27, 1997 and reviewed by Michael Baxter, Manager, South Asia Rural
Development Unit (SASRD), Keith Oblitas, Principal Operations Officer, SASRD,
Ridley Nelson, Principal Agricultural Economist, SASRD, and Richard Cambridge,
Principal Operations Officer, SARVP.  It is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal
Report of the project, legal documents, supervision reports and project files, as well as
field investigations and discussions with Bank staff and officials of the Irrigation,
Agriculture, Public Works, and Revenue, Urban and Forest Departments of the
Government of Karnataka (GOK). The implementing agencies had prepared their own
progress reports from which the mission was able to draw considerable information
regarding physical and financial progress of the works. The mission visited the project
and held discussions with project-level officers of the implementing agencies and
participating farmers, collecting information on project performance. The Borrower's
Evaluation Report is included as Appendix 2. The ICR was submitted to the Borrower
on January 16, 1998. Borrower's comrments were received on May 12, 1998 and taken
into account. Some areas of disagreement remain, particularly, in resettlement policies
and implementation strategies. For the sake of completeness, the Borrower's comments
have been attached in full as Appendix 7.
Messrs. A. Dani (Anthropologist, Mission Leader), M. M. Shah (Irrigation Engineer), M. Hasan (R&R
Expert), W. 1. Jones (Agricultural Economist, Consultant) and S. Sarkar (Agronomist, Consultant).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER KRISHNA (P[ASE II) IRRIGATION PROJECT
(CR. 2010-IN/LN. 3050-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.   The Upper Krishna (Phase II) Irrigation Project (UKP II) is part of a long-term
program to irrigate one million hectaires in Karnataka's arid northern districts which
started in 1965. From 1978 to 1986, under Credit 788-IN, Narayanpur Dam was
completed, Almatti Dam partially constructed, and irrigation provided to 60,000 ha. UKP
II was intended to extend irrigation dowvnstream from Narayanpur to another 150,000 ha
and continue construction of Almatti Dam for additional storage of irrigation water, in
accordance with projected irrigation needs, while completing the resettlement of families
displaced by Narayanpur and Almatti reservoirs and the irrigation network.
Project Objectives
2.   The main objectives of the project were to (a) increase agricultural production and
farmers' incomes and employment for 100,000 families by bringing irrigation to 150,000
ha of farmland; (b) provide for the resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) of displaced and
otherwise adversely affected persons (PAPs) to ensure restoration and enhancement of
their standard of living; (c) strengthen Kamataka's technical and managerial skills in
irrigation project management, design, construction and O&M; and (d) contribute
towards an effective anti-malaria campaign. This entailed construction of major civil
works, as well as irrigation development downstream to maximize project benefits (ICR,
para. 3), synchronically under-taking a major R&R program to mitigate adverse impacts
on displaced families (ICR, para 4).
3.   Loan Covenants. The most critical covenants included: (a) adequate budgetary
provision and timely release of funds; (b) construct Almatti Dam after demand forecast
confirms that irrigation facilities to use this water will be ready in next three years; (c)
carry out detailed R&R plan in accordance with principles and guidelines agreed with the
Association; (d) monitor groundwater and provide necessary drainage; (e) establish and
train water-user groups, and ensure farmer participation in construction decisions and FIC
operation; (f) recover full O&M costs from users by fourth irrigation year; (g) distribute
water by rotational water supply; (h) maintain dam safety review panel; (i) make
alternative arrangements for financing on-farm development if institutional credit is not
available. Covenants (a) and (h) were complied with. Covenants (b), (c) , (d) and (e)
ii



were partially complied with. Covenants (f), (g), and (i) have not been complied with
leading to reduced project benefits, and undermining projiect sustainability.
4.   Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project's main objective was clear and
appropriate. The SAR did not anticipate that the Borrower would delay raising Almatti
Dam to its full height, thereby increasing and advancing resettlement requirements. The
R&R component was well conceived but was prepared with minimal Government
involvement and commitment which led to the abandonment of the design during the
early stage of the project. In hindsight, GOK's will and capacity to rehabilitate PDFs
was over-estimated (see ICR, paras. 11-13), and GOK's zeal to raise Almatti Dam under-
estimated. A number of facets of SAR project design were lost during Negotiations due
to lack of continuity in Bank staffing.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.   The Borrower showed more enthusiasm for major civil works than for other aspects
of the project. Only when R&R shortcomings became salient did the Borrower and the
Bank concentrate on them. Minor civil works (FICs, FDs, and land shaping), irrigation
O&M, agriculture, and malaria control were largely ignored by the project. In contrast,
the Borrower pushed ahead with construction of major civil works not originally
scheduled until after the completion of the project.
6.   GOK followed a linear approach to R&R, first acquiring houses and agricultural
land, then establishing the RC' s, then trying to relocate PDFs and, when all this is done,
to offer PDFs their entitlements for economic rehabilitation. This fragmented approach
slowed down the pace of resettlement and has left most of the income restoration work
incomplete. The lack of project support, other than cash grants, for income restoration has
contributed to weak performance of this sub-component. Outstripped by the pace of dam
construction, contingency plans had to be implemented to undertake physical relocation
on emergency bases. Although implemented smoothly, adoption of such emergency
measures indicates the failure of planned resettlement measures.
7.   Project Impact.  Agricultural production in properly-irrigated areas surpassed
appraisal expectations. However, incremental production and net value added were
below expectations due to (a) lags in bringing new irrigation on-stream, and (b) absence
of land shaping and drainage. The project displaced or otherwise adversely affected about
200,000 persons. The majority of these PAPs will not benefit from irrigation downstream.
Although physical relocation of displaced persons to new Resettlement Centres (RC's) is
progressing well, due to the loss of productive land and the absence of alternate
employment promotion schemes, the project has been unable to restore their livelihoods.
8.   Project Sustainability.  At present, both operation and maintenance are deficient
and inadequately funded. Due to faulty canal operation, excessive water is being
provided; farmers do not yet understand the cost of waterlogging and salinization and,
consequently, have no incentive to save water. This situation is unsustainable. Similarly,
iii



without economic links between RC's and the command area, or provision of alternate
means of livelihood around the RC's, resettlement benefits are not likely to be sustained.
9.  Actual Project Cost and Financing  Original project costs, inclusive of physical
and price contingencies, were estimaled at US$ 542.2 million, of which 60% was to
IBRD/IDA finance, 38% by GOK/GO], and 2% by farmers and the nationalized banking
system. Actual project expenditure up to June 30, 1997 was Rs 20,581 million and is
expected to reach Rs 24,171 million by 2000 (US $643.6 million and $755.9 million at
the weighted average exchange rate over the project period), when designated Phase II
investments are complete (see Table 8A). The credit (US$ 160 million equivalent) was
fully disbursed. US$ 6.8 million of the loan was disbursed and $158.2 million canceled.
Bank Group financing was thus 220/o of the total; GOK/GOI financing, 78%; and
farmer/nationalized bank financing negligible.
10.  Economic Rate of Return. Given losses from truncated land shaping and drainage,
Phase II benefits provide a financial return of 0% and an economic return of 5%,
compared to the 11% returns projected at appraisal, to the resources invested during the
Phase II period on works specified in the SAR, plus the remaining investments needed in
1997-2000 to complete them.
11.   Key Factors Relating to Achievement of Project Objectives. GOK's urgency to
impound as much Krishna water as possible led to acceleration of work on Almatti Dam
and major canals, to the detriment of minor irrigation works, drainage, agricultural
support and R&R. The Credit was suspended twice because R&R lagged behind dam
construction leading to premature submergence of villages. R&R implementation
improved somewhat as a result of the suspensions but R&R objectives could only be
partially achieved. Implementation also suffered due to the absence of active NGOs who
could have helped the project in R&R.
12.   Bank Performance.  Bank supervision first concentrated on major irrigation
works, then, when it became salient, on R&R. Deficient R&R implementation led to
intensive supervision of R&R and two suspensions. Nevertheless, the conditions for
lifting suspension, particularly the second time, were unrelated to results on the ground
and were unable to ensure that R&R. objectives are met. Supervision of agriculture,
drainage, and operation of the irrigaticin system were met. Due to the concentration of
efforts on R&R and the construction program, supervision of several other major
covenants such as the timing of Almatti Dam construction and attention to on-farm
development, was deficient. Bank appraisal was, in retrospect, naive in discounting the
Borrower's determination to impound rnaximum of Krishna waters.
13.   Borrower Performance.  The Borrower made an immense financial effort to
complete the physical works of the project but other components lagged significantly
behind. Several parts of the project, including those covenanted, were not implemented.
The most serious results of non-compliance and non-implementation is the loss of
employment and consequently incomes for many PDFs, although physical relocation of
iv



PDFs accelerated significantly in the last 18 months of the project, unfortunately too late
to change overall outcomes. A second deficiency is the serious waterlogging and
salinization stemming from absence of drainage, lax operation of the canals, and lack of
incentive for farmers to save water.
14.   Project Outcome.  Despite deficiencies noted above, the project has brought
major agricultural benefits to an area that is agriculturally sub-marginal. Returns to
individual farmers who have received water are several times their pre-irrigation incomes.
Oilseed production has grown spectacularly, while grain, fiber and even pulse production
have also grown significantly. Labor demand has expaLnded, giving full employment to
families in the command, drawing labor into the command, and causing significant
increases in real wages. But these benefits are much less than they might have been due
principally to faulty canal operation, substantial absence of land-shaping and drainage,
poor construction quality and maintenance, delays, and premature resettlement as a result
of premature raising of Almatti Dam.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
15.   The project is rated unsatisfactory; its sustainability, uncertain at best. It is rated
only partially successful in achievement of environmental, poverty-reduction, and
institutional-development objectives.   The Bank's identification  and preparation
assistance are rated satisfactory but its appraisal and supervision are rated deficient. The
Borrower's preparation is rated satisfactory but its implementation, covenant compliance
and operation are rated deficient.
16.   Future Operations.    The Borrower has provided an operational plan for
completion of Phase II investments and operation of the project. Branch canals and
distributaries for the remaining 13,275 ha, and remaining work on Almatti Dam should be
completed within one year, FICs for the remaining 41,212 ha within three years. Physical
resettlement is expected to be complete by December 1998. Economic rehabilitation is
planned to be completed by March 1999, with the caveat that the project still lacks
additional institutional capability to make these rehabilitation schemes viable. Ensuring
satisfactory completion of economic rehabilitation should be a top priority for GOK.
There are no plans to complete land leveling or the projlect's drainage component, or for
initiating rotational water supply, for which the system was designed.
17.   Key Lessons Learned. The salient lessons from UKP II are:
(a) Economic rehabilitation plans -- opportunities, skills needed, capital
investments, input supply, market opportunities -- should be taken into account when
establishing Resettlement Centers. Lack of linkage between physical resettlement and
economic rehabilitation has reduced the likelihood of restoring livelihoods of PDFs.
(b) The time frame required for economic rehabilitation is much greater than that
for physical resettlement. While physical resettlement can be completed parallel to
v



infrastructure construction, the rehabilitation process will need support and careful
monitoring until this is completed.
(c) Resettlement cannot be implemented with a blueprint approach. Project
design has to allow a flexible, process approach aimed at achieving resettlement
objectives rather than delivering predetermined inputs.
(d) The costs of not leveling irrigated land as planned and of not building the
drains where needed will be very high compared to the modest costs avoided.
(e) Leaving the canals open and allowing over-irrigation when there is surplus
water during the initial construction period encourages high-water consuming crops and
risks waterlogging and salinization. In this instance, a combination of (i) failure to
construct drains, (ii) failure to operate the canals as designed, and (iii) farmers' lack of
incentive to conserve water have combined with the presence of soluble salts in the
bedrock to produce crop-killing salinization in only five years after initiation of irrigation.
(f) The absence, then, of sector work and formulation of a coherent irrigation
sector strategy left the project conceptualization vulnerable despite intensive preparation
and appraisal.
vi



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER KRISHNA (PHASE II) IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2011D-IN / Ln. 3050-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  STATEMENlF OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Introduction
1.   The Upper Krishna (Phase II) Irrigation Project (UKP II) is part of a long-term program to
irrigate one million hectares in Karnataka's arid northern districts which started in 1965. From
1978 to 1986, when the program was supported by IDA Credit 788-IN, Narayanpur Dam was
completed, Almatti Dam was partially constructed, and irrigation was brought to 60,000 ha of a
projected total of 100,000. Filling of Narayanpur Reservoir, which has the capacity to irrigate
185,000 ha, displaced about 3,000 families by 1986/7. Many of them did not regain their prior
standard of living. Between 1989 and 1997, the program was supported by Loan 3050 and Credit
2010, which were slated to finance US$325 million (60%) of the project that is the subject of this
report.
Statement of Project Objectives
2.   The main objectives of the project were to (a) increase agricultural production and
farmers' incomes and employment for 100,000 families by bringing irrigation to 150,000 ha of
drought-prone, arid farmland; (b) provide for the resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) of
displaced and otherwise adversely affected families (PDFs) to ensure restoration and
enhancement of their standard of living; (c) strengthen Karnataka's technical and managerial
skills in irrigation project management, design, construction and O&M; and (d) contribute
towards an effective anti-malaria campaign.
3.   Of irrigation infrastructure, the project aimed to continue or complete construction of the
Shahpur, Mudbal and Indi branch canals and their distributaries serving 148,000 ha; construct
field irrigation channels (FICs) and drains on 150,000 ha, improve main drains on 30% of the
project area where needed, construct, reconstruct or improve 672 km of village roads, and,
provided that progress in completing irrigation infrastructure justified it, to continue construction
of Almatti Dam up to elevation 509.016 msl. To make the irrigation system work better and
assure the achievement of agricultural goals, the project included Borrower2 undertakings to
change the design and operation of the system to the warabandi mode, to institute a system of
commissioning newly-irrigated areas and to fully recover the cost of adequate O&M directly
from irrigators by the fourth year after commissioning, and to expand its program of catchment
2 Although the primary Borrower is the Government of India (GOI), in this ICR, the word
"Borrower" refers to the Government of Karnataka (GOK), the de facto borrower.



improvement in the Krishna catchment. The project also included training for farmers, canal
operators and farm extension workers, as well as agricultural research.
4.   The R&R component provided entitlements for physical resettlement and economic
rehabilitation to 39,195 PDFs: 21,595 of them families that would be affected by raising Almatti
dam and its reservoir to elevation 509m, which was expected to occur towards the end of the
project. Among the provisions were grants to ensure land-for-land (LPG - land purchase grants)
and income-generating schemes (IGS), houselots and prescribed infrastructure in replacement
villages, transport to new residence site, food, fodder and fuel during a transition period, and
technical assistance to carry out and monitor this process. The value of the LPG and IGS was
initially fixed at negotiations but was subsequently revised upwards in 1993 on the
recommendation of Bank supervision. R&R entitlements were again revised in May 1995 and a
House Construction Grant (HCG) added to facilitate resettlemrent of PDFs, but other entitlements
remained the same or were reduced along a graded scale (see Appendix 5, paras. 8 & 17).
5.   The capacity-building component included construction and operation of the Dharwad
Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI), aerial mapping, and studies of future Krishna
development, O&M and staff training to improve it, contract administration, monitoring water-
use efficiency and agro-economic impact.
6.   The anti-malaria component provided for control of malaria which had been re-introduced
around Narayanpur and Almatti reservoirs and in the command area downstream, by and during
the construction of the earlier IDA project.
7.   Loan Covenants. Covenants were included to promote achievement of project objectives.
The most critical covenants required the Borrower to (a) ensure adequate budgetary provision
and timely release of funds; (b) construct Almatti Dam after demand forecast establishes
irrigation development will enable use of water within three years; (c) implement anti-malaria
program; (d) monitor groundwater and provide necessary drainage; (e) establish and train water-
user groups, ensure farmer participation in construction decisions and FIC operation; (f) recover
full functionality O&M costs from users by fourth irrigation year; (g) distribute water by
rotational water supply; (h) maintain dam  safety review panel; (i) separate O&M  from
construction; (j) maintain adequate extension and agricultural research service; (k) protect
catchment from erosion; (1) make alternative arrangements for financing on-farm development in
the event institutional credit is not available; (m) carry out the detailed resettlement and
rehabilitation plan to ensure that displaced persons will improve or at least regain their prior
standard of living within a reasonable time; and (n) ensure annual, independent monitoring &
evaluation of R&R.
8.    Evaluation of Project Objectives.  The project's main objective was clear and
appropriate. The SAR expectations were unrealistic in expecting that the Borrower would delay
or abstain from raising Almatti Dam to its full height unless absolutely necessary, thereby
reducing or postponing resettlement requirements. The SAR also erred in calculating the area to
be flooded by Almatti Dam at elevation 509 m by failing to take account of the height of water
above the spillway during the monsoon floods. The R&R component was well conceived but
with minimum Government involvement and commitment which probably contributed to the
abandonment of the design in the early stages of the project. The R&R component proved to be
overly optimistic about the Borrowers will and capacity to rehabilitate PDFs, about the efficacy
of ex-gratia grants to restore PDF incomes, and the PDFs ability to use the grants for income-
2



generating schemes and procurement of replacement land without additional institutional support
from the project. A number of facets of SSAR project design were lost during Negotiations due to
lack of continuity in Bank staffing. For instance, rehabilitation entitlements were converted into
cash grants for land purchase and incoma generation, despite this being one of the weaknesses
identified in the SAR for KIP (Cr.788-IN). Furthermnore, the value of these grants was fixed in
absolute rupee terrns, making it extremely difficult to negotiate upward revisions subsequently,
despite substantial devaluation of the Indian rupee and inflation of land prices. The anti-malaria
component proved to be unrealistic. Project activities created conditions for rapid increase in
malaria. The project was relatively successful at diagnosing and treating malaria but not at
reversing the increased incidence of posil:ive cases. That required cross-support from other parts
of the project, such as through filling of borrow pits, which were beyond the jurisdiction of the
anti-malaria units.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.     Implementation Experience andl Results. The Borrower showed more enthusiasm for
major civil works than for other aspects of the project3. Early Bank supervision confirmed this
bias. Throughout, implementation of minor irrigation works (FICs, FDs, and land shaping), R&R
and agricultural aspects lagged. Only when R&R shortcomings became salient did the Borrower
and the Bank concentrate on them. Minor civil works, irrigation O&M, agriculture, malaria
control, catchment improvement and many of the covenants were not adequately addressed by
the project. While the Borrower neglected these aspects of the project, it pushed ahead with
construction of major civil works not originally scheduled until after the completion of the
project. In view of the skewed pattern of results, the ICR focuses more on R&R and on-farm
development, the two major components which remain problematic. These shortcomings have
had a major impact on project outcomes despite the over-achievement in construction of civil
works. Achievements under the irrigation component are described more fully in Appendix-3.
10.  UKP II was one of the last projects to go to the Board before the 1991 India Irrigation
Sector Review. This review resulted in turning away from enclave construction projects in favor
of an approach based on comprehensive policies and institutional reforms, which could have
avoided many of the weaknesses now visible in the project. The absence of sector work and
formulation of a coherent irrigation sector strategy left the project design vulnerable despite
prolonged preparation and appraisal.
11.    Project Impact. Agricultural production in properly-irrigated areas surpassed appraisal
expectations. However, incremental production and net value added were below expectations
due to (a) lags in bringing new irrigation on-stream, and (b) the truncated nature of most of the
irrigation established due to absence of land shaping and drainage4. Construction of Phase II and
3   The Borrower suggests that civil works construction and resettlement suffered because of
suspensions imposed by the World Bank. "The construction of Dam and allied works is also slightly
behind; R&R works suffered because of suspensions imposed by the World Bank." In actual act, the
suspensions were imposed primarily on disbursements for civil works to enable R&R activities to
catch up with the pace of dam construction (see Appendix 5, page 4).
4 In the Borrower's comments of May 1998, CADA explains its inability to complete OFD works
due to the priority given to Almatti Datr and canal works in resource allocation from the credit/loan,
while OFD works which depended on local financial institutions were under-financed. Bank
assistance for OFD works is also desirable. "The inference drawn by the World Bank may have to be
3



post-Phase II major civil works will lead to future agricultural benefits, but only if Karnataka is
allowed to continue, with construction, and complete the facililties started.
12.    The over-arching objective of UKP's resettlement component is to "provide for the
resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced persons to ensure the restoration or enhancement of
their standard of living up to or above levels enjoyed by themn prior to the commencement of the
implementation of the Project or Phase I, as the case may be." The R&R objective of the project
has not changed although some of the interventions and rehabilitation entitlements were revised
during the course of the project. Although disbursements were suspended twice for inadequate
R&R, the impact of R&R remains unsatisfactory. R&R imrplementation improved after each
suspension but not enough to achieve a balanced outcome. Despite intensive supervision of R&R,
the project suffered from lack of continuity of Bank staff. During the critical period leading up
the second suspension, no R&R staff was involved. The conditions for lifting suspension, at this
late stage (the sixth year of the project), were not commensurate with actions needed to
successfully meet R&R objectives (see Appendix 5, para 11).
13.    The project has displaced or otherwise adversely affected about 200,000 persons (39,195
PDFs). The majority of these affected persons will not benefit from irrigation downstream. The
project's plans to help them with purchase of replacement land or alternate income generation
schemes has not worked well and is behind schedule. Recent legislation5 enacted to enable
provision of land-for-land was not applied to the project (see Appendix 5, para 24), and the only
real opportunity to provide replacement land to PDFs thereby lost. In spite of an elaborate design
at appraisal, the project delegated the task of identifying and implementing IGS almost entirely to
PDFs, with virtually no support for skills training, enterprise development, or market linkages. As
a result, the project has been unable to restore their livelihoods.
14.    One positive feature of the May 1995 GO is the introduction of an ex-gratia house
construction grant (HCG) of Rs 22,000 to each PDF (including major sons) except those owning
more than 10 ha of land. This has proved to be the single biggest incentive encouraging
thousands of PDFs to undertake construction of replacement houses in the relocation sites. Even
those PDFs who had diverted their compensation to non-productive purposes have now been able
to initiate house construction. The pace of house construction has accelerated considerably in
RCs and the quality of new housing is generally better than that in the submerging villages (see
Annex 5, para. 26).
15.  Actual Project Cost and Financing The original project costs, inclusive of physical and
price contingencies, were estimated at US$ 542.2 million, of which 60% was to be financed by a
Bank loan and an IDA credit, 38% by GOK and GOI, and 2% by farmers and the nationalized
banking system. Actual project expenditure up to June 30, 1997 was Rs 20,581 million. It is
estimated that Rs 3,589 million will be spent by 2000 to complete the designated investments.
The total is Rs 24,171 million ( US$ 671.4 million at current exchange rates and $755.9 million at
reviewed in the light of Government of Karnataka's policy to accord highest priority for utilising its
share of Krishna Water before 2000 A.D. and thus protecting its interest." Presumably, this refers to
the emphasis on major civil works. The Borrower concludes that Bank assistance for OFD works is
also desirable.
I The Kamataka Resettlement of Project Displaced Persons Act, 1987, granted Presidential
approval on August 8, 1994.
4



the weiglhted average exchange rate over the project period) (see Table 8A). The credit of US$
160 million equivalent was fully disbursed. Of the loan, US$ 6.8 million was disbursed and
$158.2 million was canceled.6 Bank Group financing was thus 22% of the total; GOK/GOI
financing, 78%; and farmer/nationalized bank financing was negligible.
16.  Economic Rate of Return. Given losses from truncated land shaping and drainage, Phase
II benefits provide a financial return of 0% and an economic return of 5% to the resources
invested during the Phase II period on works specified in the SAR, plus the remaining
investments needed in 1997-2000 to complete them. This can be compared to the 11% economic
return to Phase II alone, projected at appraisal.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
17.   Factors not generally subject ito government control.  Proper implementation of
resettlement program suffered due to the absence of active NGOs who could have helped PDFs
in resettlement. NGOs could have played an advocacy role to ensure that PDFs receive their full
entitlements, and could have assisted in implementation of income generating activities to
facilitate economic rehabilitation. Local 'NGOs were not developed enough to play these roles
effectively and external NGOs stayed away apparently because they did not find the environment
conducive to collaboration.
18.    Factors subject to government control. The Borrower's focus on impounding as much
Krishna water as possible in order to improve Karnataka's chances for a. favorable re-allocation
of the river's water in 2000 resulted in the acceleration of work on Almatti Dam and major
canals, and on the relative neglect of minor irrigation works, drainage, agricultural support, and,
until it became salient in disputes with the Bank, of R&R. When CADA became moribund, in
1992, GOK made no effort to revive it, or to re-assign its functions to other, more effective,
agencies. When institutional credit from existing financial institutions was no longer provided for
on-farm development, GOK was to make alternative credit arrangements (DCA, Schedule 1.13)
but neglected to do so.
19.   In other projects, independent monitoring has played a valuable role in ensuring
successful R&R. Although planned and covenanted as an annual requirement, independent
monitoring was not allowed to function at UKP. Twice the project appointed agencies external to
the Government to monitor R&R programs. Both times their contracts were discontinued by
GOK because their reports were not acceptable to the project. As a result, the Borrower lacked
the ability to identify shortcomings and retool the program to ensure achievement of R&R
objectives.
6 In May 1998, the Irrigation Department, GOK has reported that aggregate Phase-II expenditure up
to 30.6.97 is Rs. 10,885.873 million which is expected to reach 17,262.805 million on completion of
Phase II, and that the loan component utilized is US$ 16.52. These claims are not consistent with
detailed, audited data obtained from the Principal Chief Accounts Officer, UKP which have been used
for the financial analysis. Without backup data, the ICR is unable to incorporate these aggregate
figures of project costs in the main text. Actual loan utilization, as per Bank records, is US$
6,817,534.42. The Borrower has been notified of the cancellation of US$ 158,182,465.58, and the
Amortization Schedule revised according ly.
5



20.   Factors subject to implementing agency control. Despite covenants linking Almatti
Dam construction to the demand forecast for irrigation water (PA, Schedule 1: 1), and to
completion of R&R, the Irrigation Department (ID) did not maintain the linkage between
schedules of dam construction, R&R implementation, and irrigation development in the
command area. Largely because of poor R&R implementation, Bank Group lending was
suspended twice. The project could have empowered the Water Users Associations (WUAs) to
raise resources and perform O&M functions. The project could also have paid more attention to
water management through RWSS, cost recovery of water charges, and effective drainage to
prevent waterlogging and salinity.
21.   GOK followed a linear approach to R&R, first acquiring houses and agricultural land,
then establishing sites for the RC's, then trying to get PDFs to relocate, then assisting them with
house construction and, when all this is done, to offer PDFs their entitlements for economic
rehabilitation7. This fragmented approach has not worked well. It slowed down the pace of
resettlement since PDFs did not have an economic incentive lto move, and it has resulted in large
scale unemployment in the RC's. The employment generation expected from command area
development has still not materialized and, in any event, is too far removed from Almatti to be of
benefit to the PDFs residing in Almatti RC's.
22.   Physical resettlement of PDFs was outstripped by the pace of dam construction,. To cope
with the emergency situation created by rising waters, GOK prepared and implemented
contingency plans to relocate and provide shelter and emergency food and services to all families
threatened by flooding during the monsoons. Although contingency plans have been
implemented smoothly in 1996 and 1997, adoption of such emergency measures to move
thousands of people, forced out of the affected areas by rising waters, is an indication of the
failure of proper resettlement measures. Many PDFs, particularly the poorest families, once
housed in temporary metal sheds, continue to reside there for years as they lack resources to
supplement compensation received to build permanent houses. The success of HCG (see para.
13) in stimulating house construction indicates that this situation was avoidable.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
23.   At present, both operation and maintenance are defic ient and inadequately funded. Due
to faulty canal operation, excessive water is being provided; farmers, mostly lacking land shaping
and many lacking drainage, also pay negligible water charges. Most do not yet understand the
cost of waterlogging and salinization and, consequently, have no incentive to save water. This
situation is unsustainable. Similarly, without provision of alternate means of livelihood around
the RC's, resettlement benefits are not likely to be sustained. Displacement at Almatti is
relatively recent, and adverse economic impact not yet clearly visible. When the real impact of
resettlement is felt, with the filling of Almatti reservoir over the next few years, the looming
crisis may provoke action from farmers and other stakeholders. Consequently, project
sustainability is rated uncertain.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
See Appendix 5, Section E for details.
6



24.    Bank supervision first concentrated on major irrigation works, then, when it became
salient, on R&R. Since 1991, unsatisfactory R&R dominated the project, resulting in two
suspensions which focused GOK's attenlion on improving R&R implementation. However, the
conditions for lifting suspension, particularly the second time around, were insufficient to ensure
achievement of R&R objectives (para 12). Supervision of several major covenants (such as the
timing of Almatti Dam construction and irrigation development beyond the main canals, ) was
deficient, the latter possibly contributing to neglect of agriculture, drainage, and operation of the
irrigation system. Bank appraisal was unable to anticipate GOK's determination to impound
maximum of Krishna waters for political reasons, despite technical, financial and social grounds
to delay the investment in Almatti Dam. Also, the area flooded by Almatti Dam at spillway
elevation 509M was seriously underestimated (Appendix 5, paras 10 & 14). In hindsight, lifting
of suspension by the Bank, in October 1996 on the basis of assurances provided by GOK, was a
mistake. Without further ado, the project proceeded to raise Almatti spillway to its final crest
level of 509.016 msl, exacerbating the imbalance in R&R between physical resettlement and
economic rehabilitation, described in Appendix 5.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.    Especially in the wake of the reduction of Bank Group financing, the Borrower made an
immense financial effort to complete the project. As noted in para. 6 above, the Borrower did not
comply with most covenants. Several parts of the project -- land levelling, construction of field
drains, agricultural extension, devolution of O&M to functioning Water Users Associations, cost
recovery -- were not implemented and are not likely to be soon. In contrast, construction of
Almatti dam and the main canals has proceeded in advance of the rest of the irrigation system
well before the water can be efficiently utilized, despite a covenant linking dam construction to
irrigation water demand (PA, Schedule 1: 1). The most serious result of non-compliance and non-
implementation is the predicament of large numbers of PDFs who have not regained their prior
standard of living and who, in many cases, have been displaced / affected prematurely to
maximize water impoundment. An assurance, obtained at the lifting of the second suspension (in
October 1996), that the spillway of Almatti dam would not be raised from its then level of 506 m.
to its final height of 509 m., until all PDFs had received their full resettlement entitlements, was
disregarded by GOK8. The second result of non-compliance is serious waterlogging and
salinization stemming from absence of drainage, lax operation of the canals, and lack of incentive
for farmers to save water.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26.    Despite lags, non-implementation of certain components, defective operation of the canal
system and inadequate rehabilitation programs, the project has brought major agricultural
benefits to an area that is agriculturally slib-marginal. Farmers with adequate land-shaping and
drainage are multiplying their net returns by nine times, even those who suffer from absence of
land shaping and drainage are getting five times the returns they got without irrigation. Oilseed
s In its comments on the draft ICR, the Borrower makes the following statement to explain GOK's
decision. "The award made by the KWDT [Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal] allocating water to
Karnataka is due to come up for review after May 2000 AD. The state therefore had to protect its
future interests by utilising the allocated water. Therefore, the GOK took all measures necessary to
complete the physical works of the project."
7



production has grown spectacularly, while grain, fiber and even pulse production have also
grown significantly. Labor demand has expanded, giving full employment to families in the
command, drawing labor into the command, and causing significant increases in real wages. But
these benefits are much less than they might have been due principally to faulty canal operation,
substantial absence of land-shaping and drainage, poor construction quality and maintenance,
delays, and premature resettlement as a result of premature raising of Almatti Dam. As a
consequence, the economic return to resources invested in Phase II is estimated at 5%; the
financial return, at 0%.
27.    Summary of Findings The project is rated unsatisfactory; its sustainability, uncertain at
best. It is rated only partially successful in achievement of environmental, poverty-reduction, and
institutional-development objectives. The Bank's identification and preparation assistance are
rated satisfactory but its appraisal and supervision are rated deficient.  The Borrower's
preparation is rated satisfactory but its implementation, covenant compliance and operation are
rated deficient.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
28.   The Borrower has provided an operational plan for completion of Phase II investments
and operation of the project. Branch canals and distributaries for the remaining 13,275 ha, and
remaining work on Almatti Dam should be completed within one year, FICs for the remaining
41,212 ha within three years. Payment for land and structures acquired, construction of
resettlement centers and distribution of house plots should be completed by December 1997. In
May 1998, the Borrower reported that payments for land and stuctures have been completed.
Houses and house-construction grants should be completed by end 1998; land-purchase and
income-generating-scheme grants are scheduled for disbursement by March 1999, with the
caveat that the project still lacks additional institutional capability to make these rehabilitation
schemes viable. There are no plans to complete land leveling or the project's drainage
component, though drainage needs have been studied.
29.   Irrigation works will by operated by the O&M Zone of the ID/KBJNL under the Chief
Engineer (O&M). There are currently no plans for initiating rotational water supply, for which
the system was designed. GOK is planning to give KBJNL the responsibility of recovering
existing water charges but has no current plans for enhancing water rates to ensure full recovery
of O&M costs. GOK plans to turn over O&M of minor irrigation works to Water Users'
Cooperative Societies which will be organized on selected hydraulic units. Agricultural support,
R&R and the anti-malaria unit will continue to be the responsibility of the departments that run
them now.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
30.    The Upper Krishna Project has generated a number of lessons, some of which have
emerged more clearly from this project than from its predecessors.
(a) Narayanpur and Almatti are mediocre dam sites, requiring long dams that create
shallow reservoirs which displace large numbers of people and flood a lot of farm land for the
water they store. At such sites, under the best of circumstances, returns will be modest compared
to the social cost involved.
8



(b) The economic and financial cost of building Almatti Dam long before it was needed
for irrigation, including the R&R cost, has been high. However, it was a cost which GOK was
prepared to pay for political reasons.
(c) Economic rehabilitation plans -- opportunities, skills needed, capital investments,
input supply, market opportunities -- should be taken into account when establishing the RC's.
Lack of linkage between physical resettlement and economic rehabilitation has reduced the
likelihood of restoring livelihoods of PDFs.
(d) The time frame required for economic rehabilitation is much greater than that for
physical resettlement. While physical resettlement can be completed parallel to infrastructure
construction, the rehabilitation process will need institutional support for land purchase or
employment promotion, and careful monitoring for a number of years.
(e) Resettlement cannot be implemented with a blueprint approach. Project design has to
allow a flexible, process approach aiimed at achieving resettlement objectives rather than
delivering predetermined inputs. Thus, rehabilitation entitlements should not be fixed as absolute
currency values, without an explicit proviso for market price adjustments.
(f) Independent monitoring of R.&R, designed but not carried out, could have provided
realistic feedback directly to the Borrower and helped overcome many of the shortcomings
identified subsequently. After the withdrawal of the first R&R monitoring consultants, the Bank
should have ensured appointment of a replacement to provide regular feedback on R&R
performance.
(g) The costs of not leveling ilTigated land as planned and of not building the drains
where needed will be very high compared to the modest costs avoided. Because land shaping and
field drains are critical for good irrigation in undulating terrain like that in the project area,
Government must stand by its commitment to provide finance for these activities in the event that
banks refuse to do so.
(h) It is extremely unwise, during the period when an irrigation command is partially
constructed and there is surplus water, to leave the canals open and to over-irrigate. Besides
encouraging high-water consuming crops, the practice risks waterlogging and salinization. In
this instance, a combination of (a) failure to construct drains, (b) failure to operate the canals as
designed, and (c) farmers' lack of incentive to conserve water have combined with the presence
of soluble salts in the bedrock to produce crop-killing salinization in only five years after
initiation of irrigation.
(i)  Poor quality canal construction and operation to over-irrigate are particularly
damaging to irrigation systems in black-cotton soil (vertisol) areas.
(j) Without client ownership, covenants have not been effective. Assurances of future
compliance are a poor indicator of client ownership. Projects should rely on actual performance
rather than just assurances.
(k) The relative neglect of agriculture, drainage, O&M and cost recovery during
supervision has lowered project benefits despite considerable sunk costs on civil works and R&R.
9



(I) The absence, then, of sector work and formulation of a coherent irrigation sector
strategy left the project conceptualization vulnerable despite intensive preparation and appraisal.
Since the 1991 India Irrigation Sector Review the Bank has moved away from enclave
construction projects in favor of an approach based on comprehensive policies and institutional
reforms, which could have avoided many of the weaknesses now visible in the project.
10



PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives      Substantial   Partial  Negligible   Not
(M1)      ('1)       ('I)     Applicable
Macro policies              Li         L            i         E
Sector policies             Li         LI          Ei         Li
Financial objectives         Ei        I           EI         Li
Institutional development   Li         L          Li          L
Physical objectives                    Li         Li         El
Poverty reduction           Li         Li  El                 Li
Gender issues               li         Li         Li         El
Other social objectives     Li         Li         Li         Fi
Environmental objectives    Li        IT          El          Li
Public sector management    L          Fi         L           Li
Private sector development  Li         Li         Li          Li
Other (specify)             Li         Li         Li          Li
B. Project sustainability            Likely    Unlikely  Uncertain
(i)        (i)       (i)
11



Highly
C. Bank performance                satisfactory Satisfactory Deficient
(()                   (i1)
Identification                             FT]
Preparation assistance          []         [          F
Appraisal                                              Y ] E
Supervision                     g           1          E
Highly
D. Borrower performance           satisfactory Satisfactory Deficient
(i)        (i)        (i)
Preparation
Implementation                 E           D          El]
Covenant compliance             C         F            E
Operation (if applicable)                 F           F 
Highly                                 Highly
E. Assessment of outcome     satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
12



Table 2: Reilated Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title               Purpose                        Year of Approval                Status
Preceding operations
1. Mysore Agricultural      To construct about 16,000 wells to  1972                      Completed
Development Project (Cr.    provide irrigation in tho erstwhile
278-IN)                     Mysore State.
2. Kamataka Agricultural    To develop markets in Karnataka      1973                     Completed
Markets Project (Cr. 378-IN)
3. Kamataka Irrigation      To complete Phase I of Stage I of the  1978                   Completed
Project (Cr. 788-IN)        Upper Krishna Irrigaticn Project, and to
carry out minor distribution                                  ICR issued 12/22/88
development in Malaprabha and
Ghataprabha projects.
4. National Agricultural    To strengthen location-specific research   1978               Completed
Research Project (Cr. 855-  in the agro-climatic zones of India,
IN)                         including Karnataka                                                                l
5. Composite Agricultural   To improve agricultural extension    1978                     Completed
Extension Project (Cr. 862-    facilities and services in Gujarat,
IN)                         Haryana and Karnataka
6. Cashewnut Project (Cr.   To increase incomes of smallholders  1980                     Completed
1012)                       and corporations through improved                                                  I
production and processing.                                    ICR issued 10/3/90
7. Karnataka Sericulture    To assist in the development of      1980                     Completed
Project (Cr. 1034-IN)       mulberry production and sericulture                           ICR issued 3/22/93
8. Karnataka Social Forestry    To assist with the production of  1984                    Completed
Project (Cr. 1432-IN)       saplings, Forest Department Plantings,
training and research. Project is also co-                    ICR issued 3/11/91
financed by ODA.
9. National Agricultural    To strengthen the facilities and services   1985              Completed
Extension Project II (Cr.   of agricultural extension in Gujarat,
1569-IN)                    Haryana, and Jammu/Kashmir
10. National Agricultural   To strengthen location specific research   1985               Completed
Research Project 11 (Cr.    in the agro-climatic zones of India,                          ICR issued 5/27/97
1631)                      including Karnataka.
Il .National Water          Increase agricultural outrut by     1987                      Completed
Management Project (Cr.     providing farmers with more reliable
1770-IN)                    and predictable irrigation water.                             ICR issued 01/30/97
1.3



Table 2 (cont'd)
Loan/credit title               Purpose                       Year of Approval                Status
Following operations
1. National Sericulture    Strengthen and expand the sericulture    1989                 Completed
Project (Ln. 3065/Cr.2022-    subsector through increases in
IN)                        production, improvements in                                   ICR issued 09/97
productivity, product quality, human
resource base, support services and
increased private sector involvement.
2. Rubber Project (Cr. 2409-   To expand and strengthen the rubber  1993                 Ongoing
IN)                        subsector to increase production by
smallholders, provide assistance to
rubber processors and generate on-/off-
farm rural employment.
3. Forestry Research,      To strengthen the capacity of national    1994                Ongoing
Education and Extension    and state institutions to: plan and
Project (Cr. 2572-IN)      undertake priority research programs;
improve the system of forestry
education in research and academic
institutions; improve policy analysis
and project preparation capabilities
within the Ministry of Environment and
Forests; and develop a supporting
forestry statistical service.
4. Hydrology Project (Cr.   To improve India's institutional and  1996                   Ongoing
27740-IN)                  technical capability to measure, collate,
analyze and disseminate surface and
ground water resources data
5. Ecodevelopment Project    To conserve biodiversity through   1997                     Ongoing
(Cr. 29160-IN)             ecodevelopment strategy in and around
seven protected areas.
14



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project process    Date planned           Date actual /
latest estimate
Identification (Executive                          February 18, 1986
Project Summary)
Preparation                                        1987
Appraisal                                          February 1988
Negotiations                                       November 23, 1988
Board presentation                                 May 4, 1989
Signing                                            June 16, 1989
Effectiveness                                      August 17, 1989
Mid-term review          1992                      June 1992
Project completion       December 1'996 (original)   June 30, 1997
i________________________  June  30, 1997  (revised)
Loan closing             December 31, 1996         July 15, 1997
(original)
Extended once up to
June 30, 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursennents: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98
Appraisal Estimate       18.0  50.0  100.0 163.0 228.0 286.0 325.0 325.0 325.0
Actual                   21.1  32.1   43.3  70.8 102.1  149.3 150.8 174.3 174.3
Actual as % of Estimate  117   64     43    43  45    52    46   54    54
Date of Final Disbursement  July 15, 1997
15



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicators     Unit      Estimate     Achievement   % Achievement
as of June
30I, 1997
1. Almatti Dam
(a) Concrete         T.          275.74         224.36           81%
(b) Embedded parts for Cum.        26             3              12%
radial gates         No.
(c) River sluice gates
6             -               0%
No.
2.Shahpur Branch
Canal
(a) Distr.           km           597            597             100%
(b) FICs             km           2582           2582            100%
3. Mudbal Branch
Canal
(a) Br. Canal        km           50.8          46.16            91%
(b) Dist.            km            179           156             87%
(c) FICs             km           1539           1412            92%
4. Indi Branch Canal
(a) Br. Canal
(b) Dist.            km            64         48.2+3(p)          78%
(c) FICs             km           621         450+25(p)          75%
km          2318        1962+30(p)          85%
5. Ayacut Roads      km           627            617             98 %
+ 290 (CADA)  + 18 (CADA)   (69% including
___________________  ______              ________  roads with  CADA)
6. Buildings (Res. &
Non-Residential)
(a) WALMI
(b) Dam              No.     5 (NR)+189(R)  All buildings        100%
(c) Canal            No.      1 (NR)+21 (R)    completed
No.    59(NR)+165(R)
7. OFD Works
(a) Total Land Shaping ha        116,000        11,016           9.5%
(land shaping in
Phase II area)  (ha)     (114,000)       (8,800)          (8%)
(b) Drainage         % of
project
area        30%            14%              45%
8. Studies           Rs. M        48.5           36.0            74%
9. Mapping           Rs. M        41.4       =39.0               94%
16



Table 5 (cont'd)
10. Anti-malaria      Rs. M       64.90           11.09    |       17%
l1.R&R                Rs. M      1,598.81       2,735.191          171%
11. Resettlement &
Rehabilitation
(a) Area submerged by
Almatti Dam with
509m. spillway crest   ha         12,900         25,744            200%
(b) Families displaced
under Phase II,       No.         40,000         44,1482           110%
(c) Income generating
schemes               No.         11,060          1,598             14%
(d) Land allocated /
land purchase grants    No.        5,864           638              11%
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
L Key operating indicators in SAR                Estimated          Actual
1. Additional irrigated area                     148,000 ha       93,513 ha
2. Cropping intensity                              145%             160%
(of which irrigated)                        (115%)           (154%)
3. No. of affected families                        40,000           57,214
II. Modified indicatorsforfuture operation      Estimated at     Achieved by
closing date    closing date
1. Land acquisition for Almatti reservoir up to  31,860 ha        18,060 ha
515 m. contour
2. Permanent replacement houses for nrral PDFs     48,338           12,084
of Almatti reservoir by 1999
3. Area provided with field drains               44,000 ha        20,297 ha
4. Participatory irrigation management system  5 distributaries   not yet initiated
(PIM) to be introduced in pilot distributaries
9.    Data available as of 1994/5 ff. Earlier project years not reported.
10.   The total number of families who will be displaced under Phase II is 56,181 families, i.e. 140% of
the SAR estimate.
17



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Studies/Surveys        Purpose as defined   Status                    Impact of study
at appraisal /
redefined
Feasibility study for  To assist project       Completed              Phase III development
future development of    management in planning                       being planned on basis
UKP                    future development of                          of this report
UKP and to determine
viable options of
development
Management             To assist establishment   Completed            MIS Cell established but
Information System in    of Project Management                        still not effectively
UKP                    Information System                             functional
Cell in the office of EIC
Telecommunication in    To establish           Study abandoned after    Nil since studies not
UKP                    telecommunication       Inception Report stage    concluded
system for UKP
Photo mapping of UKP   To complete the balance  Completed             Survey maps used for
command area           work of Phase I study                          planning and design of
canal system
Master Drainage Plan of  To prepare drainage   Completed               Report recently
UKP                    plan for UKP command                            finalised. Action plan is
area                                           yet to be drawn
Integrated Reservoir   To prepare integrated   Completed              Being used for
Operation Study        operation of Almatti and                       integrated operation
Narayanpur reservoirs                          plan of the two
reservoirs
Socio-economic survey   To conduct a census and  Completed            Study data formed the
of 8 villages in       socioeconomic survey                           basis for determination
submergence area of    of affected persons                            of entitlements of
Almatti reservoir                                                      project affected persons
-Do- of 12 villages    -Do                     Completed              -Do
-Do- of 21 villages    -Do-                    Completed               -Do-
-Do- of 54 villages    -Do-                    Completed               -Do-
Survey work of 41      -Do-                    Completed              -Do-
villages in Narayanpur
submergence area
Survey work of 205     -Do-                    Completed              -Do-
villages in command
area
Survey work of         -Do-                    Completed               -Do-
Bagalkot town
Monitoring and         To produce independent  First M&E consultancy   Purpose not achieved
Evaluation of          annual monitoring       discontinued in 1991;
Resettlement &         report of R&R           second consultancy
Rehabilitation         component               awarded in 1996;
Inception Report and
one M&E relport
produced; consultancy
discontinued in April
'97
18



Table SA: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                                  Actual Estimate
Item
Rs                     US$                       Rs                     US$
million                 million                  million                  million
Irrigation                                                                                                                            I
Almatti Da,m                                                 642.2                      44.0                 1198.2                       37.4
Canal & Drainage Works                                    4531.2                      3104               103618                        324.0
.......................... G ................................................... .................................. .................................. .....................................................................
Roads                                          ,            659.5                      45.2                   888.5                      27.8
...........I... .................................................................................I.......................................................................................... .............................
Buildings                                                                                                     589.2                      18.4
......................... .................................................................I..................... ..................................................................... ...........................
Machinery & Equipment .                                                                                       223.3                         7.0
.............................  ................................  ...................   ..................   ...............   ...............   ..................4;j;
Resettlementand                                           1472.3                   31008                    5312.5                     166.1
Rehabilitation
............................................................... .............................................................................................. ................................................................
Other & Support
.....................................................  ...............................................................................  ....... . ..  .........................    ..1...........................
WALMI                                          .             175.9                      12.0'.                  36.5',                      1.1
........... ...............................                            ...................  ...........   ..........   .....................   .................................. , 
Mapping                                        .               65.3                      4.5                    39.0                        1.2
Studies                                                       202                         1.4                     5.3                      02
Anti-Malaria                                   .               64.9                      4 4                    11.0                       0.3
........................................ ........................................................................................................................................... ..................
Oter CADA(taining,                                                                                            152.2                         4.8
OFD)
Establishment                                           285 0                        9 ;5               5107.9                     159;.
............................................... ................I......................... ................ .................. .......................... ........ .................................. ........................ .
O&M                                                                                                           245.2                        7.7
TOTAL                                                                   7919.5                    542.2    24170.6                                  755.9
Notes: Appraisal and Actual categories are not all comparable. WALMI building are under WALMI for
Appraisal but under Buldings for Actual. "Establishment" at Appraisal included establishment for
O&M only; other establishment was clubbed under the appropriate activity. In Appraisal
estimates, dam and canal works included associated buildings and machinery & equipment.
Actual estimates for dam, canals, and resettlement include  some studies.   Anti-malaria
expenditures are for 1994/5 ff only; earlier expenditures, which are included under the Health
Department budget, could not be disaggregated.
Rupee figures have been converted into US$ at the rate of 14.6 Rs:l US$, the assumed
rate at Appraisal, and Rs 32: 1 US$ for Actual. This figure is the average of average yearly
exchange rates, weighted by amount of expenditures in each year. It gives a cost over-run of
39%. If all actual Rupee estimates are converted to US$ at 36:1, the rate at the time of Loan
Closing, then the US$ project cost is US$671.4 million and the cost-over-run is 24%.
Expenditures are for period up to 30 June 1997 (Closing of Loan) except for Rs 210.6
million in 1997/8 to complete Almatti Dam, Rs 441.9 million in 1997/8, 1998/9 and 1999/2000 to
complete Phase 11 canal works as definecl by the SAR, and Rs 2937 million in 1997/8 and 1998/9
to complete Phase II R&R.
19



Table 9: Financial & Economic Benefits and Costs
Appraisal Estimate                    ICR Estimate
Future without      Future with      Future without     Future with
irrigation        irrigation        irrigation         irrigation
Financial Analysis:
Farm Income After Expensing All
Labor < '97 Rs>
With land levelled and drains
installed:
2 ha farm                            3945       22932 (+18987)             2546      24410 (+21864)
6 ha farn                            11836      68795 (+56959)             7638      73230 (+65592)
Without levelled land or drains:
2 ha farmn                           3945       not anticipated            2546      14646 (+12100)
s   6 ha farrn                       11836      not anticipated            7638      43938 (+36300)
Financial IRR: none                  Appraisal Estimate                    ICR Estimate
Economic Analysis:
Economic IRR:
Phase II only            11%                                  5%
Phase II & III           13%                                  not estimated
Assumptions:
Project life            39 years                              37 years
Specific conversion factors  .6- .8                           .6- .9
Standard conversion factor  .8                                .9
Unskilled labor          19.7 Rs/day       without project           32 Rs/day
with project             37 Rs/day
Note: 1989 Rs converted to 1997 Rs ( 1:2.47.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section        Covenant   Present   Original       Revised      Description of covenant                     Comments
type        status    fulfillment   fulfillment
date         date
2.01(a)      05,10        CP        Jan. 30, 1996 Mar. 31,    GOK shall carry out project with diligence and  Resettlement still lags behind construction
1999        efficiency in conformity with adm., financial,  activities. Rehabilitation of livelihoods remains
engineering, irrigation and resettlement and  unsatisfactory. Construction of canals has
rehabilitation practices and shall provide funds  accelerated and is expected to achieve target by
facilities, services, land and other resources for the Dec. 1997.
project.
2.01 (b)     05, 10      CP                                   GOK shall carry out Part A of the project in  Implementation of R&R has improved but still
accordance with the Implementation Program in  lags behind construction of Almatti dam.
Schedule I to this Agreement and Part B of the
project in accordance with Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
2.02         05,          C                                   Procurement of goods, works and consultants'    In compliance.
services required for the project to be financed out
of proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.04         05,          CD                                  GOK shall promptly inform the Association of any  GOK has provided the Bank with a compliance
condition which interferes with progress of the  report on R&R and made elaborate contingency
project, accomplishment of the purposes of the    plans to deal with the situation arising out of
Credit or performance by GOK of its obligations.  raising of Almatti dam prior to completion of
R&R.
3.01(a)      01,         C                                    GOK shall maintain records and accounts to  In compliance.
monitor and record progress of the project and
reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition in
respect of the project.
3.01(bi)     01,         C                                    GOK shall have its records and accounts of each  In compliance.
FY audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association.
3.01(bii)    01,         C                                    GOK shall furnish to the Association, not later than In compliance.
9 months after end of each FY, the Audit Report.



Agreement   Section        Covenant   Present   Original       Revised      Description of covenant                     Comments
type        status    fulfillment   fulfillment
date         date
SCH.1 .02(i/ii) 06,      CP                                   GOK shall take steps for the elimination of  GOK has taken steps to prevent mosquito
mosquito breeding and the introduction and spread breeding, and monitor and treat malaria in the
of malaria in the project area.             project area; however, GOK's anti-malaria does
not seem to be working. Malaria incidence has
increased significantly in Almatti and Narayanpur
areas.
SCH.1 .02(iii)  06,      C                                    GOK shall establish at least three anti-malaria  Four Anti-Malaria Units have been established in
units in the project area with adequate staff and   the project area. Lack of institutional autonomy
resources.                                  and persistent staff vacancies hamper effective
implementation.
SCH.1.03     06,         CP                                   GOK shall monitor groundwater levels and quality  GOK has been monitoring ground water levels
of surface and sub-surface water in the project w  and quality. Waterlogging metering at an
area and provide drainage to preverlt wateriogging aiarming rate. Drainage master plan will be
and salinity levels.                        finalized after acceptance of drainage
consultants' report.
SCH.1.04(i)   12         CP                                   GOK to establish water user groups in the    50 Water Users Associations have been
command area at least one year in advance of    registered. WUA formation halted service 1992.
actual construction activities.
SCH.1.04(ii)  12,        CP                                   GOK shall ensure farmers participation in    Limited amount of farmer consultations are
decisions directly affecting them such as layout of reported. 5 WUAs have been commissioned on
field channels and location' of turnouts.   pilot basis.
SCH.1.04(iii)  05,       CP                                   GOK shall train water user groups in operation and Limited amount of training provided by WALMI
maintenance of field channels and continue to  and CADA. 5 WUAs entrusted with maintenance
entrust such maintenance responsibility to such    responsibility.
groups.
SCH.1.05     02,         NC                                   GOK shall take necessary action in a phased  The irrigation network in the command area is
manner to recover from water users full cost of    still being expanded. So far, cost recovery is not
O&M of irrig. facilities through water charges from  emphasized.
date of commissioning of each irrig. system under
the proj. ensuring recovery the fourth year after
such date.
SCH.1.06     06, 10      NC                                   GOK shall ensure that irrigation water is distributed Surplus water at present stage has delayed
in areas irrigated under the project on RWSS  introduction of RWSS.
basis.



Agreement   Section        Covenant   Present   Original        Revised      Description of covenant                      Comments
type        status    fulfillment   fulfillment
date         date
SCH.1.07     05,          C                                    GOK shall confer on GOK's ID Engineer-in-Chief  In compliance.
all powers necessary to strictly enforce quality
standards in project construction and operation.
SCH.1.08     12           C                                    GOK shall maintain a dam review panel with   In compliance.
membership and Terms of Reference agreed with
the Bank and shall ensure that panel meets as
often as it deems necessary.
SCH.1.09(a)  05, 12       C                                    GOK shall ensure that a separate O&M Unit is    In compliance.
maintained within the Irrigation Department.
SCH.1.09(b)  05, 12       C                                    GOK shall ensure that within one year after  Responsibility for irrigation is progressively
commencement of supply of water through irrig.   transferred to O&M Wing as sections of the
facilities, responsibility of such facilities is  irrigation canal are completed.
transferred from the Construction Wing of the
Irrigation Department to the O&M Unit.
SCH.1.10(i)   05, 12      CP                                   GOK shall provide adequate number of extension  Training is provided both by CADA and WALMI
workers and subject matter specialists in irrigation, but needs to be expanded and improved.
water management, and input output monitoring.
SCH.1.10(ii)  05,12       CP              6/30/91              GOK shall complete establishment of agriculture   Research stations established and partly
research facilities at Bheemarayangudi and two    functional but under-resourced.
research sub-stations in tlhe project area with
adequate staff and resources.
SCH.1.10(iii)  05, 12     C               6/30/90              GOK shall establish a management information    MIS cell established but not yet operating
system cell for the project with adequate staff and  effectively.
resources.
SCH. 1.11    05,          CP                                   GOK shall ensure that all relevant site engineers   Training organized in limited manner.
and executive engineers responsible for
construction supervision are trained in contract
administration.
SCH.1.12     06,          CP                                   GOK shall take necessary step to protect the  Afforestation in progress mainly in command
watersheds of the immediate catchment areas of  area.
reservoirs from risks of soil erosion.



Agreement   Section       Covenant   Present   Original       Revised     Description of covenant                     Comments
type        status    fulfillment   fulfillment
date         date
SCH.1.13     04,         NC                                  GOK shall make alternative arrangements for  Special Loan Account created by CADA. Some
financing OFD works in the event credit is not  OFD work initiated. Currently, OFD has come to
available to farmers.                      a halt because of CADA's inability to arrange
further credit.
SCH.2.01 (a)  07,        CP                                  GOK shall undertake resettlement and        GOK is implementing R&R in accordance with
rehabilitation of oustees in accordance with  outdated 1995 policy which was at that time,
principles and guidelines agreed with the  approved by the Bank. Agreements reached in
Association.                                MOU of October 15, 1996 were not
implemented.
SCH.2.01 (b)  07,        CP                                  GOK shall take steps to carryout the resettlement  The revised R&R action plan was submitted to
and rehabilitation plan agreed with the Association the Bank on May 24, 1997 and was not found
(R&R Plan).                                acceptable.
SCH.2.03     04,         CP                                  GOK shall continue to allocate funds required for  GOK funds are supplemented with funds raised
Part B of the project to CADA as separate  by the Krishna Bhagya JaIa Ninam I teL
budgetary item.                            Allocation for R&R has increased significantly to
pay for escalating cost of land acquisition.
However, allocation for rehabilitation remains
inadequate.
SCH.2.04(i)  07,         CP                                  GOK shall ensure that the R&R process shall be   The contract with ISEC has been discontinued.
evaluated annually beginning from date of transfer The project no longer has an agency for
of oustees, by independent, qualified non-  independent evaluation of R&R.
governmental, rural development institution
acceptable to the Association.
SCH.2.04(ii)  07,        C                                   GOK shall make available to the Association the   Evaluation report provided in 1997.
results of such evaluation.
SCH.2.05     12,         CP                                  GOK shall extend to all villages in the command   Afforestation has been done in the Narayanpur
area its on-going program for village woodlot  RCs. Roadside plantation in most Almatti RCs
development.                               has also been done Development of woodlots
has still to take place in new RCs.
SCH.2.06     07,         CP                                  Oustees not provided with at least 1.5 ha of  Orders issued but not implemented. Oustees
irrigated land or unirrigated land of equivalent  from most villages have been able to continue
potential shall be granted long-term leases for  drawdown cultivation without leases.
acquired reservoir lands or portion thereof
seasonally exposed during drawdown.



Agreement      Section    Covenant   Present   Original      Revised     Description of covenant                     Comments
type       status    fulfillment   fulfillment
date         date
SCH.2.07(a)  09,         CP                                 GOK shall make available and financed income    GOK has provided resources for IGS. Without
generating schemes to affeoted families through its institutional support they have proved
instrumentalities.                         inadequate, utilization remaining at 11.7%
overall.l
SCH.2.07(b)  09a CP                                         Utilization of funds transfeised to such   R&R Wing monitors delivery of input (opening of
instrumentalities shall be monitored annually.  joint accounts, and withdrawals) but not outputs
(aoaual schemes established) or outcomesG
(incomes restored).
SCH.2.08     07,         C             12/31/89      10/1/95 GOK shall establish an appropriate grievance  Lok adalats function as grievance mechanisms.l
mechanism to enable oustees to seHtle disputes.l
SCH.2.09     07,         CP            12/31/90     12V31/91 GOK shall furnish to the Association an action plan Bagalkot R&R Action Plan was approved iin 1991
acceptable to the Association for the reseHtlement and revised in i995. Latest revision submiHted in
and rehabilitation of oustees involuntarily resettled  1996 with R&R Action Plan for UKP which as a
due to backwater effect at Bagalkot town.  whole has not been accepted by the Bank.
SCH.2.10     07.         C                                  Cash payments should not be made in substitution 1995 GO makes cash available for PDFs to
of land or income-generating schemes under Part acquire land or IGS.
B of the project.
a~



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Policies
Statement Number and Title             Describe and Comment on Lack of
Compliance
1. OMS 2.25 Cost Recovery Policy       The project did not comply with this OMS which
emphasises the importance of recovering the full
cost of O&M of irrigation schemes.
2. OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement    The project has been assisting displaced persons
in their move to new Resettlement Centres but
has failed to provide them with adequate
resources and institutional support to restore their
livelihoods.
3. OP/BO 4.37 Safety of Dams           The project has.constituted a Dam Safety Review
Panel but has not yet implemented its
recommendations to repair the damaged stilling
basin, and carry out maintenance on the upstream
face of the dam.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                              Planned          Revised         Actual
Project Cycle                                                                         l
WeeL4   US$   Weeka   US$  Weeks    US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                               267.9    438.0
Appraisal-Board                     _ =                  ==             93.5      112.4
Negotiations through Board Approval                                     25.3       51.8
Supervision                           58.4    83.5    60.0    31.8  366.8    393.1
Completion                            16.0    53.2    26.0    47.9  7.4           18.7
TOTAL                                74.4   136.7    86.0    79.7  760.9    1014.0
na    Planned and revised figures available only from FY96.
nya   Not yet available.
1/    Planned and revised figures for supervision and completion are for FY96-FY98 only.
27



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating2/
Number                     Specialized      Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of         Month/        of        Days in        Staff Skills       tation         ment          Types of
Project Cycle       Year       Persons       Field       Represented /       Status       Objectives     Problems3/
Through Appraisal      6/85       2            5            Eng,Res
7/85       2           42            Eng(2)
10/85      9           20            Eng(4),Soc(2),
Ec,Plnr,Ag
12/85      1            4            Eng
1-2/86     9           25            Eng(6),Ec,Leg,
Ag
5/86       2            2            Eng,Ec
9-10/86    9           30            Eng(4),Ec(2)Trg,
Soc,Ag
4-5/87     11          29            Eng(4),Soc(2),
Ec,Ag,Leg,Fin,
Trg
9/87       1           4             Soc
Appraisal through      1/88       9           25            Eng(3),Eco(2),          -              _              _
Board Approval                                              Ag(2),Soc(2)
2/89       1           7             Ag
5-6/89     1           9             Soc
7/89       1           4             Soc
Supervision 1          11/89      5           8             Eng(4),Soc              2              1           P,EA,M
Supervision 2          5/90       6           5             Eng(4),Soc,Wa           2              1             T,M
Supervision 3          9/90       1           6             So                                                    T
Supervision 4          12/90      6           7             Eng(4),Ag,So(2)         2              1             P,T
Supervision 5          5/91       2           2             Eng(2)
Supervision 6          7/91       8           7             Eng(5),Ag,Soc(2)        3              2           P,M,EA
Supervision 7          10/91      4           11            Eng,Soc(3)                                           EA
Supervision 8          12/91      7           6             Eng(3),Ag,,Eco,         3              2           EA,M,T
Soc(2)
Supervisionn 9         6-7/92     9           10            Eng(4),Soc(2),          3              2             EA
Wa,Ag,Eco
Supervision 10         10/92      3           9             Eng,Wa,Soc                                           EA
Supervision 11         2/93       7           9             Eng(3),Soc,Wa,          2              2            EA,T
Eco(2)
Supervision 12         6/93       8           8             Eng(5),Soc,Wa,          3              2            EA,T
Eco
28



Table 13 (cont'd)
Supervision 13        11/93      5           5            Soc(3),Eng(2)          3              2            EA
Supervision 14        2/94       2           3            Eng(2)                                             EA
Supervision 15        4/94       7           5            Eng(3),Soc(3),Ag       2              2            EA,T
Supervision 16        10/94      1           6            Eng                                                 EA
Supervision 17        1-2/95     3           6            Eng(3)                 U              S            EA,T
Supervision 18        8/95       2           4            Eng(2)                                              EA
Supervision 19        12/95      1           6            Eng                                                 T
Supervision 20        2/96       6           8            Eng(3),Soc(2),         U              U            EA,T
Fin
Supervision 21        7/96       2           5            Eng,Soc                                             EA
Supervision 22 (Tech)    12/96   2           9            Soc(2)                                              EA
Supervision 23        3/97       6           7            Eng(4),Soc(2)          U              U            EA,T
Supervision 24        6/97       1           8            Soc                    U              U             EA
Completion            9/97       5           21           Soc(2),Eng,            U              U           EA, M
Ag,Econ
1/ Skills Represented: Eng-Engineer; Res-Research; Soc-SociologistVAnthropologist; Ec-Economist; Leg-Lawyer; Ag-
Agriculturalist/Agronomist; Plnr-Planner; Trg-Training Specialist; Fin-Financial Analyst; Wa-Water Resources Specialist.
2/ Performance Rating: I=Problem Free or Minor Problems; 2=Moderate Problems; 3=Major Problems; S=Satisfactory;
U=Unsatisfactory.
3/ Types of Problems: P=Procurement, EA=Environmental; M= Management; T=Technical.
29



Appendix I
Page 1 of 22
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER KRISHNA (PHASE II) IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2010-IN / Ln. 3050-][N)
Mission's Aide-Memoire
(September 8-26,1997'
A. GENERAL
1.    A mission from the World Bank comprising A.A.Dani (anthropologist, team leader),
W.I.Jones (consultant agricultural economist), M.M.Shah (irrigation engineer), S.P.Sarkar
(consultant agronomist) and M.Hasan (resettlement specialist) visited India from September 8-26,
1997 for the preparation of the implementation completion report (ICR) for the project (UKP).
After initial discussions in Bagalkot, Karnataka with the Acting Engineer-in-Chief & Project
Coordinator (ECPC), Commissioner, (R&R and LAQ), and other senior staff of UKP, the
mission spent two weeks assessing project achievements and outcomes. Besides extensive field
visits over two weeks, the mission held discussions with thle staff of the Irrigation Department
(ID), Command Area Development Authority (CADA), the R&R Wing, BTDA and Health
Department (HD) staff attached to the project, as well as with the Managing Director of Krishna
Bhagya Jala Nigam Ltd. (KBJNL). The mission benefited from the cooperation and generous
hospitality of the Government of Karnataka (GOK) and many farmers in the Upper Krishna
Project area, for which we are grateful. The mission acknowledges the effort made by UKP staff
to provide the data requested by the Bank to enable completion of the ICR mission.
2.     The mission's task has been to assess the value, net of costs, of the project, to the people
of India, as best we can estimate it at the present time, when World Bank financing has come to
its end. We have also attempted to assess the performance of the World Bank and the Borrower
compared to the project's objectives and strategy laid out in the Legal Agreement and the SAR --
not to reward good performance or, as the case may be, to allocate blame, but to understand what
we have done well, and what we could have done better, with a view to the future.
3.     This aide-memoire, which incorporates the discussion at the wrap-up meeting with the
GOK in Bangalore on September 25, records the mission's findings and the views of the World
Bank, the borrower, and implementing agencies on project implementation and operation,
including the operational plan (Attachment 1). Guidance on the Government's contribution to the
ICR had been provided by the previous supervision mission in June 1997 and a Borrower's
Completion Report was provided to the mission in draft form. That draft is still subject to
revision by GOK. The aide-memoire is subject to confirmation by management.
30



Appendix I
Page 2 of 22
The Project
4.    The objectives of the project identified at appraisal were to: (1) increase agricultural
production, incomes and direct employment opportunities for some 100,000 families in the
drought-prone and relatively arid northern part of Karnataka through the expansion of irrigation
for 150,000 ha, on-farm development for 116,000 ha, construction of 459 km of new roads and
upgrading of 214 km of existing roads; (2) ensure that affected persons would enhance or at least
regain, within a reasonable time of transition, their previous standard of livelihood; (3) strengthen
Karnataka's technical and managerial skills in irrigation project management, design,
construction and O&M; and (4) contribute toward an effective anti-malaria campaign.
5.    UKP is the Phase II of Karnataka's long-term plan for the development of irrigation in
the Upper Krishna basin and is a continuation of Phase I, implemented with IDA assistance for
Karnataka Irrigation Project (Cr. 788-IN). Phase II was appraised in 1989, approved on May 4,
1989, and expected to close on December 31, 1996. The project cost, was estimated to be US$
542.2 million (Rs. 7,917 million), towards which the Bank agreed to provide $325 million (credit
SDR 119 million; loan $ 160 million). Following significant devaluation of the Indian rupee,
financing arrangements were revisited and US$ 120 million from the loan canceled in two
installments. On project closure, an unutilized balance of $38,18,465.58 from the loan amount
was canceled.
6.     Disbursement was suspended twice, from November 1992 - February 1994, and again
from September 1995 - October 1996, both times due to unsatisfactory performance in
resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R), and the lag in R&R compared to the pace of construction
of Almatti dam. A six-month extension was granted to restructure and further extend the project
to complete outstanding R&R. Restructuring was not completed and the project closed on June
30, 1997.
B. MISSION'S FINDINGS
Achievement of Objectives
7.    During implementation of Phase 1[l, GOK's priorities proved to be somewhat different
from those of the World Bank. GOK clearly attaches highest priority to increasing Karnataka's
allocation of Krishna River waters when they are re-allocated in 2000. To this end, maximum
effort has been made to raise Almatti damr to 509.016 msl and to fill its reservoir, even though
these waters are not yet needed for irrigation. GOK's agreement with the Bank (PA: Schedule 1,
para 1) requires that water be utilized for irrigation within three years of impoundment. If the
present pace of irrigation development continues, this target will not be achieved. The decision to.
raise the reservoir level in advance of irrigation needs has led to massive flooding of lands,
homes and public facilities earlier than necessary. Consequently, the project has incurred large
R&R costs several years before the command area will be ready to assimilate additional numbers
of people. This situation will be exacerbated after installation of the planned 15 m radial gates if
the reservoir level is raised further in 1999, as anticipated.
8.    Pursuit of the Borrower's highest priority has had other consequences, possibly more
serious than those mentioned above. The additional effort to raise Almatti to full height and to
construct major canals to the maximum has been made at the cost of other priority works of the
project. Land shaping and drains, for instance, have lagged seriously behind; work has virtually
31



Appendix I
Page 3 of 22
come to a halt, with nothing done since the first years of Phase II. O&M of major works has
been seriously neglected. These economies, made in puirsuit of maximum Krishna water
rights in 2000, are compromising the fundamental objective for which the project is being
built.
*  First, without land shaping and adequate drainage, increased farm output is much less than
what is should have been, given the massive investment in major civil works.
*  Second, serious environmental degradation is taking place. Because field drains are missing,
because the water delivery system is not being operated as agreed but delivers more canal
water than the developed areas can use effectively, because farmers are getting canal water
virtually free and have no incentive to husband it, and because poor canal O&M has led to
excessive seepage, large and growing areas are becoming waterlogged; soluble salts in bed
rock are coming to the surface. The results for farming are serious. The effort and cost of
reclaiming these lands will be great.
*  Third, deficient maintenance is compromising the value of the major canal works. Canals are
deteriorating at an alarming rate; broken regulators are not getting fixed; without rudimentary
access, some canals cannot even be inspected.
*  Fourth, despite an elaborate design derived from the lessons of its predecessor, KIP (Cr. 788-
IN), and explicit covenants laid out in the Legal Agreement, and despite a tremendous effort
to resettle villagers threatened with submergence over the past two years, GOK has been
unable to implement a balanced resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) program for affected
persons. The design had envisaged R&R as an integral part of the irrigation project where
displacement would be synchronized with irrigation clevelopment and displaced persons
would be a resource, contributing to and benefiting from the command area. Without the
potential economic role of the command area, R&R efforts being entirely localized in the
submergence zone, PDFs have been treated as a liability.
9.    In short, Government of Karnataka's priority with respect to Krishna water rights is
having major costs which probably have not been sufficiently recognized.
Project Achievements
IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE
10.   In physical and financial terms, the targets fixed for irrigation infrastructure have been
partially achieved. Construction quality is mixed while O&M is unsatisfactory. Furthermore, the
progress in land shaping and field drains (under CADA's jurisdiction), which have a direct and
significant impact on agricultural production and sustainability of outcomes, has been very poor.
11.   The project aimed at strengthening Karnataka's technical and managerial skills in project
management and the planning, design, construction and operation and maintenance of irrigation
projects. These objectives were not achieved. Contract management, water management and
environmental management have not shown any significant improvement.  In respect of
construction quality, though major works (dam and branch canals) showed some improvement,
other relatively small but important components (distribution system, FICs, roads, buildings)
continued to suffer in quality, thereby affecting efficiency of the water delivery system and
32



Appendix I
Page 4 of 22
sustainability of the infrastructure developed under the project. The canal system under Phase II
has been designed to be operated according to Rotational Water Supply (RWS) principles. In
actual practice, RWS is not being applied.
12.   In respect of institutional development, a separate O&M Zone was set up during the
project period. However, in the absence of project specific Plan of Operation and Maintenance
(POM), lack of continuity of key staff and their training in O&M, the project has not been
effective in improving O&M. The infrastructure for WALMI has been created, but training at
WALMI has not had any significant irnpact. Neither has technical assistance due to lack of
follow-up on consultants' recommendations. Despite assistance by MIS consultants, neither the
ID nor CADA are using MIS for effective water management and management of the vast
infrastructure created under the project. Only the R&R Wing has managed to utilize the MIS
effectively.
13.   Almatti Dam. Most of the works included in the appraised project and some not
included has been completed. The remaining works are expected to be completed by June 1998.
Curtain grouting and drainage holes are a high priority for dam safety, but have made
insignificant progress so far.
14.   Repairs to the damaged stilling basin below the spillway and impermeabilisation of
upstream face of the dam are overdue. These emergency works have a direct bearing on dam
safety but are still held up by a prolonged approval process. They are scheduled to be completed
by June 1998. That will be possible only if this work is contracted by December 1997.
15.   Two important studies: (i) hydrology (review of design flood, back water studies,
reservoir operation and flood warning system) and (ii) structural design of stilling basin are
seriously lagging and should be completed quickly so that timely follow up action can be taken.
16.   The reconstituted DSRP has been providing useful inputs for safety of the two dams.
However, follow up actions on DSRP's recommendations are much delayed.
17.   Almatti Dam and R&R Linkage. In an effort to avoid unnecessary R&R, as well as
premature investment in the dam, it was agreed at negotiations that no construction on Almatti
Dam take place until the Borrower could demonstrate that water from Almatti Reservoir would
be needed for irrigation within three years. The Borrower did not synchronize dam raising with
realistic water needs. Nevertheless, the Borrower did raise the spillway of Almatti Dam,
sometimes with Bank approval, sometimies despite written assurances that it would not do so,
irrespective of readiness of R&R works. As a result, major R&R and dam-construction expenses,
which could have been deferred, were incurred.
18.   Projections made for villages likely to be affected during 1997 floods were over-
estimated. The backwater studies and warning system, therefore, need to be reviewed considering
spillway discharge coefficient, actual observed flood data, travel time from flood warning station
to the reservoir, and actual back water levels recorded during the 1997 floods.
19.    Completion of Phase II Irrigation Canals, as reported in the Borrower's ICR, is largely
completed, though field irrigation channels (FICs), clubbed with major canals in integrated
contracting packages, are lagging two years behind other works. Shahpur Branch Canal is
complete and largely handed over to O&M Zone. Phase 11 work on Indi and Mudbal Branch
33



Appendix I
Page 5 of 22
Canals are expected to be completed by June 1998 and December 1977 respectively. Irrigation
potential created has, however, fallen significantly short of expectations.
20.   Drainage. The Phase II project envisaged improving main and secondary drains in the
entire project area and construction of field drains on about 44,400 ha (30% of the project area).
By 1993-94 field drains were constructed in about 20,300 ha. No further progress is reported
thereafter. Also no progress is reported on improving main and secondary drains in the project
area.
21.   Poor water management and lack of adequate drainage have created serious problems.
Lands of about 70 villages have been affected by waterlogging. The Drainage Master Plan
consultants have recently furnished their final report. The estimated cost of completing drainage
is about Rs. 725 million. ID and CADA have yet to prepare an action plan to implement the
recommendations.
22.   Land Leveling. Due to the rolling topography of the command area, land leveling
assumes great importance. The FICs are designed and constructed assuming that land leveling
has been or will be done. The absence of land leveling is clearly visible in the field, some
farmers being compelled to make unauthorized cuts on the laterals or FICs to draw water. This
situation has seriously affected the system physically and in water use efficiency.
23.   Farm land shaping and leveling was to be carried out by contractors and farmers with
institutional credit. GOK was bound to making alternative arrangements for financing these
works whenever institutional credit was not available to farmers. Normally, when farmers fail to
qualify for institutional credit, CADA borrows with GOK guarantee and attempts to collect the
money from farmers. GOK failed to give its guarantee to CADA's 4th scheme, dated April 1990
to December 1992 and the only one under Phase II, until March 1997. Land leveling for only
8,800 ha in Phase II areas was done till 1992; thereafter the activity came to a halt. CADA
belatedly prepared a new credit scheme to address this problem in 1997 but is was not approved
by GOK.
24.   O&M. The O&M Wing was transferred from CADA to Irrigation Department and was
later upgraded to a Zone. Completed works are now being handed over to the O&M Zone after
joint inspection of the works with the respective construction zones. This institutional
arrangement was designed to improve coordination between construction and O&M. It has,
however, not improved operation and maintenance. There has been rapid turnover of CE (O&M);
the post is now vacant. Though a consultant prepared an O&M Master Plan early in the project,
its recommendations have not been implemented. Plans of Operation and Maintenance (POM)
have not been developed for dam and canals so far. Training of personnel in O&M has not been
given due attention. Procedures for periodic inspections have not been laid down and, even when
they exist, are not followed. Job responsibilities are not clearly defined. Procedures for
monitoring O&M activities are missing. Data do not exist to compare actual O&M (works)
expenditure per ha of command area with standard norms.
25.   Field visits indicate that poor O&M is leading to rapid deterioration of the irrigation
system. The gates at Narayanpur Dam (spillway and canal headworks) which serves all canal
systems are leaking due to damaged seals. The gate position indicators are not functioning.
Inspection of the distribution system is difficult if not impossible since the service roads of
distributaries are not jeepable at many locations and not even walkable at some because of
34



Appendix I
Page 6 of 22
damaged roads or very thick and thorny jungle on service roads. The lining is damaged at
several locations and many gates are either damaged or missing. Canal-side plantation is absent.
FICs are supposed to be maintained by the farmers but are also not in good shape. Immediate
corrective actions (institutional, procedural and financial) are required to make the O&M
organization effective and to restore the system to an acceptable condition.
26.   Water Management. Since excess water is available at this stage, water management
has not received due attention. Consequently, water application is far in excess of crop
requirement. Irrigation intensity has gone up to 154% against appraisal design of 112%. This
situation is further aggravated by the absence of land leveling and adequate drainage, and has led
to serious waterlogging problems at this early stage of the project.
27.    For effective water management, water accounts need to be kept and audited to analyze
how much water has been fed into each distributary/canal compared to respective design
requirements, and to find ways of minimizing the wastage. Measuring devices need to be
installed at the head of each canal system and the distributaries. Discharges presently measured
at the head of the canal systems are not reliable since gate position indicators are absent or, if
installed, are not working. The discharge coefficient (except for the NLBC head regulator) is not
scientifically derived. Cross checks usinig current meter at nearby bridge site are also necessary
to confirm discharge rating curves.
28.    Rotational Water Supply (RWS) was introduced during the later part of Phase I and
carried forward to Phase II. At present RWS is practiced in Rabi season only when the system is
kept on for two weeks and off for one week. The RWS has not been functioning effectively for
several reasons. Some parts of the system built in Phase I hiave gated structures at lateral off-
takes, whereas the rest of the system has ungated APMs. The gated structures are not effective
since many gates are either damaged or are missing. There is no POM for operation of the
system having either gated or ungated oF-takes from distributaries. Efficiency of the distribution
system is also low because of poor construction quality and lack of O&M. Some large
distributaries were to be sub-divided to facilitate on/off operation, but they have not been
subdivided. Night irrigation is normally not practiced. Tail-enders resort to night irrigation when
head reach off-takes are closed, using stone slabs or otherwise. Some farmers, not getting their
due share in the absence of land leveling, are compelled to make unauthorized cuts in the system.
There are not enough cross regulators in the conveyance system to head up water to the required
level at the distributary head; temporary cross walls are required in the conveyance system and
stone barriers across the delivery system. This situation may improve when full irrigation
develops. Training of project personnel and farmers in RWS has not received due attention.
Immediate action is needed to have a RWS expert prepare plans for operating the canals on RWS
principles. Continuous RWS training program is needed immediately for O&M staff and
farmers.
29.   Ayacut Roads. Against the appraisal target of 672 km of all-weather roads, increased to
942 km during implementation, work has been completed on 617 km. Land acquisition problems
are the major cause of delay. The remainig road work has been transferred to CADA and is
expected to be completed by November 1997. Completed roads are to be transferred to Zilla
Parishads for maintenance.
30.   Completion of Phase 11 Buildings for ID colonies and WALMI has been as reported in
the Borrower's ICR. The WALMI buildings not already handed over to the Director will be
35



Appendix I
Page 7 of 22
shortly after the defects identified during joint inspection are rectified by the contractor. The
buildings at WALMI suffered from faulty layout and design, and inadequate supervision by the
staff not experienced in building construction.
31.    Mapping. The project provided for photogrammatic mapping of the command area not
mapped under Phase I. The job of aerial survey and photo mapping was entrusted to the Survey
of India and has been completed.
32.    Quality Control. The Chief Engineer (Designs) heads the Quality Control Team.
During project implementation, some improvement was observed in quality control procedures
and quality of the final product, particularly major structures. There is, however,,wide scope for
further improvement in quality assurance and quality control. Systematic quality control also
needs to be introduced for smaller components (distribution system, roads and buildings) which
are not up to required quality standards.
33.    Technical Assistance, Training. The project envisaged technical assistance in planning,
O&M, monitoring & evaluation, and contract administration. Consultancies awarded during the
project period pertained to (a) feasibility studies for future development in UKP; (b)
establishment of MIS; (c) telecommunication for UKP; (d) master drainage plan for UKP stage I;
and (e) integrated reservoir operation studies; as well as (f) socio-economic studies for R&R.
Though utilization of technical assistance funds available under the project is satisfactory, no
action was taken for monitoring and evaluation of project agricultural and economic benefits.
GOK also failed to take follow-up action on some of the critical studies. The inability of the ID
and CADA to build on the work of MIS consultants has already been mentioned.
Telecommunication studies, very important for wide spread canal network of UKP and integrated
reservoir operation, were abandoned half way. No action plan has yet been drawn for drainage
based on the master plan prepared by consultants. Similarly, no follow up actions have been
taken on the recommendations of the O&M consultants made early in Phase II.
34.    Training which was to be provided by WALMI and CADA has not made any significant
progress. No major training programs have been conducted in the fields of contract management,
O&M, RWS, land shaping or drainage. The absence of these skills has had a visibly negative
impact on project outcomes.
AGRICULTURE
35.    Where irrigation has been provided, the agricultural transformation has been dramatic.
From the highly risky, low-output rainfed farming of the semi-arid project area, a more stable,
higher-value agriculture is rapidly emerging. Results from irrigated fields are somewhat better
than expected at appraisal, even though the canal system is not being operated as planned.
However, (a) the area receiving irrigation is less than anticipated, and (b) most of that area is not
receiving full irrigation services because parts of the system have not been completed, and (c)
this, with other factors, is leading to on-farm losses due to waterlogging and salinization.
Therefore, aggregate agriculture benefits are below expectations and insufficient to provide a
reasonable rate of social return on the vast resources which Karnataka has invested in Phase II.
36.    Below, we review: (1) irrigation services provided; (2) on-farm results; and (3) provision
of other services to farmers.
36



Appendix I
Page 8 of 22
(1) - Irrigation services provided.
37.    Of 148,000 ha slated to get irrigation during Phase II, 63% has done so. Of the
remaining 37%, 28% is served by irrigation canals down to the distributary but lacks FICs. The
remaining 9% is also not yet served by its major canals. Given the present pace of work, it is
assumed that the major canals will be completed for the remaining area in 1997/8 and that the
FICs for the Phase II area wil l be completed in 1999/2000, three years behind schedule.
38.   Irrigation on most of the 93,514 ha served is highly imperfect. As per appraisal estimate,
78% of the Phase II area requires land leveling or land shaping for irrigation to work properly.
Furthermore, while the techniical needs were less precisely known, the appraisal had estimated
that 30% requires field drains (FDs).
39.    Land leveling and construction of FDs has fallen far short of target. Only 8,820 ha were
land shaped during Phase II, a mere 8% of what is needed for irrigation to function properly. The
only land shaping was done in 1990-92. Field drainage on only 20,297 ha, 46% of requirements
for proper irrigation function, was installed.
40.    The agricultural consequences of the major shortfalls in land shaping and FDs are
apparent. Frequently, FICs are hanging in air or below field level. Even when they happen to be
at the right level in an unleveled field, canal water does not reach some of the crops (while others
may be waterlogged). Farmers consequently over-irrigate, a practice which is encouraged by low
water charges (rarely collected) and because ID rarely operates the canal system according to
design but allows the canals to flow virtually all the time. That, plus the frequent absence of
major drainage is leading to a serious waterlogging and salinity problem.
41.    This situation was documented by the consultant's Master Drainage Plan. It can be seen
in farming patterns: declining yields in low-lying fields, switching from crops for which the
system was designed to waterlogging- and salt-tolerant rice, and finally, abandonment of
farmland.
42.   It is difficult to quantify these irrigation deficiencies. System impairment due to absence
of land shaping and drains comes in all degrees of severity. Waterlogging and salinity stem not
from absence of field drains alone but also from failures of canal system operation, of water
charge collection, and of major drain construction.
43.    Suppose that 22% of the command is flat enough not to need land shaping, another 8%
has been leveled, and that on another 15% land leveling can be managed by farmers with a
bullock pair and/or is not a critical problem. Then it is on the other 55% that farmers are getting
deficient irrigation for want of land leveling.
44.    Waterlogging and salinity is nolt (yet) a problem on all of the 16% of the Phase II
command that was supposed to get FDs but didn't. ID, the Drainage Master Plan and the Indo-
Dutch drainage team agree that problems develop only after a few years of improper irrigation,
but that they then have a cumulative and serious effect.
37



Appendix I
Page 9 of 22
(2) - Farming results.
45.    Therefore, irrigation in Phase 11 can be divided into three areas. Thefirst -- 45% of the
area at the start -- gets regular irrigation. The second -- 55% of the area -- gets defective
irrigation due to lack of land shaping and achieves, on average, only 60% of the agricultural
gains of the former area. Starting in the fifth year after receiving irrigation, the 16% of the
command that requires FDs but didn't get them constitutes a third area that suffers a 5%/year
decline in its benefits from irrigation. These conservative assumptions may seriously understate
the agricultural effects of defective irrigation, but they are an attempt to recognize it.
46.    Under these assumptions, the percent of the net value of farm production that will be lost
on Phase II's average area by year after first receiving irrigation would be as follows:
year                    1     2      3     4     5        6       7      l8        24ff
loss to  lack of land  22%   22%   22%   22%   22%        22%     22%    22%    22%
shaping
loss to lack of drainage       _                 0.8%     1.6%    2.4%    3.2%    16%
total loss              22%   22%   22%   22%  -22.8%  1 23.6%   24.4%   25.2%  - 38%
47.    Farmers whose irrigation is not defective are doing better than anticipated at appraisal.
Average cropping intensity is 1.6 (1.54 of which is irrigated), compared to the 1.45 (1.15
irrigated) projected at appraisal. Compared to appraisal estimates, there has been a major shift
towards oilseeds, which account for over half the cropping pattern. Farmers are enamored with
sunflower, a low risk crop with quite high returns, and groundnut, while safflower, which
responds little to irrigation, is losing its place. The increase in oilseeds is at the expense of pulses
and grains. Kharif sorghum, which could do well if canal water were released earlier, is much
less important than anticipated. Because grain production has not expanded as rapidly as
expected, neither has fodder production. While chili production is expanding as expected, there
is a little less shift to other vegetables than anticipated. And cotton area has grown very little,
though hybrid irrigated cotton, with its high inputs-and high outputs, is a far cry from rainfed
local cotton. Yields have increased greatly with irrigation, roughly as projected at appraisal,
though the increase in grain yields has been slightly lower. There has also been, as anticipated, a
major increase in labor input, as well as use of fertilizer, manure, and other inputs.
48.    Farmers have taken much longer than anticipated, four years on average, to adjust their
cropping pattern to their new irrigation, despite their ability to copy the transition of their
neighbors in the Phase I area. However they are on the way to achieving full-development yields
more quickly than the 15 years expected at appraisal.
49.    Economically, since much of the expansion is in high-value crops, the incremental value
per hectare is greater than anticipated at appraisal, roughly Rs 14,000. After deducting all
expenses, the estimated net financial return to the average project farmer with functional
irrigation will be nearly Rs 16,000/ha at full development, versus about Rs 2,000 in the absence
of the project and its irrigation. A sub-marginal agricultural area, in which families could support
themselves many years only by emigrating for casual work, is being turned into a rich
agricultural area.
38



Appendix I
Page 10 of 22
50.    Expansion in cotton and chili production may be straining marketing arrangements and
affecting farm-gate prices, but generally the agricultural expansion seems to be proceeding
smoothly. Whether due to increased farming demand or demand from project works, wage rates
are somewhat higher in the command area than in surrounding regions. There is in-migration of
farm labor and tenant-operators from Andhra, especially where waterlogging dictates rice
cultivation, but little settlement of affected families displaced by the project's reservoirs.
51.    The project's agricultural results would exceed appraisal expectations if irrigated area had
reached appraisal targets and if land shaping and field drains had been completed as planned.
Unfortunately, they have not. Therefore,, there is a serious shortfall in project benefits -- one that
gets worse as drainage and salinity problems build up. Moreover, results would be better yet if
the irrigation system were operated in a regular manner according to the warabandi mode for
which it was designed and if the system were maintained adequately. A notional idea of the
impact of these shortfalls is given under "'Net Project Benefits" below.
(3) - Other services to farmers
52.    As conceived at appraisal, the project included a variety of non-irrigation services that
were intended to stimulate farm production and to facilitate the major shift from rainfed to
irrigated farming. CADA was slated to provide most of these: agricultural extension for the
transition, assistance in forming water-users' associations, provision of storage to cooperatives, in
land shaping and getting credit for land shaping, applied agricultural research, and training.
Other departments were slated to provide services too: Forest Department was to concentrate its
resources on helping farmers start fuelwood farms in the command; Dry Land Development
Boards were to accelerate their activities in the Krishna catchment; Health Department was to
expand its anti-malaria activities to cope up with the problem of malaria, unintentionally re-
introduced into the area during Phase I construction.
53.    Many of these services failed to materialize; others were less than expected. CADA
services in particular seem to have declined precipitously during and after 1992.
54.    CADA was initially quite active, organizing melas to prepare farmers for irrigation,
assisting them in land leveling and constructing FDs, organizing WUAs, etc. 49 WUAs were
formed in 1990 and 1991, one in 1992, and none thereafter. CADA's 4th land-leveling finance
scheme, April 1990 to December 1992, involved 4,999 farmers and 11,016 ha, about 80% from
the Phase 11 area. This area was less than projections and contributed to, rather than reducing, the
land-leveling backlog. The 4th scheme was defective in other ways too: CADA managed to have
only 0.75% of the loans converted into regular loans to farmers and rediscounted by NABARD,
thus saddling the Special Loan Account with a large debt, less than 2% of which CADA has been
able to collect from farmers; Government of Karnataka failed to issue its guarantee for these
debts until August 1997. Therefore, from 1992, land shaping virtually stopped.
55.    CADA's farm extension was meant to be transitional. Extension responsibilities for the
Phase I area have been transferred back to the regular service of the Agriculture Department
(AD). At appraisal and thereafter, A[) was implementing T&V-style extension with Bank
assistance but this was curtailed. As a result, UKP farmers are getting modest extension support
indeed. CADA's agricultural staff to assist new areas getting irrigation is far below targets and
unequal to the demands placed on it. The same is true of CADA's farmer-training and of its
agricultural research at Bheemarayangudi. Satellite facilities at Hunasigi did not materialize.
39



Appendix 1
Page 11 of 22
56.    While the Forestry Department and the district-wise Dry Land Development Boards have
done commendable work in the project area, there is no evidence of the expansion and/or
concentration in the project area cited in project design.  The anti-malaria unit is still
understaffed but is working better under the KBJNL umbrella. Prior to 1997, there were major
troubles (as with other government departments in the UKP area) getting the unit operational.
While there is now an impressive program of detection, prevention, remediation and cure and the
death rate from malaria appears to be low, according to the units records, the disease has spread
at an alarming rate over the past few years.
Net Economic Benefits
57.    The mission's financial and economic calculations are still incomplete. While costs, both
those financed by Government of Karnataka and by the Bank, are quite accurately known, the
project's benefits from farming are still being reviewed. (The mission did not obtain cost and
benefit estimates for power developments that depend on UKP's dams and canals; these might
raise the rate of return).
58.    When actual costs and estimates of future costs are compared with appraisal estimates
made in 1989, the actuals appear to be significantly higher. Some of that appearance, however,
represents differences in the purchasing power of the Rupee. Thus, although in rupees the actual
estimate for Phase II at project closure (Rs. 24.170.9 million,) is 305% of the appraisal estimate
(Rs. 7,919.5 million), in real terms the projected cost escalation for Phase II is $755.9 million
(139% of appraisal estimate). R&R costs though high incurred till project closure are $85.2
million in adjusted dollars, compared to appraisal estimate of $100.8, and are projected to reach
$166.1 million by the end of Phase II, an increase of 66 percent.
59.    The seriousness of delays in completing the system and of its imperfections become
apparent when Karnataka's costs are compared with the agricultural benefits. To give an idea, in
financial terms at full development, net incremental agricultural benefits to the 148,000 ha
command would be about Rs 1800 million (US$50 million) per year. The estimated three-year
delay in completing main canals and FICs, in full-development terms, will cost Rs 665 million
($18 million), Rs 360 million ($10 million) and a small amount for the third year.
60.    More serious still are the defects for which no remedies are currently planned.  By
mission estimate, at full development, not leveling and shaping land that needs it costs about Rs
400 million (US$11 million) per year. The cost of not installing drainage will not be significant
in the Phase II area for a few years, but it will grow to about Rs 290 million ($8 million) per year
by the 2020s. More ominously, it is a condition that gets more costly to fix with the passage of
time.
61.    As a result of these various agricultural shortfalls; the mission currently estimates that the
financial returns to UKP Phase II investments will be close to zero, while the economic returns
are estimated to be 5% , versus the 11% estimated at appraisal.
62.    Phase II has included a lot of investment -- Almatti D)am and the R&R costs associated
with raising it -- that, economically and technically speaking, did not need to be made in Phase II
and which will generate benefits well into the future. Moreover, some investments that did have
to be made in Phase II -- the initial reaches of Indi Branch Canal for instance, will yield increased
40



Appendix I
Page 12 of 22
benefits in future when the rest of their Bijapur command area is developed. The rates of return
to Phase III and subsequent phases are likely to benefit from these sunk costs. In 1989, the
combined economic IRR for Phases II and III was estimated at 13%. The mission will not be
able to estimate the social returns to Phase Ill or to the combination of Phases II & III without
estimates of the cost and pace of Phase III development, which .have not been made available.
RESETTLEMENT & REHABILITATION (R&R)
63.    The main lessons from  R&R in Karnataka are: "(a) efforts were focused almost
exclusively on physical relocation of affected people and not oni their rehabilitation; (b) cash was
substituted as a proxy for re-establishment of production capabilities; (c) institutional
arrangements were inadequate and there were no skilled personnel to implement resettlement12;
(d) resettlement plans were not properly synchronized with construction schedules and as a result
conflicts arose between the two."
64.    This quote from para 6.7 of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) is a description of Phase I
(Cr. 788-IN) but describes the outcome of Phase II equally well, with the caveat that, by its
seventh year, the project has demonstrated the ability to undertake relocation of PDFs efficiently,
albeit too late to change the overall unsatisfactory rating of R&R. Although the lessons from
Phase I R&R were identified at appraisal, they did not improve R&R outcomes. The project did
not follow the elaborate implementation design prepared by GOK and appraised by the Bank.
This was further complicated by the fact that the project had clearly underestimated the extent of
resettlement, particularly for Almatti dam. Instead of 21,000 PDFs estimated at appraisal for
Almatti reservoir, the number of PDFs is 48,338 for Almatti alone, and 56,181 for the entire
project.
65.    Land acquisition of the 5,152 ha needed for all Resettlement Centers (RC's) under Phase
II, 18,060 ha needed for Almatti up to 5 12 m. has been acquired, and 9,649 ha of land for canals
and roads has been acquired and paid for. All of the 25,658 ha needed for Narayanpur reservoir
has also been acquired and paid for in Phases I and II. However, the 18,060 ha notified by ID for
Almatti reservoir has proved to be an underestimate. Even with below-average monsoon rainfall
in 1997 (the first year when Almatti reached 509 m), the reservoir submerged an estimated
25,700 ha. The excess area submerged includes private land and government land along the river
bank, part of which has been encroached upon. Acquisition of a further contour (512-515 m) is in
an advance stage and is expected to be completed by December 1997. In the interim, farmers
whose crops were submerged will need compensation. Field verification is currently underway to
determine the exact amount of loss to be compensated.
66.    All the structures to be acquired at Narayanpur (7,843) and Bagalkot (615) have been
acquired and paid for. But at Almatti, where 31,859 structures were to be acquired under Phase
II, compensation has been paid for 19,055; i.e., 40% of the structures have yet to be paid for.
67.    Deviation from R&R design Based on the lessons learned from Phase 1, the R&R design
documented in the SAR promises 'land-for-land' (minimum 1.5 ha of irrigated land or equivalent
12  Over the past two years the project has cleveloped an efficient system for physical relocation of PDFs.
However, institutional arrangements and skills to implement and support an economic rehabilitation
program are still deficient.
41



Appendix I
Page 13 of 22
dryland) for landowning farmers rendered landless by the project, and 0.5 ha irrigated land to the
landless or, at their option, training, seed capital and institLtional support for other forms of
economic rehabilitation, and housing entitlements. A GO issued prior to appraisal established the
legal framework for R&R (SAR, para 6.10), while an Act already approved by the State
legislature was pending approval by the President of India. T he project had expected to benefit
from this legislation. The Karnataka Resettlement of Project Displaced Persons Act, 1987
(henceforth called the Resettlement Act) received Presidential approval on August 8, 1994. This
Act provides a legal basis for acquiring a proportion of land from the benefited zone owned by
farmers in proportion to the size of their holding for allocation to persons displaced from the
affected zone of that project. The cost of this acquisition was to be met from the compensation
provided to PDFs. Unfortunately, the Resettlement Act was never notified and applied to the
project. This is a missed opportunity. Average dryland holdings tend to be considerably larger
than irrigated holdings. Irrigation requires more intensive work often results in sale of 'surplus
land' (SAR, para 6.20). The prime beneficiaries of the project are the farmers in the command
area.  The prime losers are the persons displaced in the submerging zone.  Making the
beneficiaries contribute toward rehabilitation of the losers would have been the most efficient and
cost-effective way of achieving R&R objectives. Unfortunately, this was not to be.
68.    Physical relocation. As in Phase I, the emphasis in P'hase II was almost exclusively on
physical relocation of people rather than on their rehabilitation.
69.    Most of the Resettlement Centers (RC's) at Almatti, and all of those at Narayanpur have
been provided with basic infrastructure and services. InfrastruLcture for the last 18 RC's (out of
68) which will be required in 1998 is being rapidly completed. The quality of infrastructure in the
RC's is largely satisfactory, except for a shortage or absence of toilets. Since the new RC's lack
vegetative cover, PDFs are seeking community toilets, particularly for women. The school
buildings are lack toilet and drinking water facilities.
70.    The Resettlement Centers (RC' s) have been established, after local consultation, close to
the submerging village but largely away from other economic opportunities 13. While this has the
advantage of allowing PDFs to continue to farm the portion of land which remains above the
reservoir level, and to engage in drawdown cultivation on sorne of the submerging land, there is
considerable reduction in the cropping area which is likely to pose an obstacle to economic
rehabilitation of PDFs. The covenant on granting long term renewable leases for drawdown
cultivation (PA, Schedule 2, Section 6) has not been complied with, although in practice farmers
are still engaged in drawdown cultivation. Despite a commitnent at appraisal, the project made
no effort to relocate PDFs to the command area where ithere is considerable demand for
agricultural labor and where the land market will be better than in the vicinity of the submerging
areas.
71.    The size of house plots in rural RC's is smaller than the 400 sq. m. agreed to with the
Bank and provided for in the DCA (Schedule 2, Part B: 6). At the Bank's insistence of limiting
the definition of PDFs to nuclear families (DCA, Article 1, Section 1.02: j), GOK accepted to
provide house sites to major children but (a) introduced a sliding scale, varying the size of house
13  Some RC's, established more recently, have been located close to towns, indicating that PDFs are
now more aware, and the project more responsive to the fact that economic opportunities in the
agricultural sector will be limited after submergence of their lands.
42



Appendix 1
Page 14 of 22
plots from 100-400 sq.m. depending on the PDF's landholding: as a result, 78% of PDFs are
entitled to 100 sq.m. plots, 16% to 200 sq.m., 5% to 300 sq.m., and 2% to 400 sq.m.; and (b)
limited the number of entitled major children to two per PDF: the total number of major children
entitled to 100 sq.m. plots comes to 15,665 i.e. less than half the number of primary PDFs
(32,673). The additional plots for children contributed on average 49 sq.m. per primary PDF. The
net result is that the project actually distributed little more than half the land for housing to rural
PDFs that they had agreed to at negotiations. On the other hand, the size of urban plots has been
increased from 50 sq.m. to 72 sq.m. benefiting the 1,033 eligible PDFs of Bagalkot.
72.    Smaller house plots in rural RC's pose problems for PDFs who no longer have a yard to
tether their livestock or to use for farm work. They are seeking for additional space for cattle
sheds, rick yards and storage of farm products. GOK has agreed to make additional provisions for
PDFs with smaller house plots to facilitate continuance of the rural lifestyle.
73.   In 1995, GOK introduced an ex-gratia House Construction Grant (HCG) of Rs. 22,000
per PDF. The HCG, not envisaged in the original R&R design, has proved to be the single
biggest incentive encouraging thousands of PDFs to initiate construction of replacement houses
in the RC' s. This enabled even those P[)Fs who had diverted the compensation received several
years ago, when the RC's were not ready for habitation, to construct their homes. The pace of
house construction has accelerated considerably even in RC's for villages not yet submerged and
the quality of new housing is generally better than that at the submerging villages. The project
has provided house sites to 60% of PDFs, and placed 76% of the money in joint accounts, much
of it in the past one year. Over 20% of PDFs have constructed replacement houses and another
10% is well underway. This indicates that although people may not shift physically until faced
with actual submergence, they are likely to construct houses when provided with entitlements,
incentives and reasonable time to do so, Bagalkot affectees had not initiated construction when
the project closed but some have now initiated construction.
74.   Absence of linkage between R&R and construction schedules. Initially, the R&R Wing
operated under CADA. Implementation was dismal, lagging way behind Almatti dam
construction, resulting in suspension of the credit/loan in November 1992.14 The R&R Wing
was moved from CADA to the ID and a General Manager appointed in charge. After intensive
supervision and negotiations between GOK and the Bank, socio-economic surveys of affected
villages were conducted to facilitate implementation, R&R entitlements were revised upward
(LPG to Rs 60,000, IGS to Rs 20,000) in 1993 and implementation procedures streamnlined.
Suspension was lifted in February 1994. By 1995, R&R implementation was again found to be
lagging substantially behind dam construction. Disbursements for civil works were suspended a
second time in September 1995 and was not lifted until October 1996, after receiving assurances
from GOK that construction of the spillwvay at Almatti dam would not resume until resettlement
for Phase II is complete. Despite this assurance, the linkage between dam construction and R&R
was broken again: by March 1997, GOK had raised the spillway to its maximum height of 509.16
msl, without prior intimation to the Bank, although a significant part of resettlement was still
outstanding at that time.
14  At that time, 90 percent of the compensation awards were being challenged in court as they were
considered inadequate. After a delay of several years, courts awarded enhancements often exceeding
150 percent. As of 1996, compensation has been enhanced considerably through consent awards,
bringing them virtually to market rates.
43



Appendix I
Page 15 of 22
75.    Substitution of cash for rehabilitation entitlements. GOK restricted its role to making
funds available for LPG and IGS making the PDF entirely responsible for procurement of land
and establishment of IGS. Except for a brief initial collaboration with an NGO (MYRADA), the
project made virtually no effort to develop the capacity of PDFs to develop viable IGS. As in the
case of LPG, where the facilitation function was disregarded by GOK, the project's role was
limited to providing the funds earmarked for IGS. Scheme identification, skill acquisition, input
supply and marketing were deemed to be the PDF's responsibility. As a result, rehabilitation
outcomes, particularly at Almatti, continue to be unsatisfactory. Only 12% of PDFs entitled to
LPG have been able to purchase land, while only 8% of the PDFs entitled to IGS have been able
to utilize IGS. This is in contrast to utilization of HCG which, thanks to active encouragement by
the project, had jumped to 29% for Almatti and 61% for Narayanpur by the closing date, and is
growing rapidly.
76.    Furthermore, the real value of the LPG (and IGS) hias declined over the life of the
project. The DCA provides these entitlements as land units (1.5 ha irrigated land for LPG, and
0.5 ha irrigated land for IGS). During project implementation these were fixed as absolute rupee
values, with one revision in 1993. The current value of LPG (Rs. 60,000) which is supposed to
buy 1.5 ha of irrigated land is 20% of what GOK is currently paying to acquire 1.5 ha of irrigated
land, and the real value of IGS has declined by the same proportion. The decline in LPG is offset
by the six-fold enhancement in compensation rates for agricultural land but those entitled to IGS
will not benefited from this increase.
Utilization of Ex-gratia Entitlements in UKP (Phase II)
No. of                Joint  Accounts Percent Utilized
PDFs/PAFs /CAFs       Opened (%)
Almatti LPG        2,593                 52%              12%
Narayanpur LPG     1,293                 47%              25%
Total LPG          3,886                 50%              16%
Almatti IGS        8,157                 24%              8%
Narayanpur IGS     5,257                 52%              17%
Total IGS          13,414                35%              12%
Almatti HCG        48,338                74%              29%
Narayanpur HCG    7,843                  86%              61%
Total HCG          56,181                76%              33%
77.   Submergence atAlmatti.      Completion of Almatti spillway to 509 m. resulted in the
submergence of an estimated 25,744 ha of land in 1997, compared to 31,890 ha notified. The
submerged area is an increase of 12,705 ha over 1996. This included considerable crop loss: (a)
submerging lands between 512-515 msl (13,830 ha) had been notified for acquisition but not paid
for by the end of the project; as a result farmers planted kharif crops; (b) in some villages
submergence exceeded even the notified area; and (c) two villages which were not in the
submergence zone were affected by backwater. The crop loss will need to be compensated. As a
principle, it is inappropriate for GOK to insist that farmers who are yet to be paid compensation
leave their land unplanted. It is recommended that until such time as GOK pays PDFs the full
compensation for assets acquired, they should be provided with a subsistence allowance or food
rations.
44



Appendix I
Page 16 of 22
78.   Under Phase III, GOK's plans to install 15 m. radial gates at Almatti dam is expected to
result in the potential submergence of a total of 157 villages and most of Bagalkot town,
displacing over 400,000 people in all. This will involve acquisition of 45,000 ha of land beyond
the 31,890 already notified.
79.   Contingency Plan. Implementation of the plan for the 1997 monsoon went well.
Preparations had been made for a 1:25 year flood, covering 110 villages. The 1997 monsoon was
below average in the project area, higher rainfall in the upper catchment bringing in most of the
flood. Peak inflow into Almatti was 383,000 cusecs (1:9 year flood) affecting 62 villages (38
villages fully, 24 partially). PDFs and movable property were rescued from submerging villages
without any loss of life. Of the estimated 8,000 PDFs who had to be evacuated, roughly half have
replacement homes while the rest are livinig in temporary shelters in the RC's. Many of them are
now constructing homes on site. The project provided one month food ration and medical care in
addition to the basic infrastructure already in place at the RC's. The Bank recommends that
resettlement be phased to avoid the need for another contingency plan in the future.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Project Sustainability
80.   Project sustainability is at stake if (a) construction quality of distribution network
including FICs is not improved; (b) preventive periodical maintenance and repair of the
infrastructure created (dam, gates, canal, distribution system, drains, roads, buildings) are not
effectively carried out; (c) water management is not strictly monitored and RWS is not enforced;
(d) drainage has not been provided in already water logged or potentially water logged areas; (e)
land leveling is not done for and/or by the farmers; (f) FICs are not maintained by farmers; and
(g) rehabilitation of PDFs is not linked to irrigation development in the command area.
Performance of the Bank
81.   Appraisal (a) The Bank underestimated the submergence area which would need to be
acquired with Almatti crest at 509 m. Since Almatti has no gates for release of water below 509
m., flood water invariably flows above the spillway crest. As a result, with the crest at 509 m.,
25.7 sq. km. was submerged, not 12.9 sq.km. as projected at appraisal. The Bank should have
calculated area to be flooded not by elevation of dam crest but by elevation of water pool flowing
over the crest. (b) The Bank should have realized average value of farmland to be flooded was
higher than that of average rainfed farmland. (c) The Bank should have provided continuity
between appraisal and negotiations, ensuring that key points were not missed. (d) The Bank
should not have accepted absolute values of the rehabilitation entitlements for affected persons,
without a clear provision for inflation adjustments. (e) Appraisal mission should have anticipated
political imperatives may result in Almatti being raised to full elevation prematurely.
82.   Supervision The project was supervised intensively. (a) Serious shortcomings in R&R
were detected early and resulted in two suspensions, unfortunately, diverting attention from other
components. As a result, O&M, water mranagement, training, and OFD works suffered. (b)
Supervision of R&R over-emphasized relocation of affected families from the submergence area,
ignoring the primary objective, restoration of PDF/PAF livelihoods. (c) The Bank did not follow
45



Appendix I
Page 17of22
up on the GO, and Karnataka Resettlement Act, 1987, approved in 1994, which provided the
legal basis to provide land-for-land to PDFs losing land. (d) Supervision of dam construction
was not fully consistent with the legal agreement: disbursements were suspended twice because
resettlement lagged behind dam construction but the link between dam height and irrigation
development was not supervised.
Performance of the Borrower
83.   The Borrower also underestimated the submergence to be caused by raising Almatti
spillway crest to 509 m. ID requisitioned land up to 512 m. for the reservoir (est. 18,600 ha;
actual 27,544 ha submerged).
84.   Factors subject to government control
*  Concern for the impending Krishna tribunal award revision, led to focus on Almatti Dam,
impounding water and major canals, diverting attention and resources from minor but critical
works (FICs, field drains and land shaping), resulting in lower on-farm benefits and
increased waterlogging and salinization.
*  CADA financial and leadership weakness, plus weak links to ID, resulted in major
deficiencies of CAD, WUAs, and their preparation for irrigation, land-shaping, fiedrainage
and credit. When bank financing for land leveling failed, the government delay in
guaranteeing CADA's Special Loan Account for 5 years, effectively stopping land leveling.
-  After legislative approval of the Karnataka Resettlement Act, 1987, Presidential approval was
not obtained till 1994. Even after Presidential approval, GOK did not notify and apply the
Resettlement Act to the project.
85.   Factors subject to implementing agency control. Project implementation was affected
due to: (a) belated attention to resettlement, and poor linkage between R&R and construction
schedules resulting in avoidable suffering, cost over-runs and delays in the rest of the project; (b)
inadequate institutional support for rehabilitation; (c) lack of follow up action on
recommenidations made by consultants engaged by GOK; (cl) lack of attention to O&M, water
management, and training; (e) Forest Department's plantings on reservoir margins on land
acquired by Government but which, by agreement with World Bank, were to be leased to PDFs
for drawdown cultivation; (f) CADA's failure to organize effective farmers' groups.
86.   Construction quality on major contracts showed gradual improvement. However, quality
of distribution system works, roads, and buildings is deficient. The Borrower paid least attention
to O&M, OFD works, water management, and training during the project period. The Borrower
appointed consultants under technical assistance component. However, follow up actions on the
recommendations made by the consultants are not yet initiated.
87.   The Borrower neglected to provide CADA with the human resources to carry out its
agricultural, cooperative and engineering responsibilities; neglected to provide WALMI with
human and financial resources to carry out its responsibilities, neglected to have Forest
Department and Dry Land Development Boards concentrate resources in project/catchment area
as planned; neglected to have Fisheries Department provide training and extension to PAF
fishermen (Stocking was satisfactory).
46



Appendix I
Page 18 of 22
Assessment of Outcome
88.   The project's outcome with respect to infrastructure works (dam, canals, roads,
buildings) is rated satisfactory. Howeveir, the outcome in terms of returns from the infrastructure
developed under the project is rated unsatisfactory. That is because of uncertain sustainability of
the project arising out of poor conditions of O&M, water management and OFD works.
89.   The project's outcome on R&Rt is rated unsatisfactory. Submerging PDFs were not
provided sufficient lead time after receipt: of full entitlements to complete house construction. The
project virtually ignored the primary objective of the R&R component: restoration of livelihoods
to pre-project levels: (a) support for iniplementation of the income generation schemes was
negligible, and (b) no effort was made to implement the land-for-land scheme in the original
design for which legislation was enacted in 1987, and GOI approval obtained in 1994. Although
relocation of PDFs from the submergence area is satisfactory, the RC's have been established
near the submerging villages without any consideration for the availability of replacement land or
alternative livelihoods.
Future Operations
90.    The following actions are required to complete the project and to ensure its operation in
such a way that project objectives are achieved: (a) completion of balance civil works including
the outstanding dam safety works; (b) cornpletion of OFD works (land leveling and field drains);
(c) preparation and implementation of effective POMs for dams and canal systems including
annual water budgeting for improved water management on RWS principles; (d) improved O&M
with adequate need-based funds; (e) estaiblishing properly manned and equipped MIS cell for
effective management of infrastructure and water; (f) preparation and implementation of time
bound action plan for drainage based on master plan prepared by consultants; (g) intensive
training program on RWS and O&M; (h) establishment of WUAs and turnover of tertiary system
for maintenance; (i) increase in and collection of water charges to induce farmers to save water
and to alleviate Government's financial burden; (i) payment of outstanding land compensation to
PDFs of Almatti; (j) re-design and implementation of schemes to restore livelihoods of
PDFs/PAFs. The Operational Plan is attached as Annex-I.
D.  LESSONS LEARNED
91.    The principal lessons identified by the mission are:
(1)    Failing to build the drainage component of an irrigation project is a great peril,
especially where soils are underlain by bedrock containing soluble salts.
(2)    Because land shaping and field drains are critical for good irrigation in
undulating terrain like that of the project area, Government must stand by its engagement to
provide finance in the event that banks refuse to do so.
(3)    Before funding any irrigation system (existing or new), the Plan of Operation and
Maintenance should be available for review at appraisal. Establishing or strengthening of the
O&M organization with clear job descriptions and training should be an integral component of
institutional development.
47



Appendix 1
Page 19 of 22
(4)    When any new water management practice: (like RWS) is to be introduced,
training programs for operational staff as well as farmers, including field training in other states
where such system has been successfully introduced, should be chalked out at prior to appraisal.
(5)    The technical assistance component should specify the time limit for engaging
various consultants and for follow up actions on consultant's recommendations to ensure that
benefits of consultancy are available during the project period itself.
(6)    Rehabilitation entitlements should not be fixed as absolute currency values,
without an explicit proviso for market price adjustments, and should be accompanied by
institutional support for land purchase or employment promotiion.
(7)    Supervision should focus on project implementation as well as outcomes;
performance monitoring should include input and output indicators.
E. FOLLOW-UP
92.    The mission will return to Washington and prepare a draft ICR in accordance with World
Bank guidelines, which will be transmitted to the borrower (GOI) and GOK for comment. The
draft will include the text of the Borrower's Completion Report, a draft of which was ready prior
to arrival of the ICR mission and a revised version provided to the mission after the wrap-up
meeting.
93.   At the wrap-up meeting, GOK expressed an interest in obtaining Bank assistance to
complete R&R and irrigation development in the command area to fully achieve the objectives of
the project. The mission apprised GOK of the recent decentralization of country management to
the field, and advised GOK to continue these discussions with the Country Director in New Delhi
through DEA.
48



Appendix I
Page 20 of 22
INDIA
Upper Krishna 11 Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Mission's Aide Memoire
Attachment 1: Operational Plan
Government of Karnataka has reiterated its firm determination to complete Phase II of
the Upper Krishna Program, which the Loan and Credit supported.
As regards remaining investments in Phase II, Government of Karnataka intends to
proceed as follows:
Branch canals and distributaries. These facilities remain to be constructed to cover a
remaining cultivable command area of 13,275 ha.  Works are proceeding and should be
completed within one year. Works are being financed by GOK with funds raised by KBJNL,
executed by private contractors, and supervised by the Irrigation Department.
Main and secondary drains. It was foreseen that these would be provided as part of the
Phase 1I project. Under the project, Worlld Bank financed a Drainage Master Plan which spells
out a drainage investment program of Rs 73 crores. This program is being reviewed by
Government of Karnataka. Implementation will be taken up after the review.
Field irrigation channels. FICs remain to be constructed on 42,211 ha of the Phase II
command. During the project, ID was responsible for their construction but, in 1996, that
responsibility was returned to CADA, which has an on-going FIC construction program financed,
in part, by GOK/KBJNL. At the present rate, the remaining field channels should be completed
within three years.
Field drains were supposed to be constructed on about 44,400 ha of the Phase II
command. They were constructed on about 20,297 ha and so remain to be constructed on about
24,103 ha. The Drainage Master Plan, which is under review, also spells out field drain
requirements. CADA is presently responsible for field drain construction. GOK is examining
alternate arrangements for completion of this backlog.
Land shaping/leveling was to have been completed on about 116,000 ha of Phase II land
and has been completed on only 8,800 ha during 1990-92 under CADA's fourth scheme.
Virtually no land shaping has been done for five years at a slow pace. Future funding plans are
yet to be formulated by GOK.
Land acquisition.    Land has been fully acquired for the 5,152 ha needed for RC's
for Bagalkot, rural Almatti and Narayanpuir, the 25,658 ha submerged by Narayanpur reservoir,
and 9,649 ha for canals and roads under Phase 11. The 18,060 ha, requisitioned by ID for Almatti
under Phase II (up to 512 m) has been acqluired and paid for. Another 13,800 ha, between 512-
515 m. (7,684 ha of which was submerged in 1997) is in the final stages of acquisition; payment
will be completed by December 1997.
Acquisition of all the 615 structures at Bagalkot and 7,843 structures at Narayanpur
included in Phase II have been completed. Of the 31,589 structures to be acquired at Almatti,
49



Appendix I
Page 21 of 22
although notification has been completed, 40% (12,634 structures) have yet to be paid for.
Commissioner (R&R) will continue to be responsible for payment of the balance compensation at
Almatti and Narayanpur. This backlog is expected to be completed by November 1997.
Resettlement centers. Of the 101 resettlement centers to be established at Narayanpur
and Almatti, 79 have been established and another 16 are in an advanced stage of completion.
Commissioner (R&R) will continue to be responsible for construction of these centers and for
shifting PDFs who chose to relocate there. Completing implementation of this backlog is
expected by December 1997.
House plots. Of 57,214 PDFs entitled to house plots, 34,074 (60%) have already
received them while 23,140 (40%) have not. Commissioner (R&R) will continue to be
responsible for distribution of these house plots. Completing implementation of this backlog is
expected by December 1997.
Houses. Of 40,532 houses required by PDFs, 10,680 (26%) have been constructed
within RCs, 1,885 (5%) have been constructed elsewhere, 7,056 (17%) are currently under
construction, and 20,911 (52%) remain to be constructed.  PDFs are responsible for the
construction of their own houses. Completion of housing construction is expected by December
1998.
Bagalkot town relocation and rehabilitation entitlements.   Allocation of the 1,033
house plots needed under Phase II is substantially completed except for provision of 372 house
plots (36%). However, construction of houses has only been initiated by a few families, that too
after the closing date of the project. BTDA will continue to be responsible for distribution of the
balance house plots. Allocation of house plots is expected to be completed by December 1997.
Of the PDFs affected by Phase II, 169 are eligible for house construction grants. None of
these grants had been provided by the closing date. With initiation of construction activity
subsequently, provision of these grants is expected to be completed by March 1998. BTDA will
continue to be responsible for delivery of these grants.
Land purchase grants. Of 3,886 rural families entitled to land purchase grants, 638
(16%) have already received their grants and used them. The grants for another 1,315 families
(34%) have been placed in joint accounts but not yet used. There is, therefore, a backlog of
1,933 families (50%) yet to receive their land purchase grants and 1,315 (34%) who have
received their grants but not used them. Commissioner (R&R) will continue to be responsible for
payment of the balance of these grants and for assisting PDFs in finding land and spending their
grants. Completing implementation of this backlog is expected by December 1998 for Almatti,
and March 1999 for Narayanpur.
Income generating scheme grants. Of 13,414 rural families entitled to such grants,
1,598 (12%) have already received their grants and used them. The grants for another 3,088
families (23%) have been placed in joint accounts but not yelt used. There is, therefore, a backlog
of 8,728 families (77%) yet to receive their income-generating-scheme grants and 3,088 (23%)
who have received their grants but not used them. Commissioner (R&R) will continue to be
responsible for payment of the balance of these grants and for assisting PDFs/PAFs in finding
and investing in income-generating schemes, including obtaining bank financing. Completing
implementation of this backlog is expected by December 1998 for Almatti, and March 1999 for
Narayanpur, but will require intensive institutional support.
5U



Appendix I
Page 22 of 22
House construction grants.  Of thie  56,181  rural families entitled  to  house
construction grants, 18,754 (33%) have already received their grants and are using them. The
grants for another 23,804 (42.37%) have been placed in joint accounts but not yet used.
Commissioner (R&R) will continue to be responsible for payment of the balance of these grants.
Responsibility for utilization of HCG funcls in their respective joint accounts rests with the PDFs.
Complete implementation of this package is expected by December 1998. BTDA is responsible
for provision of HCG to Bagalkot PDFs.
* * * * * * *
As regards operation and maintenance of Phase 11 project works, Government of
Karnataka intends to proceed as follows:
Major irrigation works (dams, in am & branch canals, distributaries) will continue to be
maintained and operated by the O&M Zone of the ID/KBJNL under the Chief Engineer (O&M).
Adequate funding will be provided from the State budget and KBJNL borrowings. The Phase II
system was designed to be operated acccrding to RWS principles, but it has not been so far.
There are currently no plans for initiating ]RWS. The on/off system has been introduced for Rabi
crops.
Minor irrigation works (FICs, FDs and land shaping) will continue to be maintained
and operated by farmers, guided as appropriate by CADA. As per guidelines issued by Under
Secretary, Irrigation Department (CAD) on 24 May 1997, farmers on selected hydraulic units
will be organized into water users cooperalive societies (WUCS), comprising at least 51% of the
land holders and representing at least 51% of the area commanded by the hydraulic unit. Once
the irrigation system on their hydraulic unit has been restored to proper working order, the
WUCS will take over both operation and maintenance of their units, also buying canal water at
the distributary from the ID/KBJNL and paying for that water. Of the 19 pilot distributaries
selected in the May 1997 guidelines, five are in the UKP command. Once this participatory
irrigation management (PIM) system is frilly functioning, O&M of minor irrigation works is
expected to be very much improved. Works and operations will be fully financed and carried out
by irrigators themselves.
Agricultural support passes to the regular extension service of the Agricultural
Department once the irrigation system for an area notified for irrigation is fully functional. Prior
to that time, CADA provides supplemental support services, including advice on the transition
from rainfed to irrigated farming, farmer training, organization of cooperatives, and appropriate
applied agricultural research. Support from Kamataka Agricultural University (Dharwad) and
WALMI is enlisted, as well as the support of the Indo-Dutch Program.
Resettlement & Rehabilitation continues to be the responsibility of the Commissioner,
R&R. On completion of the project, the RC's will be handed over to the Zilla Parishad for O&M
of basic services.
Anti-malaria program. Health I)epartment personnel will continue to operate this
program with finance and under the supervision of KBJNL.
51



Appendix 2
Page 1 of 12
GOVERNMENT OF KARNATAKA
UPPER KRISHNA (PHASE II) IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2010-IN/LOAN 3050-IN
APPENDIX 2: BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
1.    INTRODUCTION:
1.1    The Upper Krishna Project (UKP) has been conceptualised as a long termn development programme
to irrigate parts of drought prone districts of Bijapur, Raichur and Gulbarga of northern Karnataka. UKP is a
multipurpose project consisting of two reservoirs and network of canals. The main storage is at Almatti
dam, a few Km. downstream of confluence of Ghataprabha river vvith the Krishna river. The river Krishna
rises in Western ghats near Mahabaleshwar in Maharashtra state and flows across the Southern peninsula
from West to East for a length of about 1392 Km through the states of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra
Pradesh. A lower dam situated at Narayanpur, a few km. downstream confluence of Malaprabha river with
Krishna river, will serve as a diversion dam. Power generation is proposed below both the dams.
The Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal (KWDT) adjudicated on sharing of Krishna river water
between the three riparian states of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh with the final allocation to
700 TMC for Karnataka. In addition to the above, Karnataka is allowed to  utilise the return flow of 34
TMC. aggregating to 734 TMC. GOK has allocated 173 TMC of water to UKP. This project has been
taken up in two stages to utilise the allocated water. In stage I of the project, it is planned to utilise 119 TMC
of water to irrigate an area of 4,25,000 ha. In Stage II, an additional 1,97,220 Ha. of land will be irrigated by
utilizing 54 TMC of water.
1.2    The Stage I is taken in 3 phases, due to its vast area to be developed and also to pose the project for
the external Assistance.
1.3   Phase-I of the Project consists construction of Narayanpur dam to full height, Almatti dam to partial
height and canal net work from Narayanpur reservoir to irrigate an area of 1.05 lakh   Ha.This  Phase-I
Project is completed under the World Bank Assistance, Credit No. 788-IN from 1979 to 1986 with total
credit assistance of US $117.64 million (equivalent to Rs. 119 Crores) at March 1986. Total Irrigation
Potential achieved is 1.09 lakh Ha..
1.4   PHASE II OF UPPER KRISHNA PROJECT
1.4.1  After the implementation of Phase-I under World Ban]k Assistance from 1979 to 1986, it was
decided to pose Phase-II projects also to World Bank assistance for creating infrastructures for irrigating an
area of 1.45 Lakh Ha. and also for post Phase-I activities.
1.4.2  Accordingly, development credit agreement and Project agreement among International Association
and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and Government of India and Government of
Karnataka are signed on June 16, 1989 for implementation of the project. The Agreement has been declared
effective from August 17, 1989.
1.5    THE ACTIVITIES INCLUDED UNDER PHASE-II ARE:
(i)    Raising of Almatti dam from elevation 500 M to 509.016 M  in spillway (excluding gates).
Completion of Left and Right Bank non overflow section to final elevation and fixing of embedded parts for
erection of gates.
2



Appendix 2
Page 2 of 12
(ii)    Completion of Indi Branch Canal (IBC) from 0 to 64 Km with distribution system, Mudbal Branch
Canal (MBC) from 0 to 50, 80 Km, full length with distribution system, and distribution system under
Shahpur Branch Canal.
(iii)   Land Shaping and land leveling for an area of about 1.16 Lakh Ha.
(iv)   Establishment of Water and Land Management Institute for training.
2.    PROJECT COST:
At appraisal, the Phase-IT Project is estimated to cost Rs. 7916.70 Millions ($ 542.2 Million equivalent);
under the project the IDA credit is for SDR 119 Million ($ 160 Million equivalent) and totaling to $ 325
million or Rs. 4775 million. Due to considerable appreciation of SDR and US dollar against rupee value the
loan is reduced from $ 165 million to $45 mrillion. Hence the total Assistance available would be $ 211
million or Rs. 618.00 Crores.
3.    DISBURSEMENT:
3.1    As can be seen from the year-wise disbursement schedule given in
table at 3.2, the disbursement was slow during initial stage of the project due to the fact that there was no
smooth start of the project by procedural problems as per the World Bank norms. In the other years also the
poor achievement in the disbursement is due to suspension of aid for other components of the projects viz.
Dam and canal system for the poor implementation of Resettlement and Rehabilitation during the period
Nov. 1992 to Feb. 12, 1994 and again, from Sept. 2, 95 to Oct. 18, 1996.
3.2    The year-wise disbursement programme agreed during the project and disbursement programme
obtained are as under.
Si.   Finan-    Year-wise programme             Achievements
No.   cial   --------------------------  ---------
year    As per App-        After        in US $   Rs. in
raisal report     reduc-       millions        Crores.
in US $ million   tion of
loan
I .    1989-90      13           18.00          --                 --
2.     1990-93      29            12.60         14.15         25.2041
(Cumulative up to end of 90-91)
3.     1991-92      48            12.70         12.64         33.561
4.     1992-93      63            22.90         20.12         56.4122
5.     1993-94      65            58.10         40.30        115.3246
6.     1994-95      61            46.00         42.348       133.1626
7.     1995-96      39            29.40         24.312        62.1400
8.    1996-97        7             5.30         20.89         90.4600
325            205.00        174.865      516.2600
53



Appendix 2
Page 3 of 12
4.    PROJECT MONITORING:
4.1          The Upper Krishna Phase-II Project has been monitored at the
project level and also by the state Government, at additional Chief Secretary level, periodically. Besides
this, project is also monitored quarterly by the Central Water commission, New Delhi.
4.2          The World Bank Supervision Field Mission have visited the project areas every six month
for review of the project implementation. The Engineer-in-Chief Cum Project coordinator was coordinating
during the visit of World Bank team generally, for the whole project, particularly for the irrigation works.
During the field visits pertaining to Rehabilitation and Resettlement activities the Commissioner for
Rehabilitation and Resettlement and Land Acquisition Bagalkoli General Manager, Rehabilitation and
Resettlement Bagalkot, were accompanying. The Mission's findings and recommendations on issues which
need urgent attention were discussed in the Wrap-up meetings after the field visit at Government level.
5.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION:
This project was implemented mainly by five departments of
Government of Kamataka as noted below.
(1)   Irrigation           All Irrigation works and CADA
Department          works WALMI training.
(2)    Revenue             Resettlement and Rehabilitation of the Project
Department          affected people, and also acquisition of land for
Canals.
(3)    Housing & Urban     Bagalkot Town Development Authority for
Department          relocation of Bagalkot town in new township.
(4)    Health Department    Anti Malaria activities.
(5)    Forest Department    Catchment Area Treatment of Almatti and
Narayanpur Reservoir.
6.    IRRIGATION WORKS:
The cultivable command area to be developed under Phase-Il was estimated as 1,45,000 Ha. of potentially
irrigable land within the UKP Stage-I, under Indi Branch Canal (from 0 to 64 Km), Mudbal Branch Canal (0
to 50.8 Km full length) and Shahpur Branch Canal (from Distributary No. 8 to 24). An Irrigation Potential
of 1,23,260 Ha. has been achieved to end of June 1997.
6.1    RAISING OF ALMATTI DAM:
(a)    Right flank concrete blocks have been raised to full height.
(b)    Left flank blocks including earthen embankments are also raised to full height. The central overflow
spillway is completed up to 509.016 m and the piers are expected ito be completed by 6/98. Excavation for
power house is under progress and it is expected to be completed by 6/98. River sluice gates (6 Nos) have
54



Appendix 2
Page 4 of 12
been fabricated and brought to site and the erection will be completed during June 1998. Out of 26 gates
embedded parts for 3 Nos of gates are already iristalled and the balance quantity have been fabricated but not
installed. Installation of the balance quantity ol embedded parts will be completed by June 1998. Financial
progress of Rs. 4243.61 lakhs has been achieved as against targeted cost of Rs.5989.90 Lakhs, thus 70.85
per cent progress has been achieved.
6.2    CANALS:
6.2   a)    INDI BRANCH CANAL:
It is targeted to provide irrigation facilities for the area covered from 0 to 64 Km (during Phase-II) out of
total length of 174 Km of Indi Branch Canal.
Branch Canal with its structures, distribution net work and micro net work has been completed in the reach
0-30 Km in all respects during September 1994.
In the reach between 30 to 64 Km of Branch Canal, earth work and structures have been substantially
completed. Lining and gates are expected to be completed by 6/98.
In respect of distributary system Earth work, ILining, balance of 20 to 30% work is remaining and it is
expected to be completed by November 97. Nearly 4000 structures out of 4146 have been completed. In
respect of gates civil portion-of the works have been completed and the installation of 1417 gates are yet to
be done and this task will be completed by the end of November 97.
In respect of micronet work (FIC) 80% earth work and lining have been completed and balance work will be
completed by November 97.
There are totally 67,349 structures under the micronet work, out of which 10,000 have been completed and
the remaining will be completed during November 97.
The total financial progress achieved up to end of June 1997 is Rs.27,540 Lakhs against the Planned cost of
Rs.37450 Lakhs, thus achieving 73.54 percent progress.
An irrigation potential of 27,250 Ha. has been created against contemplated target of 60, 693 Ha. under Indi
Branch Canal from 0 to 64 Km taken up under Phase-II.
6.2    B)    MUDBAL BRANCH CANAL
The total length of Mudbal Branch Canal is 50.80 Km. From 0 to 39 Km works have been entrusted to 3
different agencies in three slices.
i)    SLICE-I KM 0 TO 18 & DISTRIBUTARIES 1 TO 8 (MB-01 - 01 - 01).
All the works under Branch, Distributary System and micronet works are completed.
55



Appendix 2
Page 5 of 12
ii)    SLICE-II -- KM 18-TO 32 AND DISTRIBUTARY 9 TO 14 (MB-0 1-02).
Earthwork, Lining structures and gates have been complained on 13ranch Canal. Under distributary system,
earthwork, Lining and structures are almost completed. In case of micro net work, earth work, lining (8%), is
remaining and it is expected to be completed by July 97.
iii)    SLICE-III KM 32 TO 39 AND DISTRIBUTARY NO.15  TO 17 (MB-01-03)-
Under this slice all the items of works on Branch Distributaries ancl micronet work are completed.
iv) MBC 39 TO 50.80 KM AND DISTRIBUTARY 23 (MB-02-CII /1)
Under this packages except Lining all the of work have been substantially completed. The lining workwill
be completed during December 1997.
v) Distributary numbers 19 to 22 B - The works have been almost completed.
vi) DISTRIBUTARY NO. 24 AND 25:
Earthwork has almost completed. Balance quantity in lining and structures will be completed by September
1997, where as in Branch distributary 1 and 3 of distributary No.26 work has completed. In respect of
micronet work of the above Branch distributaries nearly 27% of earth work and lining is remaining to be
completed.
The total financial progress achieved is Rs.14396.15 Lakhs as against a targeted cost of
Rs.9573.71 Lakhs, thus achieving 150.37% of financial progress. An Irrigation potential of 38657 Ha has
been created as against ICA of 44,971 Ha.
6. 2   c) SHAHPUR BRANCH CANAL.
Almost all the packages are completed.
6.3   a)      AYACUT-ROADS.
Out of targeted for restructured 627 Km of Ayacut Roads in the command area of Phase-II Mudbal
Branch Canal, Indi Branch Canal and Shahpur Branch Canal area, 617 Km length of, Ayacut Roads have
been completed, thus achieving 98.4-0 percent of the target. The remaining 10 Km length of Roads will be
completed by November 1997.
6.3 b) SERVICE ROADS.
The table given below depicts the physical and Financial targets and achievements in respect of Indi
Branch Canal and Mudbal Branch Canal.
56



Appendix 2
Page 6 of 12
SI.  Name of                Physical in Km.             Financial Progress / Target
No.  Canal           Target               Achievement          Rs. (Million)
Main   Distri- Total Main  Distri- Total
Canal  butary  Canal butary
1.   IBC      64    621.26  685.26 62.60 504.38 566.98          275.40 /374.5
2.   MBC    50.80  165.67  216.47 45.66  163.83 209.49          72.623 /74.824
Total         114.80 786.93   901.73 108.26 668.21 776.47       348.623 /449.324
6.4    BUILDINGS:-
Buildings, both residential and non-residential have been constructed for WALMI: Campus at
Dharwad, Almatti, Bheemarayangudi, Chigahall i, Aurad, Rampur and Almel under different packages.
6.4.1 BUILDINGS FOR WALMI CAMPUS AT DHARWAD
Residential buildings at WALMI Camlpus have been tackled under WL-02 package. They are
substantially completed. The balance work will be completed by July 97. The financial progress achieved is
Rs. 721.00 Lakhs against targeted amount of Rs. 766 Lakhs. Thus progress achieved is 94% of target.
Non residential buildings at WALMI Campus have been taken up under WL-01 package. Earth
work is completed and masonry, concrete items are under progress. Progress achieved under these items is
about 25%. The balance works will be completed by July 97. The financial progress achieved is Rs.558
Lakhs as against targeted amount of Rs.682 Lakhs thus achieving progress of 82% of the target.
6.4.2 BUILDINGS AT RAMPUR AND ALMEL
At Rampur Campus 44 residential, 4 number of non-residential buildings have taken up and
completed and at Almel 25 numbers of residential buildings have taken up and completed. The total
financial progress achieved is Rs. 552.90 Lakhs as against targeted cost of Rs. 601.40 Lakhs, thus achieving
a 91.94%.
6.4.3    BUILDINGS AT BHEEMARAYADNGUDI, CHIGARAHALLI AND AURAD
All the buildings taken up under World Bank Assistance at Bheemarayanagudi, Chigarahalli and
Aurad are completed by incurring an expenditure of Rs. 835.44 Lakhs.
7.       WATER USERS ASSOCIATION-
During the year 1990 to 1992, 50 numbers of-Water Users Associations were registered covering an
area of 23,162 ha.
57



Appendix 2
Page 7 of 12
8.    MALARIA CONTROL:
The Department of Health (DOH) has established 4 Malaria units stationed at Almatti,
Bheemarayanagudi, Kembhavi and Narayanpur in the UKP command area. These units are headed by Health
Officer under the overall control of Senior Healtlh Officer Class-I, stationed at Almatti.
These four Anti Malaria units are fully devoted an intensive Anti-Malaria Campaign in the Project area.
9. DRAINAGE
During the period from 1989-90 to 1993-94 Physical achievements to an extent of 20297.13 Ha. has
been achieved incurring an expenditure of Rs. 108.32 Lakhs for construction drains and seepage drains for
the area affected by water logging on NLBC in Kodaikal village lying in the command areas, and also
construction of field drains for the drainage affected areas in the command of other distributaries of
Narayanpur Left Bank Canal and Shahpur Branch.
M/s Consulting Engineering Service, New Delhi consultants has been hired for preparation of
Master drainage Plans has submitted the final report for providing drainage system in the command area of
Stage-I; which is being reviewed.
10. RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION.
Due to construction of Almatti reservoir total of 158 villages will come under submergence. During
Phase-1l i.e., when the crest level of Almatti damages raised to 509.016m, 95 villages will come under
submergence. For resettlement of 95 villages (Physical relocation 68 Rehabilitation centers are proposed.
Out of 95 villages 54 are fully submerging for which Rehabilitation Centers are ready and the Rehabilitation
Centers for the remaining 41 villages are in advanced stage of progress. Out of 68 Rehabilitation Centers, 50
Rehabilitation Centers are completed in all respects by July 31, 1997 and the remaining 18 Rehabilitation
Centers will be ready during December 1997. The expenditure incurred for providing infrastructure/ civic
amenities in Rehabilitation Centers up to end of July 31 is Rs. 2480 Lakhs as a target of Rs.4000 Lakhs.
The total number of house plots to be allocated to PDFs (including Primary PDFs and Adult sons/
unmarried daughters) are 48338 numbers. An amount of Rs.9624.34 Lakhs was drawn up to July 97 for
43747 number of PDFs and actual joint accounts opened are 35782. The number of PDFs utilising the
entitlement as on July 31, 1997 are 14459. Out of which 8248 PDFs have completed their houses and
remaining 6211 are under progress. The remaining PDFs are expected to be completed by December 1998.
The number of PDFs entitled to land purchase grants as per the Category-I are 2593 numbers. An
amount of Rs. 1096.53 Lakhs has been drawn for 1992 PDFs and Joint accounts are opened for 1345
numbers. The number of PDFs utilising entitlement as on July 311, 1997 are 325 numbers only. The likely
completion date of utilisation target is December 1998.
The total number of PDFs entitled to income generating schemes under category II, III and IV are
8157. An amount of 623.90 Lakhs has been drawn for 3766 PDFs and Joint accounts opened are for 1939
PDFs. The total number of PDFs utilising entitlements as on July 31, 97 are 694 numbers. The likely date
of utilisation is December 1998.
58



Appendix 2
Page 8 of 12
REHABILITATION & RESETTLEMENT FOR NARAYANPUR RESERVOIR.
Under Narayanpur Reservoir the number of PDFs entitled for land purchase group are 1293. An
amount of Rs. 370.10 Lakhs has been drawn for 626 PDFs and kept in joint account for 624 numbers. The
number of PDFs utilising entitlement as June :30, 1997 are 329 and likely date of utilisation of target is
March 1999.
Under income generating groups category II, III and IV the number of PDFs involved are 5247. An
amount of Rs. 380.05 Lakhs has been drawn for :2933 PDFs and joint account is opened for 2776 PDFs. The
total number of PDFs utilised entitlement as June 30, 97 are 908 PDFs likely date of utilisation target is
March 1999.
The total number of PDFs entitled for house plots and lhouse construction grants are 7950. An
amount of Rs. 1749 Lakhs has been drawn for 7950 and joint account is opened for 7936. The number of
PDFs utilising entitlement as an June 30, 1997 are 4976, likely date of utilisation target is March 1999.
10.1   Details of land required and acquired for different purpose and the cost aspects are as under:
Si.           Particulars                Land          Land          Total
No.                                      r equired     acquired      cost
in Ha.       in Ha.        Rs. Lakhs
i .    Narayanpur Reservoir
Submergence                       25658         25658         4374.60
2.    Almatti Reservoir
Submergence                       76230         18883         32185.40
3.     Land forCanals                    31610         15186         25892.00
4.     Land for Roads                    4270          1409          2402.58
5.    Land for Rehabili-
tation Centres                    6815          5152          8784.39
11.   BAGALKOT TOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
The following project component have been completed.
(i)    Peripheral road (7.571 Krn).
(ii)    Construction of primary school and 6 Nursery Schools.
(iii)   Electrification works.
(iv)   Construction of E.L.S.R.
(v)    Gravity main pipe line for GLSR to ESR.
(vi)   Water supply distribution system.
(vii)   Construction of 10 bedded hospital.
(viii)  Police Outpost.
(ix)   Bus shelter.
The following works are under various stages of progress.
(i)    U.G.D. facilities (66.66%)
(ii)   Improvement to Bagalkot Muchakhandi Road (28.67%)
59



Appendix 2
Page 9 of 12
(iii)   Secondary School (90%)
(iv)   Local Market (50%)
(v)    Photo type houses 52 Nos. (78.9%)
Construction of park and Branch Post office is yet to be taken up.
12.   CATCHMENT AREA TREATMENT OF ALMATTI AND NARAYANPUR RESERVOIR
It is proposed to take up 6584.34 Ha. of afforestation and 80 Lakh of seedlings at an estimated cost
of Rs. 1000 Lakhs during the period from 1992-93 to 1995-96, to coincide with the Stage-I, Phase II of
UKP.
12.2   One Forest Division with 46 supporting staff has been created and is in operation since June 1994.
The Physical progress of works of afforestation is about 2604 Ha. and 21.245 Lakhs seedlings incurring an
expenditure of Rs. 371.834 Lakhs.
13.   TRAINING.
The Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI) at Dharwad was established for imparting
instructions, training and conducting research in water management and land development for Irrigation and
Agriculture. Training is imparted mainly through guest facility in borrowed premises not only in Dharwad
proper, but also outside. At present WALMI Dharwad chiefly focuses on:
(i)    Training under World Bank aided National Water Managernent Project - Karnataka.
(ii)    Training under U5 AID assisted Water resources Management and training project.
(iii)   Training under World bank aided UKP Stage-I, Phase-Il.
Normally, these training will be given to civil Engineering graduates, Agriculture Officials,
Cooperative officials, Administration officials and other supporting service personnel. So far 432 Nos. of
training courses were conducted for the Agricultural, Irrigation officials and farmers and 13,879 number of
persons have been trained since 1989-90 up to end of June 1997.
14.   EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES.
38 Photo copiers (Photo copiers A-3 size 13 Nos. and plain copiers) size to size and 25 Nos under
Packer E & V -2) have procured under World Bank assistance at a total cost of Rs. 44,55,464/- only, with
free maintenance during warranty period of 2 years. These machines are procured from M/s Modi Xerox
Limited, Hyderabad and installed in different offices in UKP area dluring the period Feb. 1993 to July 1993.
Four school buses have been procured under World Bank assistance at a total cost of Rs. 19.98
Lakhs.
15.   STUDIES
The Project Agreement provides to carry out the important studies by hiring consultancy services for
i) Planning, ii) Operation and maintenance, iii) Monitoring and evaluation and iv) Contract Administration.
The present status of the studies so far done is as below.
60



Appendix 2
Page 10 of 12
15.1   CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR FEASIBILITY STUDIES FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT IN UKP.
Feasibility studies for future development of UKP have been entrusted to M/s. CES, New Delhi at a
cost of Rs. 94.70 lakhs, out of which Rs. 89.00 Lakhs have been spent and the same has been reimbursed.
15.2 ESTABLISHMENT OF MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM IN UKP.
(a)    The Management Information System (MIS) for UK Phase-II Irrigation Project was established in
UKP with the Aid from the World Bank. The consultancy service contract for establishing MIS in UKP was
entrusted to Sri Jayachamarajendra College oi Engineering (SJCE) Mysore (now JSS Consultants). The
period of consultancy was 12 months commencing from I st January 1992 at a cost of Rs. 35.00 Lakhs.
(b)    Due to delay in the procurement of hardware and the associated system and also the delay in
positioning computer personnel such as system analyst software Engineer/Programmer, extension of
consultancy services became inevitable. Concurrence of the World Bank was obtained for extension of MIS
consultancy contract for six months at an additional cost of Rs. 11.50 Lakhs. this contract was signed on
February 24, 1994.
(c)    Another consultancy service contract agreement for "Transfer of Technology and Maintenance of
the UKP MIS Software" between UKP and J.S.S. Consultants was signed on Sept. 26, 1994.
During the consultnacy period M/s J.S.S. Consultants have developed 9 modules and the same have
been assigned to the Zonal/Unit Offices for implementation. These modules developed by J.S.S. Consultants
were not utilised to the full extent due to shortage of trained, dedicated Computer Personnel, non availability
of data, lack of feed back and due to shortage of Computers.
During the consultancy period there were frequent changes in the programmers from the Consultants
side, which may be due to some of the ambitious MIS professionals Job-hopping to get higher salaries and
also pirating among organisations as they attempt to hire staff away from each other.  There were
Organisational problems, such as avoidance behavior which is most common, associated with System
problems and the failure of user's participation with system design teams.
At present all the 22 Nos. (PC - AT 286 and 386) and 2 net servers (PC AT 386) are being
extensively utilised for ports. Recently some computer programmers and Junior System Analyst have been
recruited on contact basis and deployed in each zones. With the induction of some more pentium computers,
we hope to develop the MIS in the Project.
So far Rs. 159.06 Lakhs has been utilised against planned cost of Rs. 160.81 Lakhs; which includes
procurement of Computers and peripherals. T[he balance cost of Rs. 1.75 Lakhs is due to be paid to the
consultants which happens to be 5% original MIS contract of Rs. 35 Lakhs to be released after getting
approval from the Govemment.
15.3   BASELINE SOCIO ECONOMIC BENCH MARK STUDIES
In order to group the PDF's of submerging villages under Almatti and Narayanpur reservoir and in
the UKP Phase-II command area as per the 5 categories of R&R policies issued vide G.O. No. RD 21 REH
94 (P) dated 15-5-1995 and to extend the benefits to them, the Socio Economic Surveys are entrusted to the
different agencies. These are mentioned below.
61



Appendix 2
Page 11 of 12
Si. Name of work             Name of Consul-       Contract      Expenditure    Whether final
No.                          tancy                 amount        up to 6/97     report received
Rs. Lakhs
1. Survey work in respect    M/s Management       3.60           Expenditure    This report to be
of 8 villages coming      Consultancy                         details to be    furnished by GM
under Almatti reservoir   Services                            furnished by    R&R and a
PCAO          report on the
2. -do- 12 villages          ISRD Dharwad          7.89                         utility of the
Consultant's
3. -do- 21 villages          BEC Bagalkot          9.39                         report to be
furnished
4. Survey work in respect    M/s OM Consultant     9.60
respect of 4 I villages   Bangalore
coming under Narayan-
pur Reservoir
5. Survey work in respect    Administrative        9.68
of 205 villages coming    Staff College of
under command area.       India, Hyderabad
6. Survey work in respect    Command Area          21.07
of 54 villages coming     studies & Irrigation
under Almatti             Management
Reservoir                 Bangalore
The Commissioner (R&R LAQ) has taken action for extencling benefits as per the survey reports, in
accordance with R&R policies.
15.4   TELECOMMUNICATION WORK STUDIES IN UKP.
This study has been entrusted to M/s Telecommunication Consultants India Limited at a cost of Rs.
13.70 Lakhs; out of which Rs. 3.00 Lakhs has been spent. It was proposed to setup 60 wireless stations, out
of which 52 wireless stations have been setup and the remaining work will be completed by March 1999.
15.5   PHOTO MAPPING OF COMMAND AREA IN UKP:
Aerial survey and Photo mapping job was entrusted to Director General, Survey of India. The
contract amount was Rs. 414.00 Lakhs out of which Rs. 390.00 Lakhs has been spent and Rs. 340 Lakhs has
been reimbursed.
15.6   MASTER DRAINAGE PLAN OF UKP STAGE I.
This job has been entrusted to M/s. Consulting Engineering Service New Delhi at a cost of Rs. 93.05
Lakhs, out of which Rs. 20.15 Lakhs has been spent and the same has been reimbursed. The Master
drainage project reports have already submitted by the Consultants and it is being reviewed by the CADA
authorities.
62



Appendix 2
Page 12 of 12
15.7 INTEGRATED RESERVOIR OPERATION STUDIES
This study has been entrusted to Indian Institute of Science Bangalore at a cost of Rs. 7.33 Lakhs.
This study has been completed, reports received, and Rs.7.33 Lakhs been spent and the same is reimbursed.
16.   FINANCIAL PROGRAMME FOR BALANCE WORKS.
The balance works of UKP Phase-I1 under Irrigation components is proposed to be completed by
June 1998, and the settlement and Rehabilitation works are proposed to be completed during December 1998
for Almatti Dam and March 1999 for NarayanpuLr Dam.
17.   PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
17.1   The progress in the following components of U.K. Stage-I Phase-II project is almost completed and
there is substantial overall improvement in the construction quality (except WALMI Buildings at Dharwad).
(i)    Raising of Almatti Dam.
(ii)    Branch and Distributaries of IEC, MBC and SBC
(iii)   Ayacut Roads.
(iv)   Buildings.
(v)    R&R activities.
The balance works will be completed by the Irrigation DepartmentlKrishna Bhagya Jala Nigam
Limited within a span of one year.
17.2   There is no appreciable progress in the following components/studies.
(i)    Water Users Association.   (ii)    MIS
(iii)   Telecommunication Network  (iv)   Photo Mapping of Command Area.
(v)    Field Irrigation Channel.
17.3   There is a very little progress in respect of drainage and there is no progress in land levelling.
17.4   Even though extensive Anti-Malaria measures have been taken, the menace of Malaria still persists
and dominates in the project area.
18.   PERFORMANCE OF THE BANKERS.
The performance of the World Bank in reimbursement of claims was satisfactory except during the
period of Aid suspension.
The Government of Karnataka express it-s appreciation for the excellent guidance/ suggestions given
by the BANK MISSION during their field visits.
63



Appendix 3
Page I of 11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER KRISHNA (PHASE II) IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2010-IN / Ln. 3050-IN)
APPENDIX - 3: IRRIGATION COMPONENT
A. INTRODUCTION
Achievement of Project Objectives
According to the SAR, the main objective of the irrigation component was to
assist GOK in increasing agricultural production, income and direct employment
opportunities for some 100,000 families and for a larger number of indirect beneficiaries
through expansion of irrigation by some 150,000 ha in the state's drought-prone north
region. In addition to R&R objectives and the anti-malaria campaign, which are
discussed elsewhere, the project also aimed at strengthening Karnataka's technical and
managerial skills in project management and the planning, design, construction and
operation and maintenance of irrigation projects.
In physical and financial terms, the targets fixed for irrigation infrastructure have
been partially achieved. Construction quality is mixed while O&M is unsatisfactory.
Though major works (dam and branch canals) showed some improvement, other
relatively small but important components (distribution system, FICs, roads, buildings)
continued to suffer in quality, thereby affecting efficiency of the water delivery system
and sustainability of the infrastructure developed under the project. Furthermore, the
progress in land shaping and field drains (under CADA's jurisdiction), which have a
direct and significant impact on agricultural production and sustainability of outcomes,
has been very poor.
The objective of strengthening Karnataka's technical and managerial skills in
project management, planning, design, construction and O&M of irrigation projects has
not been achieved. Contract management governing project implementation and water
management governing agricultural production as well as environmental aspects have not
shown any significant improvement. The canal system under Phase II has been designed
to be operated according to Rotational Water Supply (RWS) principles. In actual practice,
RWS is not being applied.
In respect of institutional development, a separate O&M Zone under a Chief
Engineer has been set up during the project period. However, in the absence of project
specific Plan of Operation and Maintenance (POM), lack of continuity of key staff and
their training in O&M, the project has not been effective in improving O&M. The
64



Appendix 3
Page 2 of 11
infrastructure for WALMI has been created, but training at WALMI has not made any
significant progress due to lack of resources (faculty and funds), very frequent turnover of
Directors and lack of response from the field offices. Technical Assistance has also not
had significant impact due to lack of follow-up on consultants' recommendations.
Despite assistance by MIS consultants, neither ID nor CADA are using MIS for effective
water management and management of the vast infrastructure created under the project.
Only the R&R Wing has managed to utilize the MIS effectively.
Project Components
The major components under Irrigation were:
(1)   Raising of Almatti Dani;
(2)   Completion the distribution system of the Shahpur Branch Canal
(SBC);
(3)   Construction of a major portion of the Mudbal Branch Canal (MBC)
together with associated distributaries;
(4)   Construction of an initial part of the Indi Branch Canal (IBC) together
with associated distributaries;
(5)   Construction of field channels to serve about 150,000 ha, 2,000 ha under
Phase I and 148,000 ha under Phase II;
(6)   Improvement of main and secondary drains in the Project Area and the
construction of field drains in about 30% of the Project Area to facilitate
removal of excess rain and irrigation water from such areas;
(7)   Improvement and construction of all-weather roads in the Shahpur,
Mudbal and Indi Branch comnmand areas;
(8)   On-farm development including land shaping, farm irrigation and farm
drainage for about 116,000 ha in Phase I and Project Areas;
(9)   Establishment of a Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI) near
Dharwad to provide training mainly to staff of Irrigation and Agriculture
Departments in subjects relevant to irrigated agriculture including land
shaping, crop water relationships, irrigation management and monitoring
of irrigation; and establishment and strengthening of Project training
centers for training of canal operators and farmers;
(10)  Technical Assistance and studies.
B. MISSION'S FINDINGS
Project Implementation
Irrigation Works
Almatti Dam. The work included (a) raising the spillway from an elevation of
500 m (Phase I status) to 509 m; (b) construction of piers to a final elevation of 528.76 m;
65



Appendix 3
Page 3 of II
(c) provision of anchors and embedded metal parts for the future installation of radial
gates; (d) raising of the left embankment to the final elevation of 528.76 m and partial
completion of the right embankment; and (e) construction of a road bridge over the
spillway section.
As of June 30, 1997, the spillway has been raised to its crest elevation of 509.016
m; non-overflow dam portions on both the banks have been raised to final elevation of
528.76 m; the piers are partially raised; and embedded parts for 3 out of 26 gates have
been erected. The work of curtain grouting and drainage holes which is a high priority for
dam safety has made insignificant progress so far. The balance works which include
curtain grouting and drainage holes, erection of embedded parts for remaining 23 gates,
erection of 6 river sluice gates, raising the piers to final elevation, and construction of
spillway bridge, are expected to be completed by June 1998.
Repairs to the damaged stilling basin below the spillway and impermeabilisation
of upstream face of the dam are overdue. These emergency works have a direct bearing
on dam safety but are still held up by a prolonged approval process. These works are
scheduled to be completed by June 1998. That will be possible only if the agencies for
these specialized jobs are contracted by December 1997.
Two important studies related to (a) hydrology (review of design flood, back
water studies, reservoir operation and flood warning system) and (b) structural design of
stilling basin (hydraulic design of the basin recently reviewed by KERS) are seriously
lagging behind and should be completed on priority basis so that timely follow up action
can be taken.
The Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP) was reconstituted in May 1995. It has held
four meetings since then. The reconstituted DSRP has been providing useful inputs for
safety of the two dams. However, follow up actions on DSRP's recommendations are
much delayed.
Almatti Dam and R&R Linkage. Raising of the spillway is closely linked with
R&R activities. In an effort to avoid unnecessary R&R, as well as premature investment
in the dam, it was agreed (PA, Schedule 1, para. 1, p. 7) that no construction on Almatti
Dam take place until the Borrower could demonstrate that water from Almatti Reservoir
would be needed within three years to irrigate lands that would have been notified for
irrigation by then. The area that can be irrigated from Narayanpur Reservoir alone is
185,000 ha; from Narayanpur Reservoir plus Almatti Reservoir at elevation 509 M,
250,000 ha. The area notified for irrigation as of June 30, 1997 was 93,514 ha. The
average annual rate at which the Borrower brought new irrigated areas to completion over
the last seven years was 13,359 ha. The Borrower did not attempt to establish that
Almatti Reservoir water would be needed within three years, nor would it have been
possible to do so. Nevertheless, the Borrower did raise the spillway of Almatti Dam,
sometimes with the approval of Bank supervision missions, at other times despite written
assurances to the Bank that it would not do so. The Bank financed these works.
66



Appendix 3
Page 4 of 11
Therefore, the linkage between R&R and Almatti construction was not maintained
during dam implementation. Spillway raising went ahead, except during the Credit
suspension periods, irrespective of readiness on the R&R front. As a result, contingency
plans for emergency evacuation, which could have been avoided had the proper linkage
between the two activities been maintained, had to be undertaken. Major R&R and dam-
construction expenses, which could have been avoided until much later, were incurred.
Projections made for villages in the reservoir area likely to be affected during
1997 floods varied widely from actually affected villages. The backwater studies and the
warning system should be reviewed considering appropriate spillway discharge
coefficient to be adopted in consultation with KERS, actual observed flood data at nearest
gauge sites, travel time from the nearest flood warning station to the reservoir (travel time
within the reservoir would be very short), and actual back water levels recorded during
the 1997 floods.
Shahpur Branch Canal. This canal system which was partially completed under
Phase I was to be fully completed under Phase II. The Phase II works included
distributaries 8 and 9A through 24 and remainder of the distribution network below
distributaries completed in Phase I.
All works under Phase II for SBC, including Field Irrigation Canals (FICs) are
complete. Measuring devices have been provided at the head of some of the distributaries
and will be provided shortly for the remaining. All distributaries except Distributary 21
have been handed over to O&M Zone. Distributary 21 was physically completed in
March 1997 and is in the process of being handed over to the O&M Zone. The irrigation
potential created under SBC is 44,694 ha (revised) against 50,171 ha estimated earlier.
ndi Branch Canal. The IBC under Phase II included construction of first 64 km
of this branch canal with complete distribution system in that length (20 distributaries and
their networks). The irrigation potential of the canal completed by June 1997 is 38,802
ha., 64% of the designed potential of 60,693 ha under Phase II.
The canal works including the distribution system and FICs for the first 30 km of
the IBC have been completed and handed over to the O&M Zone. The earthwork and
structures between km 30 and 64 of the branch canal are nearly complete, while the lining
is about 65 % complete. There are five major aqueduct structures in this reach which are
also almost complete. The distribution systems with off-takes from IBC km 30-64 are
also nearing completion (earthwork about 80% and lining about 70% complete). FICs are
almost 85% complete. Installation of measuring devices at head of distributaries
is in progress. All balance works are expected to be completed by June 1998.
Mudbal Branch Canal. The project included construction of 50.8 km of branch
canal and complete distribution system (30 distributaries and network thereunder).
67



Appendix 3
Page 5 of 11
The branch canal up to 18 km along with its distribution system was completed in
June 1995 and has been handed over to O&M Zone. The branch canal from 18 km to
50.8 km is nearing completion. Lining in about 4 km length is remaining. A major
aqueduct structure at 39 km is almost complete. About 85% length of distributaries and
92% length of FICs are completed. Irrigation potential of 38,657 ha has been created
against the total CCA of 44971 ha. All remaining works are expected to be completed by
December 1997.
Drainage. The Phase II project envisaged improving main and secondary drains
in the entire project area and construction of field drains in about 45,000 ha (30% of the
project area). During the period 1989-90 to 1993-94 field drains were constructed in
about 20,300 ha. No further progress is reported thereafter"5. Also no progress is
reported on improving main and secondary drains in the project area. Poor water
management and lack of adequate drainage has created serious problems in the command
area. Lands of about 70 villages are reported to have been affected by waterlogging. The
consultants engaged to prepare the Drainage Master Plan for UKP command have
recently furnished their final report. The estimated cost of the drainage project is about
Rs. 725 million. CADA has yet to prepare an action plan to implement the proposed
drainage project.
Land Levelling. The project envisaged land shaping and land levelling in the
project area to be carried out by contractors and farmers with institutional credit. Land
levelling for 8,820 ha in Phase II areas was done till 1992; thereafter the activity came to
a halt because of institutional financing problems. As per the Project Agreement
(Schedule 2, Section 13) GOK was bound to making alternative arrangements for
financing land levelling works in the event that institutional credit were not available to
farmers. GOK has neglected to institute any alternative financing scheme for farmers,
adversely affecting their ability to undertake land levelling.
Due to the rolling topography of the command area, land levelling assumes great
importance. The FICs are designed and constructed assurning that land levelling has been
or will be done. The absence of land levelling is clearly visible in the field, some farmers
being compelled to make unauthorized cuts on the laterals or FICs to draw their share of
water. This situation has seriously affected the system physically as well as in terms of
water use efficiency. CADA belatedly prepared a new credit scheme to address this
problem but is was turned down by GOK.
O&M. The O&M Wing (headed by a Superintending Engineer), which was
earlier attached to CADA, was transferred to Irrigation Department and placed under CE
(Dam). A separate post of CE (O&M) was created later to head the now-upgraded O&M
Zone. Completed works are now being handed over to the O&M Zone after joint
I5 In May 1998, the Borrower has reported that 25,120 ha. have been provided with drainage. If so, the
additional drainage must have been achieved subsequent to the Bank's ICR mission in September
1997. Construction of field drains was not evident or reported to Bank missions since 1994.
68



Appendix 3
Page 6 of 11 
inspection of the works with the respective construction Zones. This institutional
arrangement was designed to improve coordination between construction and O&M. It
has, however, not improved operation and maintenance. There are frequent changes in the
post of CE (O&M); the post is vacant at present. Continuity in such posts is essential.
Though a Master Plan for O&M has been prepared by a consultant firm during the early
stage of the project, the consultant's recommendations have not been implemented.
Project specific Plans of Operation and Maintenance (POM) have not been developed for
dam and canals so far. Training of personnel in O&M has not been given due attention.
Procedures for periodic inspections have not been laid down and, even when they exist,
are not followed. Job responsibilities are not clearly defined. Procedures for monitoring
O&M activities are missing. No clear picture is available to compare O&M (works)
expenditure per ha of command area vvith corresponding laid down norms.
Field visits indicate that poor O&M is leading to rapid deterioration of the
irrigation system. The gates at Naravanpur dam (spillway and canal headworks) which
serves all canal systems are badly leaking due to damaged seals. The gate position
indicators are not functioning. Inspection of the distribution system is difficult if not
impossible since the service roads of clistributaries are not jeepable at many locations and
not even walkable at some locations because of damaged roads or very thick and thorny
jungle growth on service roads. The lining is damaged at several locations and gates at
many locations are either damaged or missing. Canal side plantation is absent. FICs are
supposed to be maintained by the farmers but are also not in good shape. Immediate
corrective actions (institutional, procedural and financial) are required to make the O&M
organization effective and to restore the system to an acceptable condition.
Water Management. Since water is available in excess of requirement at this
stage of project development, water management has not received due attention with the
result that water application is far in excess of crop requirement. Irrigation intensity has
gone up to 152.5% against design intensity of 108% as reported in the Drainage Master
Plan recently submitted by consultants. This situation is further aggravated by the
absence of land levelling and adequate drainage, and has led to serious waterlogging
problems at this early stage of the project.
There is an immediate necessity to maintain water accounts for effective water
management. Simultaneously, water accounts need to be audited to analyze how much
water has been fed into each distributary/canal compared to respective design
requirements, and to find ways of minimizing the difference (wastage). Measuring
devices must be installed at the head of each canal system and the distributaries.
Discharge presently measured at the head of the canal systems is not reliable since gate
position indicators are absent or, if installed, are not working. The discharge coefficient
(except for NLBC head regulator) is not scientifically derived. Cross checks using current
meters at nearby bridge sites are also necessary to confirm discharge rating curves.
Rotational Water Supply (RWS) was introduced during the later part of Phase I
and carried forward to Phase II. At present RWS is practiced in Rabi season only when
69



Appendix 3
Page 7 of 11
the system is kept ON for two weeks and OFF for one week. The RWS has not been
functioning effectively for several reasons. Some parts of the system (NLBC and part of
SBC) have gated structures at lateral off-takes whereas the system constructed in Phase II
has ungated APMs. Again, these gated structures are not effective since many gates are
either damaged or are missing. There is no POM for operation of the system having
either gated or ungated off-takes from distributaries. Efficiency of the distribution system
is also low because of poor construction quality and lack of O&M. Some distributaries (7
in SBC, 7 in IBC and 5 in MBC) commanding more than 2500 ha were to be sub-divided
in branch distributaries with gated regulators at their heacd to facilitate ON/OFF operation.
These distributaries have not been subdivided. Night irrigation is normally not practiced.
It is reported that tail-enders resort to night irrigation when head reach off-takes are
closed using stone slabs or otherwise. Some farmers, not getting their due share in the
absence of land levelling, are compelled to make unauthorized cuts in the system. Cross
regulators on the conveyance system are not adequate for heading up water to the
required level at the distributary head; temporary cross walls are required in the
conveyance system and stone barriers across the delivery system. This situation may
improve when full irrigation develops. Training of project personnel and farmers in RWS
has not received due attention. Immediate action is needed to prepare plans for operating
the canals on RWS principles taking into consideration ground realities and corrective
actions where possible. It would be worthwhile to associate an expert in RWS for
preparing these operation plans. Organizing continuous training program in RWS (with
RWS expert on faculty) for the O&M staff and the farmers is another immediate
requirement.
Ayacut Roads. The project envisaged construction of 672 km of all-weather
roads (458 km new, 76 km reconstruction, and 138 km improvement) in the command
areas of SBC, MBC, and IBC. During project implementation, the target was enhanced
to 942 km. However, due to land acquisition problems, the project could commence
work only on 635 km. The remaining 307 km of road work has been transferred to
CADA. Out of 635 km of roads, 617 km of roads are completed; the balance length is
expected to be completed by November 1997. Time overrun was a common problem in
most of the road contracts. Completed roads are proposed to be transferred to respective
Zilla Parishads for maintenance.
Buildings. The buildings undertaken under the project included residential and
non-residential buildings for WALMI at Dharwad, for the Dam Zone in the colony at
Almatti, and for Canal Zones in their colonies in the command area (Almel, Rampur,
Bhimarayanguddi, Aurad and Chigarhalli). All buildings, including the buildings for
WALMI are complete. The hostel building and guest house buildings for WALMI have
been handed over to Director, WALMI. The remaining buildings will be handed over
shortly after the defects identified during joint inspection are rectified by the contractor.
The buildings at WALMI suffered from faulty layout and design, and inadequate
supervision by the staff not experienced in building construction.
70



Appendix 3
Page 8 of II
Mapping. The project provided for photogrammatic mapping of the command
area not mapped under Phase I. The job of aerial survey and photo mapping was
entrusted to the Survey of India and has been completed.
Quality Control. The Chief E]ngineer (Designs) heads the Quality Control Team.
During project implementation, some improvement was observed in quality control
procedures and quality of the final product, particularly major structures. There is,
however, wide scope for further improvement in quality assurance and quality control.
Systematic quality control also needs to be introduced for relatively smaller components
of the project (distribution system, roads and buildings) which are not up to required
quality standards.
Technical Assistance, Training. The project envisaged technical assistance in
planning, O&M, monitoring & evaluation, and contract administration. Consultancies
awarded during the project period pertained to (a) feasibility studies for future
development in UKP; (b) establishment of MIS; (c) telecommunication for UKP; (d)
master drainage plan for UKP stage I; and (e) integrated reservoir operation studies; as
well as (e) socio-economic studies for R&R. Though utilization of technical assistance
funds available under the project is satisfactory, no action was taken for monitoring and
evaluation of project agricultural and economic benefits. GOK also failed to take follow-
up action on some of the critical studies. MIS has not been effectively established in the
ID and CADA, though the R&R wing has made good progress in that direction.
Telecommunication studies, very important for wide spread canal network of UKP and
integrated reservoir operation, were abandoned half way. No action plan has yet been
drawn for drainage based on the master plan prepared by consultants. Similarly, no
follow up actions have been taken on the recommendations of the O&M consultants who
finalized their report during the beginning of Phase II.
Training by WALMI and CADA has not made any significant progress. No
major training programs have been conducted in the fields of contract management,
O&M, RWS, land shaping or drainage. The absence of these skills has had a visibly
negative impact on project outcomes.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors subject to government control. Some of the major contract works got
delayed because of (a) delay in decision on procurement of canal lining equipment by the
department; (b) protracted decision rnaking process in award of contracts; (c) delay in
release of funds during earlier period of the project; (d) settlement of contractors' claims.
Other factors which affected project iimplementation were: (a) GOK not enhancing water
charges to recover a higher proportion of O&M expenditure; (b) no alternative financing
scheme implemented for land levelling to be done by farmers; (c) lack of coordination
between irrigation and CADA wings; (d) lack of linkage between R&R and raising of
Almatti dam; (d) senior positions lying vacant for long time; (e) frequent turnover in
Director, WALMI position.
71



Appendix 3
Page 9 of 11
Factors generally not subject of government control. Construction of FICs
was delayed because of farmers' resistance to construction of FICs during cropping
season and their insistence on entrusting FIC construction to them.
Factors subject to implementing agency control. Project implementation was
affected due to: (a) delays in acquisition of land for canals and roads; (b) long
interruption in supply of water for construction due to gate repair at Narayanpur dam; (c)
lack of follow up action on recommendations made by consultants engaged by GOK; (d)
lack of attention to O&M, water management, and training.
Project Sustainability
Project sustainability is at stake if (a) construction quality of distribution network
including FICs is not improved; (b) preventive periodical maintenance and repair of the
infrastructure created (dam, gates, canal, distribution system, drains, roads, buildings) are
not effectively carried out; (c) water management is not strictly monitored and RWS is
not enforced; (d) drainage in already water logged or potentially water logged areas is not
provided; (e) land levelling is not done by the farmers; and (f) maintenance of FICs by
farmers is not enforced.
Performance of the Bank
Appraisal. The Bank insisted on clubbing all canal works located in one segment
under a single contract (branch canal, distributaries, laterals, FICs). (SAR page 44, para
7.10). The FICs are normally constructed one year ahead of commissioning the canal
system. If completed too early, it is likely to be damaged as has happened now.
Furthermore, FICs involve mainly manual labour unlike higher category canals which
involve machinery. Project engineers believe, therefore, that the FICs should have been
detached from the suggested common contract.
Supervision. During the early years of implementation, supervision concentrated
on major civil works. Due to serious R&R problems during project implementation
which led to suspension of credit twice, the main thrust of supervision missions during
later part of project period was directed towards R&R. Other components did not receive
due attention. As a result, components like O&M, water management, training, on-farm
development (OFD) works, agriculture and malaria control suffered.
Performance of the Borrower
The Borrower made a good beginning with award of major ICB contracts for Indi
and Mudbal branch canals soon after the project became effective. These contracts,
however, started facing problems because of land acquisition and delayed decision on
part of GOK in procuring lining machines which were to be used for the first time in the
state. Midway through the contracts, further delays were caused by the dispute related to
72



Appendix 3
Page 10 of II
classification of excavation strata and long term curtailment of government water supply
for construction. All these factors resulted in substantial time and cost overruns.
The contracts for distribution systems were also adversely affected by land
acquisition problems. Construction of FICs which were clubbed with major works
contracts faced basic design problemr. Flag stones used for lining being easily removable
were getting displaced or stolen leaving FICs in very bad shape. The alternative of
precast units was discarded due to high cost. Ultimately improved design with insitu
concrete in the bed and flag stones on sides fixed to it was tried with success. Sometimes,
farmers resisted construction of FICs during the cropping season and insisted that work
be entrusted to them.
Dam raising contract was awarded through ICB procedure. The linkage between
dam raising and R&R works was not maintained. Raising had to be suspended to match
with R&R progress. However, in 1996-97 GOK went ahead with raising the spillway to
its crest level disregarding agreement reached with the Bank. Reconstituted DSRP has
been functioning satisfactorily, but dam safety related works recommended by the DSRP
are not yet taken up.
Construction quality on major contracts showed gradual improvement. However,
distribution system works, roads, and buildings lacked in quality. The Borrower paid
least attention to O&M, OFD works, water management, and training during the project
period. The Borrower appointed consultants under technical assistance component.
Follow up actions on the recommendations made by the consultants are not yet initiated.
Assessment of Outcome
The project's outcome with respect to infrastructure works (dam, canals, roads,
buildings) is rated partially satisfactory. However, the outcome in terms of returns from
the infrastructure developed under the project is rated unsatisfactory. That is because of
uncertain sustainability of the project arising out of poor conditions of O&M, water
management and OFD works.
Future Operations
The following actions are required to complete the project and to ensure its
operation in such a way that the project objectives are achieved: (a) completion of
balance civil works including the outstanding dam safety works; (b) completion of OFD
works (land levelling and field drains); (c) preparation and implementation of effective
POMs for dams and canal systems including annual water budgeting for improved water
management on RWS principles; (d) improved O&M with adequate need-based funds;
(e) establishing properly manned and. equipped MIS cell for effective management of
infrastructure and water; (f) preparation and implementation of time bound action plan for
drainage based on master plan prepared by consultants; (g) intensive training program on
RWS and O&M; (h) establishing WUAs and turnover of tertiary system for maintenance;
73



Appendix 3
Page 11 of 11
(i) either increase water charges substantially or devolve responsibility for O&M to
irrigators' groups (or some combination of the two).
Lessons Learned
(1)   Land  acquisition  is  generally  a major bottleneck  in  contract
administration.
(2)   Procurement of lining equipment by the department and then giving it on
hire to contractors was not a successful experiment. Departmental procurement and
supply of special construction equipment on hire to contractors should, therefore, be
avoided.
(3)   The FICs should, therefore, be delinked from the main canal or branch
canal contracts and entrusted to a separate agency in time.
(4)   Before funding any irrigation system (existing or new), definite POM
should be available for review at appraisal stage. Establishing or strengthening of O&M
organization with specific job description and training in O&M should be an important
component of Institutional Development.
(5)   When any new water management practice (like RWS) is to be introduced,
definite plans for training programs for operation staff as well as farmers including field
training in other states where such system has been successfully introduced should be
chalked out at the appraisal stage.
(6)   Technical assistance component should specify the time limit for engaging
various consultants and for follow up actions on consultant's recommendations to ensure
that benefits of consultancy are available during the project period itself.
74



Appendix 4
Page 1 of 26
IMPLEMENTAI'ION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER KRISHNA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
(Cr. 2010-IN / Ln. 3050-IN)
APPENDIX- 4: AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
The Land Base and Its Irrigation Inifrastructure
Without irrigation, the drought-prone areas of semi-arid northern Karnataka yield
meager harvests of sorghum, finger millet, pulses, oilseeds and local cotton. Averages
conceal the fact that, many years, the monsoon fails to such an extent that harvests are
lost and families subsist by sending the able-bodied to do construction work in coastal
cities. The average farm size, 3 to 5 ha, is not enough to assure subsistence in all years.
Under rainfed conditions, the 80% of the area that is black cotton soil (vertisols) is less
likely to fail, giving a crop on the res,idual moisture after monsoon, than the 20% that is
red latosols (alfasols). Farming and farm labor are the preponderant economic activity;
substantial livestock numbers assure that natural regeneration of shrubs and trees is poor.
Previous phases of UKP, parts of which were financed by IDA Credit 788, had
brought 81,161 ha under irrigation. That irrigation has not been working all that well.
Much of the land that needs to be leveled has not been. Irrigation maintenance and
sometimes construction too have been poor, especially so for field channels. The system
has not been operated as designed, usually being allowed to flow all the time during the
irrigation season due to availability of surplus water. Consequently (and also because, de
facto, farmers are getting canal water free) waterlogging and salinity are spreading and
changing the cropping pattern. Nevertheless, even this imperfect system has multiplied
the net return per hectare of farmland by from 9 to 16 times what rainfed agriculture
yielded.
The Phase II, 1989/90 to 1996/7, was slated to irrigate another 148,000 ha of these
lands, with between 15,000 and 24,000 ha newly receiving irrigation each year.
Projected benefits were based on the actual results from Phase I, given its imperfections.
Actual establishment of irrigation as of mid-1997 had reached 93,513 ha, 63% of
target. Of the remaining 54,487 ha, 13,275 ha (9%) is not yet served by its major canals.
Another 41,212 ha (28%) is served by irrigation canals down to the distributary but lacks
field irrigation channels (FICs). Given the present pace of work, it is assumed that the
major canals will be completed for the remaining area in 1997/8 and that the FICs for the



Appendix 4
Page 2 of 26
Phase II area will be completed in 1999/2000.16 The Phase II areas newly getting
irrigation by year and cumulative totals, in hectares, are as follows:
1989/90  1990/1  1991/2  1992/3  1993/4  1994/5  1995/6  1996/7  1997/8  1998/9   1999/00
0    3041   21328    6183    5256    4686   28028   24991   25000    25000       4487
3041   24396   30552   35808   40494   68522   93513  118513   143513   148000
As in Phase I, the irrigation on the 93,513 ha is highly imperfect. As per appraisal
estimate, 78% of the Phase II area (116,000 ha) requires land leveling or land shaping for
irrigation to work properly. Furthermore, while the technical needs were less precisely
known, it was estimated that 30% (44,400 ha) requires field drains (FDs).
Land shaping and construction of Fds have fallen far short of target. Only 8,820
ha. were land shaped during Phase II, a mere 8% of what is needed for irrigation to
function properly. Almost all land shaping was done in the first years of the project.
Since 1992, institutional financing for land shaping has ceased. Some farners continue
to shape their land, using their own resources or with finance from village money-lenders.
The volume of this work, however, is not significant."7
The agricultural consequences of the major shortfalls in land shaping and FDs are
apparent. Frequently, FICs are hanging in air or below field level. Even when they
happen to be at the right level in an unleveled field, some crops get too much water and
most get too little. Farmers consequently over-irrigate, a practice which is encouraged by
the fact that water charges are low and virtually uncollected, and by the fact that ID rarely
operates the canal system according to design but allows the canals to flow virtually all
the time. That, plus the frequent absence of drainage (construction of primary and
secondary drains is also far behind project design) is leading to a serious waterlogging
and salt problem. This was documented by the consultant's Master Drainage Plan. It can
be seen, in the Phase I area, in farning patterns: declining yields in low-lying fields,
16  In May 1998, the Borrower has reported that actual irrigated area was 72,396 ha. in 1996 kharif was
and 88,744 ha. in 1996-97 rabi. These figures are consistent with assumptions made by this report
based on earlier Borrower submissions, verified in the field. The Borrower has also now reported that
irrigation potential created up to March 1977 [sic] was 233,885 ha. and that 153,049 ha. has been
notified during 1977 kharif, and 135,528 ha. during 1996-97 rabi. These figures are not consistent
with the Borrower's earlier submission of accomplishment under Stage I Phase II, nor, with the
Mission's observations three months after project closing.
7  The Borrower has reported in May 1998 that farmers have shaped 37,270 ha. at their own initiative
without institutional finance. This figure is plausible only if extremely rudimentary land-shaping is
counted. The borrower now claims that 24,176 ha. have been shaped using institutional credit (cf. the
8,820 ha. reported to the mission in September 1997 and verified at that time). Since the institutional
credit program for land shaping has defunct since 1992, this claim is inexplicable.
76



Appendix 4
Page 3 of 26
switching from crops for which the system was designed to waterlogging- and salt-
tolerant rice, and finally, abandonment of farmland.  Estimates of the agricultural
consequences of these irrigation imperfections are given below.
Agricultural Results
The mission estimated farming results first in areas where farmland is shaped or
leveled (or doesn't need to be) and where drainage has been provided (or doesn't need to
be). Estimates for different soil types, for wealthier and poorer farmers, and for farms
near and far from roads were weighted and averaged to arrive at an average cropping
pattern and average crop budgets at full development. The speed with which farmers
change their cropping patterns and other practices after receiving irrigation were
estimated by observing the Phase I aLnd the "pre-Bank" irrigated areas and comparing
them to what is happening in the Phase II areas. On this basis, the mission constructed
the agricultural results on an average hectare that was leveling and properly drained.
Then the reduced results where land shaping and FDs are absent were estimated. The
original results were revised to account for the effects of these defects on the areas which
suffer from them. The results are summarized below.
Under rainfed conditions, in kharif, the main rainy season, typically 37% of the
land would be farmed, more in red-soil zones, much less in heavier black-soil zones
where the extremely low infiltration capacity makes it difficult even to get on the field in
kharif. Pulses (mainly chickpea) and oilseeds (groundnut and sunflower) take up one
third of the area each and grains (mainly millet) most of the rest. In rabi, the winter after
the rains, half of the area is cropped (more in black-soil zones). Grains (almost entirely
sorghum and a little wheat, which is al the extreme warm end of its range) take up 3/4 of
this area. Cotton, on 7% of the area, spans both seasons; under rainfed conditions, cotton
growing is a low-input, low-output proposition.
The 1989 appraisal predicted that farmers, seeing what their Phase I neighbors
had done, would shift to the new irrigated cropping pattern in two years, taking much
longer, however, to get proficient at irrigated farming. It was expected that they would
reach 90% of their full-development yields 10 years after getting irrigation; all of them by
year 15. In fact, farmers are taking longer to adjust their cropping patterns, but are
mastering irrigated-farming techniques more quickly than predicted.  The typical
transition to the new cropping pattern takes four years, the attainment of full-development
yields takes 12.
Once the transition has been made, 80% of the area is cropped in kharif and 2/3 in
rabi, plus 8% of the land devoted to bi-seasonal cotton. Kharif is dominated by oilseeds
(over half the area) and grains with pulses much reduced.  Oilseeds are even more
dominant in rabi with 61% of the area. Small areas continue to be cropped in rabi
without irrigation, using the residual moisture of the black soils. The main cropping
changes from appraisal estimates is that the oilseed expansion is even more marked than
77



Appendix 4
Page 4 of 26
expected, as is the decline of pulses. Because grain production has not expanded as
rapidly as expected, neither has fodder production. While chili production is expanding
as expected, there is a little less shift to other vegetables than anticipated.
Oilseeds account for 54% of land use. They are popular because they give quite high
returns with relatively little risk, either because of crop failures or of the need to spend
heavily on inputs and additional labor. Kharif hybrid sorghum has not caught on as
expected, probably because the first canal water is being released too late for optimal
farming. This has also discouraged expansion of cotton. As expected, pulses and
safflower, which are less responsive to irrigation, have declined in importance (though
not in absolute terms because everything grows better). There has been a modest
expansion of high-value, high-risk crops like chilis, which must be sold in far-away
Dharwad, onions, and other vegetables. Chilis and cotton, which also involve price risk,
tend to be favored by the better-off farmers; sunflower by the more risk-adverse. Overall,
cropping intensity has risen from 92% to 160% (of which 154% is irrigated).
The dramatic change is not in cropping pattern but in results. The increased
dependability of irrigation has made it worthwhile for farmers to invest more in seed,
fertilizer, manure and pesticides, in tillage and weeding, and to provide more labor --
their own and hired -- all with much improved results. Irrigated fields of hybrid sorghum
and cotton are strikingly different from their rainfed predecessors. Irrigated farmers are
getting yields of two to three tons per hectare for oilseeds and grains, versus half a ton or
a little more without irrigation. These yields do not differ greatly from appraisal
projections. Net of all the new expenses additional labor, improved seed, fertilizers, and
pesticides, half of the farmers' incremental gain comes from yield increases. Half comes
from increasing the area cropped and shifting to higher-value crops.
Table A- 1 shows shifts in cropping pattern. Tables A-2 to A-16 show typical
inputs and outputs for the major and some minor crops. Minor crops like chilis and other
vegetables are highly profitable, though risky, and are important beyond their place in the
cropping pattern. Table A- 17 summarizes the yields.
Expansion in cotton and chili production may be straining marketing
arrangements and affecting farm-gate prices, but generally the agricultural expansion
seems to be proceeding smoothly. Whether due to the large increase in farming demand
for labor or demand from project works, wage rates are somewhat higher in the command
area than in surrounding regions. There is in-migration of farm labor and tenant-
operators from Andhra, especially where waterlogging dictates rice cultivation, but little
settlement of PAFs displaced by the projects reservoirs.
But most of the Phase II command is getting deficient irrigation and will continue
to do so for an indeterminate period, since GOK now has no plans to remedy the defects
in land leveling and drainage. It is difficult to quantify these problems. System
impairment due to absence of land shaping and drains comes in all degrees of severity.
78



Appendix 4
Page 5 of 26
Waterlogging and salinity stem not from absence of field drains alone but also from
failures of canal system operation, of water charge collection, and of major drain
construction.
Suppose that 22% of the command is flat enough not to need land shaping,
another 8% has been leveled, and thLat on another 15% land leveling can and will be
managed by farmers with a bullock pair and/or is not a critical problem. Then it is on the
other 55% that farmers are getting deficient irrigation for want of land leveling.
The area affected by waterlogging and salinity is even more difficult to estimate.
It is not (yet) a problem on the 16% of the Phase II command that was supposed to get
FDs but didn't (though ID engineers report drainage problems on 23% of SBC,
Distributary 5!). The Master Drainage Plan reports actual waterlogging (water table less
than 2M) with salinity on only 0.4% of the Phase I area but probable developing
problems on 5%. The Indo-Dutch drainage team estimates the waterlogging-effected part
of Phase I at perhaps 8%. Both sources agree that problems develop only after a few
years of improper irrigation.
Therefore, irrigation in Phase II can be divided into three areas. The first -- 45%
of the area at the start -- gets regular irrigation. The second -- 55% at the start -- gets
defective irrigation due to lack of land shaping and achieves only 60% of the agricultural
gains made by those with full irrigation. Thirdly, starting in the fifth year after receiving
irrigation, the 16% of the command that requires FDs but didn't get them constitutes a
third area that suffers a 4%/year decline in its benefits from  irrigation.  These
conservative assumptions about the agricultural effects of defective irrigation may
seriously understate the gravity of the problem, but they are an attempt to recognize it.
The effect of these assumptions is summarized as follows:
Year    after Proper Irrigation Areat Hurt by Absence of Hurt by Absence of
start irrigation                 _  Land Leveling        Drains
% area  % yield loss  % area  % yield loss  % area  % yield loss
1-4        45          0         55         40         0          0
5          38         0         46         40         16         5
6          38         0         46         40         16         10
7          38         0         46         40         16         15
8          38         0         46         40         16        20
23         38          0         46         40         16        95
24ff        38         0         46         40         16        100
On the assumptions set out above, the mission has calculated the project's
agricultural benefits. All costs and benefits have been taken into account, at prevailing
prices for financial analysis and at the social opportunity cost for economic analysis.
Items for which farmers do not actually pay, such as their own family labor, work of their
79



Appendix 4
Page 6 of 26
own bullocks, and seed saved from their own harvest, are counted at their purchase
equivalent. Farmers have the option of hiring out their labor and bullocks and of selling
the produce they save for seed; in the project area, some exercise these options.
The project's agricultural results would exceed appraisal expectations but for the
failure to reach irrigated area targets and failure to complete most of the land shaping and
field drains. Undoubtedly results would be better yet if the irrigation system were
operated in a regular manner according to the warabandi mode and if the system were
maintained adequately. Still, a sub-marginal agricultural area in which families could
support themselves many years only by emigrating for casual work is being turned into a
rich agricultural area.
Farmers whose irrigation is not defective are cloing better than anticipated at
appraisal. Versus a return, net of all inputs including family labor, per average hectare of
Rs 743 before the project (which was expected to grow slowly to Rs 1273/ha at full
development without the project as a result of secular trends), the farmer whose irrigation
is not defective is expected to net Rs 12,205/ha.
The mission estimates that farmers who need land shaping and don't have it will,
on average, still net Rs 7323/ha at full development, almost six times what they would be
netting without it. Farmers who need drainage but don't get it would notice little effect at
first. However, their benefits and, finally, their ability to farm their land at all would
disappear unless the situation were remedied by measures which would become
increasingly expensive over time. These estimated benefit-reductions are averages;
actually, individual farmers would experience much greater or lesser effects.
Farmers, who pay little or nothing for irrigation water or land shaping, obviously
benefit greatly from the introduction. It is easy to be complacent about the system's
defects when the average farmer needing and lacking land shaping nets six times what he
would without the project. Even if he has an average drainage problem as well, he would
be doing better than without irrigation for two decades.
The seriousness of delays in completing the system and of its imperfections,
become apparent when Karnataka's costs are compared with the agricultural benefits.'8
18   The project also has power benefits, and costs. Turbine generators are being installed at Almatti and
Narayanpur Damns and low-head hydro plants have been or are being built where there are significant
drops in major canals. The mission asked for but did not receive estimated of the costs and benefits
of these installations. At appraisal, the low-head plants were not planned, while estimates for the dam
hydro-electric installations were not available. It is probable that the low-head installations are
economically marginal and financially viable only so long as the power supply in the public grid is
highly unreliable, a condition that seems likely to persist for quite a while. The dam powerhouses
may be a different proposition. However, the heads are not high; power cannot be furnished year
around because the dams will be operated primarily for irrigation. Therefore, even given the very
high willingness to pay for reliable electric power in India, while the impact of these installations on
total project benefits is unknown, it is probably positive but not significant.
80



Appendix 4
Page 7 of 26
To give an idea, in financial terms at full development, net incremental agricultural
benefits to the 148,000 ha command would be about Rs 1800 million (US$50 million)
per year. The estimated three-year cdelay in completing main canals and FICs, in full-
development terms, will cost Rs 665 million ($18 million), Rs 360 million ($10 million)
and a small amount for the third year.
More serious still are the defects for which no remedies are currently planned.
By mission estimate, at full development, not leveling and shaping land that needs it costs
about Rs 400 million (US$11 million) per year. The cost of not installing drainage will
not be significant in the Phase II area for a few years, but it will grow to about Rs 290
million ($8 million) per year by the 2020s. More ominously, it is a condition that gets
more costly to fix with the passage of itime.
As the economic analysis annex (Annex 4) shows, these delays in and omissions
from the irrigation system have a devastating effect on the project's overall returns.
Other Services to Farmers
While irrigation is by far the most valuable service the project provides to
farmers, it included a variety of other services and provisions intended to stimulate farm
production and to facilitate the major shift from rainfed to irrigated farmning. CADA was
slated to provide most of these: agricultural extension for the transition, assistance in
forming water-users' associations, provision of storage to cooperatives, in land shaping
and getting credit for land shaping, applied agricultural research, and training. Other
departments were slated to provide services too: Forest Department was to concentrate its
resources on helping farmers start fuelwood farms in the command; Dry Land
Development Boards were to accelerate their activities in the Krishna catchment; Health
Department was to expand its anti-malaria activities to cope with the problem of malaria,
unintentionally re-introduced into the area during Phase I construction of Narayanpur
Dam.
Many of these services failed to materialize; others were less than expected.
CADA services in particular seem to have declined precipitously during and after 1992.
CADA was initially quite active, organizing melas to prepare farmers for
irrigation, assisting them in land leveling, organizing WUAs, etc. Forty-nine WUAs
were formed in 1990 and 1991, one in 1992, and none thereafter. These WUAs covered
only 23,162 ha of the command. More serious is the fact that these WUAs are moribund.
Indeed, the WUAs can have no role in operating the system because ID is not operating it
but allowing the canals to flow throughout the irrigation system. WUAs appear not to
have been active in repairing FICs.
CADA's 4th land-leveling firnance scheme, April 1990 to December 1992,
involved 4,999 farmers and 11,016 ha, about 80% from the Phase II area. This area was
81



Appendix 4
Page 8 of 26
less than projections and contributed to, rather than reducing, the land-leveling backlog.
The 4th scheme was defective in other ways too: CADA managed to have only 0.75% of
the loans converted into regular bank loans to farmers and rediscounted by NABARD,
thus saddling the Special Loan Account with a large debt, less than 2% of which CADA
has been able to collect from farmers. Government of Karnataka failed to issue its
guarantee for these debts until August 1997. Therefore, from 1992, land shaping virtually
stopped too.
CADA's farm extension was meant to be transitional. Extension responsibilities
for the Phase I area have been transferred back to the regular service of the Agriculture
Department (AD). At appraisal and thereafter, AD was implementing T&V-style
extension with IDA assistance, but this proved too costly and rigidly top-down and was
curtailed. As a result, UKP farmers are getting modest extension support indeed, either
from CADA's Agricultural Wing or from the Agriculture Department's regular extension
service. CADA's agricultural staff to assist new areas getting irrigation is far below
targets and unequal to the demands placed on it. Except for about 26 agricultural
assistants of low technical level, the service only has two assistant agricultural officers
and the Land Development Officer (Agriculture), a professor on secondment from the
Dharwad Agricultural University. The current budget for extension and agricultural
demonstrations is Rs I million (US$28,000), just one percent of CADA's total. What the
Agricultural Wing does with this allocation is impressive, but it is very far from adequate.
The same is true of CADA's farmer-training and of its agricultural research at
Bheemarayangudi. Satellite facilities at Hunasigi did not materialize. What research
goes on is thanks to the presence of five scientists from Dharwad Agricultural University
whose presence at Bheemarayanagudi is financed by the Indo-Dutch Network
Operational Research Project on Drainage and Water Management for Salinity Control in
Canal Commands. This team is experimenting at Islampur, one of Phase I's worst
waterlogging- and salt-affected areas, with drainage arrangements to relieve the problem.
They have shown that areas that had been abandoned can be brought back into
production, albeit at great expense; because the restored lands are still somewhat salty,
and because the irrigation system still over-waters them, rice and bananas are grown on
these lands.
CADA's Land Development Training Centre at Bheemarayanagudi has trained 2-
3,000 farmers and about 40 extension workers each year since 1992. From 29 to 56 small
courses are given per year. Many are repeats; there are about 8 different courses given.
This is a remarkable accomplishment, given the staff involved (two of the above-
mentioned CADA staff and the Dharwad Indo-Dutch staff in their spare time) and the
operating budget, which has averaged Rs 40,000 (US$1,000) per year. Perforce, the
training quality suffers.
The same conclusions apply to the Dharwad Water and Land Management
Institute (WALMI), an institution meant to provide irrigation training state-wide but partly
82



Appendix 4
Page 9 of 26
financed under this project. Bank finamce of Rs. 169.9 million (US$4.7 million) helped
complete the campus which USAID fiSnance had begun. While there have been some
problems with construction quality, particularly with the finishing of the buildings,
WALMI's significant problem is the apparent lack of high-level support for its program.
The rapid turnover of directors has been notorious. Most staff positions are unfilled.
Budgetary support is manifestly inadequate. The present director soldiers on by using
retirees as consultants to teach but he is handicapped by an impossibly cumbersome
decision-making board.  Under the circumstances, it is remarkable that WALMI
maintains the training program it does, However, unless things change, there can be no
question of producing quality training material or of meeting the objectives for which
WALMI was launched.
While the Forestry Department and the district-wise Dry Land Development
Boards have done commendable work. in the project area, there is no evidence of the
expansion and/or concentration in the project area cited in project design. Regarding the
anti-malaria unit, there have been troubles (as with other government departments in the
UKP area) getting the operation fully staffed. There is now an active program of
detection, prevention, remediation and cure and the death rate from malaria appears to be
low. However, according to the units records, the disease continues to spread.
83



Appendix 4~
Page 10 of 26
___                ~~~~~~Upper Krishna II Projoct                                                                            Table Al_ __
Implementation Completion Rep                   __          ---1TbeA
___    ___      ~~~Cropping Pattern &Attribution_of Increases in NetA Agiultural ValuI~-    .-
I FINANCIAL
Crop     Incremental Value/unit area  Weight in Cropping Pattern  Net Incremental Value/Model Full-developm4nt ha         --
______ (Fwith-F/without)<Rs>               --<Rs>                       -
Ksorghum _____         2035            0.00625                         12.7           ____
kbajra                 4389              0.1125    __ _493.8                    _ _    _ _ _     _ _ _      _  _   _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _     _ _ _
ktur -               4065.5    __ __ _   0.062~5    _ _ _  _ _ _      254.1  _ _      _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  _ _ _     _ _ _ _
kgrdnt-               7999.5 ____        0. 112~5          ____       899.9
ksunfl  __      ~~53-76         0--. 15625                       840.0
rsorgh   -2236                       - 0.125 ___    __                279.5. 
rwheat             -     2 8 _ _ _  _   00 6 5  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _      20.6                              _ _  _ __                     _ _  _    _ _ _
rs-affi- ~   ~         1056 ____ 0085____1___ L                        19.8 ____j7
rsiunfl-           -   7760.125                             __        909-.5-               -
00   TpuIS-        -        5217              ___0125       -- 65.21
cotton--60035&                             0.05     -        O--      302~                          - 
Total  Iprovemnt due to yield_increase/ha   0IRs4318      4   _____                 __    ___          ~                           __
___Improvement due to d cropping patftern    6597        6 
'Ttlimprovement/model ha
Yr afer g-e-ttingihrrigati6n  -      i                 2        3         4        5   _    6         7         8         9        10.      11~    12
net value/ha without     743       787      831      875       920       964     1008      1052      1096~  1141        11851    1229~  12-73
eclar increment                           44        44       44        44 -     44        44       44        44        44       44        441      44
cumulative secular increment                          88      1331      177      221       265      309       353       398      442       4861     530
incr net valuetha due to yield cha ge      561      1123     16841    2245      2807 __3368        3929      4016     4102      4189      4275     4318
incr net value/ha due to area cha  ge     1649     32981    4948~    6597       6597      6597     6597,    6597      6597,    6597       6597 __6597
To-tal net incr-emental value/ha  I  0    2211      C442 F    6632     88421-9404         9965    1-052-61     01,    1-069961   f7-8-51 --1-08-72    195



Appendix 4
Page 11 of 26
______|INIA-UpperKrishaIrigatinIIrojet|INDIA - Upper Krishna Irrigation  Project                                                                 Table A.2
Implementation Completion Repoft--
Crop Budgets per Average Hectare le
KharifJowar                 -I  - - - - !
B 0   0 ' ;  0X_    a3efore Project  '  -Future Without Project -            i-uture With Project
Unit       <Q>   <Fin. PricexEc. Price><Fin. Value<Econ. Val  <Q>   <Fin. Value<Econ. Vat  <Q>   <Fin. Price!Ec. Price<Fin. Value<Econ. Value>
<Rs>     <Rs>      <Rs>      <Rs>  -                                         <R>       <Rs>      <Rs>    <Rs>
Outputs              ---       _ _ J            { ______ { _                 t          _               _                                         i
Product              kg            600      5.45     6.47      3270     3882       700      3815     4529      2800      3.65      6.47 _  10220    18116
By product           kg            775       0.5      0.45      388      349       900       450      405      3800      0.35     0.315     1330      1197
Gross Retum                                     }              3658      4231-    4265                  34       __       4        9 _____  11550    19313
Inputs          _            L _                             _____ .                        ___ |
Land Preparation bullock pair days  10        0        90      1000      900        10      1000      900        141      100        90t    1400      1260
Seed                 kg              8        12       15         6       120        8        96      120         8        25        35      20        20
Manures             MT               2,     300       270       600      540i        2,      600      540         3       300;      270      900       810i
Fertilizers                   _____                                                            01                                                        0
N                 kg,N20            ol__  0  9.5    17.9310                     0   Oi  o I             0       100        9.5    17.93      9501    17931
P             1  kg,P205 02                  18    12.37         0         0i        0                  0        75       18     12.37      1350i     928
K                 kg,K02            0       6.5    1072100. 0                        0        0   . 0            40,      6.5    10.72       260       429
Pesticides           ha              0      200       180 - 0              0         0;        0        0         1       200:      180,     200       180
Irrigation           ha              0       20       dna         0                  0         0         .        1        20       dna       20
ao    Labor: hired       man day          26        32      28.8   _  832       749        26      832       749        45.       37      33.3     1665      1499
U'   Retums to Family Labor & Enterprise                 ,           1130      1922 -- -.    1737           2625                        _          4605  12135'
________       ma_ay___ _   _                                .   _.  _______  -_- .    ..............        ___     ___   . -__                       t----_
Labor: family    _manday                     3 261   28.8|     832|      7491       26       832      749        451       371     33.3     16651    1499
Net Retum       __.___|                                         298|    1173                 905o    18761                                   29401   10636



Appendix 4
Page 12 of 26
L______I__             NDIA - Upper Krishna Irrigation il Project         _                   _ I    _ L_    I               Table A3
_hf _           -  .    -     __    jplementationCompletionRepoit       j                  --,  _  .  _-    _     -.. _ _ .. _. _ _e_
KarBara    ,CropBudgets per Average Hectae                                '
Before Project  I__    -                      Future Without Proje       Future With Project                       -
Uni        <Q>   <Fin. Price<Ec. Pce    Vau<Econ. Val  <Q>   <Fin. Value<Econ. Vaf   Q;  -<Fin. PriceEc-  PiceSr. Value<Econ. Value>
<Rs>    <Rs>    cRs>    <Rs>                  <Rs>    <Rs>                <Rs>    <Rs>    <Rs>    <Rs>
outputs__           _  _  _   _  _     _  _  _
Product             kg           575[       4      4.95     2300     2846      6        2600     32181   2800        3.5     4.95     9800    13860
By product          kg           850       0.3     0.27      255      230      975       293      263     4200       0.6     0.54     2520     2268
Gross Retum                                                 2555      3076    _-        2893     3481 _.__                            12320    16128 
Inputs                               j        l_                                   ____
Land Preparation bullock pair days  10   1i00o       90     1000!     900;       10     1000      900       14      100        90     1400     1260
Seed   kg   4:  20'   38.25  80   153         4       80!    153         4        20    38.25       80       153
Manures            MT              1      300       270      300      270        1       300      270        3      300       270      900      810
Fertilizers
N                kg,N20    _       0      9.5    17.93[       i- 0                            __ 0      100i     9.51    17.93     9501    1793-!
___________      kg P205           0       18    12.371       0        0         ol 0     o 0              25        18|   12.37     10801      742.
K                kg,K02            0      6.5    10 72        0:       0'       0'                        25i      6.5'   10.721     163!      268:
Pesticides_                                 ........_L__..... ._, _. I - ----- _oK               -_ .- _-.__ . _. _-..  _ .,_ ... __.......__. ... _ _  _. .
Pesticides    >     ha _           0.     200       180        0        0        0        0         0        1      200       180-200           180
Irrigation          ha             0'      20      dna         0                 0        0 !                1       20      dna        20
Labor: hired     man day          22       32      28.8      704      634       22      704       634       41       37      33.3    1517      1365
Retumsto Family Labor&Enterprise     ,                       471      1119               809,    1524                                 6011      9557
co     Labor family      man day                   32     28.8      7041    634-        22      704       34j      41 -             3331      17      1232
ON    NRetur                               1                       -233        6|    105                 891                                 15|94    8324i



Appendix 4
Page 13 of 26
_________________________INDIA  - Upper Krishna  Irrigation  II Project4       11_            _ _ _          F _ _ _ I_ _ _
____  __           __      I~~~~mplementation Completion RepoO                  !:-                          ~Table A4
_____              _    ~~~~~~Crop Buidgets perAvrgHet____                    .i. 
wharif -Maiz-
--- Before Project   iFutureWfthoutProject                                 FutureWith Project   -
U    <0>   <Fin. PricexEc. Price-<Fin. Value<Econ. Val  <0>   <Fin. Valuq9<Econ. Val  <Q>  <Fin. PricexEc. Price:KFin. Valud<Econ. Value>
___________ _________ ______ <Rs>    <Rs>    <Rs>  .<Rs>   ___            <Rs>    <Ra                 <Rs>    <Rs>    <Rs>    <Rs>
Product             kg      _______________  -___1                                                      3500         6  ~6.54~  21000    22890  ___
By product          kg      _____________ 1                                                             4700       0.4  ~0.072   -1880        338  ___
Inputs Return   I ____                                                            .1:22880    23228
Land Preparation bulckpw as                                                                                         0        90g     70.     13
Seed                kg                                                                                      15     30        33      450      4905
manures            MT                                                                     -3:                     300      270      .900i    810
FertilizersmL_                 _ ___                                                          _  _                                       
N                kg,N20   I   _ _ _                     ___   I_ _ _ _   _ _ __ _                      1501        9.5    1.3      1425       69
P               kg,P205            r                                                                    75I         8      27      15        928.
K       -  ~~~kg,K02                                                                              -  0         .-    1.2        20   -429
Pesticides         ha                                                                                      2:    200  -180    -4007           360
Irfigation         ha                                                                             *        1        20      dna       20~
Labor. ired      man day                                          -   ..-   -                              0 -3. 3.3   i850                  1665
_J    Returns to Family Labor & Enterpris__                                                                                      __        42      14322~
Labor family   I_ma_da__3__3_3_    1850                                                                                                      12321
Netor Retum      mndy,              I-                                                    L37                              3.3     12675    130901



Appendix 4
Page 14 of 26
_ ___-            _      _ _ I I INDIA - Upper Krishna Irrigation II Project   _____-         _   1
-- - -  -__ ImplementaUon Completion Report       _      t              _              ___                         Table A5
____            -  ~  ~         -    --|----  -    Crop Budgets perAverage Hectare    -| -_    --                                                      --
~~~~~~~- ~   ~         ____ Tur                             -- ----- -- ! ------- ----------.  -- -  -t____--------~---   ------   ----- ___  _
KharlIfTur --_ _ __ __ _
Before & Future Without Project                         '                   Future With Project
Unit       cQ>   <Fin. PricexEc. Price><Fin. Value<Econ. Vai                           <Q>   <Fin. PricexEc. Pricex<Fin. Value<Econ. Value>
<Rs>     <Rs>     <Rs>      <Rs>   _Rs                                                Rs_ __  cRR>  <Rs>  <Rs>
Oulpt                                          _                   __
Product             kg            500       12.5    11.25     6250     5625             . .                  1000       12.5    11.25    12500    11250
By product           kg           500       0.4      0.36      200      180                  _               1000       0.4      0.36      400       360
Gross Retum                                               _   6450      5805                          _ ___ .                             12900    11610
Inputs          _           .             _    _._                           _ ---r------      ____ ______                   ____                        _
Land Preparation bullockpairdays   10       1001      90      1000      900                                    14       100        90     1400      1260
Seed                 kg            18        35      31.5      630      567                                    18        35      31.5      630       567
Manures     _       MT              2       300      270       600      540,                                    2;      300 ___ 270        600       540
Ferlilizers                                            -r    - - -  -                    -
N                 kg,N20            0l      9.5    17.931                0      --                             251      9.5    17.93      238       448
P                kg,P205            0!      18    12.371       01 ,,   0..+i!                                 5-       18    12.37:      9001      619'
K                 kg,K02            0       6.5I   10.72        0         0_ 0                                          6.5    10.72        0         0
Pesticides  --      ha        -     1       200:     180   200          180                                             2 2  2   180       400       360
Imrigation          ha            -0         15      dna         0                                              1        15      dna        15
Labor: hired      man day         22.5       32     28.8,     720       648                                    28        37      33.3     1036      932
Retums to Family Labor & Enterprise                           33001    29701              _              I                                7682,    6884I
coI                          .                            II                                                       .I0                          
w     Labor family       man day   |    22.51      32      28.8      7201      9221      -           I-               281      37j    33.3!    10361       9321
Net Return     !                                              2580!    2048!           __I-                                               6646'    5951



Appendix 4
Page 15 of 26
.. _______...... _              IQNDIA - Upper Krishna Irrigation II Project j |
. _rImplementation Completion Report                _                                                    TableA6
==arf =_oundnut          ,      _   _ 1Crop Budgets per Average Heda e                    - "-    -
harH Groundnut!                               ,                                        __t_
-  -      -           , -   Before Project                            Future Without Projec        Future With Project
Unit i     <>   <Fin. Price-Ec. Pnce-Fin. Value<Econ. Val  <Q>   <Fin. Value<Econ. Val  <Q>   <Fin. PricexEc. Pricei<Fin. Value<Econ. Value>
_____________ ______  <Rs>  <Rs>     <Rs>     <Rs>                <Rs>     <Rs>               <Rs>      <Rs>      <Rs>     <Rs>
Outputs                                                                   _ _                  _       ____
Product              kg           600      11.5    11.48     6900      6888       650     7475      7462     1800      11.5    11.48    20700    20664
By product           kg           900       0.6      0.54      5401     486       9751     585       527     2700       06       054        1620    1458
Gross Retumr                                                  7440      7374               8060     7999                                 . 22320    22122
Inputs    _                            _-  _                                         T         i
Land Preparationbullockpairdays    14       100       90      1400     1260        14     1400      1260       20       100       90      2000      1800
Seed                 kg           125        30       22      3750.    2750.      125     - 3750    2750z 10             30.22            4500      3300
Manures             MT              1       300      270       300      270         2      600       540        5       300      270      i500      1350
Fertilizers   '                                                        ---T      -                                                            - -      - -     --   -
N             )   kg,N20            51      9.5'    17.93      48       _o         5h      48        901       25       9.5    17.931      238      448
P  __ _          kg,P205           12       18|  12.3371      216       1481      12'     216       1481       751             12.371    1350       928
K __              kg,K02  _         0      6.5    10.72 '       0-       0             0           0 0       25       6.5    10.72       163      268
_ __ _ _ _ . _ _ ._ _ _ _ ....... _ _ _ . _ _ _ _ . _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . . . . _ _ ..Pesticides  ha  ;  0  200  180  0  0  0  0,  0  2  200  180  400  360
co     Imgation             ha-  0                   2 - 4   dna         0                  0        0                  1                dna
vo      Labor hired       man day          25        32     28.8       800      720        25      800       720,      50        37      33.3     1850      1665
Retums to Family Labor& Eterpri$e_                             927'    21361               1247     2481                    ____-  _      10296!   12003
_________________         ~~~~~2511         28.81     8001-7201           2_5________
Labor family   I   man day                   32     28.8      800       720        25'     800       720                 37      33.31    1850'    1665_
Net Retum                                      j               127      1416,              447      1761          ,                        8446    10338



Appendix 4
Page 16 of 26
IINDIA- Upper Kishna irrigation II Projed    I_                                                      Tl A7
__   ___=___.    l I          lmplmentaton Com_letion Repo_                                                                        !Table A7
Crop Budgets perAverage Ict                         -.         t     
KharlSunflow       _          _                               _==t---                           __i -------------- -- -------- _--
-  Before Project                             Future Without Project      Future vVth Project
Unit        0>Q  <Fin. PricexEc. Price'<Fin. Valud<Econ. Vat  <Q>   <Fin. Value<Econ. vat  <Q>  '<Fin Pncex Ec. PriceFin. Vailue<Econ. Value>
Out,outs                                <Rs>    <Rs>      <Rs>  - <Rs>                <RRs>_  --<Rs>             <Rs>      <Rs>     <Rs>     <Rs>
Product             kg           550       9.5      9.5    5225 _  5225        700     6650      6650     1800       9.5      9.5   17100    17100
By product          kg                                                   I        1-                                               _
Gross Retum                                                 5225     5225          |    6650     6650                       =        17100    17100
Inputs  __-_                       _I                                                     _
Land Preparation bullock pairdays  14     100       90      1400     1 i260     14      1400     1260       18      100       90      1800!    1620
Seed                kg            13       40       36       520      468       13      520      468        13      100       90      1300     1170
Manures            MT              4      300,     270      1200.    1080,       4      1200,    1080,       4      300      270:    1200;    1080
Fertilizers  |                                                          0                   _                        1      1-23      1         92t8
N                kg,N20            0      9.5    17.93        0        0         0 _ _        0   Of       601      9.5    17.93      570      1076
P                kg,P205           0       18_   12.37.       01       0,       o0l       0        ol      751       181   12.37     1350       928
K                kg.KO2            0!     6.5    10.72                 0         00       0;       0:      60.      6.5    10.72      390      643
Pesticides          ha             0      200      180         0'       0        0        0 - .01            1.     200      180       200      180
ID    Irrigation          ha              0       24      dna        0                  0        0                  1       24      dna       24
0     Labor.hired  _    manday           25'      32     28.8      8001     720        25  _  800       720       40        37      33.3    1480      1332
Retums to Family Labor&Enterpri    I_         |             1305_ 1697|                 2730     3122|                                8786
Labor family     manday           25       321    28.8       800      7201 _     5      800       7201      40-      37      33.3     1480     1332
Net Return                  F                 - 1505                  9771         I   1930      24021 _          _              |   73061    7739!



Appendix 4
Page 17 of 26
___    _+ _   __  _ <         __INDIA - Upper Krishna Irrigabon II Projct    _          L _                                               ___
l.mplementation Completion Repot                                     a- Tble A8
_ _.__ _   > .   _   ;   _ _.  Crop Budgets per Average Hecta e                                            I---                               -_
___V_                                                 _    Ij,_=            -40 -    -_--     - ----0 
kharlf Vegetables
'Before Proje      t                          Future Without Project       Future With Project
Unit       <0>   <Fin. Price5<Ec.IPnce.nFin. value<Econ.Vat  <Q>   <Fin. Value<Econ. Val  <Q>   <Fin. PricecEc. Price-Fin. ValueEconValue>
<Rs>     <Rs>      cRs>     <Rs>            . <Rs>       <Rs>            1  <Rs>     <Rs>      <Rs>      <Rs>
outputs _       
Product              kg           500        30       27    15000    13500        600    18000    16200       1400       30      271   420001   37800,
By product           kg                                                                    _    _         _
Gross Retum                                                  15000    13500               18000    16200                                  420001   37800
Inputs                   ___ _
Land Preparation bullock pairdays  18       1001      90      1800     1620        18     1800      1620        25      100        90     2500      2250
Seed                 kg             5       100      250       500     1250         5       500     1250 )              100       250      5n0      1250
Manures             MT              4       300      270      1200     1080         4      1200,    1080         6      300       270     1800      1620
Fertilkers    I             r                                        -                        1I -                                                      i
N             E kg=,N20   j        251      9.5    17.931     2381      4481      25       238      4481      100       9.5    17.93       950      1793
P             I  kg,P205           10i      18    12.371      180.      1241      10       180      124        75        18|   12.371    13501       928
= = ____kg,K02                      0       6.51   10.72r       0         0        0         0        0        75       6.5    10.72       488'      804
Pesticides          ha              1       200      180       200      180         1      200       180         3      200       180      600       540
Irrigation          ha              0        40      dna         0                  0         0                  1       40       dna       40
Labor hired       man day         62.5       32   _28.8_   2000        1800      62.5    2000       1800        82       37      33.3     3034      2731
Retumsto Famiy Labor & Enterpri88 I                      -     8- 3i - 69981__1_ 831    9698                            _=___ ____28
Labor family      manday   !    62.51        32i    28.8    20001    1800,       62.5     2000      1800_       82  -    371    33        3034-    2731
Net Retum                    .                           1    68831    5t981               98831    7898!                             j 27051   23154 



Appendix 4
Page 18 of 26
____       +          _  SINDIA - Upper Krishna il rirgation Project  _                       --__                               ___               __
L-          t          |_  I   fImplementation Completion Report                                                                T - :able A9
_-_ _    _              f Ocrop Budgets per AverageHectae                                            - 1 _---
Before Project                                 Future Without Project       Future With Project
Unit       <Q>  i <Fin. Pdce Ec. Price <Fin. Value<Econ. Vat  <Q>  ,<Fin. Value Econ. Val  <Q>   <Fin. Price Ec. PricexFin. Value<Econ. Value>
<Rs>     <Rs>     <Rs>      <Rs>      _         cRs>     cRs>               <Rs>     <Rs>      <Rs>     <Rs>  r
Outputs___
Product             kg            400        14    21.89      5600     8756       500     7000    10945      2000    -  14    21.89    28000    437801
By product          kg                                        5600_87 56       _- _ __ .
Gross Retu__                                                  500       8756m     _        7000    10945                                  28000    4  0 .___
Inputs
Land Preparation bullock pairdays  15       100       90      1500     1350        15     1500      1350       22       100        90     2200      1980
Seed                kg             15        30       39       450      585,       15      450,      585        8       350       315     2800     2520
Manures             MT              2       300      270       600      540'        2i     6001      5 ---- -           300 -    2701    15001    1350
Ferflizke rs  I                                                    __ I                                                                                 I    
kg,N20    ___0            9.5!   17.93        0                            0        0       150       9.5    17.93I    1425      2690'
__            kg.P205        =  0        18,   12.37  -    0          0         0        0         0       75        18    12.37      1350       928
K                 kg,K02            0       6.5    10.72        0         0        0 0                         79 75    6.5    10.72      488       804 
Pesticides          ha              2       200      180      400       360         2      400       360       20       200      180      4000     3600
Irrigation          ha              0       40       dna,                           0 _0                        1        40      dna        40
Labor hired    I   manday          37        321    28.8      1184     1066!       37     11841    1066        881       37      33.3    3256.    2930
wo     Retums to Family Labor & Enterp  -                            1466      4855!              2866-   7044           j10942    26978,
N)                                                    I  __ _                                         I                                 __'l     - r   
Labor family   I  man_day  |_      3         321    28.8 _   1184      1066      371    1184|    1066          881       37-   33.31    3256       2930'
Net Retum                                                   - 282:    3790                 16821    5979                                  7686    24048



Appendix4
Page 19 of 26
_____________       F _______ ~~~INDIA - Upper Krishna Irrigation 11 Project  --I      f                                               TalAOI
- -                    j~~~~~~Implernentation Completion Repo               -                                                    --
Rabi____ _                    ~~~~~~Crolp_Budgets per Average Hectae  j      I
[Before Project             -      '~~~~~~~~Future Without Projc  iF-uitre VVith Project 
Unit        <0>   <Fin. Price <Ec. Price><Fin. Value<Econ. Val  <0>   <Fin. VaI  Eo.Val  <Q>   <Fin. Price <Ec. Price6<Fin. Value<Econ. Value>
____ <Rs>  .<Rs>        <Rs>      <Rs>  ,<Rs>                 <Rs>               <Rs>      cRs>      <Rs>     <Rs>   __
Outputs                          _ _ _ _  _ _       _  _ _    _ _ _    _  _ _              _ _ _    _ _  _               _ _     _ _ _
Product               kg            700      5.45      6.47     3815     4529       800     4360      5176      3000      3.65     6.47    109501   194-10  ___
By product            kg            900       0.5      0.45   ~450        405      1000  _    0         5        00        .5     035         40      16       _
Gross Returnm_______    ___                                     4265      4934 ____          48660 5--~ 62-6 ______________                 123501   20670  ___
Inputs            - _  _ _  _            l -    -                                        ~   - - -_            _ _ _~~~~~~~
LadPrprtion rbull1ock p-air daiys  10   100        9       00        90         1       0&- 90               4        0         0       40       16
Land Prepma      I,.                                                            1 C 0  400'  00o   4900F U                     90       400      126
MaUre    _              T__           2       300 _    270       600   _502                   60       5406        3~   300,        270       9081
Fertilizers ___17.340 -                                                               2_     I-u90 
N       _           g,N20             0~   9.5          ~  0101903_                            0         0      1001      9.51   17.93       90       19
P  kg,P205           0        18'   12.37        ~~        ~~~ ~~            ~     ~ ~~~01  01  0  0  01  751-  181   12.371    13501  928   __
K   kg,K02      0       6.5    10.72         0        ~~       ~~        ~~~~~ ~~~         ~~~~~0  0  0 -    OF40  -65  10.72  260  49-
Pesigtioide           ha              0       200      180         0        0                            01               20          8 20              8
Irrigation  ha   0       20       dna        0                  ~~       ~~~ ~~~~                            ~~~~       ~~~~0  0  1  20  dna  20
LCabor:hired        man day_        32.5'      32      288      1040_   -936.    32.5.    1040         936        50       37      33.3      1850     1665
Returns to Family Labor & Enterprise,                 __        1529 i    2438  --           2124     3130                                   5170    132551
Labor: family  ~    man day ,                  32_    28_.8i    104       936       25      10d40      936        5         7      3.{        5        65
I 32.5;   - 32                                    325                                     6__6__5_         1
Net Return49m10                                                                              1084     2194                                   3320    11590F



Appendix 4
Page 20 of 26
_____INDIA - Upper Krishna Irrigation II Project                                                         Table All
[  ~         _ __ __              I                           _                                  _    _              __ 
i _______ l Implementation Completion Rep    ___ _                        - _ _
Rabi Wheat      t             i _       Crop Budgets per Average Hectae           ___ _   _                  _____ _I.-___                     F _
IBefore & Future Without Project LA  --- I   _                             Future Wth Project     ___                __ _
Unit        <Q>  !<Fin. Price <Ec. PncexFin. Value<Econ. Value>                        <Q>   <Fin. Price'<Ec. Price'<Fin. Value<Econ. Value>
<Rs>    <Rs>      <Rs>      <Rs>                                           <Rs>     <Rs>    <Rs>:  <Rs>
Outputs__             _ _  _    _ _ _    _ _  _     _ _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _    _  _I
Product             -kg             630       6.5      5.8    4095      36541                            -   2000        6.5       5.8   13000    11600
By product            kg      |    630        0.6     0.54      378      340                                  2000       0.6     0.54     1200      1080
Gross Retum            k                 _                     4473      3994                                                             14200    12680
Inputs           =____= 16
Land Preparation bullock pair days_ ___ 10   100.    90,    1000         900                                    16       00  _     90     1600      1440
Seed                  kg            100       20      9        2000      945                                   125       20,    9.45:    2500       11811
Manures              MT               1      300       270      300      270                                     3      300       270      900       810
Fertilizers            , _
N              1   kg,N20    ;  ---0-           g         ------------1 -------- -------------  -- -     -----0-        9.5    17.93       950     17931
P                  kg,P205           0        18    12.37                  0                         __ __ 75            18    12.37      1350      928
K                  kg,K02       _    0'      6.5    10.72:       0     _   0   -   -                           50       6.5    10.72       325      5361
Pesticides            ha              0   _200                                                                   1      200   __ 180'_    200        180
Irrigation            ha              0       22      dna         0                                                      22       dna       22
Labor: hired       manday            1 8      32      28.8      576      518                                    41       37      33.3    1517.5' 1        - -
Returns to Family Labor & Enterprise                            597      1361                                                              4836     4447
vD    Laborfannily   S  manday   , _   181          32.    28.8     _ 576:     5183__-     __                         44   ____ 33.3    1517              1365
N Net Retum          I                                                 21      8421         i                           I         I             3319t    3081 |



Appendix 
Page 21 of 26
___________  ________  _____INDIA - Upper Krishna Irrigation 11 Project____ --
RabiGram                      ~~~~~CropBudgetsperAverageHecta__-[.-.---f1
___  _     Befo~~re &Future Wihout  jetFiuture Wth Project                                                                              -
- .   -~~~~~Uit             <0>   <Fin. Pricei <Ec. Price>cFin. Valu&<Econ. Value>                       <Q>   <Fin. Price <Ec. Pricec<Fin. Value<Econ. Value>
<Rs>     <Rs>      <Rs>      <Rs>                <___.Rs>                              cR>       cS>       <Rs>
Product         {      kg      I     3501       12      10.8    4200       3780 ____________-                     10001       12      10.81   12000    10800  ___
Gross Return55                                                    4463     4016           -12750    11475 ___
[inputs8_    '-_                                                                                                          _    __                           _
Land Preparation ITbullock pair days  __       100i       90:     800       720                                     12       00oo              12001    1080-
Manures               MT                       300~     270.                  0,                                     2       300[     270;      600 __ 540,
Fertilizers                                       I_    _    _   _        _   _   _   _     _         _   _    ~     -              _   _   _   _      _   _   _   _
N              [   kg,N20              0'      9.5  1 .9                     oi          ____    __                 5       9.5    17.931      2381      448  ___
P   ______ [   kg,P205  --____  -   181.   12.37:  __~ ~~~~~~  0                        I       50        18     12.371     9001__ 6191
K                                             __K0   0 6.5'   10.72      - 00                                               6.5    10.72!i        0'        0 
Pesticides      ~~~ha   --       0       200       180                  0                                     - 1       O-       10,      200   -  180
I1riation              ha      -       0.       15       dna                                                         1        15       dna        15
LaborIiired         man ay  _         20        32_-_88           640       576                                     27        37      33.3      999:      899
Retmsto Family Labor & Enterprise'                                 853;    1480           ____;    __I6429!    6469!
%W      Labor. family   I manday                        3220    28.8      60        56-                _     ______27                 3       3.3899
Mi et Returnm                                                         2131      904'!        1 ______                                              5430:    55701 



Appendix4
Page 22 of 26
______             ~~~~~~~INDIA - Upper Krishna Irrgation II Project  I______   _______
implementato Copeto Rp ___                                 __                        ____________
- CrpBudgets per AeaeHca                                     7    7Z~?               I        K        I
Beoe PrjetFuture Without Projec                                           Future With Project    ____
unit        <Q>   <Fin. Pricei <EC. Price>-Fin. Value<Econ. Va1  <0>  :<Fin. Value<Econ. Val  <0>   <Fin. Pried <cEc. Price,~<Fin. Value<Econ. Value>
____   ______  ___ -~~~~  cRs>      <Rs>     <RS>      <Rs>               <RS>      <Rs>               <Rs>_    <Rs>      <Rs>      <Rs>
Product               kg            600        8.5      8.5     5100      5100      700      5950     5950      1400       8.5       8.5    119001   11900
By product            kg        _   _      _  _      _  _     _  _                         _  _                                  _  _      _  _               _  _
Gross Returnm                                                    5100     5100 ____          5950      5950 _ ______                        11900     190
Inputs   _ _ _ _-                                                                      _
Land Preparation  bullock pair days   1 0- 100          90 -     ooo       900       10      10001     900,       14'     100        901    14001    1260
See                  kg              1 0      20        1 8     200       180       10       20        800                208                20        10
'Manures              MT               2      300       270 _ 600         -540; - -   2       6600    _540__    3t        300.      270       900       810
Fertilizers
N        kg.N20            ~~~~~~~ ~~~~01  9.5    17.93  _ 0      0 ~    0                             6         .      17.93      5701    10761
P                  kgP205              0 18          12.371        0   - -            0                           5_       18     1.7       15         928,   __
K             k~~~~~~__Ig,K~?02  --     0 6_.5_  _10.72      0'        0        0         0        o6_    60         6.      10. 72     390'     643:_
Pesticides            ha               0      200      180              0             0         0 ~    0           1      200       180,      200'     180
Irrigation   ---   0                  24       dna         0                  0        -0                 1        24.     dna.       24.-
Labo_r: hired       ma n day   -      1 8      32      28.8      576.      518       18       576      518        38       37      33.3      1406,    1265
Returns to Famnily Labor & Enterpnisef                       _  22        2962V__            3574      3812                                  540   -55         __
Labor: famiwwy        man day           18       32;    28.         7         1         8       56       58         33                 3       14061    12651
Net Return                     j                          8_2148    -24-43T                  2998      3293145,                                        49       



Appendix 4
Page 23 of 26
i___________  - -   [   INDIA  - Upper Krishna Irrigation II Project  -                                                     .          !
--___-                    Implementation Completion Repo rt _  _                                                                Table A14
t_abi                                                                                                                            rorugespr vrgeHd r Crop Budgets per Average Hecta  - --t-=e__=_=
Rabi Groundnut__         _     _     _._                   ___ _l_                           ______                                 |__       -      __       _
_ _Before Project                             Future Without Projed       Future Wtth Project   ___ 
Uni        <      <Fin. Price <Ec. Price<Fin. Vaiu <Econ. Val  <Q>   <Fin. Value Econ. Val  <Q>  '<Fin. Pric <Ec. Price:kFin. Value<Econ. Value>
- ______   <Rs>    <Rs>     < <Rs>    <RS>              <Rs>    <Rs>                <Rs>     <Rs>     <Rs>      <Rs>
Outputst
Product               kg                                                                                    2000      11.5    11.48    23000    22960
By product            kg                                                                                    3000       0.6      0.54     1800     1620
Gross Retum                                                =__ _   _0    24800    24580
Inputs           ______I                        I_                ~      ~     ~      ---~--___-10                                        00
Land Preparation  bullock pair days                                                                           20                 900o   2000_     1800
-q.p                 len                                                                                                                     i~~~ ~ A2nn
1-   ----  - -  -    --   --  -T -    - -    - -   --     ~ .5 0   30  22  4500'  ----
Manures              MT                                             _____                                      5       300      270'    1500;    1350
Ferlilizers _                          ----- - -                           I------I                                       --       II 
N         [  ~~~~~kg,N20                                     i        I                                  251      9.51   17.931     238|     448
P       |  kg,P205   !                    _                                                            25       18    12.37      1350      9281
.  _._. _______  I__ _   _   _ __   _ ___    ____ _ _    _____._      _    _  _ .__                      9.5     17.9  __,     __ 
K    _             kgtK02                                             _                                       25       6.5_    10.72   _  163 _  268
Pesticides            ha                                                                                       2       200'     180.     400.      360
Irrigation           ha                                                                                        1        24      dna       24
Labor; hired       man day                             _  _        _                                          52        37     33.3    1924       1732
Returs to Family Labor & Enterprise,    _         _        _                     =             r     --- I             --t2702    14394j
Labor family     m an day   I _         _                I _                      _  i                 f      521       37     33.3    1924L    1732
Net Retum       I           -          I !                 I       I        ! _   1                     I I _   I                       107781   12683 z



Appendix 4
Page 24 of 26
INDIA - Upper Krishna Irrigation II Project   _                           j I                I         I
__ _           _  _ |  _ @Implementaion Compleion Rept  F                        ._                                    Table __A 1 5
_ !S_ =low           _       1  =     ICrpBudgets perAer H_                                      _                                                 ______
Reab S urSlwer + _       _-_                            -                      --            -----1-------7-                                             t     -
-__ _   -----Ebfore Projec                       -            Future Wdthout Proiecj      Future With Project      -
Unit        <Q>   <Fin. Price <Ec. Price&i in. ValuecEcon. Vai  <Q>   <Fin. ValuecEcon. Va  <Q>   <Fin. Price <Ec. Price><Fin. ValuCE con. Vaiue>
Ou4wts  i _ _ -Rs>    <Rs>                  <Rs>     <Rs>       _       <Rs>     <Rs>                  s>    c<Rs>     <Rs>      <Rs>
Product               kg            600       9.5      9.5    5700      5700       700     6650      6650     2000       9.5       9.5   19000    19000
Gross Retum                            _                        5700     5700      700      6650     6650 _                               19000    19000
Inputs                            _           _                                                           _
Land Preparation  bulock parys       14      100T       90     1400     1260'       14     1400_        1260;   18       100       90!    1800      1620
Seed                  kg             13       40        36      520      468        13      520       468       13       100       90      1300     1170
Manures               MT_             4      30        270     1200      1080        4     1200      1080,       4       300      270      1200,    1080
Fertilizers       I                                                                                                         r _______ _____             I
N            -     kg,N20            0       9.51   17.93         0        0        0         0        0       60       9.5    17.93       5701    1076[
p              Lkg,P205               0:_     1      123     - 0           01_      0    --01_    0            7[        181   12.371      30       9281
K       --   ~~~~kg,K02          0       .'    07            0                 0   0                      601      6.5     1.2        390' i    643!   _
Pesticdes             ha              0      200       180        0        0         0        0         0        1       00'      1 801    200      1
Irrigation            ha              0       24      dna         0                  0        0                  1       24       dna       24
Labor: hired       man day _         25       32      28.8       00      720        25      800      720       4i    _   37      33.3    1480       13i32
Returnsito FamilyLabor & Enterprise n,                         1780      2i7-                 ___ _3221                                   10686i   109711
Labor. family      manday            251      32i    28.8_   800         720                800      720        401      371    33.31    1480j    1332
NetRetum                                j                       9801    14521              1930      2402                             1 |    92061   96391



Appendix 4
Page 25 of 26
____________    |_ _|_                  I lNDIA - Upper Krishna lrrigation Il Project    |__ I__ I                                             T  I   
____=_|Implementation Completion Report ______ __                                        !Table Al16
Rabi Vegetables            _                 B       p  Ar   Hc _                               I                           I ___   I _
______s,_                  _._                  -  ----        -              Fu -- --t -_ ---  _l__                        + _ |            .      .____
'Before Project                                Future Without Proje        Future With Project
Unit       <Q>   <Fin. Price <Ec. Price-Fin. Value<Econ. Val  <Q>   <Fin. Value Econ. Val  <Q>   <Fin. Pric <Ec. Price<Fin. Value<Econ. Value>
<Rs>    <Rs>      <Rs>      <Rs>              <Rs>      <Rs>               <Rs>     <Rs>      <Rs>     <Rs>
Outputs                                                                 1_ 8_000    16200                     1400        30        27    42000    378
Product               kg _          500       30       27    150001   13500        600    18000    16200      1400                 27    42000    37800
By product            kg               I:
Gross Retum     _                                              15000    13500        _    18000    16200                                  42000    37800
Inputs           ____________    ____                                                                                                           _____
Land Preparation  bullock pairdays   15      100       90      1500     1350'       15'    1500    25o          2501    20                          2250 =
ee                    kg              5      100      250       500     1250         5      500     1250         5      100    -250        500      1250
Manures              MT               4      300      270      1200     1080         4     1200     1080         6      300       270;    1800      1620
Ferfilizers                  I__________--_-_---------t__-
N                  kg,N20     _     25       9.5    17.93      238       448 _     25_ 2    238      448       100      9.5    17.93       950     1793
p    __            kg,P205     =    10_    18_ 12.37!          180       124 0     10       180      1241      75        18    12.37    . 13501     9281
K                  kg,K02            0       6.5    10.72        0         0        0         0   _    0       75_      6.5    10.72    _488        804_
Pesticides     -      ha              1      200      180       200      180         1      200      180         3      200       180.    600        540
Irrigation            ha              0       40      dna        0                  0                           1       40       dna       40
Labor- hired       man day         62.5     _ 32      28.8    2000      1800      62.5    2000      1800        82        37     33.3    3034       2731
Retums to Family Labor & Enterprise;                           9183m    7268              12183      9968                                 30739    25885
'0             -                     j----,_                                         _- --2 .  j62 , .5                  I                                 2731
Labor family      1manday   1    62.51        32      28.8j    20001    1800j    62.5|-_ 2000       1800        82       37      33.3     3034      2731
,Net Retumr                                                    71831    54681          !   10183     8168|         I                      27705r  231542



Appendix 4
Page 26 of 26
INDIA    l_l_l_l   Table A17
Upper Krishna II Project    ___.__._A                       _
Implementation Completion Report
Crop Yields
_________=<kg/ha>
Crop              I Before Project   Future Without Project I Future With Project
Kharif  _i                             __
jowar  | _      |     600       =_ X 0 700                     2800 =      -
jowar fodder          775                900                   3800
bajra                 575                650                   2800 =        .
bajra fodder          850                975                  4200
maize I -   --none                 none                        3500
maize fodder    none               none                       4700
pulses                500                5                     1000500  100    __
pulse fodder          500                500                   1000
groundnuts            600                650                   1800
groundnut fodder      900                975                   2700
sunflower             550                700                   1800
vegetables            500                600 |                 1400
Rabi
jowar                 7001               800                   3000  _
jowar fodder          900               1000                   4000
wheat ._              630 __             630                   2000
wheat fodder          630  __            630             -    2000
chickpeas             350                350                   1000
chickpea fodder       5251               525                   1500  _
safflower             600j -             700                   1400    _
groundnut       none    l          none     _                  2000
groundnut fodder  none             none                        3000 _
sunflower             6001    _          700   _               2000
vegetables            5001               600                   1400   __
Biseasonal               II
cotton  T              400 r              500                   2000 __
100



Appendix 5
Page I of 17
IMPLEMENTAT'ION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER KRISHNA IRRIGATION (PHASE- II) PROJECT
(Cr.2010-in/lN.3050-IN)
APPENDIX - 5: RES]ETTLEMENT & REHABILITATION
A. Overview
1.     The achievements of project objectives are best assessed through a comparison of actual
outputs and outcomes with those determined at the beginning of a project. The over-arching
objectives of UKP's resettlement component are to "provide for the resettlement and rehabilitation of
displaced persons to ensure the restoration or enhancement of their standard of living up to or above
levels enjoyed by them prior to the commencement of the implementation of the Project or Phase I, as
the case may be." The objectives of the project have not changed although some of the interventions
and rehabilitation entitlements were revised during the course of the project. Despite two suspensions
for inadequate R&R, achievement of R&I;, objectives remains unsatisfactory.
2.     The mission reviewed (i) the status of resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) for families
displaced by Almatti reservoir, (ii) implementation of retrofit for the families displaced by
Narayanpur dam and (iii) R&R of canal affected families (CAFs). The mission also assessed (a) the
R&R entitlements delivered to PDFs, (b) the quality of construction work in Resettlement Centres
(RCs), and (c) the construction of replacement houses and relocation of Project Displaced Persons
(PDFs) and re-establishment of village communities in the RCs.
B. The Project
3.     Upper Krishna Project (UKP) is the largest resettlement operation supported by the Bank.
The project included retrofitting and completing outstanding R&R from Karnataka Irrigation Project
(KIP) (Cr.788-IN) and R&R of families affected due to the raising of Almatti dam and other
construction activities proposed under phase-Il of the project. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the component would be implemented as detailed in the R&R plan with any
changes/modifications being subject to Bank/IDA review and concurrence and that the Government
of Kamataka (GOK) would engage a suitably qualified non-government rural development institution
to conduct an independent evaluation and assessment of the R&R program and its implementation
according to the terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank/IDA.
4.      The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimated submergence of an additional 32 sq. km. at
Narayanpur, beyond the 100 sq. km. submerged in Phase 1, and 129 sq. km. at Almatti under Phase II.
The SAR estimated that Narayanpur reservoir, at its full level of EL 492.25 m., would cover 132 sq.
km., submerging 37 villages fully and 42 villages partly at Narayanpur, affecting nearly 5,600
families. Under UKP, Almatti will affect 54 villages fully and another 41 villages partly, as well as
part of Bagalkot town.)9 Another 16,200 ha (162 sq. km.) are being acquired for canal work,
rehabilitation centres, irrigation roads and quarries. When adjusted for possible displacement by
canals and roads and for missed PAFs and formation of new families, the total families affected by
Phase 11 was estimated at 40,000 (240,000 persons). In phase-Il of the project, Almatti reservoir was
expected to affect nearly 26,500 families (or about 160,000 persons), including those who could be at
19  Subsequent phases of the project envisage installation of 15 m. radial gates at Almatti raising the reservoir
FRL to 524.25 m. At that stage the total erea submerged by Almatti will be 75,700 ha.
101



Appendix 5
Page 2 of 17
risk during a 1-in-10 year flood: an estimated 14,000 rural families, and about 530 families in
Bagalkot.
C. Project Components.
5.      The Government of Kamataka (GOK) issued a Government Order (GO) on March 3, 1989
on the R&R package for the PDFs of UKP which was revised in May 1995. Socio-economic surveys
were initiated in 1993 and completed in 1996. The Bagalkot Town Development Act, 1983 provides
for the R&R of persons affected by submergence of the town.
6.     Socio-economic surveys were carried out in 95 villages of Almatti area and 32 villages of
Narayanpur area. The survey at Almatti was confined to Project Displaced Families (PDFs) affected
by Land Acquisition (LA) up to EL 515 m of the dam. At Nairayanpur, the survey provided post-
relocation data on PDFs of Phase 1. The survey also covered families affected by LA for canals and
distributary network in 205 command area villages. The surveys identified 6,488 families (both
displaced and affected) impacted by the construction of Narayanpur dam, 32,673 displaced families
from 95 villages coming under the submergence of Almatti civil works (at EL 515 m) and 2,602
Canal Affected Families (CAFs).
7.     The project was expected to fornulate a well designed Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
which would (i) provide an overall plan for physical relocation and re-establishment of the social and
economic resource base of resettled people; (b) provide an overall plan for the restoration of the
economic productivity of PDFs; (c) build the organisational capacity to implement the plan; (d)
establish a detailed time bound schedule of implementation consonant with physical work; (e) select
resettlement sites and rehabilitation options with attention to environmental carrying capacity of host
areas and to preferences of displaced people. Although R&R programs were implemented, a RAP
with those components was not submitted for Bank review till mid-1996. Because of some critical
gaps in the R&R entitlement policy, the RAP has not been cleared by the Bank although, through
supervision, implementation has improved considerably on the ground.
8.     According to the latest version of the RAP (May 1997), the important activities under
implementation are as follows:
(a) compensation for lands, structures and other immobile structures;
(b) establishment of RCs on the basis of a well-prepared layout, with essential civic
amenities:
(c) assistance to PDFs20 for relocation by providing transportation for shifting their
household belongings and other salvageable material, allotting a house site (size of the
plot is in proportion to the extent of holding at the pre-project level) to each of the PDFs
and up to two adult sons/daughters, and extending House Construction Grant (HCG) at
Rs. 22,000 to all PDFs provided with a house plot.2'
(d) extending Land Purchase Grant (LPG) varying between Rs. 20,000 and 60,000
following a sliding scale related to the extent of agricultural land acquired;
20     Rural PDFs are defined as all displaced families except those owning more than 10 ha. of land. The
latter are entitled to compensation but not rehabilitation benefits.
21     At Bagalkot, the HCG is provided only to those PDFs who live below the poverty line (annual income
less than Rs. 11,850) and whose total compensation for assets acquired is less than Rs. 75,000.
102



Appendix 5
Page 3 of 17
(e) assisting PDFs who, after LA, are left with some land (including landless labour) with a
grant for Income Generating Schemes (IGS) ranging from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 20,000
depending upon the extent of loss and the amount of remaining land with PDFs22;
E. Mission's Findings
9.     The project has suffered from the lack of a systemic approach, with the pace of dam
construction driving the rest of the project. The project has followed a linear approach to R&R, first
acquiring houses and agricultural land, then establishing sites for the RC's, then trying to get PDFs to
relocate, then assisting them with house construction and, when all this is done, to offer PDFs their
entitlements for economic rehabilitation, This fragmented approach has not worked well. It slowed
down the pace of resettlement since PDFs did not have an economic incentive to move, and it has
created large scale unemployment in the RC's.
10.    Resettlement could not keep pace with the pace of civil works and significantly lagged
behind particularly during the first five years of the project. Implementation of R&R has improved
since January 1996 but 18 months of implementation has not been enough to catch up with the
backlog. Notwithstanding the slow progress in resettlement, the crest of Almatti dam was raised to its
maximum height of 509 m. in 1997, the reservoir FRL reaching 513.9m, thereby submerging 25,744
ha (see Table 5-1), twice the 12,500 ha estimated at appraisal. The submergence of the villages over
the years can be seen from the following data:
Table 5-1: Yearwise Submerged Area Under Almatti Reservoir
Maximum
Year     water  level Total submergence
reached   at
Almatti (msl)
Area         No. of villages Cumulative
(ha)                       villages
1989      503.72         4,820                          =
1990      503.53         4,622
1991      503.71         4,820
1992      502.71         3,958
1993      502.90         4,052
1994      506.40         7,998         4
1995      507.30         9,364         2             6
1996      509.60        13,039         13           19
estimated     1997      5 12.00       18,385
,/      revised       1997       515.00        31,890
actual        1997      513.90        25,744         19            38
11.    The focus in R&R has largely been on physical relocation of displaced population,
acquisition of structures (and to a lesser extent, agricultural land), development of RCs along with
civic amenities, and house construction. Economic rehabilitation lags considerably behind. The
22     For Bagalkot PDFs, the economic rehabilitation measures consist of a one time grant of Rs. 500 to Rs.
1,000 as subsistence allowance; one month's minimum wage for PDFs losing employment due to
displacement; and for those losing occupation, seed capital varying between Rs.1,000 and Rs. 9,000 as
25% contribution to get a loan for an IGS.
103



Appendix 5
Page 4 of 17
project was suspended twice, on both occasions due to unsatisfactory implementation of the R&R
program. The first suspension, from November 1992 to February 199423, resulted in significant
revisions of R&R entitlements and improved implementation. The second suspension, From
September 1995 to October 1996, had mixed results. This suspension occurred without the
involvement of any R&R specialists. The conditions for lifting suspension at this late stage (the sixth
year of the project) called for (a) completion of socio-economic surveys, (b) revisions to the R&R
action plan and schedule, (c) establishment of a high powered Advisory Committee to ensure proper
linkage between dam construction and R&R, (d) appointment of suitable staff and budget allocations
for R&R, and (e) appointment of monitoring consultants. All of these conditions pertain to input-
oriented activities, benchmarks of R&R results and outcomes being absent. Although GOK complied
with all the conditions, and suspension was lifted accordingly, achievements of R&R remained
unsatisfactory. At project closure (June 1997), compensation is yet to be paid for 40% of the
structures already acquired by the project; 22 RCs have only been partially developed; and 40% of
entitled PDFs await provision of houselots. PDFs have also been slow to respond, only 30% of them
having constructed replacement homes (see Table R-2). Achievement of rehabilitation is even lower,
only 16% of the eligible PDFs utilising LPG, 12% IGS and 33% receiving HCG (Table R-3).
12.    Population affected: The SAR had estimated displacement of about 26,000 families
(160,000 people) at Almatti. Adjusted for possible displacement by canals and roads and for missed
PAFs and formation of eligible families, the total affected families could be 40,000 (240,000 people).
Phase 11 was expected to affect 95 villages: 54 fully submerging and 41 partially submerging,;
displacing 48,338 PDFs, of which 32,673 are primary PDFs and 15,665, major children. Narayanpur
has 7,843 PDFs, including major sons and daughters. The socio-economic survey carried out in the
project area identified 178,831 affected population: 142,525 at Almatti and 36,306 at Narayanpur.
However, the survey did not cover the entire affected area. There are 1,131 males for every 1,000
females in the area. Around 42% of the population is engaged in gainful activity. This ratio is higher
among men (56.6%) than women (22.8%). Agriculture is the main economic activity in the area
supporting nearly 71% of those engaged in work. Economic activities pursued in the area indicate
limited diversification of the economy and absence of non-agricultural skills. This has a great bearing
on the strategies for economic rehabilitation of the affected community.
13.    Land Acquisition Process:  In the past, PDFs received very low compensation for their
lands as they were acquired under the normal LA process ( under the Land Acquisition Act of 1894,
amended in 1984) based on the registered values which are considerably below market value. Since
1996, LA is being done, by and large, through consent awards. The rate is fixed by a district level
Price Advisory Committee (PAC) chaired by Divisional Commissioner with representation from
elected people's representatives (like MLAs of the area), concerned government officials and PDF
representatives. The consent award considers sales tax data, capitalization of land based on ten-year
production, court enhancements for cases referred to courts, and the cropping pattern, to affix land
value. The consent award system ensures higher rate of payment than payable under the normal
acquisition process. In exchange the land loser gives an undertaking not to dispute the award in the
court. At the start of the project, compensation rates were around Rs. 12,500 per ha of dry land and
Rs. 20,000 per ha for irrigated land. A large number of land owners approached the courts which
significantly enhanced the compensation along with 15% interest, but court settlement took many
years (under Phase 1, it could take as much as ten years). Besides, PDFs were exploited by lawyers
who charged more than 25% of the enhancement award in fees. In contrast, the consent award not
only ensures higher compensation rates (between Rs. 125,000-150,000/ha of dry and 21,500-275,000
/ha irrigated land) but the payment is also made expeditiously. This has eliminated the need to refer
cases to courts. Therefore, at present, an overwhelming majority of land losers prefer consent award.
However, this does not necessarily ensure replacement cost. Land prices, particularly around the
23  Disbursement was suspended for the first time on November 3, 1992 for the entire project. On February
26, 1993, following a supervision mission and approval of the R&R plan, suspension was lifted for R&R
and the canal components, but remained in place for Almatti Dam construction. Suspension for expenses
on dam construction was finally lifted in February 1994.
104



Appendix 5
Page 5 of 17
RC's, could escalate faster than consent award rates. For example, the prevailing prices of land in the
vicinity of Benur RC is reported to have escalated to Rs. 150,000/ha for dry and Rs. 250,000/ha
irrigated land (twice the consent award rate), due to scarcity of land. Under such circumstances the
LPG could help subsidise the purchase of minimum replacement land.
14.    Acquisition of land and structares coming under the submergence of Narayanpur dam is
complete and PDFs have been compensated. Of the 68 RC's planned at Almatti, LA is reportedly
complete for 66 RC's, the last two locations being held up due to litigation. However, the project has
already acquired 5,152 ha, as planned. F'or Almatti reservoir, 18,060 ha has been acquired, based on
the area capacity curve for FRL 512 ma This is 38% more than identified at appraisal. Given the
expected rise in reservoir level, GOK decided to proceed with acquisition of another 13,830 ha. up to
FRL 515 m. (see Table R-1). This additional 43% land has been notified, but payment of
compensation is held up until revised rates are notified under the consent award procedure. As a
result, during the 1997 monsoon, around 7,500 ha of land was submerged in excess of GOK's
original Phase II estimate (see Table 5-1). Some of this is government land. The private land so
submerged had not been compensated for and also resulted in crop loss in that year. In May 1998, the
Borrower has reported that land acquisition for those lands has been completed. In some areas, like
Sangundi and Benur villages and Bagalkot visited by the mission, it was leamnt that the farmers were
not informed of the likely submergence of 1997 (this was confirmed by the Nodal Officer of the
area). As a result, the farmers who cultivated such areas lost their crops. In places like Mallapur,
Mugalooli, Benur, Baluti and Kalidgi the mission was informed that lands which were not notified
were also submerged during the current monsoons.
15.    The acquisition process in Almalti has followed a phased approach. Initially, land below 512
m-. FRL was to be acquired under Phase 11. This arbitrary cutoff point did not take into account the
backwater effect and resulted in unanticipated flooding of land in 1997. Acquisition of structures was
also phased, all those in the fully submerging 54 villages and those below FRL 512 in the partially
submerging villages were acquired and compensated for initially. This former group of structures was
fully acquired and compensated for. Subsequently, GOK decided to acquire all structures in the
partially affected villages as well. Acquisition of these structures (estimated 40% of the total of
Almatti structures) was still in progress in 1997. Some of these structures from the latter 40%, were
submerged during the 1997 monsoon. The mission observed during its field visits that some
structures which had been submerged in 1997 were not compensated for.24
16.    The total expenditure on LA, including agricultural land and structures, was Rs. 1,798.97
million (Table R-5), compared to an appraisal estimate of Rs. 617.1 million. Even after adjustment
for exchange rate variations, this amounts to a 25% cost escalation for land acquisition in real terms.
17.    Resettlement colonies: The project planned to develop 101 RCs - 68 in Almatti and 33 in
Narayanpur to relocate 57,214 PDFs including their eligible major sons/daughters Seventy nine RCs -
- 50 in Almatti and 29 in Narayanpur -- have been developed by project closure. The average size of
an RC in terms of number of PDFs is 711 at Almatti and 238 at Narayanpur. In these RC's, 34,074
plots have been allotted to PDFs, while 40% are yet to be provided with houselots (see Table R-2).
For urban PDFs, 6 sectors (5 residential and I park) with 1,689 houselots in the new Bagalkot
Township have been developed for 1,033 PDFs. So far, 611 plots have been allotted to eligible PDFs.
The size of the plot in RCs is smaller than 400 sq. m. agreed with the Bank and provided for in the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA). While GOK accepted to provide house sites to major
children, the GO of May 1995 (a) introduced a sliding scale, varying the size of the plot from 100-
400 sq. m. depending on the PDFs holding (see Table 5.2), and (b) restricted the number of entitled
major children to two per PDF. As a result, 77% of PDFs are entitled to 100 sq. m. plots, 16% to 200
24  The Borrower has clarified that all Phasz 11 structures had been fully acquired and compensated for, and
that the submerged land and structures which had not been compensated at the time of the mission were
from Phase Ill.
105



Appendix 5
Page 6 of 17
sq. m., 4% to 300 sq. m. , while only 2% receive the full 400 sq. m. The total number of major
children entitled to 100 sq. m. plots comes to 15,665 i.e. less than half the number of primary PDFs
(32,673). Instead of getting a plot size of 400 sq. m., the majority of primary PDFs ended up getting
150 sq. m. plot to each PDF. On the other hand, the size of the plot for urban area (Bagalkot) has
been increased from 50 sq. m. to 75 sq. m. benefiting 1033 families.
18.    Smaller plots in rural areas pose problems for PDFs who no longer have a yard to house
their animals and farm machinery and equipment. They are seeking additional space for cattle sheds,
Rick yards and storage of farm output which essentially means that GOK provide larger houselots or
make additional provisions for PDFs with smaller houselots to facilitate continuance of their
agricultural activities and rural life styles.
Table 5.2: Size of houselots by PDF category
(pre-verification data derived from Socio-Economic Survey)
Size of original land held    House plot  Percent of total
entitlement
Less than 0.25 ha          100 sq.m.           49%
0.26-3.5 ha                200 sq.m.            16%
3.6-6.75 ha                300 sq.m.            5%
6.76-10.0 ha               400 sq.m.            2%
Major sons/daughters       100 sq.m.           27%
Major brothers/widows      100 sq.m.            2%
19.    Most of the RCs are in the vicinity of the two reservoirs. Considering that prime land will be
lost due to submergence, resettling such large population closer to the reservoirs will increase
pressure on the limited cultivable area as well as on common property resources (CPR). In fact, SAR
had laid down the availability of fuel and fodder sources for host and resettled population as one of
the criteria to select an RC. PDF find it difficult to purchase land in proximity to their RCs. Almatti
PDFs are worse off than Narayanpur being more distant from the command area. Demand for land
being more than the supply, the price of land has shot up in the area. The few PDFs who could
purchase land, did so far from their RCs. There are limited opportunities in and around such RC's for
non-farm employment and income. The worst affected are the landless agricultural labour and
marginal and small farmers dependent on farm wages.
20.    Despite an anti-malaria component in the project, malaria has increased considerably in the
project area. A Bank study recommended that RC' s be located at least 2 km. away from the reservoirs
to control malaria vectors.2" But, a large number of RCs particularly those in Narayanpur and 23 old
RCs in Almatti are very close to the water body - most of these are within 500 m. As a result, the
anti-malaria campaign can only treat but not prevent malaria. Consequently, the incidence of malaria
is increasing (see Table 5.3). In two RC's, Indwara and Havaragi, visited by the mission, four deaths
were attributed to malaria in the past year.
25  Kulkami, V.S.Patil, "Guidelines for Prevention & Control of Vector Bome Disease (Malaria) in UKP",
World Bank consultancy report, November, 1994.
106



Appendix 5
Page 7 of 17
Table 5.3      Incidence of Malaria in the Reservoir Areas
Almatti reservDir                     Narayanpur reservoir
Year     BS Exam    PCs identified       PF       BS Exam   PCs identified      PF
1991      34,309          518           193        41,826         262           129
1992      35,132         1,055          264        38,957          709          209
1993      38,116          681            89        41,096         934          279
1994      38,330         2,098          520        41,204        2,242          891
1995      22,557          651           145        34,334        2,005         1,031
1996      36,598         1,705          643        34,389        3,990         1,894
1997      22,688         1,908          546        19,296        1,905         430
(up to
June '97)                            _
[BS = blood smear; PC = positive cases; PF  positive falciparum]
21.    Civic amenities in RCs: Facilities such as approach road to and internal roads in the colony,
school buildings, teachers quarters, community buildings, piped water, power supply etc., are
provided in each RC. In Narayanpur, civic amenities developed earlier are in bad shape. Therefore, in
the present project some of these are being improved. But the renovation work in the old RCs is still
not satisfactory. At Almatti , most of the RCs are either complete or under different stages of
completion (see Table 5.4).
Table 5.4: Distribution of Almatti RCs by the stage of construction of infrastructure
Infrastructure      Complete       -Under progress   Not yet initiated     Planned
School buildings        28                28                 12                68
Panchayat            27                21                 20                68
buildings
Intemal roads          40                16                 3                68
Water supply                                                                 68
- bore wells          55                 -                 2                 68
-piped water           31                10                27                68
supply
Electricity          36                24                 8                 68
r  RC's with all          26                40                 2                 68
civic amenities  I               I
Note: Number of wells required could not be ascertained and therefore if even one well is
provided it has been considered that this infrastructure is complete. The above information
also includes 14 RCs where restoration of electricity is in progress.
22.    The work on post office, comrmunity centres, community toilets, high school buildings,
health centres etc. are proposed to be taken up after the families are resettled in RCs. Infrastructure in
RCs required in 1998 are also being developed rapidly. Except the infrastructure developed in old
RCs by Zilla Parishads, the quality of infiastructure in the new colonies particularly those developed
by Karnataka Land Army Corporation is impressive. However, there is a need to provide toilets and
drinking water facilities, particularly in school and panchayat buildings. Since the new RCs lack
vegetative cover, PDFs are seeking community toilets specially for women. The location of the toilets
should be decided in consultation with PDFs. Due to erratic power supply and low voltage problem,
there is shortage of water in many RCs. In some of the RCs the water table is reported have gone
down and people are facing problems to fetch water. This demands augmentation of supplies either
through further deepening or operating tankers to supply water.
107



Appendix 5
Page 8 of 17
23.    Submergence of land has considerably reduced CPRs --- specially grazing land and
fuelwood --- in the area. The project had assumed reduction of CPRs but had (a) covenanted
plantation of woodlots for each RC, and (b) assumed that increased grain (and straw) production in
the command area would offset loss of grazing land. GOK has not complied with the covenanted
plantation of woodlots around the RC's. With increased pressure of population on the existing CPRs,
it is becoming extremely difficult for PDFs to maintain their cattle and other animals. As a result
PDFs are disposing of their animals which other wise provide supplementary income to the families
in addition to meeting their demand for animal power in the farming operations. This has also limited
the scope of animal husbandry as an altemative IGS. Adequate attention was paid on this aspect in the
SAR which envisaged relocation of PDFs in the command area to ensure fodder to livestock.
Afforestation component in the project was designed to plant fuel species in the command area
mainly to meet fuel consumption needs of the PDFs and the local population. While tree planting
program in the command area continues, there are no PDFs to take advantage of that. More over, the
focus of afforestation program did not shift to RCs.
24.    R&R Policy: Based on the lessons learnt from Phase 1, the R&R design outlined in the SAR
envisaged relocation of PDFs in command area mainly to benefit them with irrigation facility. It also
promised 'land-for-land' (minimum 1.5 ha of irrigated land in the benefiting zone or equivalent non-
irrigated land with an ex-gratia of Rs 30,000 per family) for land owning families rendered landless
by the project, and 0.5 ha irrigated land (or equivalent un-irrigated land with an ex-gratia of Rs
10,000) to the landless or, at their option , training, seed capital and institutional support for
employment opportunities. And all categories of families required to shift were to be provided with a
house plot of 400 sq. m. A GO was issued prior to appraisal establishing the legal framework for
R&R. GOK had already prepared an Act called 'The Karnataka Resettlement of Project Displaced
Persons Act, 1987 to deal with R&R issues in the state. The Act received presidential approval on
August 8, 1994. The Act provides for acquisition of land ( a part of land in proportion to the holding
size)in the command area to allot to the displaced families of the project. Unfortunately this Act was
never notified to the project. The project could have benefited from this legislation. This is a missed
opportunity. Average dry landholdings tend to be considerably larger than irrigated holdings.
Irrigation requires more intensive work often results in surplus land. The prime beneficiaries of the
project are the farmers in the command area while the prime losers are from affected area. Making
the beneficiaries contribute toward rehabilitation of the affected persons would have been the most
efficient, cost effective and viable proposition of achieving R&R objectives. Unfortunately, this did
not happen and the principal strategy of moving people into the command area, has not been
implemented. GOK revised its earlier GO reducing the size of the house plot and done away with
land-for-land option.
25.    In the GO of May 1995, economic rehabilitation has been restricted to cash grants. These
grants are available as LPG and IGS but without any support mechanism for procurement of land,
skills training, credit, or market linkages for enterprise development. The covenant of granting long
term lease for drawdown cultivation has not been complied with, although in practice farmers left
with land in the periphery of the reservoir are still engaged in draw-down cultivation. Though GOK
developed reservoir fishery, this has not been developed as one of the means of economic
rehabilitation of PDFs, even though some of them are already fishermen.
26.    Relocation of PDFs: One positive feature of the May 1995 GO is the introduction of an ex-
gratia house construction grant (HCG) of Rs 22,000 to each PDF (including major sons) except those
owning more than 10 ha of land. This has proved to be the single biggest incentive encouraging
thousands of PDFs to initiate construction of replacement houses in the relocation sites. Even those
PDFs who had diverted their compensation to non-productive purposes have now been able to initiate
house construction. The pace of house construction has accelerated considerably in RCs and the
quality of new housing is generally better than that in the submerging villages. GOK is assisting PDFs
by providing construction material like cement and steel, at controlled prices. The project has
provided house sites to 60% of PDFs - 55% in Almatti and 86% in Narayanpur (Table R-2), and
deposited HCG for 76% PDFs in joint account, much of it during last one year (Table R-3). Over
108



Appendix 5
Page 9 of 17
20% of PDFs have constructed new houses in RCs and another 10% is underway. In other words,
now that HCG is available, PDFs who were reluctant to move are now constructing houses and seem
more willing to relocate. On the other hand, construction of houses by oustees in Bagalkot has started
in 1997, after the closure of the project, thlis being the first year that water entered the town.
27.    Economic rehabilitation: GOK restricted its role to extend cash as ex-gratia grants for LPG
and IGS. Detailed planning was carried out at the time of project preparation and SAR gives details
of various IGS and envisaged GOK support to those affected through training and linking with
existing development schemes of the Government. NGOs could have played a major role in
identifying suitable schemes, and providing training, advisory services and desired linkages. Except
for a brief initial collaboration with an NGO (MYRADA), the project made virtually no effort to
develop the capacity of PDFs to reconstruct their livelihoods. MYRADA pulled out ostensibly
because GOK cooperation was not forthcoming. The income generation strategy remained on paper
and the task of regaining livelihood has been left to PDFs either to find replacement land or alternate
economic activity. A few schemes, such as handloom weaving and gem-cutting were introduced at a
small scale but were not followed through. The result is that only 16% of PDFs entitled to LPG could
purchase land, and 12% of entitled PDFs uatilised JGS. While two-thirds of the grants due to PDFs is
deposited in the banks, only one fourth of the amount deposited has been utilised so far (IGS - I]%;
LPG - 17%; HCG - 30%) (see Table R-3). The number of persons from Bagalkot, entitled to IGS
grants for loss of occupation/economic activity has yet to be assessed.
28.    The SAR had envisaged a grant of Rs 30,000 to each PDF rendered landless for purchase of
a minimum economic landholding. The May 1995 GO revi'sed the LPG to a sliding scale of "up to
Rs. 60,000", the actual amount of LPG being less for middle and large farmers, reducing to zero to
those owning more than 10 ha of land. At negotiations, Rs. 30,000 was determined to be sufficient to
purchase 1.5 ha of irrigated land. By the time the project closed, the maximum LPG was reduced to
one-sixth of that in real terms, larger farmers receiving a fraction thereof. For all practical purposes,
LPG was eliminated as an effective income restoration measure. To some extent this was offset by the
increase in compensation rates through consent awards. But this benefit was limited to those with
substantial landholdings. The objective of ensuring that all farmers are able to procure a minimum
economic farm, was not achieved.
29.    Award of economic rehabilitation grants has been further complicated by GOK's decision to
acquire agricultural land in stages according to the contour of the area capacity curve (500-509 m.,
509-512 m., 512-515m., and so on), while all houses in the 95 affected villages of Phase II have been
acquired. As a result, land belonging to individual farmers whose houses have been acquired and are
being displaced under Phase II, is being acquired in different stages. Rehabilitation entitlements vary
with the extent of impact in each stage. This has resulted in postponement of some of the costs on
LPG and IGS to the post-project period, when the remaining land of those villages will be acquired.
A much higher proportion of PDFs, already considered displaced under Phase II, will then become
eligible for LPG and IGS.
30.    Institutional arrangements: Initially, the R&R wing operated under CADA and the focus
was on construction activities and implementation of R&R program lagged way behind the
construction. In 1992, this was brought under Irrigation Department (ID) and a General Manager was
appointed in charge but things did not move. Majority of the cases referred to courts remained
unsettled. In 1995, R&R wing was brought ander ID and with Commissioner (R&R) and Ex-Officio,
Secretary to Government, ID, things started improving. Major progress, in terms of relocation of
people from the submergence area in Almatii, was achieved during the last 18 months.
31.    Today, the R&R wing of UKP is one of the largest establishments for R&R in the country.
The organisation, headed by a Commissioner (R&R and LAQ), consists of two I.A.S. officers as
General Managers (one for LA and other for R&R), controlling Group Managers and Rehabilitation
Officers (both belonging to Karnataka Administrative Service) supported by field level functionaries.
The sanctioned strength of the R&R Wing is 1,116 of which 169 vacancies exist in the field. Work in
109



Appendix 5
Page 10 of 17
Bagalkot (Almatti urban) is affected because 52 out of 92 sanctioned posts remain vacant. Most of the
field level staff are from the Revenue Department and are well acquainted with LA procedures but
have little experience of economic rehabilitation of affected families. The absence of staff with social
development skills compounds the gap created by the lack of NGO involvement in the rehabilitation
program. Most of the staff have received basic R&R training but do not demonstrate an awareness of,
or sensitivity to, the need to restore livelihoods and ensure project benefits for the affected
community.
32.     Monitoring: Independent monitoring is an important activity in any program and forms a
critical part of project implementation. Some of the failures in UKP could have been easily avoided
through proper monitoring and timely planning and implementation of corrective measures. The
project has had the misfortune of appointing and dismissing two independent and external monitoring
agencies both of whom were critical of project implementation. If credible agencies are to be
appointed to monitor the R&R implementation, it is essential to protect their independence by making
them accountable to a higher authority, external to the project.
33.     R&R expenditure: The total expenditure on R&R at the closure of the project is Rs.
2735.19 million of which nearly two-thirds (financed by GOK) has been spent on purchase of land
and other assets acquired for the project and 12% on developing civic amenities in RCs. R&R grants
extended to PDFs account for 7.5% only and most of it is during the last 18 months (Table 18).
F. Major factors affecting R&R component
34.     The following factors affected timely implementation of R&R programs in the project:
(a) Absence of linkage between R&R and civil works: Resettlement action plans were not
properly synchronised with project activities - construction preceding relocation of displaced
families. Efforts were mainly to catch up with civil works implying thereby that adequate time was
not available to ensure proper resettlement of those needing relocation.
(b) Substitution of cash for economic rehabilitation: The reluctance of people affected by
Almatti reservoir to move to RC's was because they were still largely dependent on the economy of
their submerging lands. Alternate economic opportunities were not developed. The focus being on
physical shifting of people from the submergence area, cash grants were used as a proxy for re-
establishment of production capabilities  largely without mechanisms to ensure that economic
livelihood is regained. IGS grants are not backed up by training, advisory services and marketing.
Replacement of lost agricultural land and other productive assets is left to the resettlers.
(c) Lack of proper planning: In UKP, the appraised resettlement program was discarded by
the implementing agency. Socio-economic surveys which should have provided the base for planning
were started in 1993, midway through the project, and its findings not utilised to prepare a RAP until
mid-1996. With project closure just a few months away, the activity plan, budget and schedule were
no longer realistic.
(d) Reliance on contingency plans: Although contingency plans26 have been implemented
smoothly in 1996 and 1997, adoption of such emergency measures to move thousands of people,
forced out of the affected areas by rising waters, is an indication of the failure of proper resettlement
26  The SAR had estimated complete submergence of some 53 villages [later revised to 54], and partial
impacts on another 50. In its comments of May 1998, GOK interprets this to mean that only the fully
submerging villages are to be acquired and resettled, while contingency plans (a euphemism for emergency
measures) would be necessary for the remaining. The SAR makes no mention of contingency plans and
assumes that all affected properties will be acquired and PAPs resettled on safe ground prior to forced
displacement.
110



Appendix 5
Page II of 17
measures. Many PDFs, particularly the poorest families, once housed in temporary metal sheds,
sometimes continue to reside there for years as they lack resources to supplement compensation
received to build permanent houses.
(e) Absence of NGOs: Proper iimplementation of resettlement program suffered due to the
absence of active NGOs who could have helped PDFs in resettlement. NGOs could have played an
advocacy role to ensure that PDFs receive their full entitlements, and could have assisted in
implementation of income generating activities to facilitate economic rehabilitation. Local NGOs
were not developed enough to play these roles effectively and external NGOs stayed away apparently
because they did not find the project environment conducive to collaboration.
(f) Absence of external monitoring: Elsewhere, independent monitoring has played a
valuable role in ensuring successful R&R. Although planned and covenanted as an annual
requirement, independent monitoring was not allowed to function at UKP. Twice the project
appointed agencies external to the Govemnment to monitor R&R programs. Both times they were
removed because their reports were not acceptable to the project. As a result, the project lacked the
ability to identify shortcomings and retool the program to ensure achievement of R&R objectives.
111



Appendix 5
Page 12 of 17
Table R-1: Extent of Acquisition of Land & Structures at UKP as of June 30,1997
1  1              -   ~~~~~Expected
Purpose for which land                          Percent
Percent completion
Location          acquired                Unit Target  |Achieved Achieved        date
_ ,, _ __., . . .___   Achieve  _-_
Almatti:          Reservoir                ha      31,8901  18,060      57%        Nov-97
Resettlement Centers    ha        4,447.   4,447    100%
Canals & Distributories    -ha  __2771        28      10%        Nov-97
Roads                 i ha           0         0
___ _          _ Sub-total land acquired  ha      36,614   22,535      62%
Narayanpur:      Reservoir                ha      25,658   25,658     100%
._        _Resettlement Centers     ha         705       705    100%
Canals & Distributories  ha       9,602    8,212      86%        Nov-97
.   _  __   .    _ Roads                ha       4,270     1,409     33%
Sub-total land acquired  ha      40,235l   35,984     89%
Bagalkot:         Resettlement Center      ha       1,777!    1,719     97%
Total land acquired                                         ----
for Almatti &
Narayanpur:       Reservoir _              ha      57,548   43,718      76%
Resettlement Centers    ha        5,152:   5,152    100%
_, _ . _ , ... , . ._ . . _~~~9,                       .-8
Canals & Distributories  ha       9,879    8,240      83%
Roads                   ha  K    ,707i   1,409        33%
Sub-total land acquired  ha      76,849   58,519      76%
~~~~~__ _ __         _      ___----       r  --        - : ___  - - - - - -   -   - ____
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I              _____.__  ______________..._  _  ._ .i.1___._-_-.-
Structures Acquired: Almatti  -           No.      31,589    19,055     60%        Nov-97
Narayanpur              No.       7,843;    7,843    100%
Bagalkot                No.        615       506      82%
_______________ Total structures for UKP  | No.  40,047   27,404  68% 
112



Appendix 5
Page 13of17
Table R-2: Status of Relocation of PDIFs as of June 30,1997
. , __ . = _ _ . .j~ I                             -            __ __ ._
For Almafti    For Narayanpur                     Total for all
---=   PDFs  PDFc,,/PAFs/CAFs  Bagalkot      PDFs/PAFs/CAFs
POEs  PDF~/PAFs/CAFs                atUKP
No. of Resettlement
Centers                  68                33 6 sectors                     101
RCs complete in all
respect                  50               29 6 sectors                       79
NO. of entitled PDFs
including major children    48338              7843             1033             57214
No. of house plots
provided              26707              6706              661            34074
House plots provided as
percent of entitled PDFs      55%               86%             64%               60%
Houses Constructed
outside RC              1881 _            _ _4                0              1885
Houses completed within
RC                   6174             4506                 0            10680
Houses under
construction within RC       5910              1146                0 _           7056
Total replacement
housing constructed or
under construction        12084              5652                0             17736
Replacement houses as
percent of entitled PDFs      25%_72%                             0%              31%
_:ll325%         72%  _31
I113



Appendix 5
Page 14 of 17
'Table R-3: Provision of Rehabilitation Entitlements to rural PDFs in UKP
By number of Affected Families:                             ..
o. of  No. of Joint No of Joint No. of PDFs Percent of  Expected
PDFs/PAFs/  Accounts     cnt utilizing joint   P      IDF  completion
CAFs      Opened    Pecn  f accounts    uizng of utilization
total.   _         entitlement
Land Purchase
Grant      Almatti        2,593      1,344        52%         309      _ 12%     Dec-98
Narayanpur      1,293        609        47%        329 r      25%      Mar-99
Total      _ 3,886       1,953        50%V       638  -    16%
Income
Generating
Schemes      Almatti       8,157       1,939        24%        690         8%I    Dec-98
_____   Narayanpur      5,257      2,747        52%         908       117%     Mar-99
Total       13,414       4,686        35%       1,598       12%
House                                      .~-
Construction
Grants      Almatti      48,338      35,782        74%      13,965       29%      Dec-98
_____       Narayanpur       7,843      6,776        86%  -   4,789        61%   _
TotTotal    56,181     42,558         76%      18,754  -    33%
By amount of Ex-Gratia In Rs. million:  _                   -                __  . .   
Amount   Pecn f Aon    Percent of
Planned cost  placed in   Percentof   Amount     fnds     Expected
Planned cost     funds placedi I utilized by        Expcte
oiJoint    oit    OP            tilized by  completion
(Rs. mill)   Acouts AcountsPF   (Rs.: J
._   . .   ( s- m 1)   Accounts   IccJOountts s  j lPDFs/PAFs/ of utilization
(Rs. mill)  unts      mill)
(Rs. mill)               ~~CAFs
Land Purchase
Grant      Almatti      140.960     76.588      54.33%     17.352     12.31% _   Dec-98
Narayanpur     77.212     36.770      47.62%     19.752     25.58%      Mar-99
_____ 0      Total       218.172    113.358      51.96% _   37.104 .__17.01%
Income
Generating
Schemes      Almatti     146.775      32.020     21.82%      13.765     9.38%      Dec-98
Narayanpur     75.950     36.235      47.71%     10.778     14.19%      Mar-99
___          Total      222.725      68.255     30.65%      24.543     11.02%
House.i
Construction
Grants      Almafti    1,063.436    787.204     74.02%    255.426 j   24.02%      Dec-98
___  : Narayanpur    172.546    149.072     86.40%    112.478 _   65.19% _
Total     1,235.982    936.276     75.75%    367.904 _  29.77% _      .
Total ex-reita i Almatti    1,351.171    895.812    66.30%    286.543     21.21%
.,       s   --  .~~~~~~~~_________ ---  -1   - -   -          - ---
___  Narayanpur    325.708    222.077        68. 18%    143.008    43.91%
GRAND                     . -
TOTAL      1,676.879   1,117.889 1    66.66%1  429.551 |   25.62%,
114



Appendix 5
Page 15 of 17
Table R-4: Resettlement and Rehabilitation Expenditure (Rs. million)
(including Rural PDFs and Bagalkot)                  __
Land
Establishment Machinery & Civil Works  cquisition  Ex-Gratia  n   ncy 
Cost     Equipment             including             Plan    consulbncy
structures     -             l
1989-90          14.87       1.02]     4.131    134.54     0.03       0.0        0.29   155.36
1990-91          15.09       0.301     5.47    124.16      0.92        .         0.38   146.32
1991-92          17.47       2.41_   9.13    156.05        8.53   _ 0.00         0.12   194.40
1992-93          26.24       3.19  _  11.79    206.97      5.55       0.00 _     001    253.74
1993-94  t       35.92 _     3.50_   41.57    323.70       0.20       0.00       5.53   410.43
1994-95        -_44.35       3.31     34.93    292.58        0.000               0.02   375.19
1995-96  ,       56.23       6.29     66.10    184.081     0.00     - 0.00]-    0.36   313.06
1996-97          81.04       8.97 _  130.30    276.18i  187.93       39M08I      3.49   726.98
1997-98*         29.12       1.38 _   25.80.   100.71      2.71       0.00       0.00   159.72
TOTAL           320.33      30.36    330.40   1,798.97   205.87      39.08       10.19  2,735.19
Data for April-June 1997        V         i_I
11.5



Appendix 5
Page 16 of 17
Table R-5: Cost of Land Acquisition (Rs. million)  l
Cost of LA fr f or                                                 __
Almatti &                                 Acquisition
Naryanpur  LA for canals  LA for  Acquisition of land for Acquisition
and                            of        o
reservistibutries roads           ofw
reservoirs &  distributories     Structures    new    structures
RCs (Rs. in                                township
lakhs)                                                       Total
(rural)     (rural)    (rural)   (rural)  (Bagalkot) (Bagalkot)  _
1989-90        103.37       24.65      3.53      0.43      2.55  __ 0.00    134.54
1990-91        100.27        15.22     4.01      1.22      3.45      0.00- 124.16
1991-92        121.24 =      15.16     3.62      3.26     12.76 _= 0.00    156.05
1992-93         80.33       23.62      3.42      0.841    98.77      0.000  206.97
1993-94        209.13       38.92      6.27      062      68.75      0.00    323.70
1994-95        232.66        18.45     4.07      0.52     36.88      0.00    292.58
1995-96        125.46        9.69      1.96      0.53      6.85     39.60    184.08
1996-97        220.12       41.07      6.38      0.11I     5.69      2.82    276.18
1997-98
up to June,
'97          86.32        7.62      0.28      0.77      3.15_   2.58    100.71
TOTAL         1,278.89      194.41    33.53      8.30    238.85    45.00   1,798.97
116



Appendix 5
Page 17 of 17
Table R-6: R&R Financial Achievements under UKP
R&R      BTDA    Total
*(Rs. mill) (Rs. mill) (Rs. mill)
1. Land Acquisition
a) Reservoirs & RCs             1,278.887  238.849 1,517.736
b) Canals & distributories       194.410        0  194.410
c) roads                          33.532        0   33.532
II. Acquisition of structuresi     8.298   44.9951  53.293
Ill. Rehabilitation ex-gratia    205.865           205.865
IV. Civil works                  231.697   98.698  330.395
V. Machinery & Equipment          24.584    5.771   30.355
VI. Studies                        8.510    1.682   10.192
VII. Establishment costs         260.910   59.423  320.333
VIII. Contingency plan            39.080        0.  39.080
TOTAL           2,285.773  449.418. 2,735.191
117



Appendix 6
Page I of 6
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER KRISHNA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Cr. 2010-IN / Ln. 3050-IN)
APPENDIX - 6: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    Projects that are time-slices of larger investment programs present special, but
well-known  problems for financial and  economic  analysis.   Upper Krishna
Irrigation/Phase II is such a project, being part of the larger Upper Krishna Project
development program. Sunk cost from earlier tranches really are sunk. Therefore, they
are benefits stemming from them and from no subsequent investment are excluded.
Problems are mainly of definition, and of deciding what assumptions to make about the
future. Will there be subsequent phases? Is the objective to know the value of the time-
slice investments and of subsequent time slices? Or is it to know the value of the time
slice in question alone, even if no subsequent investments are made? The latter will
usually give lower returns on the assumption that the time slice itself will "sink" more
costs, the benefits from which will be reaped only if future time slices occur. Therefore,
analysts frequently present both cases.
1.    The 1989 appraisal of UKP II (Phase II) did this. In economic terms, it estimated
that returns to investments in Phases II and III would be 15%, while Phase II alone would
return 11% if Phase III were never built. Phase II involves development of 148,000 ha
for irrigation; Phase III, 182,000 ha. Phase III benefits from canal and dam costs and
associated resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) costs incurred in Phase II. Without
Phase III, Phase II's 11% is a barely acceptable rate of return.
1.    The 1989 appraisal did not analyze the implications of Stage II (the phases after
Phase III) nor of hydro-electric power development associated with the UKP dams.
Information on costs and scheduling of investments was not available. It was not obvious
that GOK would get Central authorization to make the investments in question or rights
to the Krishna River water needed for Stage II irrigation. Moreover, since most of Stage
II irrigation would involve major pump lifts, the 1989 appraisal team doubted that it
would be financially or economically viable.
1.    Ex-post, analyzing Phase II presents additional and unusual problems, principally
of definition. Phase III and Stage II works have begun before Phase II works are finished.
Furthermore, since GOK's right to construct Stage II and even Phase III is being
challenged in court by Andhra Pradesh, the downstream riparian on the Krishna, GOK
has declined to share information on Phase III and Stage II.
118



Appendix 6
Page 2 of 6
1.    In these circumstances, Phases II may be defined in two ways, firstly, as the
expenditures on UKP works that occurred during the Phase II time slice -- 1989/90 to
1996/7; secondly, as the expenditures on those works specifically defined by the 1989
appraisal (including those not yet conmpleted) and associated benefits. The first may be
called the defacto Phase II; the seconcl, the SAR Phase II.
1.    Neither solution is felicitous because, either way, the Phase II analysis is burdened
by costs sunk in Phase II which will generate benefits only in subsequent phases (if any)
particularly so in the de facto Phase II case. This is inevitable because no credible
estimate can be made of the pace of Phase III and Stage II investments, of the likelihood
of their being allowed to continue, and of the benefits they may generate. However, the
SAR Phase II definition was give a result more nearly comparable to the 1989 rate of
11% for Phase II alone. Therefore it is that definition which this analysis will adopt.
Benefits
1.    This analysis has calculated the agricultural benefits that have stemmed and will
stem from UKP's Phase II works (and earlier works), thus on the 93,514 ha that had their
irrigation works completed enough to start irrigation) between 1990 and 1997 and on the
54,486 ha whose works will achieve comparable status in 1998, 1999 and 2000 -- in
short, the 148,000 ha anticipated by the 1989 appraisal.
1.    The rate at which this area has been or will be developed is given in Appendix 4
(Agriculture). So are the areas that hlave received irrigation but on which the required
investments have not all been made and for which there are no plans to fill the gap:
81,400 ha which need land shaping for reasonable irrigation and which do not have it and
23,700 ha that need field drains to prevent waterlogging and, usually, salinization, and
which do not have them. These areas, and the estimated agricultural effects of the
truncated irrigation, are estimated in Appendix 4.
1.    Given that virtually no land shaping and no construction of field drains is now
going on, and that there are no plans for resuming these activities, there is little prospect
for resumption before 2000 and no assurance of resumption after that. Therefore, the
analysis shows what the returns to Phase II investments will be (a) if land leveling and
field-drain construction is never resumed (most likely present prospect) and (b) as a
sensitivity test, what the returns would have been if land-shaping and field-drain
construction had been completed as per plans.
1.    Farming in the project area has been reviewed and compared to the Phase I and
"pre-Bank" areas to form an idea of how Phase II farmers are likely to continue to adapt
to their new, irrigated conditions. Account has been taken of the farming effects of
differences in soil type, in farm size, in distance from roads and towns, and in
functionality of irrigation. On this basis, an average cropping pattern has been estimated
before Phase II intervention, in future once the benefits of irrigation are fully digested by
119



Appendix 6
Page 3 of 6
farmers, and in future without the project (see Appendix 4, Table A-1). The average
agricultural results for each crop before, at full development with project and at full
development without project have been estimated (Appendix 4, Tables A-2 to A-16).
Yields are summarized in Appendix 4, Table A-17. These specify the physical inputs and
outputs, as well as their financial and economic values. Those values, which are in
Tables A-2 to A-16, are summarized in Table E-1. In cases where the farmers provides
his/her own inputs (some labor, bullocks, manure and seed), the prevailing price has been
taken because farmers do face and make a choice between using these resources on their
own land and selling them. The reservation price of farm-family labor is, in fact, set by
alternative opportunities to migrate for work in coastal cities or in Project-related works.
Real wages have trebled since 1989. Prevailing prices have been adjusted to economic
prices using the best standard, current Bank practice.
1.    The average rate at which farmers adjust their cropping patterns and their other
farm practices after irrigation has been estimated (Appendix 4). On this basis, two
streams of financial and economic benefits have been estimated:
(a)   based on the current state of land shaping and field drain construction; and
(b)   showing what benefits would have been had these works been constructed on
time.
1.    Hydroelectric generating facilities are under construction at the project's two
dams and at several sites along major canals where significant drops occur.  The
Borrower has not provided information on actual or estimated benefits or costs of these
developments. Therefore, it has not been possible to incorporate them into the analysis.
See discussion in Appendix 4.
Costs
1.    As stated already, the distinctions between Phase II and subsequent phases that
appeared clear at the 1989 appraisal have become obscured. UKP development is more
like a seamless web. The World Bank appraisal defined Phase II as works on specified
major canals and specified distributaries, and R&R works associated with disruption
caused by this and earlier construction. In fact, construction of Phase II major-canal
sections, distributaries and associated works is proceeding simultaneously with works
that were expected to be executed later. Raising of Almatti Dam is proceeding more
rapidly than anticipated by the Bank for reasons other than providing water for Phase II
irrigated areas; this has major resettlement consequences that are difficult to extricate
from those of Phase II "stricto sensu."
1.    The costs initially provided by the Borrower cover all UKP expenditures between
1989 and 30 June 1997 when Loan 3050-IN closed. They accurately reflect the costs of
the de facto Phase II. With the Borrower's help, the mission has estimated the costs and
timing of completing Phase II works and R&R.
120



Appendix 6
Page 4 of 6
1.    With considerable help from Borrower officials, the mission has estimated the
cost of works only on those distributaries mentioned in the 1989 SAR. This procedure,
with the addition of estimated costs for completing Phase II works, defines what may be
called the SAR Phase II. These costs are summarized in Table E-2 below.
1.    Until 30 June 1997, Rs 20,581.5 million (about US$572 million at current rates)
had been spent on Phase II as defined by the SAR. The Borrower and the Bank estimate
that another Rs 3589.5 million ($100 million) will need to be invested between now and
2000 to complete the investments as defined by the 1989 SAR. More than 80% of this
amount is outstanding resettlement and rehabilitation costs.  This brings Phase II
investments, narrowly defined, to Rs 24,171 million ($671 million), a figure which
excludes the on-going cost of operating and maintaining the irrigation system. Actual
costs have been and will be about 240/c, higher than the US$542.2 million (including price
and other contingencies) estimated in 1989.
1.    These costs have been converted from prevailing (financial) prices into their cost
to India (economic prices) using the prevailing specific conversion factors.
1.    These costs do not reflect the full reality of the Borrower's investment effort.
During the same period, expenditure of another Rs 862.2 million ($24 million) on parts of
the project not included in the SAR definition have been reported. Since this figure does
not include hydro-electric development and several other investments, it is obvious that
actual UKP investments during the period have been significantly higher than the Rs
21,443.7 million ($597 million) reported.
1.    They do however, show what the returns to investments in SAR Phase II works
would be if the Phase II area is completed by 2000 except for the field drains and land
shaping but other areas are not. The $20,581.5 million cost figure is more closely related
to the benefits described above, yet they contain investments which will bear fruit only if
future irrigation phases (and hydropower developments) are completed.
1.    While most costs are straight forward, a few  merit special mention.
Compensation for land and other asseis lost due to flooding, canal construction, etc., is a
transfer from government to the lard/asset loser. Per se, it is a financial cost to
government, a financial benefit to the PDF, and neither a cost nor a benefit to the Indian
economy. The loss of land and other assets, however is real, to India, to the PDF (at least
until compensated) and, once compensation has been paid, to government. The SAR
considered land compensation to be a poor proxy for the value of farmland lost. It
disregarded this compensation as an economic cost and made its own estimate of the
economic value of that loss. Compensation practices have changed, however. The
mission examined the consent-award procedure now practiced and concluded that it is
close to market valuation -- hence a fair proxy for the economic cost of lost land
(considerably higher, incidentally, than the SAR estimate).
121



Appendix 6
Page 5 of 6
1.    Similarly, the various grants to PDFs are taken to be a fair approximation of the
real "frictional" or "transitional" costs of displacement. Estimating these is notoriously
subjective. There is no evidence that impostors are passing themselves off as PDFs in
order to get LPG or IGS rehabilitation grants under the project -- which indicates that the
transition package is certainly not believed to be more than the economic transitional cost
of displacement. Implementation of the rehabilitation part of R&R has been defective;
clearly not all PAFs have regained or bettered their pre-project standard of living within a
reasonable time. By the end of the project period, the value of LPG and IGS had declined
considerably in real terms. Furthermore, as already discussed (see Annex 5, para 29),
economic rehabilitation entitlements are being awarded in stages, as progressively greater
area of village land is acquired along the contours of acquisition based on the area
notified each year. Phase II LPG and IGS costs are recognized to be an underestimate of
the ultimate impact of resettlement even on villages already affected in Phase II.
Nevertheless, given the absence of Phase III figures, for computation of rates of return on
Phase II costs, GOK's R&R grants have been taken as a proxy for the transitional cost of
resettlement.
Financial and Economic Returns
1.    The project had unsatisfactory returns. Assuming that the present unfinished state
of land shaping and field-drain construction continues, the financial IRR is 0% and the
economic IRR is 5%. Without discounting, in financial terms, cumulative benefits would
equal cumulative costs by 2020 or 2021, project year 33. In economic terms, break-even
would be reached in 2010 or 2011, project year 22.
1.   If land leveling and FD construction had happened as planned, then the financial
IRR would have been 3% and the economic IRR would have been 8%. Financial break-
even would have been achieved in 2013/14 (year 25) and economic break-even in 2007/8
(year 19).
Financial         Economic
Actual FDs & Land-shaping              0%                  5%
Planned FDs & Land-shaping             3%                  8%
1.    Of the returns anticipated in 1989 (11%), about half have been lost due to
implementation lags and cost over-runs and about half due to failure to shape farmland
and to install drainage as planned and agreed.
1.    These figures show (a) the high social and financial cost of spending on
investments far in advance of hypothetical benefits; (b) the high social and financial cost
of failing to complete what is started in a timely fashion (here the FDs and land shaping);
and (c) the high social and financial cost of displacement at dam sites that are far from
ideal. The mediocre quality of the Nararayanpur and Almatti sites is shown by the ratio
of land benefited by irrigation to land lost by flooding, by the relatively low drop for
122



Appendix 6
Page 6 of 6
hydropower, by the shallowness of the reservoirs, and by the length of the dams,
particularly Narayanpur.
1.    These rates would, no doubt, be better if the Borrower shared information
regarding Phase III and the subsequent stage. However, these developments are hardly
assured. Moreover, most Stage II irrigation involves pump lifts that compromise its
economic value so that constructing it. might not generate net economic benefits.
123



A~ppendx 6
JINDIA                                                                                                            Table El
-  Upper Krishna 11 Irrigation Project
-lpeetton Cd om pietion R-ep4r
~Summary ofm Fia-ncial And Economic Prices
<JRsikg unless otherwise indicated>
Agricultural Outputs        Financial Economic          Agricultural Inpt  ___       Financial Economi c   __ Non-agricultuiral Costs Financialleconomic adjustment
traditional jwar (sorghum)5.45,    6.47        Tfarm labor (before & without projict) <Id 32  28.       Irrigation constr_uc_tion         0.79
-hybridjolwar                    3.65~  6.47,          farm labor (with project)</day>     3       333Irrigation O&M0.
traditional jowar todd~r  0.5'  ___.5L         bullock parlabor <Idoy>           100        90Machinery & equipme t                       0.79,
hybrid jowar fodder             --0.351__ 0.315]       ;m-ur300on                                  2701          R&R components                   0.85!___
tr-a d i-tio6n-al ar     -         41    4.95     ~     nitrogen fertilizer </kg of N20   9.5    17.93           CDAOF  &FD 
improved bajra        3.5   _ 4.9~    ~~5"   phsht etlzr<kgo  25>               i      23            Other CADA, Health, WALMI nori-const 0.9
traditionalbajr_a fod-de'r        0.3     0.27          potash fertilizer <1kg of K20>    6.5    10.72      -    Establishment                     0.7
improved bajra fodder            0.6      0.54          pesticides <the>            variable; see tables 
maize     -                        6      6.54         irrigation </ha of different crops> variable; see tables          -
mazefoder                    ___      0.0721         traditioa joa    d______                                                                 _______
tur (kharif pulses)7              25     T.5hbi oa  ed__2   _                                        5___                                   ____
tur fodder                        0.4     0.36        -barsed2                                    385
groundnut                        11.5    11.48          maize seed                         30       :33        --
g-ro6u-ndnut fodder              d.-       6_435                                                   31.5
sunflower                          9.5       9.5          groundnut seed                    30        22
yagetables               ~~30      27          traditional sunflower seed    _    40~   36
cotton                            14     21 89'        improveid snflower s-eed     I      00       901__
wheat                       6.5-      5.81        vegetable seed                    10        250
wheat fodder            ~~~~~~~0.6  --0.SK4    traditional cotton see~            30        39 ___-
wheat fodder                                             eec~~__________     34
chickpeas                ~~~     ~~~~1-2-    10.8   -- improved cotton seed      3501     35
chickpea fodder                   0.       .5wheat seed                                    20     9.45
safflower                         8.5      8.5          chickpea seed                      35       20          --
safflower seed                    20        18j



Appendix 6
__                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~Upper Krishna Irrigation II Projectbe  -
~. I    . Implementation Completion Report    -. 
-                          I~~~~~~~~~~~__SAR Pha_se II_C_o_sts (Financial)~    .-        
<Millions current Rs>
-  -    - -   ~~~89/90   - 90/91  91/92  2/3      93/94    94/95   '95/96      96/97     979       89  _  99,00       00/01 iff
IM a chiNMer& tq u-ipmnt     15.1      14.71      7.5     27.2      31.8 -    39        58       6 0.7     1.6___-   _
_Dam&-Re-servoir              11.41    17.9      46.4     6.       179       172.8 L 261.4    223.7        15.21___    _______
Canals & Branches           182       135.5    299.1    168.8    714.5    484.5j    867.7   2158.7    286.9'__    ____
Distributaries               56.63   106.5!14.           254       515      760.51   854.21   1087.1      7.
FiCs                          16.6     11.3       7.0    118.01    78.4'   121.2    199.5.:  229.9.    33.5
Roads &Bridges                17.4     22.7      64.1    128.6    169.8    175.7,   15 4-.5-   -1 41-.5    14.2
Buildings                    60.0      55.6      54.6     59.8    150.51   153.0       42.81      5.9      7.0   _____
Anti-malaria Program        __--                           __                  4.4      08.'                18
R&R Land Com~~~~II~dtion              ino.u 124.2,        23.1!    2.6    184.11   276.21    100.71  
Rehabilitation Centers         2.5      4.9       9.3      5.9 -   38.81   112.2       36.2    103.91    18.0
R&R ex Gratia                  0.0      0.9       8.5      5.5'      0.2                        187.9       2.7
N)R&R Contingent Plan                                                                              39.1
uJ1  CADAAOn-_far_m Development   29.6,     29.9     27.1      37.7      20.2
CADA Training     ____         0.8      0.7'i   Y0       .9          101.      1    -P-    .9- -----0.2-._                  _-        -__
CADA Studies & Research       2.2i3                        15        2 __63             6.         V0       F_    _ _
Master Drainage Plan                                                                    4.0 4.0
CADA Fi-e-ld Dra-ins           0.4      0.9       6.0       2.6      0.7       0.3                0.0
WA-LMA                                            6.9     10.1       3.0       3.6      6.9       4.8       1.2
Project Maintenance           14.      14.4!    19.3      22.9      21.9     29.0,     47_3  60.2~   15.9                    _____
Establishment & Stock       155.0]    179.5  285.01    :36:8.'3    744I. 577                              167
Phase II Completiion:  -          }I-__-___                                                                              .             _  -
Almatti Dam                                         _____210.'__
Canals                                                                                                                         It -- ~ __-i-__    _991 191 4.
R&R        --_                                        --,-__-2100.0    83.0'
PostP-97Irrigation O&M                               .____i______                                          5.5;    28.5       34.5,    35.5
TOTAL                       624.71    723.3- _1148.2'1_f48_4.27   2_997.~'  3114.2,  3581.3   6154      307_ 046              78.21     35.



Appendix 7
Page I of 13
COMMENTS ON DRAFT FINAL ICR,
GOVERNMENT OF KARNATAKA REGARDING UKP (PHASE-II)
IRRIGATION PROJECT (CR 2010-IN/LN 3050-IN)
IRRIGATION
1.0  Introduction
The Upper Krishna (Phase II) Irrigation project is part of a long term program to
irrigate one million hectares in Karnataka's arid northern districts which started in 1965.
Under Credit 788-IN, Narayanapur dam was completed during the period 1978-86. Now
Almatti Dam is in final stage of construction and the works are almost completed except
for erection of spillway gates and spillway bridge. Impounding of water in Almatti
reservoir is programmed to be started from June 1999. Irrigation potential has been
created from Narayanpur Left bank Canal, Indi Branch Canal, Shahapur Branch Canal
and Mudbal Branch Canal to an extent of 2,33,885 Ha. up to the end of March 1977 [sic,
presumably refers to 1997]. Out of which an area of 1,53,049 Ha. has been notified
during Khariff 96 and 1, 35, 528 Ha. during Rabi 1996-97. The area actually irrigated is
72,369 Ha. and 88,744 Ha. during Khariff and Rabi season respectively during the year
1996-97.
2.0   Project Objectives
Shahapur Branch Canal with its distributors and FICs are completed in all
respects.  The construction program for completion of MBC, and IBC and their
distribution net works system with F.I.Cs. are in advance state of construction, and in all
probability they will be completed by June 1998 and an additional irrigation potential of
about 50,000 ha. will be created by June 1998. The progress achieved in creation of
potential is quite substantial. There is substantial increase in Agriculture production and
also farmers income will increase in the years to come. It is a long process to induce
farmers to change over from Rainfed Irrigation practices to Flow Irrigation system.
Employment generation will improve gradually with the change over in irrigation
practices. Latest techniques in technical and managerial aspects of project management
are being introduced by organizing training of the technical personnel by CADA and
WALMI organizations. A separate Design organization under Chief Engineer, (Designs
is functioning to look after constructional Design aspects of the project. A separate Zone
for O&M headed by Chief Engineer is functioning at present to look after 0&M activities.
It is also planned to expand further as and when more area is brought under irrigation.
126



Appendix 7
Page 2 of 13
2.2   Malaria Control
4 Anti Malaria Units, which were deployed in the command area are functioning
effectively. Anti Malaria activities are being regularly carried out to serve the total
population of 2,64,325 coming under AMU's of Almatti, Narayanpur, Kembhavi and
Bheemarayanagudi. It is also noticed that there is increase in the incidents of Malaria.
Action has been taken to mitigate the Malaria menace by taking proper anti-malaria
measures.   Change of insecticides from  Malathion to Deltamethrin has been
implemented. At present K-orthrin is used and found more effective. Gok is anxious to
control malaria and improve health conditions of people coming in this area.
At present there are 4 Antimalaria unites functioning in U.K.P. area i.e., (1)
Narayanapur, (2) Almatti (3) Kembhavi and (4) Bheemarayanagudi.
The Antimalaria Units i.e., Narayanapur and Almatti are showing increasing trend
of malaria and P.f. incidence contributing more than 90% Malaria cases reported in the
project area during 1995 to 1997.
Considering the Vector prevalence triple resistance of Vector and high malaria
with predominance of p.f. infection change of insecticides from Malathion to Synthetic
Pyrethroid (Deltamethrin) has been ilaken up in Almatti and Narayanapur area from
March 1998 for control of malaria in the project area. The incidence of Malaria is
expected to be brought down appreciably during 1998.
2.3   Irrigation
This will be improved by providing suitable intensive training in hydraulics and
water handling techniques. This will lead to higher yields and higher incomes, higher
farmer satisfaction and willingness to pay water rates. The higher user fees and improved
financial system will lead to a more effective O&M and better irrigation service.
3.0   Loan Covenants
As already stated above, Almatti Dam will be completed including erection of
gates by June 1999 and necessary budgetary provision is made from KBJNL funds. The
requirement of funds for completion of balance World Bank assisted works [not clear] is
met out from the funds of state budget. Irrigation facilities to utilize the stored water is
also being programmed to be completed simultaneously with the dam works and will be
completed (including distribution net wvork) by 2000 A.D. Ground Water, fluctuations are
being monitored by the M/s CES (India) Pvt. ltd., New Delhi, in 60 wells situated in the
command area and also by the CADA. authorities. Master drainage plan is prepared by
the above consultants for Rs. 74.75 crores and the drainage works will be taken up in
stages on par with the development of irrigation.
127



Appendix 7
Page 3 of 13
3.1    Water Rate
Collection of water rate is based on the type of crops and supply of water being
done at present. Two pronged action plans will be launched (i) by progressively
increasing the water rates which is applicable throughout the state) and (ii) minimizing
the cost of O&M.
4.0   Implementation Experience and Results
4.1   The major civil works were executed as per schedule and due importance was
given for the minor works also.
4.2   Operation & Maintenance irrigation System
Operation and maintenance of irrigation system is monitored and implemented in
areas where irrigation facilities are already provided. However, O&M will be further
refined with latest techniques in course of time for which training is under taken by
WALMI and CADA.
5.0   Project Sustainability
The O&M is sufficiently funded. The strategy here is to gradually increase the
water rates in a phased manner and reduce maintenance cost to the minimum extent thus
bringing the maintenance cost on par with the water rate. The water rates cannot be
increased at one stretch since the farmers have to become economically stable. In order
to educate the farmers about the economic use of water depending upon the type of soil
etc., they are trained at WALMI and CADA. WUS (Water user Society) are opened and
water will be charged by these societies on volumetric basis. The establishment of these
societies takes a little time and farmers are being educated about the harmful effects of
excessive use of water. By these measures the project will be sustained in the long run.
The water is regulated and released as per the demand of standing crops in the notified
area.
6.0   Actual Project Cost and Financing
The actual Phase-II expenditure upto 30.6.97 is Rs. 10885.873 million as against
Rs. 20581 million shown. It is expected to reach 17262.805 million (as per revised
implementation schedule, accepted by World Bank) and loan component utilized is
US$16.52 million as against US$6.8 million shown.
7.0   Economic Rate of Return
The economic and financial issues are intertwined and have their origin in current
irrigation related policies like water pricing, cost recovery and expenditure prioritization.
At present water charges are very low and since they have not been revised for more than
128



Appendix 7
Page 4 of 13
a decade, the financial return is not achieved. The suggestions regarding land shaping
and leveling will be implemented gradually with the help of financial institutions at the
beginning and finally by the farmers themselves, once they become financially stable.
8.0   Bank's Performance
The statement given by the 'World Bank that, GOK has given priority to the
construction of the dam and allied works over R&R works is not correct.  The
construction of Dam and allied works is also slightly behind, R&R works suffered
because of suspensions imposed by World Bank. However, all efforts have been made by
GOK to expedite R&R works.
9.0   Borrower's Performance
The award made by the KWDT allocating water to Karnataka is due to come up
for review after May 2000 AD. The state therefore had to protect its future interests by
utilizing the allocated water. Therefore, the GOK took all measures necessary to
complete the physical works of the prcject.
10.0  Project Outcome
As already explained in paras above, there is no premature raising of Almatti
Dam. In fact, it is slightly behind schiedule. However, the suggestions made regarding
canal operation, land shaping and drainage are being attended to. It is being done by
educating the farmers, establishing the WUA's, providing loaning facilities from financial
institutions.
11.0 Summary of Findings
The progress of work is affected due to suspension of World Bank assistance
twice. Due to this, extension of benefits to farmers is delayed there by affecting the
economy. The covenants where the deficiencies are observed will be monitored and
implemented eamestly so as to yield desired results.
The master drainage plan is prepared by MWs. CES (Pvt.) Ltd., New Delhi and it is
under active consideration for implementation.
12.0  Future Operation
Almatti Dam will be completed including erection of gates by June 1999 and the
balance works in canals and distributories net works will be completed by 2000 A.D.
Regarding drainage, land leveling, rotational water supply has been discussed in the
following paras. Storing of water in Almatti Dam and actual utilization of irrigation
1.29



Appendix 7
Page 5 of 13
potential created on NLBC with its branch canals is the strategy of the state to protect its
interests.
13.0 Key Lessons Learnt
(a)   Agreed with the suggestions made by World Bank [unclear: who has agreed with
what suggestions] but it is to be noted that their suggestions are to be considered only in
light of the circumstances and socio-economic background of PDF's.
(b)   Agreed with World Bank comments.
(c)   Agreed with World Bank comments.
(d)   Though the comments are factually correct, the leveling of land and providing
drains can only be made after allowing water to the land and based on the actual ground
reality.
(e)   Though the suggestions made are acceptable, implementation of coherent
irrigation sector strategy is very difficult in a macro level project, like UKP.
COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
1.0   Water User's Societies
Some of the Phase-I and Phase-II areas have been jointly identified for developing
pilot Water Users Societies (WUS's) by the officers of the CADA, ID and WALMI.
Necessary backgrounds information has been collected and village level meetings have
been organized. Thus the process of development of Water Users Societies has been
started, and a Steering Committee under chairmanship of administrator CADA been
formulated to oversee the development of WUS's.
WUS's will be promoted gradually as it is a new concept in making the farmers
responsible for judicious and cooperative utilization of water among themselves.
Rotational water supply system will be introduced through WUS as the implementation
of the RWSS will be more effective by the active participation and involvement of the
beneficiaries. This allows the benefit of learning, adjusting and mid-course correction in
program design and implementation of proper use of water.
Though about 50 Water Users Societies have been formed, only two of them are
ready to take over the water management by themselves. However, even these two are
130



Appendix 7
Page 6 of 13
not given the management since the Irrigation Act has to be amended before an MOU is
signed by them and necessary action is taken in this regard.
2.0    On Farm Development Works (OFD)
(a)   At present institution financing and credit system for OFD works is in practice.
However, as per the. suggestion made in ICR, alternative sources for financing the OFD
works will be explored and implemented as GOK is quits concerned about the necessity
of implementation of OFD works for maximizing the agriculture production with
minimum wastage of water.
(b)   Land Leveling
Out of the 1,20,000 ha. of lamd brought under irrigation only about 62,000 ha.
have been actually leveled and landscaped by farmers. It takes about 20 days for a pair of
bullocks to level one acre of land to 0.2% gradient while it takes about 5 days for a
tractor. there are about 2,000 tractors in the Gulbarga UKP area and it costs unto Rs.
4,000 per acre for flat-bed leveling by tractor for paddy. The cost of a tractor is about Rs.
5.00 lakhs. It is estimated that out of the 4.25 lakh hectares of irrigable command of
UKP, the slopes are:
0 to 1%            64,000 ha.
I to 2%            191,000 ha.
2 to 3%            106,000 ha.
> 3%             64,000 ha.
425,000 ha.
It is also estimated that institutional finance was available for only 24,175 ha. for
land leveling and the balance of 37,270 ha. was leveled by farmers themselves, making a
total land leveling of only 61,445 ha. It is also estimated that the financial requirement
for leveling the land in Stage-1 is Rs. 230 crores. More than 90% of the farmers are said
to be ineligible for getting institutional credit as they are defaulters of loans taken earlier.
If leveled, the question arises, as to how the balance area is irrigated without leveling. It
is not as if the entire balance of area is less than 1% slope and therefore requires little or
no leveling. This is being seriously considered by both agriculture and cooperative
departments.
3.0   Field Irrigation Channel
(i) The FIC's were also constracted to an extent of 6000 KM in the UKP Phase-II
command area as against target of 6400 KM.
131



Appendix 7
Page 7 of 13
4.0   Field Drains and Land Shaping
61,448 ha. of land has been leveled and for 25,120 ha. drainage facilities are
provided. The FD's and land shaping for the remaining area will be done by motivating
the farmers in a phased manner, as this is a slow process and involvement of farmers is
required. Besides, the farmers in this area are used to agriculture under dry conditions
and they have to switch over to wet irrigation conditions. There will be gradual
switching over, to new environment.
5.0   Key Factors Relating to Achievement of Projects Objective
The inference drawn by the World Bank may have to be reviewed in the light of
Government of Karnataka's policy to accord highest priority for utilizing its share of
Krishna water before 2000 A.D. and thus protecting its interest. At the beginning it was
planned to implement all the components such as Almatti Dam, major canals, drainage,
agriculture support and R&R. The progress of dam and canal works were 85 to 90%
because it was funded by World Bank. OFD works lagged behind because farmers had to
depend on financial institutions who were reluctant to finance this component. However,
there will be an improvement in implementation of OFD works when the farmers are
educated in wet irrigation, trained properly and when they understand the importance of
OFD works. However, OFD works can only be implemented only when the water is
allowed on the land. Hence there is a likely time gap between the construction of Dam
and implementation of OFD works. The World Bank may consider this aspect before
drawing a conclusion. World Bank's assistance for OFD works is much desirable.
Concept of NGO's participation at village level is a new one and particularly in
the field of agriculture. A net work of NGO's is yet to develop in this part of Kamataka.
REHABILITATION & RESETTLEMENT UNDER UKP
1.0   Lease of Land under R&R
The ICR states that the State Government has not issued long term lease for
cultivation of submerged lands to the former owners although the farmers are cultivating
the lands informally. The practice of the State Government has been one of not
disturbing the cultivation of the acquired lands by its former owners. This is because
their acquired lands have not been actually submerged all these years although they were
acquired long back (nearly 10 years ago). Giving a long term lease would mean giving
legal title to the former owners over the land which is contradiction in terms. The lands
are acquired for submergence under the Land Acquisition Act. They cannot be diverted
for any other purpose. Giving lease means the land is available for cultivation and
diverted for the purpose. In such cases, the courts can set aside the acquisition of those
132



Appendix 7
Page 8 of 13
lands if they are diverted for other purposes. Secondly a "long term" is an indefinite
phrase. How long is "long" is an uncertain condition. If the project is completed early
and the water is stored the "long" becomes short and the lease holder will have to be
compensated again suitably for the loss during the remaining lease period. Thirdly,
administration of lease itself is a curmbersome exercise. Fourthly, the land owners have
not been physically dispossessed at all except when and where the water levels rise
during the floods. If the crops on the lands are submerged when the lease is in effect, the
Government also has to compensate for the loss of crops. For all these reasons the land
owners have not been disturbed from cultivating the lands and they have not suffered any
loss of account of not getting formal lease of lands. Therefore, this comment is not fair
and the state government does not accept it
2.0   R&R Plan: - Present v/s Past
The ICR takes stock of R&R programs in the Phase-II project from the inception
to the end. In doing so, it has discovered major deviations introduced later into the policy
compared to the basic principles of R&R laid down in the covenants of the project. For
instance, cash substitute for grant of replacement land in the command area, fixed cash
grants, non-involvement of NG's etc. The ICR indicts the World Bank for having agreed
to these changes in the midterm review of the R&R policy. It holds that the frequent
changes in the World Bank Supervisory staff is the cause of this debacle. Further, in
more than one place, the ICR has stated that the World Bank supervision mission
concentrated on the engineering components of the work until it became too late to
realize that the R&R components have lagged far too behind. Thirdly, as a consequence
of the first two lapses on the part of the World Bank, the ICR mentions that the civil
works progressed faster and for ahead of R&R works. While these observations are
factually true, they only amount to judging the old norms in the light of the changed
circumstances which is not fair.
3.0   Evaluation of the Project Obje ctives
The storage at Narayanpur is to cater to the needs of 1,80,000 ha. It was
programmed to create an irrigation potential of 83,210 ha. during 1997-99. In order to
meet the requirement of water for this additional area, the storage at Almatti is essential at
least to the level of 500,010 M. Hence the dam has to be raised to this level. As per
SAR, the R&R is to be implemented synchronizing with the raising of Almatti Dam. By
raising Almatti Dam to crest level of 509,016 M, 95 villages will be affected. Out of this,
54 villages will be fully submerged and 41 villages partially affected. As per SAR 54
villages will be shifted with all facilities and for 41 villages contingency plan is to be
prepared and implemented. During all these years of construction of Almatti Dam this
plan is being executed and none of the PDF's have been affected due to the flood. Hence
GOK has adhered to its commitment of rehabilitating PDF's in these villages.
133



Appendix 7
Page 9 of 13
4.0   Submergence without Acquisition
In paragraph 15 in Appendix-V, it is stated that the 40 percent of the structures in
rural and 18 percent in urban area of Almatti Dam are yet to be compensated for although
a significantly high proportion of structures to be acquired is already submerged. This is
not a correct statement since not even a singly unacquired structure is submerged. In para
4 of the same appendix, it is stated that "under UKP, Almatti will affect 54 villages fully
and 41 villages partly as well as part of Bagalkot town". The Government decided in
November 1995 that the unaffected houses and other structures in the partly affected
villages should also be acquired in Phase-II itself. Accordingly, all those villages were
declared as fully affected although most portions were not to be affected in Phase-II and
were expected to be submerged in Phase-III and Stage-II of the project. The acquisition
that was in progress covering 40 percent of the left over structures was for Phase-III and
not for Phase-II of the project. Same observations apply to Bagalkot town also. This
comment is therefore not accepted by the Government. Similarly, the ICR notes in para
14 of Appendix-V that unacquired lands in Mallapur, Mugalolli, Bennur, Baluti and
Kaladagi villages were submerged during the 1997 monsoon. This statement is only
marginally true. The total extent of lands submerged without acquisition during 1997
floods was 1500 acres. But most of such lands were Government lands along both sides
of the river. These lands were encroached over the years by adjoining land owners who
had sown the crops. The Government does not acquire its own lands. The encroacher is
not entitled to compensation. Only about 200 acres of unacquired land was submerged.
Therefore the statement should be corrected accordingly. Nevertheless all these lands
have now been acquired and paid for as part of Phase-III work.
5.0   RC Outside Command Area
The ICR criticizes location of Rcs outside the command area and closer to the
submerging area. It recommends shifting of the people and providing lands to them in
the command area.  In principle, there is no disagreement on these points.  But
particularly in respect of Almatti Dam the situation is peculiar. First of all, the Almatti
Dam is a storage reservoir which feeds water to Narayanpur reservoir 60 Kms
downstream. The command area is nearly 150-200 Kms. away from the submerging
area. Secondly, most of the command area is not ready. It will take 3-5 years for the
command area to develop after the completion of the dam and the reservoir. Thirdly, a
majority of the people in this area are reluctant to permanently move out and settle in far-
flung areas away from their know habitats. For all these reasons PDFs do not like their
Rcs to be far away. They refuse to select sites in distant localities. The Government
cannot force them to go as far away as it likes. Therefore, most of the Rcs are not in the
command area and they are closer to the submerging areas. It was possible to persuade
30 of the villages to choose sites closer to the urban centers located near the submerging
area. The noble intention and academic advice in the ICR are well taken but their
conversion into reality is difficult. If people are not consulted, the Government is
criticized for not involving the people. On the other hand, if RCs are selected as per the
134



Appendix 7
Page 10 of 13
peoples' choice, the World Bank experts hold the Government responsible for not
locating the Rcs in the command area. This is an unfair stand.
6.0   Resettlement Centers
The work in the Rcs is in brisk progress. This is because for the first time, the
villages living in the submerging areas, realized during the 1997 monsoon season to their
peril that these lands and homes were submerging due to the increasing level of water in
the raising Almatti Dam. Emergency operations were taken up under the leadership of
the commissioner R&R and land Acquisition, the district administration and the ID, to
shift the en-gulfed people to safer grounds. This has led to the change in the attitude of
the villagers of the submerging villages bowing to the inevitable: The following is the
progress of Resettlement works. Out of the 68 resettlement centers targeted in Phase-II
66 have been established as at end of January 1998. In 52 RCs, all facilities such as
approach roads, internal roads, drains, culverts, water supply, electricity, demarcated
sites, open areas, avenue trees and public buildings for schools, teacher's quarters, public
toilets for men and women, panchayat building and public health unit have been
provided. In the remaining 14 centers, all other facilities except buildings are provided
and the buildings are nearing completion. Two centers are delayed due to court litigation
and local feuds. However, more than half the RCs are yet to be occupied by the Project
Displaced Families.
7.0   Rehabilitation and Resettlement
Notional partition of PDFs: The original legal covenants for Phase-II project
(SAR, DCA and PA) did not specify provision of separate house sites for major sons of
the PDFs. This was brought in midterm review at the instance of the World Bank
experts. Additional house sites of smaller dimension were provided to the major sons.
This presumes notional partition between major sons and parents and a major son is one
who has attained the age of 18 years. In the Indian rural society; it is not customary for
the major son to move out of the family of origin as soon as he comes of age. Joint
family system still prevails. The socio-economic surveys of the PDFs have revealed that
more than 1/3rd of all families are still joint families with final and filial members in it.
By introducing notional partition and separate house sites for major sons, the R&R policy
has become a major divisive force in destroying the joint family system in submerging
villages. From the practical point of view, in the Rcs it is not always possible to allot
house plots to major sons and main PDFs side by side. They get physically also
separated in the layouts. Without much critical thinking, the State Government was made
to accept the provision of additional sites to major sons which is largely inappropriate to
the Indian rural setting. It only implies a strong western bias of the World Bank experts
in recommending R&R packages. This needs to be remedied in the future R&R project if
joint family system is not to be destroyed.
8.0   Linear and Blue Print Approac,hes: Blueprint approach Vs flexible approach and
linear approach vs non-linear approach are the two points which the ICR report mentions.
135



Appendix 7
Page 11 of 13
In the linear approach, the report finds fault with the sequential actions and program
schedules starting from land acquisition, preparation for physical relocation, distribution
of entitlements, shifting of PDFs and starting of economic rehabilitation programs.
Similarly, the ICR indicts the blue print approach which involves sequential steps, time-
bound programs and target oriented performance. It recommends a more flexible and
long term approach to economic rehabilitation. Similarly, it suggests non-linear and
simultaneous actions for physical relocation as well as economic rehabilitation. On these
points, theoretically there is not much of disagreement but practically it is difficult to
think of a total economic rehabilitation before people have moved out of their
submerging villages. If they continue to live in the submerging villages, no matter how
much training is given, how much money is pumped in, how much of consultation and
guidance is offered for their economic rehabilitation, there is bound to be a certain
amount of economic disruption when they move out of the new locations. The advance
preparation, training, and guidances may reduce some of the hardships and
inconveniences. But they will not totally take away the disruptive aspects. Therefore,
some amount of linearity in approach is unavoidable although it is definitely possible to
initiate certain preparatory actions to redress the future hardship on account of economic
disruption even when the PDFs have not yet moved out of the submerging area. To that
extent, linear approach combined with advance preparatory actions, simultaneous with
physical relocation or even before physical relocation could be a better solution.
Similarly, to totally flexible approach without any regard to the physical targets and time
schedules will be a totally vague and indefinite approach. Certain amount of flexibility is
necessary, but in the name of flexibility totally discarding targets and time schedules is
impractical. Therefore a flexible time schedule and flexible target oriented approach is
more appropriate than either extremes of absolute target oriented approach or absolutely
flexible indefinite approach.
The economic rehabilitation and the utilization of Income Generation Scheme
Grants are poor. This is because the PDFs are still to completely shift to the RCs and also
are still to plan for new economic pursuits. In this they have to be guided by NGOs,
Financial Institutions and the Government Departments. Some of the new economic
pursuits facilitated in other rehabilitation projects in India are, workshops with lathes,
sheet metal works, driving, garment-making, plumbing, electrical equipment repairs,
wiring and motor rewinding, book-binding, carpentry and lamination, candle-making,
grocery-shops, pottery, aluminum and plastic household utensils making, computer-
training, dairying, cycle-repair shops, small trading shops, idol-making, wood-crafts,
driving motor vehicles and tractors, security guards, food products and bakery. For all
these new avocations, the second generation of the rehabilitated farmers will be more
amenable and training them will therefore be a prime requisite. Free training and seed
capital to set them on these lines of professions and small business is necessary.
Advance Economic Rehabilitation: The ICR has repeatedly insisted on
economic rehabilitation and physical relocation of the PDFs and PAFs long before their
displacement instead of following a linear approach as done by the Government of
Kamataka. While this stand of the ICR is laudable, it invariably lacks the adequate
136



Appendix 7
Page 12 of 13
knowledge of ground realities and sounds hollow like an academic statement for the
following reasons: Almost all PDFs have not and will not shift until and unless they are
threatened with actual submergence of their houses and lands. Further, a large number of
PDFs who have built their houses in the RC's have continued to live in the submerging
villages even now. In the partly affected villages, the PDFs are not at all bothered to
receive title deeds for house lots, to utilize the House Construction Grant, and to shift to
the RCs or elsewhere. Consequently thLe ICR in para 26 of appendix 5 stages "the project
has provided house sites to 60 percent of PDFs 55 percent in Almatti and 85 percent in
Narayanpur and deposited HCG for 76 percent PDFs in joint accounts, much of it during
last one year. Over 20 percent PDFs have constructed new houses in RCs and another 10
percent is on the way". This state of affairs is because of the reluctance of the PDFs to
move out and make arrangements in advance. In spite of repeated village meetings and
persuasion of the rehabilitation officers most PDFs are still reluctant to move out in
advance including those who have built houses in the RCs. The contingency plan during
the floods becomes inevitably under such circumstances. The reasons for not moving out
in advance are many. Even where a]l infrastructure in the RCs is ready, 100 percent
shifting has not taken place except where the respective villages have actually faced
submergence. This is true not only in UKP but almost in every other project in the
country. Moreover, people tend to go back to the submerged village and lands as and
when they are open when the reservoir water recede. One of the reasons is sentimental
attachments to the ancestral sites and properties. Other reason is draw-down cultivation
which is closest to their submerged vil'lages. For all these reasons, it can't be argued that
people have not shifted because arrangements are not there. Until people move out of
their submerging villages, no meaningful resettlement or rehabilitation could be possible.
Therefore, an amount of linearity in approach is unavoidable. Advance resettlement and
rehabilitation is possible in theory and difficult in practice particularly in irrigation
projects.
AGRICULTURE
1.0   Agriculture
Due attention will be given to improve the agriculture by educating farmers and
emphasizing the necessity of using water judiciously and the adverse effect of water
logging and salanization if excessive water is used.
2.0   Project Impact
The incremental production and net value added may not to the expectation of
World Bank [unclear] but there is a slow and gradual improvements of the situation. This
is mainly because the farmers have to switch over from dry system of irrigation to wet
system of irrigation. The land shaping and drainage is being gradually undertaken in
saline affected aras. land shaping in also undertaken through financial institutions. By
137



Appendix 7
Page 13 of 13
active cooperation of the agriculturists, once they get convinced, land shaping will be
taken up by them voluntarily, as it is observed in other projects in the state.
The PAP's comprises of not only agriculturists but also skilled labors, small scale
merchants, artisans, etc. They will be benefited when the agriculture income increases,
which takes some time. The assessment of World Bank in this regard may be reviewed
with reference to other projects in India and other countries. The rehabilitation package is
finalized as per the norms of the World Bank and is being implemented.
138



MAP SECTION



IBRD 19864R
I'S.IA1~SI.~
UPPER KRISHNA PROJECT
IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE
,O)  '\ToJ.iv                                                                                                                                               0       10       00       00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  0  q 1
IF                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOM.T.RS
TOase 1OO,i  ,197 )  1  Irrigation C                             anals C- eonsDr--  HiMajra                                    CANA
Gralvity Irgtion1Stge I.d..                        .       ..          ---                                                        DI St             er  I Ct         inlBudre
IRPuGAmIpN AREASB                          IRRIGA        CANALS                         Pp       P i         ont                            dT
Irrigation Canals 
Phase-tt--Protect)  Distributaries                 Foisting  aandReservdir                     Rait
PhaseTIt.(Remainder at Stage t)              Future                               =     hoisting Tunnels                   --       Dsrc-Budre
B     E     L! G    A    U    M ~ ~   ~      tgeI                                            Saei ByndPas  I                 ~        RvrsSat   oodre
Gravty trigtion~  Stge t                                                      -  -   nteratioalAoundrie
'T_ R  -C                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PRADESHPup rrgaio  Fisin
udh.1 ~  ~      ~       ~      ~      Iriato  Cnl
Dintribatarien         dd.b.
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V  k~ ~ ~         ~ ~ ~ ~~~~t..n~m.,rhO..j.oMOo.
'Z~~~~~~~~ 13.g.1kt                                                              BANK       _41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEROR   7



