Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2010 IN
           (Upper Krishna (Phase II) Irrigation Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 16, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2010 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1989, between  INDIA, acting by its
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has  also  requested the International Bank
for  Reconstruction  and   Development   (the   Bank)  to  provide
additional assistance towards the financing  of the Project and by
an agreement of even  date  herewith  between the Borrower and the
Bank (the Loan Agreement),  the  Bank  is agreeing to provide such
assistance in  an  aggregate  principal  amount  equivalent to one
hundred sixty-five million dollars ($165,000,000) (the Loan);
     (C)  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by  the  State  of
Karnataka (Karnataka) with the  Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower  will make available to Karnataka
Page  2
the proceeds of the Credit  as  provided in this Agreement and the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement;
     (D)  by an agreement of even date herewith among the Associa-
tion, the Bank  and  Karnataka  (the Project Agreement), Karnataka
has agreed to  undertake  certain  obligations  in  respect of the
carrying out of the Project; and
     (E)  the Borrower and the  Association  intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of  the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of eligible expenditures for the
Project before disbursements are made  of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in the Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement"  means  the  agreement  of even date
herewith  among  the  Association,  the  Bank  and  the  State  of
Karnataka, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes  all  schedules  and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Loan Agreement" means the  agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and  the  Bank  for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the "General Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments" of the Bank,  dated  January  1,  1985,  as applied to such
agreement, and all  schedules  and  agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "Karnataka" means the  State  of  Karnataka,  a State of
India, or any successor thereto;
     (d)  "Upper  Krishna  Program"  means  the  program  for  the
development of  irrigation  in  an  area,  including approximately
425,000 ha in the first  stage, situated in northern Karnataka and
to be irrigated from the Almatti and Narayanpur reservoirs;
     (e)  "Project Area" means an area  of about 150,000 ha within
the Upper Krishna Program;
     (f)  "Phase I" or  "the  Karnataka  Irrigation Project" means
the Project described in Part  A  of Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit  Agreement  dated  May  12,  1978  between  India  and  the
Association for the  Karnataka  Irrigation Project (Credit 788-IN)
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time;
     (g)  "CADA" means the Command  Area Development Authority for
the Upper Krishna Program;
     (h)  "R  &  R   Government   Order"  means  Government  Order
Page  3
Number PWD 20 WBM dated March  3, 1989 issued by the Government of
Karnataka;
     (i)  "displaced person" means any  person, either land owning
or landless as defined in paragraphs  (l) and (m) of this Section,
who for at least one year prior  to the date of publication of any
notification under Section  4  of  the Borrower's Land Acquisition
Act, 1894, as amended, for  the  purpose of acquiring any land for
Phase I or for the  Project,  has  ordinarily been residing in, or
cultivating land, or carrying on any trade, occupation, or calling
or working for gain in the Project Area or the area in which Phase
I is carried out  and  who  would  be,  or has been, involuntarily
displaced from his or her usual  place of residence or work due to
such  land  acquisition   (including   for  road  construction  or
installation of main canals and distributaries);
     (j)  "displaced family" includes each adult displaced person,
his  or  her  spouse,  minor  children  and  other  dependents who
habitually resided in one household for at least one year prior to
the date of publication of any notification under Section 4 of the
Borrower's Land Acquisition Act, 1894, as amended, for the purpose
of acquiring any land for Phase I  or for the Project, or prior to
the displacement of such family, as the case may be;
     (k) "R&R Plan" means the plan  referred to in paragraph 1 (b)
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
     (l)  "land owning displaced person" or "land owning displaced
family" means a displaced  person  or  a  displaced family, as the
case may be, owning not more  than  10  ha but at least 0.25 ha of
land in the Project Area or Phase  I which, or a part of which, is
acquired for the purposes of the Project;
     (m)  "landless  displaced  person"   or  "landless  displaced
family" means a displaced  person  or  a  displaced family, as the
case may be, owning less than 0.25  ha of land in the Project Area
or Phase I which, or a part of which, is acquired for the purposes
of the Project;
     (n)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (o) "Rs." means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to one hundred  nineteen million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 119,000,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Reserve Bank
of India on terms and  conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing March 15,  1999  and  ending  September  15, 2023. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
September 15, 2008 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of
such principal amount,  and  each  installment thereafter shall be
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Page  5
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause Karnataka to perform in accordance with the
provisions  of   the   Project   Agreement   all  the  obligations
respectively set forth therein, shall  take  and cause to be taken
all  action,  including   the   provision  of  funds,  facilities,
services, land and  other  resources,  necessary or appropriate to
enable Karnataka to perform  such  obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any  action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall make  the  proceeds of the Credit and
the proceeds of the Loan available to Karnataka in accordance with
the Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance to
states.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by Karnataka pursuant  to  Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable   the   Association's   representatives   to
               examine such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of  this  Section for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year the report of such audit
Page  6
               by said auditors, of such  scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall have the Special Account for
each  financial  year  audited   in  accordance  with  appropriate
auditing principles consistently  applied  by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association  and  furnish  as soon as available,
but in any case not later  than  six  months after the end of each
year the report of such audit  by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Karnataka  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b) The R  &  R  Government  Order  shall  have been amended,
suspended, or repealed so  as  to  materially and adversely affect
the ability of Karnataka to carry out the Project.
     (c) As a result of events  which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which  shall  make  it improbable that Karnataka
will  be  able  to  perform  its  obligations  under  the  Project
Agreement.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.Ol  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.O1 (b) of the
General Conditions namely  that  all  conditions  precedent to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled other than
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association namely that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized  or  ratified  by  Karnataka,  and is legally
binding upon Karnataka in accordance with its terms.
Page  7
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04.  The  obligations  of  the  Borrower  under the
provisions of paragraph  5.02  of  this  Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date  on  which  the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  Any  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary  or  Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in  the  Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Department of Economic Affairs
          Ministry of Finance
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECOFAIRS                          953-313546
               New Delhi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Bilsel Alisbah
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
Page  8
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
                    the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of  the  Credit  and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage  of  expenditures  for  items so to be
financed in each Category:
                     Amount of      Amount of
                    the Credit      the Loan
                     Allocated      Allocated
                    (Expressed     (Expressed         % of
                      in SDR        in Dollar     Expenditures
Category            Equivalent)    Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)  Civil works    110,000,000    157,000,000   85%
(2)  Goods            2,000,000      3,000,000   100% of foreign
     (except food)                               expenditures;
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 65%
                                                 of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 for other
                                                 items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(3)  Consulting       3,000,000          -       100%
     services
(4)  Unallocated      4,000,000      5,000,000
                    ___________    ___________
     TOTAL          119,000,000    165,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above  no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures (i) prior to the  date  of this Agreement except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 1,200,000 may be made on  account of payments made for certain
expenditures incurred after March 1,  1988;  or (ii) in respect of
land.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are to increase agricultural
production, incomes and  direct  employment opportunities for some
one hundred thousand families in  the drought prone and relatively
arid  northern  part  of   Karnataka   through  the  expansion  of
irrigation for about 150,000 ha;  provide for the resettlement and
Page  9
rehabilitation of displaced persons  to  ensure the restoration or
the enhancement of their standard of  living up to or above levels
enjoyed by them prior to the commencement of the implementation of
the Project or Phase I, as the case may be; strengthen Karnataka's
technical and  managerial  skills  in  project  management and the
planning design,  construction  and  operation  and maintenance of
irrigation projects;  and  contribute  towards  an effective anti-
malaria campaign. The Project  is  the second phase of Karnataka's
long term plan for the development of irrigation through the Upper
Krishna Program and is a  continuation  of a first phase which was
implemented with assistance  provided  by  the Association for the
Karnataka Irrigation Project.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Irrigation
1. Almatti Dam
     Raising of the  Almatti  Dam  whose  construction began under
Part A(1) of Schedule  2  to  the Development Credit Agreement for
the Karnataka Irrigation Project by:
     (a)  raising the spillway to an elevation of 509 m;
     (b)  construction of piers to a final elevation of 528.76 m;
     (c)  provision of anchors  and  embedded  metal parts for the
future installation of radial gates;
     (d)  raising of the  left  embankment  to the final elevation
of 528.76 m and partial completion of the right embankment; and
     (e)  construction of a road bridge over the spillway section.
2.   Irrigation Development
     (a)  Completion of  the  distribution  system  of the Shahpur
Branch Canal;
     (b)  construction of a  major  portion  of  the Mudbal Branch
Canal together with associated distributaries;
     (c)  construction of  an  initial  part  of  the  Indi Branch
Canal together with associated distributaries;
     (d)  construction of field irrigation channels to serve about
150,000 ha consisting in part  of  areas to be developed under the
Project and in part of  areas  developed under Phase I where field
irrigation channels had not been constructed;
     (e)  improvement of main and  secondary drains in the Project
Area and the construction  of  field  drains  in  about 30% of the
Project Area to facilitate  removal  of excess rain and irrigation
water from such areas;
     (f)  improvement and  construction  of  all-weather  roads in
the Shahpur, Mudbal and Indi Branch command areas; and
     (g)  on-farm   development    including   landshaping,   farm
irrigation and farm drainage for  about  116,000 ha in Phase I and
Project Areas.
3.   Strengthening of Training Facilities
     (a)  Establishment of a  Water  and Land Management Institute
(WALMI) near Dharwar,  Karnataka,  to  provide  training mainly to
staff  of  Karnataka's   Irrigation   Department  and  Agriculture
Department in subjects relevant to irrigated agriculture including
land shaping, crop-water  relationships, irrigation management and
Page  10
monitoring of irrigation; and
     (b)  establishment  and  strengthening  of  Project  training
centers for training canal operators and farmers.
4.   Technical Assistance for Part A
     (a)  Photogrammetric mapping of about 650,000 ha covering the
remainder of potentially  irrigable  land  along the Krishna River
not mapped under Phase I;
     (b)  strengthening of (i)  planning  of future development of
the Upper Krishna Scheme, as  well as capability for, (ii) Project
operation  and  maintenance,  and  (iii)  Project  monitoring  and
evaluation;
     (c)  provision of  training  for  concerned personnel through
the Water and Land  Management  Institute and the Project training
centers;
     (d)  provision of  training  in  contract  administration and
supervision; and
     (e)  establishment of a management information system for the
Project.
Part B:  Resettlement and Rehabilitation
     Carrying out the resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced
persons to ensure the restoration or enhancement of their standard
of living up to or beyond the  levels enjoyed by them prior to the
commencement of the implementation of  the  Project or Phase I, as
the case may be, inter alia, by provision of the following without
prejudice to any other benefits  or rights to which such displaced
persons may be entitled under  any  other law or regulation of the
Borrower or Karnataka:
1.   Provision of 1.5 ha of irrigated  land in the command area or
non-irrigated land of equivalent productive potential to each land
owning displaced family all  of  whose  land has been acquired for
the purposes of the Project or Phase I.
2.   Provision, at  its  option,  to  each  land  owning displaced
family which is left after  acquisition  of  land owned by it with
either less than 1.5 ha of irrigated land or non-irrigated land of
equivalent productive  potential  of  either:    (a)  an ex-gratia
payment of Rs.10,000 for  an appropriate income-generating scheme;
or (b)  1.5  ha  of  irrigated  land  in  the command area or non-
irrigated land of equivalent  productive potential, in those cases
in which such family is unable to maintain such standard of living
from  income  derived  from   land  left  after  such  acquisition
including by  drawdown  cultivation  and  agrees  to  surrender to
Karnataka the remaining portion of its holding.
3.   Provision to each land  owning  displaced  family  which does
not fall under Part B(2) above  and  which  has lost a part of its
land and is left with more  than  1.5 ha of irrigated land or non-
irrigated   land   of   equivalent   productive   potential  after
acquisition of land for the  Project,  of an ex-gratia payment not
exceeding Rs.2,500 to  meet  up  to  25%  of  the  unit cost of an
appropriate income-generating  scheme  and  a  loan  not exceeding
Rs.7,500 to meet up to 75% of the unit cost of such scheme.
4.   Provision to  each  landless  displaced  family   whose work,
trade or business has been  adversely  affected as a result of the
Project or Phase  I,  at  its  option,  of  either  (a)  0.5 ha of
irrigated land  in  the  command  area  or  non-irrigated  land of
equivalent productive potential; or  (b)  an ex-gratia grant of at
least Rs.10,000 for an appropriate income-generating scheme.
5.   Provision of a house plot of 400 square meters at the site of
resettlement, free of  cost  to  each  displaced  family which has
Page  11
lost, or will lose its  house  as  a result of acquisition of land
for the Project.
6.   Provision  of  adequate  transportation,  free  of  cost,  to
displaced  persons  for   the   relocation  of  themselves,  their
livestock,  house  materials  and   other  belongings  from  their
original habitats to the sites of resettlement.
7.   Provision  to  all  displaced   families  relocating  to  new
agricultural land of a subsistence allowance to defray the cost of
food, medical care, fuelwood and fodder in the new location in the
first six months following relocation.
8.   Technical assistance to CADA  for  the training of CADA staff
in implementing Part B of  the  Project and for ongoing monitoring
and evaluation of Part B of the Project.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  mean Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $18,000,000 to be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
or the Loan Account and  deposited in the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and
deposit in the  Special  Account  such  amount  or  amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account or the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to  replenish  the  Special  Account  with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments  made  out of the Special Account
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit  Account  or from the Loan Account
under the eligible  Categories,  and  in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Page  12
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the
               Development  Credit  Agreement  or  from  the  Loan
               Account  in  accordance   with  the  provisions  of
               Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of
               the General Conditions applicable thereto; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of  the Credit and of
               the  Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible Categories,
               minus  the  amount   of   any  outstanding  special
               commitment entered into  by  the Association or the
               Bank pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of the respective
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit Account and the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and
the Loan allocated to  the  eligible  Categories shall follow such
procedures as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association or the Bank)  an  amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion  thereof not so eligible or justified.
No further deposit  by  the  Association  into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to  the  Association  or  the  Bank  such  outstanding  amount for
crediting to the Credit  Account  or  to  the Loan Account, as the
case may be.
