Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3050 IN
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2010 IN
           (Upper Krishna (Phase II) Irrigation Project)
                               among
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                        STATE OF KARNATAKA
                        Dated June 16, 1989
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   June   16,   1989,   among  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the  Bank) and STATE OF KARNATAKA,
acting by its Governor (Karnataka).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association (the  Development  Credit Agreement), the Associa-
tion has agreed to  make  available  to  the Borrower an amount in
various currencies  equivalent  to  one  hundred  nineteen million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR  119,000,000)  on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the  Development  Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that  Karnataka  agrees  to  undertake  such obligations
towards the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the  Bank  has  agreed to make available to
the Borrower an  amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to one
hundred sixty-five million  dollars  ($165,000,000),  on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condi-
tion that Karnataka   agree  to  undertake such obligations toward
Page  2
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
     (C)  the Project will be  carried  out  by Karnataka with the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower will make available  to  Karnataka    the proceeds of the
Credit as provided  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement and the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS  Karnataka,  in  consideration  of  the Association's
entering into the Development  Credit  Agreement with the Borrower
and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the  obligations  set forth in this Agree-
ment;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble  to  this  Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined  in  the  Loan Agreement and Development
Credit  Agreement,  respectively)  have  the  respective  meanings
therein set forth and wherever  used  in this Agreement (except in
Section 6.03 hereof) reference  to  the Association, the Credit or
the Credit Account shall  also  be  deemed  as  a reference to the
Bank, the Loan or the Loan Account, respectively.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a)  Karnataka  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
the Project with due  diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate  administrative,  financial, engineering, irriga-
tion  and  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  practices  and shall
provide, or cause to be  provided,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services, land  and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b) Without limitation upon  the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except  as the Association and Karnataka shall
otherwise agree, Karnataka shall carry  out  Part A of the Project
in  accordance  with  the  Implementation  Program  set  forth  in
Schedule 1  to  this  Agreement  and  Part  B  of  the  Project in
accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  Karnataka  shall  carry  out  or  cause  to be
carried out the  obligations  set  forth  in  Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08  of the General Conditions applicable to
the Development Credit  Agreement  and  Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09  of  the  General Conditions applicable to the
Loan Agreement (relating to insurance,  use of goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. (a)  Karnataka  shall,  at  the  request of the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of the  Project,  the  performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and  other  matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
Page  3
     (b) Karnataka shall  promptly  inform  the Association of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the  Project,  the  accomplishment  of the purposes of
Credit, or the performance  by  Karnataka of its obligations under
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section  3.01.  (a)  Karnataka  shall  maintain  records  and
accounts adequate  to  monitor  and  record  the  progress  of the
Project and reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition in respect of the Project.
     (b)  Karnataka shall:
          (i)  have its records and  accounts   for each financial
               year audited, in accordance with appropriate audit-
               ing principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, (A) certified copies of
               its  financial  statements  for  such  year  as  so
               audited, and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors of such scope  and  in  such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
     (c)  furnish  to  the   Association  such  other  information
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well
as the audit thereof, as  the  Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which  both  the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement become effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of  Karnataka  thereunder  shall  terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the  date  on  which  both  the  Development Credit
               Agreement and the Loan Agreement shall terminate in
               accordance with their respective terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit  Agreement  or the Loan Agree-
ment or both of said Agreements terminate in accordance with their
respective terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of
this Section, the Association  shall  promptly notify Karnataka of
this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension  under  the  General  Conditions  applicable  to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Page  4
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Karnataka:
          Secretary to the Government
            of Karnataka
          Department of Irrigation II
          Bangalore
          Karnataka, India
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                POWER                          953-845239
                Bangalore
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of  Karnataka  may  be  taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of  Karnataka  or such other person or
persons as Karnataka  shall  designate  in  writing, and Karnataka
shall  furnish  to  the  Association  sufficient  evidence  of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to Karnataka and so long as the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall not have  terminated  prior  to  the termination of the
Loan Agreement:
     (a)  the obligations of  Karnataka  to  consult  with, and to
furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and state-
ments to, the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent performance in
respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
     (b)  the obligations of  the  Bank  to  consult  with, and to
furnish information to, Karnataka shall be satisfied to the extent
such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
Page  5
     (c)  all actions taken (including  the giving of approvals or
granting of waivers) by  the  Association pursuant to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both
the Development Credit Agreement  and  the  Loan Agreement, and in
the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
     Section 5.04.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Bilsel Alisbah
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    STATE OF KARNATAKA
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                        Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
         Implementation Program for Part A of the Project
Almatti and Narayanpur Reservoirs and Dams
1.   Prior to undertaking any construction work on the Almatti dam
under the Project, Karnataka  shall  ensure that such construction
is needed to  meet  the  design  irrigation  water  demand for the
irrigated areas  likely  to  be  commissioned  in  the three years
following the commencement of any such construction.
2.   Karnataka shall take necessary  steps  for the elimination of
mosquito breeding and the  introduction  and  spread of malaria in
the Project Area including by ensuring  that (i) the shores of the
Almatti and Narayanpur reservoirs  are  maintained clean of debris
and stagnant water pools; (ii) stagnant water pools in the command
area that contain standing water  are filled or drained; and (iii)
at least three anti-malaria  units  are established and maintained
with adequate staff and resources.
Water Resources
3.   Karnataka shall take necessary  action to monitor groundwater
levels and water quality of surface and sub-surface water through-
out the Project Area and  provide drainage as necessary to prevent
water logging and a rise of groundwater tables and salinity levels
in a manner that could endanger crops.
4.   Karnataka shall, through  its  Irrigation Department and CADA
take necessary steps to  (i)  establish  water  user groups in the
command area at least one  year  in advance of actual construction
activities; (ii) ensure adequate farmer participation in decisions
concerning Project construction which directly affect them such as
Page  6
layouts of field  channels  and  location  of  turnouts; and (iii)
without limitation to  the  obligations  of  Karnataka pursuant to
this Agreement regarding the  operation and maintenance of Project
facilities, train water  user  groups  in  the operation and main-
tenance of field channel systems and continue to entrust responsi-
bility to such groups for such maintenance.
Cost Recovery
5.   Karnataka shall take necessary  action  to recover from water
users the cost of operation  and maintenance of irrigation facili-
ties to full functionality through  water charges from the date of
commissioning of each  irrigation  system  under  the Project in a
phased manner so as to  ensure such recovery commencing the fourth
year after such date.
Rotational Irrigation Water Supply System
6.   Karnataka shall ensure that irrigated water is distributed in
areas irrigated under the Project  on  the basis of the rotational
irrigation water supply system.
Project Management
7.   Karnataka   shall   confer   on   the   Engineer-in-chief  of
Karnataka's Irrigation Department all  powers necessary to enforce
quality standards in project construction and operation.
8.   Karnataka shall take  steps  to  maintain  a dam review panel
with membership and terms  of  reference  agreed with the Bank and
shall ensure that the  panel  meets  as  often as such panel deems
necessary.
9.   (a) Karnataka  shall  ensure  that  a  separate operation and
maintenance  unit,  with  adequate  staff,  resources,  powers and
responsibilities is  maintained  within  its Irrigation Department
under the Project.
     (b) Karnataka shall  ensure  that  within  one year after the
commencement of the supply  of water through irrigation facilities
constructed under the Project,  responsibility for such facilities
is  transferred  from  the  construction  wing  of  its Irrigation
Department to the operation  and  maintenance  unit referred to in
sub-paragraph (a) above.
10.  Karnataka shall  take  necessary  action  to  (i)  provide an
adequate  number   of   extension   workers   and  subject  matter
specialists  in  irrigation,  water  management  and  input output
monitoring and coordination; (ii)  complete establishment of agri-
cultural research facilities  at  Bheemarayangudi and two research
sub-stations in the Project Area (one for each major soil type) by
June 30, 1991,  with  adequate  staff  and resources in each case;
and (iii) establish a management information services cell for the
Project by June 30, 1990 with adequate staff and resources.
11.  Karnataka shall ensure that  all  relevant site engineers and
executive engineers responsible for construction supervision under
the Project are trained in contract administration.
12.  Karnataka shall take necessary steps to protect the watershed
of  the  immediate  catchment   areas  of  the  reservoirs  within
Karnataka from risks of soil erosion.
Financing of On-Farm Development Work
13.  In the event institutional credit is not available to farmers
for on-farm development works  under  the Project, Karnataka shall
make alternative arrangements for the financing of such works.
                            SCHEDULE 2
Page  7
                  Resettlement and Rehabilitation
                       of Displaced Persons
1.   (a) Karnataka shall undertake  the resettlement and rehabili-
tation of displaced persons  and  displaced families in accordance
with the provisions of  this  Agreement and the Development Credit
Agreement including Part B of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and such principles  and  guidelines  as shall be agreed
between the Association and Karnataka.
     (b) Karnataka shall take all necessary steps to carry out the
resettlement and rehabilitation  plan  agreed with the Association
(the R&R Plan).
2.   The resettlement and rehabilitation  of displaced persons and
displaced families shall have the following main objectives:
     (a)  to ensure that  displaced  persons,  will  improve or at
least regain, within a reasonable time of transition, the standard
of living they enjoyed prior  to the commencement of the implemen-
tation of Phase I or the Project as the case may be;
     (b)  to minimize the hardship  of displaced persons in moving
out of a familiar habitat and into  a new place and way of living;
and
     (c)  to minimize adverse  social,  economic and environmental
effects of resettlement upon the host areas and communities.
3.   Karnataka  shall  continue  to  allocate  funds  required for
Part B of the Project to CADA as a separate budgetary item.
4.    Karnataka shall (i) ensure  that the process of resettlement
and  rehabilitation  shall   be   evaluated  at  annual  intervals
beginning with the date  of  transfer  of displaced persons to new
sites,  by  an  independent,  qualified,  non-governmental,  rural
development institution acceptable  to  the  Association; and (ii)
make available to the Association the results of such evaluation.
5.   Karnataka shall extend to  all  villages  in the command area
its ongoing program  for  village woodlot development administered
by its Department of Forests.
6.   Displaced persons who have not  been provided at least 1.5 ha
of irrigated  land  or  unirrigated  land  of equivalent potential
under the Project whose acquired lands or some portion thereof are
seasonally exposed due  to  the  drawdown  of  reservoirs shall be
granted long term renewable leases for such lands.
7.   (a)  Karnataka  shall  make  available  and  finance  income-
generating schemes to affected  families  through its line depart-
ment and agencies.
     (b) Utilization of funds  transferred to such line department
and  agencies  pursuant  to   sub-paragraph  (a)  above  shall  be
monitored semi-annually.
8.   Karnataka shall establish  by  December  31,  1989 an  appro-
priate grievance mechanism with terms of reference agreed with the
Association to enable displaced  persons to settle disputes relat-
ing to, and recover damages  arising from, their resettlement in a
prompt and effective manner.
9.   Karnataka shall furnish  to  the  Association by December 31,
1990 an  action  plan,  acceptable  to  the  Association,  for the
resettlement   and    rehabilitation    of    displaced   families
involuntarily  resettled  as  a  result  of  backwater  effect  in
Bagalkot town.
10.  Cash payments shall not  be  made  in substitution of land or
income-generating schemes under Part B of the Project.
Page  8
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  a  margin  of preference to domestic
contractors may be granted in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and para-
graph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil  works  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of  $10,000,000  each  up  to  an  aggregate  amount of
$140,000,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on
the  basis  of   competitive   bidding,   advertised  locally,  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Goods and vehicles estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $200,000 per contract up  to  an aggregate amount of $4,000,000
equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract  referred  to in Part A of
this Schedule, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made  out  of  the Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that two conformed copies of the
contract together with other  information required to be furnished
to the Association  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2  (d) shall be
furnished to the  Association  prior  to  the  making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified  to  ensure that two conformed copies
of the contract  together  with  other  information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to  the  Association  as  part  of  the  evidence  to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Page  9
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to  assist  Karnataka  in  carrying out the Project,
consultants whose qualifications, experience  and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association shall
be employed. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
