Page  1
                                                May 20, 1993
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
The Secretary to the Government of Karnataka
Bangalore,
Karnataka, India
     Re:  Development Credit 2010-IN and Loan 3050-IN
          Upper Krishna (Phase II) Irrigation Project
          Amendments to the Project Agreement
Dear Sirs,
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated June 16, 1989,
(hereinafter the "Development Credit Agreement") between India and the
International Development Association (hereinafter the "Association"),
the Loan Agreement of even date therewith (hereinafter the "Loan
Agreement") between India and the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (hereinafter the "Bank") and the Project Agreement of
even date therewith (hereinafter the "Project Agreement") among the
Association, the Bank and the State of Karnataka (hereinafter
"Karnataka") for the Upper Krishna (Phase II) Irrigation Project (the
Project).  We also refer to (i) your letter dated September 22, 1992,
requesting the Association and the Bank to amend the procurement
procedures under the Project to allow the use of force account and
shopping procedures, and (ii) our discussion in the field during the last
supervision mission regarding the replacement of CADA as the agency
responsible for carrying out the resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R)
under the Project, by the R&R wing.
     I am pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, the
Association and the Bank have agreed to your requests.  Accordingly, the
following amendments are introduced to the legal documents.
A.   Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement
     1.  Under Part D, a new paragraph 3 is added, and reads as follows:
          3.  Civil works under Parts A.(2), A.(3) and B of the Project
          estimated to cost an aggregate amount not to exceed
          $30,000,000 equivalent, may be carried out through force
          account, in a manner satisfactory to the Association and the
          Bank.
     2.  Under Part D, a new paragraph 4 is added, and reads as follows:
          4.  Equipment, vehicles and materials estimated to cost the
          equivalent of less than $20,000 per contract, up to an
          aggregate amount not to exceed $1,580,000 equivalent, may be
          procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
          of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
          suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
          procedures acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
B.  The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
     1.  Paragraph (g) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement is deleted and replaced with the following:
          (g)  "R&R Wing" means the Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Page  2
          Wing established by Karnataka for carrying out Part B of the
          Project.
     2.  The term "CADA" is replaced by "R&R Wing" in paragraph 8 of
     Part B of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and in
     paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement.
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating this letter in the space provided below.  This
amendment may be executed in several counterparts each of which shall be
an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed
original to us.  This amendment will become effective on the date of
confirmation by all parties.
                      Very truly yours,
            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                       AND DEVELOPMENT
            By:
                        Heinz Vergin
                          Director
                Country Department II, India
                      South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
INDIA
By   /s/ Sudha Krishnan
     Authorized Representative
Date 10/06/1993
STATE OF KARNATAKA
By   N.R. Venkatesha Prasad
     Authorized Representative
Date 05/06/1993
