Document of
FILE COY X                         The World Bank
FILE COPY                                       RETU~~~~~RN 'T
FOR OFFICIAL -USE ONLY         REpoRTS DESK
ONE WFEEK
Report No. P-2096-GR
REPORT.AND!RECOMMENDATION
'OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
,TO THE
HELLENIC STATE
FOR THE
EVROS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 1, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit                                         Drachma
The Greek Drachma is now defined in terms of a basket of currencies
including the US dollar and those of its other major trading partners,
and is floating. For this report the following currency equivalents
were used:
Dr. 1                                                  US$0.03
US$ 1                                                  Dr. 36.5
Dr. 1,000                        =                     US$27.40
Dr. 1,000,000                                          US$27,400
Fiscal Year                      January 1  to December 31
Abbreviations
ABG                              Agricultural Bank of Greece
EEC                              European Economic Community
ETVA                             Hellenic Industrial Development Bank
FAO                              Food and Agriculture Organization
HSI                              Hellenic Sugar Industry
NIBID                            National Investment Bank for Industrial
Development
O&M                              Operation and Maintenance
PM                               Project Manager
RDS               .              Regional Development Service
TBD                              Tons of Beets per Day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EVROS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GREECE
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Hellenic State
Beneficiaries:     Hellenic Sugar Industry (HSI) for the sugar factory
component.
Amount:            US$35 million.
Terms:             15 years including three years of grace, at 8.2 percent
per annum.
Relending Terms:   US$14.0 million to be on-lent by the Borrower to HSI at
an interest rate of not less than 11 percent, for a period
not exceeding 12 years including a grace period of 3 years,
with the Borrower taking the foreign exchange risk.
Project            The project is part of the Borrower's first phase program
Description:      for the overall development of the prefecture of Evros and
consists of:
A.   Agriculture
(1) construction of flood protection works along about 30
km of the Erythropotamos River and its tributaries, to
protect about 3,500 ha from floods;
(2) installation of about 75 tubewells, pipes, hydrants,
mobile sprinklers, together with related roads, drains,
and power transmission lines to irrigate about 3,000
ha of fertile land in the area protected by the flood
protection works to permit growing of sugar beets and
other high value cash crops;
(3) construction of about 285 km of main and access for-
estry roads and three residences for forest workers,
provision of three buses, and reforestation of about
3,000 ha, all to develop forestry resources;
(4) provision of vehicles for the extension and veterinary
services to increase the effectiveness and impact of
these services and equipment for an agricultural field
research station at Orestias, and a Veterinary Research
Center at Komotini;
This document hasa restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



B.   Industry
Extension of the sugarbeet processing capacity of
HSI's Orestias sugar factory from 3,000 to 6,000 tons
of beets per day by August 1982, to utilize the produc-
tion of a high cash value sugarbeet crop on about
40,000 ha of irrigated land;
C.   Roads
(1) construction of about 50 km of paved connection roads
to link 13 villages to the existing paved road network;
(2) construction of about 250 km of gravel rural roads
to support agriculture development in high potential
areas including provision of needed construction and
maintenance equipment;
(3) supply of road maintenance equipment to improve road
maintenance on all paved roads in Evros;
D.   Education
Construction and equipping of a technical lycee and
vocational secondary school at Didimotichon, designed
to accommodate about 540 students; equipping of a
similar school, designed to accommodate about 900
students, at Orestias to provide technically qualified
manpower for Evros' industrial and agricultural devel-
opment;
E.   Community Facilities
(1) construction of retail markets in 3 major towns,
to provide improved outlets for farmers production;
(2) replacement of polluted water supply sources for 10
villages;
(3) paving of about 55 km of community streets and improve-
ment of drainage and street lighting, to upgrade the
quality of life in 18 towns and villages;
(4) construction of community centers in 12 towns and
villages, to provide a location for local social and
cultural activities to encourage community life;
F.   Establishment of the Evros Project Office
Provision of office equipment, furniture and 3 vehicles
for the proper operation of the Evros Project Office;



(iii)
G.   Studies and Pilot Projects
Establishment of a Fund with initial resources of at
least Dr. 74,000,000 out of which high priority
studies and pilot projects in the public and private
sectors for advancing the future phased development
of Evros would be financed.
Project Components:
Costs              % of
Local  Foreign     Total   Project
-------US$ million-----     Costs
Flood protection and irrigation            10.4      6.5       16.9     20.8
Forestry                                    3.2      1.1        4.3      5.3
Extension and veterinary                    -        0.3        0.3      0.4
Sugar factory extension                     9.4     10.6       20.0     24.7
Connection and rural roads including
roads maintenance equipment               2.9      2.6       5.5       6.9
Technical education                         1.2      2.2        3.4      4.2
Other social infrastructure                 4.4      2.2        6.6      8.1
(community streets, centers,
markets and water supply)
Project establishment                       0.7      0.1        0.8      0.9
Evros Special Development Fund              1.0      1.0        2.0      2.4
Subtotal - base cost                  32.5     26.6      59.8      73.7
Contingencies                              12.9      8.4       21.3     26.3
(physical and price)
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    46.1     35.0      81.1     100.0
Interest and other charges
during construction                        0       8.0        8.0
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIREMENT           46.1     43.0      89.1



(iv)
Financing Plan:
Dr         $          %
(million) (million)
IBRD                                   1,277      35.0        43.2
Government                              1,204     33.0        40.7
Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG)         420     11.5         14.2
HSI                                        26      0.7         0.9
Hellenic Industrial Development
Bank (ETVA)                              22      0.6         0.7
Private enterprises                        11      0.3         0.3
TOTAL                        2,960      81.1*      100.0
In addition, HSI would provide about $7.0 million and the
Government about $4.8 million for interest and other charges
during construction of which $8.0 million would be for the Bank
loan.
Estimated Disbursements:
FY78     FY79     FY80    FY81    FY82     FY83
Annual              2.5       8.6      9.9     7.5     5.0      1.5
Cumulative          2.5      11.1     21.0    28.5    33.5     35.0
Procurement
Arrangements:      Procurement for the Orestias sugar factory would be done
by HSI.  For all other civil works and for equipment
items costing less than $20,000 each and up to a total
of $1.0 million, the Governor will appoint local commit-
tees for procurement. Equipment beyond this limit will
be procured through the Ministry of Commerce. Civil
works and equipment having a total cost of $57.2 million
would thus be procured through ICB. Small equipment
items costing less than $10,000 each for the sugar
factory and $20,000 each for other components, up to an
aggregate of $250,000 and $1.0 million respectively,
and civil works, which are spread over time and location
costing $8 million, would be procured following local
competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory.
A number of small equipment items for the sugar factory
-aggregating $2.0 million equivalent, needed over 3 to 4
years, will be fabricated in the HSI workshops. Work
relating to forest and rural roads, and reafforestation
would be done on force account. All equipment contracts
would allow local manufacturers a 15 percent preference
margin or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less.



(v)
Technical
Assistance
(Consultants):    About 12 man months of consultant services are provided
under the project, to assist in the final design of the
sugar factory.
Rate of Return:     12 percent on total costs, increasing to 16 percent, if
components without quantified benefits, accounting for
22 percent of total costs, are excluded.
Appraisal Report:   No. 1547a-GR, dated May 20, 1977






INTERNATIONAL B4INK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE HELLENIC STATE FOR THE EVROS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Hellenic State for the equivalent of $35 million, to finance the foreign
exchange cost of a project for the integrated development of the prefecture of
Evros. The loan would have a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace, with
interest at 8.2 percent per annum. The equivalent of $14.0 million would be
on-lent to the Hellenic Sugar Industry (HSI) with a term of 12 years including
3 years of grace, with interest at 11.0 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum - Greece" dated
September 30, 1976 was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 12,
1976 and its conclusions are summarized below. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        Following the Cyprus crisis in July 1974, the seven-year old mili-
tary regime was replaced by a republic. A new constitution establishing a
parliamentary system with a strong presidency, was approved in June 1975. The
new Government has since been concerned with the re-establishment of democracy,
and the restoration and broadening of international economic relations, espe-
cially with the European Economic Community (EEC). It has taken measures to
revive economic activity, reduce price inflation, and correct a growing balance
of payments deficit. Substantive negotiations with the EEC for accession to
full membership are ongoing.
4.        Throughout the 1960's and up to 1972, the Greek economy enjoyed
rapid GDP growth averaging 7.9 percent per year in real terms, and relatively
stable prices. However, by the end of 1972, as the economy reached full
employment, supply constraints began to develop and domestic prices came
under increasing inflationary pressure which was reinforced by the termination
of price controls in 1973, increases in import prices (particularly petroleum
after October 1973), higher agricultural support prices and increased Gov-
ernment expenditures. Consumer prices, which had increased by less than 3
percent per annum on average during 1968-72, rose 16 percent in 1973 and 27
percent in 1974. The restrictive policies that the Government adopted to
combat inflation and the worldwide recession, together with the impact of
the Cyprus crisis and domestic political uncertainties, severely affected
economic growth, causing a decline of 2.7 percent in the GDP (at market
prices) in 1974.



- 2 -
5.        Economic performance in 1975, however, was better and preliminary
data indicates that this improvement has continued through 1976. The real GDP
in 1975 (at market prices) increased by 5.6 percent; agricultural output by
3.0 percent, industrial output by 4.3 percent, and output of services by a
moderate 3.7 percent. The revival of economic activity picked up momentum
towards the end of 1975 and continued through 1976. It was led by a recovery
in demand, particularly in consumption, both public and private. Economic
growth was accompanied by a significant decline in the rate of inflation esti-
mated at 14 percent in 1975, only half the rate in 1974. During 1976, however,
prices are estimated to have increased by another 15 percent, while real GDP is
estimated to have increased by 5.8 percent, slightly better than anticipated.
6.        As the signs of economic recovery began to emerge in early 1975 and
the inflation seemed to be abating, the Government adopted an expansionary
policy whose major elements were: (a) a liberal incomes policy which permit-
ted increases in wages including those of public sector employees; (b) an
expansionary fiscal policy which significantly strengthened aggregate demand
through public expenditure; (c) an exchange rate policy involving the devalua-
tion of the drachma; and (d) an accommodating monetary policy which ensured
enough liquidity in the economy to permit the growth in output that occurred
in 1975. These policies were essentially continued through 1976. The authori-
ties nevertheless remain acutely aware of the competing policy prescriptions
for growth, controlling inflation and limiting the deficit in the balance of
payments.
7.        Agriculture, industry and services are the key economic sectors.
Agriculture still accounts for about 19 percent of GDP, 35 percent of employ-
ment and 37 percent of exports: Growth continues to be hampered by the small
size and fragmented farm holdings, and insufficient development of irrigation
and marketing facilities. Industry, including construction, has been the most
dynamic sector, with an average annual growth of nearly 10 percent in real
terms since 1960, and its share in GDP increased from nearly 26 percent in
1965 to 30 percent in 1975. The share of manufactured goods in total exports
nearly doubled, from 25 percent in 1968 to 48 percent in 1975. Services is
the largest sector, accounting for about 50 percent of GDP and about 40 per-
cent of employment, which have been stable for several years. Despite rising
productivity, Greek industrial growth is still restricted by a small domestic
market, limited export orientation, inappropriate plant size and heavy depend-
ence on capital goods imports. The Government's policy for industrial invest-
ment has been influenced significantly by these considerations, especially by
the need for better export performance and to face competition from European
manufacturers following entry into the EEC. In pursuit of this policy, the
Government is encouraging industries which may have a competitive edge and
are preferably based on indigenous resources. The Government is keen to
develop the mining sector, especially energy-related subsectors such as oil
and lignite, in view of its foreign exchange earning or saving potential.
8.        The balance of payments has continued to improve during 1975 and
1976. The current account deficit was $1.0 billion in 1975 compared to $1.2
billion in 1974. The improvement occurred because of substantial gains in
invisible earnings, a 10 percent increase in exports and a marginal increase



-3-
in,import value. The volume of imports actually declined due to the low level
of -economic activity and considerable destocking of inventories. Exchange
rate policy seems to have contributed significantly to the improvement of the
balance of payments. From mid-year to late 1975, the drachma was adjusted
downwards against major currencies amounting to a depreciation of 22 percent,
which restored, in part, the loss in competitiveness of Greek exports due to
the inflation in 1974. There was another 5.7 percent depreciation of the
drachma during 1976. Tourism earnings have increased significantly, workers
remittances have shown a strong upturn and revenues from shipping remain high.
Total net invisible receipts in 1975 were $1.9 billion and provided a major
offset to the negative trade balance of $2.9 billion in that year. Though
detailed balance of payments data for 1976 is not available, preliminary
estimates put the current account deficit at $1.0 billion, about the same as
last year.
9.        Greece's balance of payments, however, has shown persistent deficits
over many years, which have risen sharply since 1973. This imbalance reflects
a high degree of dependence on imports of capital goods and machinery to sup-
port development activities and a high income elasticity of import demand for
consumer goods. The production structure of the economy has not been ade-
quately geared to meet the rising demand for sophisticated capital equipment
and certain kinds of high quality consumer goods. Export expansion, while
significant, has not been sufficient to cover the rising import bill. Heavy
capital inflows have, therefore, been needed to cover the large deficits on
the current account as well as to provide for debt servicing, movements in
reserves and related items. According to official estimates, total capital
inflows in 1975 were $1,600 million; of this amount, $965 million were on pri-
vate account, and $635 million on Government account, all borrowed largely on
commercial terms due to limited access to long-term capital markets. Details
of capital flows during 1976 are not available as yet, but preliminary indica-
tions are that Government's borrowings abroad are roughly the same as last
year, and there has been some increase in private capital inflows, particularly
in the foreign exchange deposits of Greeks residing abroad. Greece, however,
continues to face difficulties in obtaining sufficient long-term capital and
the need to borrow abroad on commercial terms has added to the balance of pay-
ments problems through the increased debt burden.
Prospects
10.       The prospects in 1977 are for GDP to grow by about 5 percent based
on sustained output increases in manufacturing and services. While the pace
of revival in private investment activity remains a concern, growth in aggre-
gate demand would be sufficient to lead to 5 percent growth provided there
is a reasonable degree of price stability. The rate of increase in prices
remains a concern and would depend on whether the Government is successful in
containing wage increases to moderate levels, sufficient imports are available
to supplement domestic supplies of a broad range of products and existing
controls on monetary expansion continue. The current account deficit is
likely to increase from the estimated $1.0 billion in 1976. Imports of
capital goods and raw materials are particularly volatile, and if private
investment activity picks up, imports may increase faster than anticipated,



- 4 -
leading to a higher current account deficit. The Government will need to
borrow nearly-at the same level as in the last year, again mostly from commer-
cial sources.
11.       A new financial protocol was signed early this year with the EEC
totaling about $310 million over the next 4-1/2 years, of which about $250
will be loans from the European Investment Bank. Over the long term, Greece
stands to gain significantly from full membership in the EEC (on which nego-
tiations commenced in late 1976 and which may be some years away), mainly by
hastening changes in its economy towards a more developed and efficient produc-
tion structure. Also, in addition to the new financial protocol, a net finan-
cial inflow of $360 million a year is expected as direct budgetary support
after full membership, mostly for agriculture and regional development. In
the interim, significant infrastructure investment will have to be undertaken
to conform with European standards, and there will be considerable problems of
adaptation largely due to the structural differences between the economy of
Greece and those of the EEC. Besides, the administrative requirements of
implementing European policies and directives, such as the Common Agricultural
Policy, are likely to be considerable. The benefits, however, may include
greater inflow of foreign investment and technology and more efficient manage-
ment. Membership is expected to bring greater rationalization and hence com-
petitiveness of production and export activities, and may help the Government
overcome institutional rigidities in enacting and implementing far-reaching
socio-economic reforms which otherwise would be difficult to undertake.
12.       The Bank's assessment indicates that GDP growth of about 5.5 percent
is likely in the medium-term, but the problems of inflation and the balance of
payments are major constraints on future growth. The current account deficit
is expected to increase somewhat from last years level to about $1.4 billion
in 1980. To finance this deficit and to allow for increased amortization
payments and improvements in reserves, the Government will have to borrow
annually, at roughly the same level as in 1975. However, in view of Greece's
limited access to long term concessionary finance, the Government will need
to continue to borrow on commercial terms.
13.       Public external debt outstanding (including undisbursed) at the end
of 1975 amounted to $2.96 billion compared to $2.7 billion at the end of 1974.
Debt service payments in 1975 reached $442 million (of which $11.3 million was
for World Bank loans), and represented 9.7 percent of exports of goods and non-
factor services and workers' remittances. Public external debt in 1976 is
estimated at about the same level as in 1975, but the debt service payments
are estimated to be $523 million, higher than 1975. As a result, the debt
service ratio is estimated to be close to 10 percent for 1976. Based on
reasonable expectations regarding export growth and future borrowing, the debt
service ratio would be about 11 percent by 1980. About 2.6 percent of total
service payments would be due to the Bank. In view of the good prospects for
future economic growth, even if at a lower rate than in the past, Greece
remains creditworthy for Bank lending.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GREECE
14.       Bank lending to Greece started in 1968, after disputes in connec-
tion with the country's pre-war external debt had been substantially settled.
Greece has received thirteen loans totalling $339.9 million (net of cancella-
tions), of which $293.3 million was held by the Bank as of April 30, 1977.
These include five loans totalling $96.6 million to the National Investment
Bank for Industrial Development (NIBID), three loans for education ($82.3
million), three loans for irrigation ($95 million), a highway loan ($30 mil-
lion) and a sewerage loan ($36 million). The execution of Bank-financed proj-
ects has generally been satisfactory, although slow and subject to significant
cost overruns due to both domestic and international inflationary pressures.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
April 30, 1977.
15.       Bank assistance to Greece has had the following objectives:     support-
ing institutional reform and essential infrastructure in key sectors, includ-
ing irrigation, sewerage and wastewater disposal, and highways; modernizing
key sectors such as agriculture and education; and reducing regional income
and social disparities through support for selected regional or rural develop-
ment programs. In furtherance of these objectives, a fourth education project
designed to support new reforms initiated by the Government as well as to con-
solidate those begun in connection with earlier projects, is being appraised;
a project for the development of fruit and vegetable exports, stressing insti-
tutional objectives, is in the final stages of preparation; both projects are
expected to be ready for consideration of the Board in FY78.
16.       Although Greece has a much higher average per capita income than
that enjoyed by most other developing countries, continued Bank lending for
a very limited time is justified in view of the following considerations.
First, given the magnitude of its external capital requirements, it will be
difficult for Greece to meet its borrowing needs for development on reasonable
terms entirely from market sources. Continued Bank lending will not only pro-
vide some modest direct concessionary assistance, but also facilitate Greece's
access to capital markets. Second, Greece still has large pockets of poverty
and serious regional imbalances in incomes and development, and needs assis-
tance in modernizing some of its key sectors. Third, the country is poorly
equipped institutionally and administratively to take full advantage of its
impending membership in the EEC as well as to develop key sectors like agri-
culture. The Government particularly wishes the Bank to help strengthen
selected institutions, for which the Bank is probably the only available
source of external funds, to meet these challenges. It is, however, anti-
cipated that Greece will be able to finance its development program without
resort to Bank funds by FY79.
17.       IFC has made investments totalling $16.2 million in six Greek com-
panies. An equity and loan investment of $0.6 million was made in a fertili-
zer factory in 1962 and sold in 1970. An equity investment of $0.7 million
was made in NIBID in 1965 and reduced to $0.1 million in 1974. Loan and
equity investments totalling $8.7 million were made in an aluminium company in
1970 and 1972.   In early 1975, IFC invested $1.1 million in an agro-industry



-6-
project in Larisa for processing of tomatoes from the ara of the Groundwater
Development Project assisted by the Bank (Loan 754-GR). IFC recently contri-
buted another $0.1 million to expansion of this project to include the growing
and harvesting of tomatoes as well as the canning of apricots and peaches.
IFC is considering a $40 million loan to NIBID, of which $5 million would be
for IFCs own account. Other industrial investments are under consideration.
PART III - THE SECTOR: REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROBLEMS,
THE PREFECTURE OF EVROS AND THE SUB-BORROWER
18.       Greece is characterized by substantial regional disparities in eco-
nomic and social standards of living. In the past, most development activities
have tended to concentrate around the key urban centers of Athens and Salonica
which have continued to grow rapidly, while the outlying regions, such as the
prefecture of Evros, have lagged behind. This trend was reinforced as develop-
ment proceeded, since the private sector found it increasingly profitable to
locate its undertakings in the fast developing areas of Athens and Salonica
and away from the less developed regions where social and economic infrastruc-
ture were less developed.
19.       As a result, significant regional disparities in income levels and
standards of living have emerged. For example, the per capita GDP in the
Athens area is estimated to be nearly 36 percent above the national average,
and more than three times that of Evros. Other indicators of living stan-
dards, such as number of inhabitants per doctor and energy consumption, etc.,
show similar or even greater differences among these regions. Not surpris-
ingly, population has also concentrated in the more attractive and fast devel-
oping regions; Athens and Salonica grew 37 percent and 40 percent respectively
in the decade 1961-71 and now contain 40 percent of the population, while the
population of less prosperous regions declined, for example that in Evros
declined 12 percent in this same period. These figures are illustrative of
the problems faced by several other Greek regions. Despite Government efforts,
there is little sign of abatement in this concentration, which has aggravated
pressures on urban services and facilities. These growing regional disparities
are both a major problem, as well as a challenge. As part of its efforts to
address this challenge, the Government selected Evros, which has good resource
potential and is of manageable size, for a pilot integrated development effort
which, if successful, might be replicated elsewhere in Greece.
Government Policy for Regional Development
20.       The Government has previously supported the development of the less
prosperous regions through substantial investments in basic infrastructure,
and through policies such as: (a) agricultural price and income support pro-
grams; (b) industrial estates and tax, tariff and interest incentives favoring
relocation outside Athens; (c) tourism development, to absorb surplus labor;
and (d) an experimental multi-sector planning effort in Crete in the early



1960's, which was only partially successful, partly due to lack of attention
to project development. Despite some successes, such as tourism development
in the Aegean, regional differences persist. The Government has recognized
that if it is to achieve a better and more rational balance of industrial and
agricultural growth in the regions, it will need: better policies; better
planned and coordinated investments; and more decentalized decision making.
21.       Additional incentives have already been introduced for businesses
locating outside Athens. In addition, to attract and retain people in the
regions, the Government plans to bring the social and physical infrastructure
of the regions closer to the level of Athens and Salonica. Initially, it
will concentrate its investments on several regions or micro-regions which
have potential such as Evros. In Evros, the Government investment program
has been increased from an annual level of about $9 million per year before
1974, to a level of about $27 million per year in 1975; it will increase to
about $42 million per year with the proposed project. To improve its capab-
ility to plan and carry out integrated regional investment programs, the Gov-
ernment has created a Regional Development Service (RDS) within its Ministry
of Coordination, with offices in the seven regional capitals, including
Komotini, the capital of the region containing Evros. RDS's present functions
are however limited to administering the incentives program and channeling
requests for regional projects and it is not staffed or organized to do effec-
tive regional planning.
22.       At present, most investment decisions are made on a sectoral basis
during the approval of the Government's annual budget. Proposals for the
annual investment budget are prepared by the Ministries concerned and approved
by the Ministry of Coordination, before submission to Parliament. Proposals
are not presently reviewed to see how they complement the development program
of a region, since no regional programs are available and there is no mechanism
for such a review. Once approved, investments are carried out by the Minis-
tries concerned, sometimes through their prefectural or regional offices, al-
though most contracting and purchasing is done in Athens. Local coordination
of implementation is on an ad hoc basis for a particular investment and not
formally structured. The role of the prefecture services of the technical
ministries is thus limited in scope. In connection with the Evros project,
the Government proposes to develop the means of identifying and executing com-
plementary priority investments in the regions. Several alternative arrange-
ments were considered and discussed with the Bank, including a public develop-
ment corporation. In view of the non revenue generating investments needed,
the scale of the effort, its replicability and ease of implementation, cost,
and maximum use of existing administrative capability, a strengthening of the
present administrative structure appeared to be the best solution. Details
are provided in paragraphs 38 to 40 below.
The Prefecture of Evros
23.       The Prefecture of Evros, the location of the proposed project, is
the most easterly of the three nomoses that make up the region of Thrace and
lies in the extreme north-east corner of Greece (see Map 12749). A rela-
tively unprosperous nomos, although not among the poorest, it nevertheless



- 8 -
has sufficient untapped resources to support a viable agricultural-based coor-
* dinated development  effort.  The average per capita GDP is presently esti-
mated at about $800, which is only 40 percent of the national average ($2,100
on a current basis); however a typical farmer in the Erythropotamos valley in
Evros, where the irrigation component of the project is located, has an even
lower per capita income of only $540. This low level of income, lack of
economic opportunity and social facilities, resulted in emigration from Evros
which reduced the population from 158,000 to a current level of 138,000 in ten
years, although the two main cities Alexandroupolis and Orestias grew in the
same period.
24.       Seventy percent of Evros' population are engaged in agriculture on
approximately 29,000 holdings, mostly small. About 160,000 ha is under crops,
but only 16,000 ha. is irrigated. An increase of irrigated land to about
50,000 ha by 1984 is planned. Although much of the cropping pattern is still
oriented towards food crops for the local market and subsistence production,
Evros is a net exporter of livestock and sugar. The climate and soils are
well suited for sugar beets, a high value cash crop, and fodder. Irrigation
would permit expansion of these activities and the development of other cash
crops such as melons and vegetables. The forestry resources of Evros are
substantial, but require investment to reach their full potential yield of
94,000 m3/year.
25.       The sugar factory at Orestias is presently the main industry in Evros.
There is also a meat complex at Ferrai and a milk plant at Alexandroupolis.
However, most of the manufacturing in Evros is carried out by small scale
enterprises organized on a family or partnership basis. There are about 1,300
such establishments, providing employment to more than 3,500 persons. Although
some of these are surprisingly dynamic and aggresive with potential for growth
and exports, their development is constrained by limited access to capital and
technical knowledge. As a whole, Evros is a net importer of industrial prod-
ucts. To begin to realize the economic and human potential of Evros, directly
productive investments in agriculture and industry are needed as well as comple-
mentary investments in, among other things, roads, improved marketing facil-
ities, reliable water supplies, improved social and community services, and
educational facilities.
26.       The Governor, or Nomarch, is the main public official in Evros.
Local department heads of sixteen central government ministries report to
the Nomarch on minor matters but are administratively under their respective
ministry. At present, there is no planning or development staff in Evros and
the Thrace regional staff of the RDS are mostly concerned with other matters.
Effectively, all major decisions are taken in Athens. The Agricultural Bank
of Greece (ABG), an autonomous public corporation, has seven branches in Evros
and provides almost all the credit requirements of farmers and cooperatives,
both in cash and in kind. In 1976, ABG made 24,500 loans in Evros totalling
940 million drachma. Short-term, mainly production, loans are issued at an
interest rate of 7.5 percent to individual farmers, and 6.5 percent to coopera-
tives. The National Bank of Greece (the major commercial bank) and the Bank
of Greece (the central bank) also have offices in Alexandroupolis.



- 9-
Hellenic Sugar Industry (HSI)
27.       The proposed sub-borrower for the industrial, sugar factory, com-
ponent is HSI, a public corporation headquartered in Salonica. Its share
capital of 200 million drachma is held by two public sector banks, ABG (90
percent) and the Hellenic Industrial Development Bank (10 percent). HSI's
operations are supervised by a part time board of directors, and a full time
managing director. The central and factory staff are well qualified and the
company is generally well managed. HSI is the sole producer and wholesaler of
sugar in Greece and has five plants located in the main sugar producing areas,
including the project plant at Orestias. Both sugar beet and sugar prices are
regulated by the Government with the latter being set at 6 percent above HSI's
net cost of production, 18 i/lb in 1976, which compares favorably with long
term international averages. The retail price paid by consumers, about 28 #/lb,
is higher than in most countries, because of an excise tax on sugar.
28.       The Government's policy is to maintain self-sufficiency in sugar.
HSI presently has the capacity to process 21,000 tons of beets per day (TBD)
which is sufficient to meet the present domestic sugar demand of about 260,000
tons/year assuming a historical average season of 110 days and sugar recovery
rate of 11.5 percent. Output of sugar can vary widely and in 1976 actual pro-
duction was higher due to good weather and an unusually long season. However,
sugarbeet processing capacity must be based on prudent assumptions of future
conditions which balance the risks of under and over production. Taking these
into account, HSI's sugarbeet processing capacity will have to be increased to
about 29,000 TBD to meet the projected domestic demand for sugar of 360,000
tons/year in 1982. Because of poor prospects for sugar exports generally and
uncertainty as to the EEC quotas that Greece will obtain for sugar production,
expansion beyond 29,000 TBD in 1982 is not presently advisable. The Government
has agreed that sugarbeet processing capacity in Greece will not exceed 29,000
TBD before 1982, unless justified by an increase in demand and the Bank has
been consulted on such expansion (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07). The expan-
sion of HSI's Orestias plant from 3,000 to 6,000 TBD by August 1982, is part
of this expansion program. To ensure sugar beets for the expanded Orestias
plant, the Government also provided assurances that at least 40,000 ha of land
in Evros will be adequately served by irrigation by May 1983, including the
3,000 ha to be irrigated under the project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
29.       As part of its efforts to encourage and accelerate regional devel-
opment described in Part III, the Government approached the Bank in March
1975, for assistance in developing an integrated development project for Evros.
To establish the resource base of Evros and its potential for development, an



- 10 -
agricultural team from the Bank/FAO Cooperative Program visited Greece in
September 1975 and a Bank general reconnaissance mission followed in November
1975. These missions concluded that Evros' potential for phased development,
at least in the immediate future, would be in productive investments related
to or based on agriculture and forestry and that the prospects for agricul-
tural based development were sufficient to warrant an investment program of
manageable size as the first stage of development. Possibilities for mining,
large scale industry and tourism were found to be limited and perhaps capable
of development only in the longer term. Having established this, a second
Cooperative Program mission visited Greece in May 1976 to assist in the prep-
aration of priority agricultural and forestry investments. Bank staff also
provided guidance on the preparation of other related components as well as
on administrative arrangements for integrated development. The project was
appraised in two stages, in November 1976 and February 1977. Negotiations
were held in Washington in May, 1977. The Greek delegation was headed by Mr.
Petros Papadakis, Director General of the Ministry of Coordination and in-
cluded a representative of the Hellenic Sugar Industry (HSI).
Project Objective and Description
30.       The primary objective of the proposed project is to assist Greece to
coordinate the phased development of Evros, in order to raise incomes, improve
the quality of life and discourage migration. The proposed project is part of
the first phase of Evros' development. The Government expects the project to
provide an administrative model for integrated development of less developed
regions of the country, which can be replicated in other regions. To achieve
this objective, the project provides for a number of complementary priority
investments and an organization capable of supervising and implementing the
project, monitoring its progress as well as coordinating the development of
new projects and investment programs for financing by private enterprise and
Government. The project includes directly productive investments in irriga-
tion and flood control works, forestry, and agroindustry; production support-
ing investments in roads, markets, extension, research and veterinary services;
and social infrastructure in community streets and centers, village water sup-
ply and technical education. The details are provided in the Loan and Project
Summary and shown on Map 12749. A report entitled "Appraisal of the Evros
Development Project, Greece" (No. 1547a-GR) dated May 20, 1977 is being dis-
tributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Costs and Financing
31.       The total estimated cost of the project (excluding interest during
construction on the Bank loan) is about $81 million and its foreign exchange
component is $35 million. Of this, the sugar factory component is estimated
to cost $26.8 million, with a foreign exchange component of $14 million. The
cost estimates assume that most of the civil works contracts will be won by
local contractors and that most of the equipment will be imported. A physical
contingency of 8 percent (5 percent on equipment and 10 percent on civil
works), and a price contingency of 28 percent (on both foreign and local
costs) have been provided.



- 11 -
32.       The proposed loan of $35 million will finance 43 percent of the
total costs of the project and all of the estimated foreign costs. The proj-
ect financing plan is:
Sugar     Other
factory components Total
--------($ million)-------
IBRD                                                 14.0      21.0       35.0
Government                                                      33.0      33.0
Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG) - Debt     6.6
- equity  4.9      11.5                11.5
HSI own funds                                         0.7                  0.7
Hellenic Industrial Development Bank
(ETVA) - equity                                   0.6                 0.6
Private enterprises                                    -        0.3        0.3
Total                                     $26.8     $54.3      $81.1
$14.0 million of the loan, will be onlent to HSI at 11 percent for 12 years,
including a grace period of 3 years, for the sugar factory expansion. The
latter terms are comparable to the terms paid by private industrial borrowers
in Greece as well as sub-borrowers under previous Bank loans to the National
Bank for Industrial Development (NIBID). The difference between this rate and
the Bank's lending rate will be retained by the Government as a Guarantee Fee
and for assuming the foreign exchange risk. The local costs of the sugar fac-
tory expansion, equivalent to $12.8 million, will be financed by a loan equiv-
alent to $6.6 million from ABG, an increase of equity equivalent to $5.5
million from Government through ABG and ETVA, and $0.7 million equivalent
of HSI's own funds. The ABG loan to HSI is expected to be at 6.0 percent
for 10 years, which are the normal terms for agro-industrial loans to public
borrowers in Greece. Effectiveness of the Subsidiary Loan, the ABG loan and
the arrangements for providing equity are conditions of effectiveness of the
Bank Loan (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01).
International Aspects
33.       The proposed project flood control dikes and groundwater irrigation
would extend from Metaxades near the Bulgarian border for about 30 km along
the Erythropotamos River to a point approximately 3.5 km above the junction
of that river with the much larger Evros River at the Turkish border (average
runoffs about 400 Mm3/year and 7,500 Mm3/year respectively). The riparian
questions include the effect on the project of possible Bulgarian extraction
upstream, the consumptive effect of the irrigation component on the Evros
River flows and the effect on the Turkish bank of the Evros of changes in the
Erythropotamos River flows at its junction with the Evros arising from the
project flood control dikes (Map 12847).
34.       The Greek Government informed Bulgaria of the proposed project,
during a meeting of the joint Greek Bulgarian Commission on Hydroeconomy in
November 1976. Bulgaria expressed no objection to the project and indicated



- 12 -
they had no plans for works on their tributary, which accounts for 40 percent
of the catchment area. However, since changes in Bulgaria's plans for the
Nestos river caused the postponement of the Nestos sub-project under the
Nestos-Yannitsa Project (Loan No. 991-GR), calculations have been made which
show that even if Bulgaria cuts off its tributary, the project would not be
adversely affected because sufficient recharge would be available from the
catchment areas belonging to Greece. The possibility of Bulgaria diverting
the other tributary is considered unlikely, because of the nature of the
terrain through which it flows (Map 12847).
35.       The extraction of the groundwater irrigation component of the pro-
posed project from the Erythropotamos aquifer, is estimated at about 23
Mm3/yearly, which is insignificant when compared to the annual runoff of
the Evros River at its delta of 7,500 Mm3/year. Moreover, since recharging
of the aquifer will take place during the flood season, the net effect of this
extraction on the Erythropotamos and Evros River flows is considered to be
negligible. The international aspects of this project, therefore, do not
relate as much to the use of waters of international waterways, but rather to
the effect which the proposed flood control works might have on the velocity
of discharge of the Erythropotamos River into the Evros River that divides
Greece and Turkey.
36.       After construction of the dikes, the peak of the 50 year flood
(design flood) in the Erythropotamos River at the downstream end of the
project dikes (3.5 kilometers above the confluence with the Evros River),
is expected to increase by less than 10 percent (from 965 Mm3/sec to 1,040
Mm3/sec). This increase would be dampened by a natural flood plain below the
end of the dikes, which is separated from the Evros flood plain by an existing
railway embankment 1.5 kilometers above the confluence. Assuming the unlikely
case of low water in the Evros River at the time of the 50 year flood in the
Erythropotamos River, the velocity of the discharge of the 50 year flood at
the point of the confluence with the Evros would at most be increased from
0.48 m/sec to 0.52 m/sec in its main channel.    This estimated maximum in-
crease of 0.04 m/sec is considered negligible in respect of any risk of effect
on engineering structures or river regimes on the Turkish bank of the Evros.
Moreover, based on 10 years of historical data, the probabilities are in
excess of 95 percent that when the Erythropotamos River is flooding, the much
larger Evros River would also be at flood stage, and totally dominate and
dampen the Erythropotamos flood. Therefore, the chances of any substantial
and quantifiable negative effect on the Evros River arising from the project
are negligible.
37.       Turkey and Greece have entered into arrangements concerning the
embankments and riverbed of the Evros River itself, including a protocol of
1963 and a treaty of June 1934. These arrangements do not specifically apply
to works on the Erythropotamos River, which lie wholly within Greece. Never-
theless, Greece informed the Turkish Government in November 1976, through a
Note presented to the Turkish Ambassador in Athens, that it intended to con-
struct the project works, that it was seeking Bank financing, and that the
project was unlikely to have any adverse effect on the Turkish bank of the



- 13 -
Evros River. In March 1977, the Bank sent further information to Turkey on
this matter, asking for any comments by the end of April; none have been
received.
Project Administration and Implementation
38.       In connection with the proposed project, the Government will intro-
duce a new method of budgeting for the project itself and an administrative
framework for coordinating the planning and implementation of all development
activities in the prefecture. An Evros Project Office will be created under
the Ministry of Coordination in Alexandroupolis to provide the staff for local
planning, coordination and implementation. The office will be headed by a
full time Project Manager, whose qualifications and experience will be accept-
able to the Bank, and will be staffed at least by an economist, an engineer
and an accountant. The Project Office will be the working arm of a new Evros
Regional Coordination Committee in Alexandroupolis chaired by the governor
(Nomarch), which will have the primary responsibility for coordinating devel-
opment and carrying out the project through the existing ministerial depart-
ments. Other members of the committee will include the Project Manager,
the chief of the Komotini Office of the Regional Development Service, the
local directors of Agriculture, Public Works, and Forestry, the Director of
the Orestias Sugar Factory and a manager of ABG as well as others as neces-
sary. This Regional Committee will in turn be backed up by an Evros Central
Coordination Committee in Athens under the Ministry of Coordination. The
Central Committee will be chaired by a director general of the Ministry of
Coordination and include the Head of the Regional Development Service,
and representatives of the Ministries of Interior, Agriculture and Public
Works and ABG. Implementation of this structure and the provision of key
staff is a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01).
In addition, the Government will ensure staff needed for the other depart-
ments through the provision of incentives if needed.
39.       The Regional Committee, assisted by the Project office, will be
responsible for coordinating and reviewing the overall development program
for Evros. A dual structure will be introduced for the review and approval
of specific investment budget proposals. For project items, the Evros depart-
ments concerned will submit their proposals for the coming year to the Project
Manager who will review and revise these and present a coordinated project
budget for approval to the Regional and then Central Committees, for inclu-
sion as a special item in the Government's budget. For other development
investments, the departments concerned will forward their proposals by two
routes, through the Regional and Central Committee and through their parent
ministry. Thus in making final budget allocations, the Ministry of Coordina-
tion will have both the sectoral proposals of the Ministries concerned and
a coordinated regional proposal. To provide some flexibility, the Project
Manager will be allowed to reallocate funds within the project budget, and a
special fund called the Evros Special Development Fund will be provided (see
para 41 below).
40.       The Regional Committee, assisted by the Project Office, will also
oversee and supervise the implementation of the approved investment program,



- 14 -
including the project, by the departments concerned, who will accordingly
report on the progress of the program to the Committee. For the project,
contracting and procurement, normally centralized in Athens, will be par-
tially decentralized (see para 44). Monitoring of the implementation of the
investment program and the progress of the project will be carried out by
the Project Office, whose reports will be reviewed by both the Regional and
Central Committees. The Central Committee, assisted by the staff of the
Regional Development Service in Athens, will evaluate the results of the
monitoring to assess the effectiveness of the administrative arrangements,
the procurement procedures, the special development fund as well as the
impact of the overall investment program on income improvement and distribu-
tion and on migration, with a view to applying any lessons learned elsewhere
in Greece.
41.       Evros Special Development Fund.   The Fund is provided under the
project to give the local authorities, and in particular the Project Manager
and Regional Committee, the flexibility to address urgent development problems
quickly through the carrying out of small pilot projects aimed at key bottle-
necks and through the financing of studies to identify and develop future
investment proposals for either the public or private sector, i.e. such as
storing and marketing facilities, promoting small scale processing and manu-
facturing, and developing pastures and forest investments. The fund is a
response to the recognition that: (a) in a complex undertaking like the
development of a region, it is difficult to anticipate in advance all possi-
ble bottlenecks and problems which may arise; (b) even for proposals already
identified, like small scale industrial development, further work is needed
to find workable solutions; and (c) the present centralized system of decision
making in Greece is not conducive to quick action on problems as they arise.
42.       The Government will initiate the Fund by making available drachma
10 million ($270,000) by October 1, 1977, and replenish this every six months
until at least $1 million equivalent has been contributed not including the
$1 million reimbursed from the Loan (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08). For
studies costing more than $200,000 equivalent and all pilot projects, the
prior approval of the Central Coordination Committee and the Bank would be
obtained; for studies costing less than $200,000 equivalent, the Regional
Coordination Committee would authorize studies and inform the Central Coordi-
nation Committee and the Bank of such commitments. Pilot projects would be
limited to $500,000 equivalent each. The Fund would be operated by the
Project Manager with the Project Office responsible for initiating proposals
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 5). Proposals will provide at least a description
and justification of the study or pilot project, an estimate of its costs,
and such other information as may be requested.
43.       Preliminary designs for the major project works and technical studies
of the sugar factory expansion have been completed. About 12 man months of
Consultant services are provided under the project to complete the designs of
the sugar factory. Suitable curricula for the technical and vocational schools
in the project will be adopted by March 31, 1978 to facilitate final design
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.10). Agreement has been reached on the location and



- 15 -
design standards for the various facilities under the project; the program of
reforestation; and the lists of equipment. The Government has agreed that the
Public Power Corporation will construct electric transmission lines for the
irrigation project on schedule (Loan Agreement, Section 3.09), and that it will
take all steps necessary to ensure that the incremental credit needs of agri-
culture and industry in Evros are met through refinancing, if necessary (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.05). Construction is expected to start in the fall of
1977 and be completed by June 1982.
Procurement and Disbursement
44.       The procurement for the Orestias sugar factory would be done by HSI.
For all other civil works and for equipment items costing less than $20,000
each and up to a total of $1.0 million, the Governor will appoint local comit-
tees for procurement. Equipment beyond this limit will be procured through
the Ministry of Commerce. Civil works and equipment with total cost of $57.2
million will be procured through international competitive bidding. Small
equipment items costing less than $10,000 each for the sugar factory and
$20,000 each for other components, up to an aggregate of $250,000 and $1.0
million respectively, and civil works, which are spread over time and location
costing $8 million, would be procured following local competitive bidding
procedures which are satisfactory. A number of small equipment items for the
sugar factory aggregating $2.0 million equivalent, needed over 3 to 4 years,
will be fabricated in the HSI workshops. Work relating to forest and rural
roads, and reafforestation would be done on force account. All equipment
contracts would allow local manufacturers a 15 percent preference margin or
the applicable customs duty, whichever is less.
45.       The loan would be disbursed against:   32 percent of the cost of civil
works contracts (representing the estimated foreign exchange component); 100
percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and 90 percent of local expendi-
tures for equipment (ex-factory), in the unlikely event that local manufactures
win contracts; 50 percent of the total cost of consultant services, equipment
and pilot projects carried out under the Evros Special Development Fund; and
100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultant services for the sugar
factory.
Cost Recovery
46.       The costs of the forestry component would be recovered from sales
after 15 years. Project beneficiaries would pay for the operating and main-
tenance costs for the irrigation, drinking water supply and market components,
and a portion of investment costs for the irrigation component under the same
formula as agreed for the Nestos-Yannitsa Irrigation Project (Loan 991-GR).
This formula provides for recovery from project beneficaries of the full opera-
tion and maintenance costs (O&M) of the irrigation and drainage works, includ-
ing the cost of power, plus an additional amount equivalent to 27 percent of
the O&M cost, representing a reasonable provision towards capital recovery via
depreciation (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03b). The proposed total charges have
been estimated at $160 per ha. per annum in current prices, including about
$37 per ha. for depreciation. About 30 percent of total costs of irrigation
would be recovered over 40 years discounted at 10 percent. The total charge



- 16 -
is about 31 percent of incremental farm income which is substantial given the
relative poverty of farmers, whose average income is less than a third the
national GDP per capita of $2,100 but not so high as to discourage participa-
tion. The irrigation charges will be collected annually and paid into a
separate account which will be audited and the statements submitted to the
Bank. Assurances were also obtained that the charges for potable water and
market places provided under the project would be adequate to cover at least
their O&M costs (Loan Agreement, Section 4.07). Costs of pilot projects under
the Evros Special Development fund will be recovered from private beneficia-
ries.  No direct charges would be levied for the flood control works, roads,
technical schools, community centers and paved streets.
Financial Analysis of HSI
47.       Financial projections have been prepared for HSI as a whole and for
the Orestias factory separately, covering the period of expansion from 21,000
TBD to about 29,000 TBD (1978-83), including the expansion of Orestias from
3,000 to 6,000 TBD. HSI is projected to earn a financial rate of return on
the Orestias expansion investment of 16 percent, before tax. With the infu-
sion of equity provided by the financing plan, Dr. 200 million, the overall
debt equity ratio will improve slightly from the 74:26 ratio of 1975 to a
69:31 ratio throughout the implementation period. While this ratio is some-
what low by conventional standards, it is acceptable. Moreover, HSI's liquid-
ity will continue to be satisfactory as the current ratio is projected to
remain above 1.7, and the company is expected to be able to continue to pay
dividends to its owners at the present rate of 10 percent per annum. HSI is
also not expected to have any problems generating sufficient cash to meet its
debt obligations. The debt service ratio is projected to remain above 1.4
times throughout project implementation. Nevertheless, HSI agreed not to
incur any new debt unless the debt service coverage would remain above 1.3
times and that it would not increase its dividend rate above the present 10
percent per annum during project implementation unless the Borrower and the
Bank agree (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)). HSI's financial statements will
be annually audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the
Bank and their report submitted within 6 months of the end of the fiscal year
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)(viii)).
Project Benefits
48.       The economic rate of return on the Project, including all investment
costs, is 12 percent which increases to 16 percent, if components without
quantified benefits, accounting for 22 percent of total costs, are excluded.
The components are also separately viable and have the following economic
rates of return:
Percent of        Economic Rate
Base Costs          of Return
Sugar Factory                             34                  15
Flood Control and Irrigation              28                  14
Forestry                                   7                  14
Rural Roads                                5                  33
Connection Roads                           4                  22



- 17 -
In addition, substantial unquantified benefits are expected from community
streets and centers, markets, village water supplies, support for extension,
veterinary, and research services and the establishment of the project adminis-
tration and Evros Special Development Fund. The technical schools will help
meet both national and local manpower needs.
49.       While each of the components is viable, equal importance should be
attached to the impact of the project as a whole on the economy, incomes and
quality of life in Evros, and its importance as a model for similar efforts
elsewhere in Greece. The proposed investments complement the Government's
efforts and incentives to encourage private enterprise, and are expected to
increase production by a net $7.3 million annually. Specifically, the sugar
factory expansion would complement the public irrigation program and permit
the agricultural potential of the region to be more fully realized, by provid-
ing farmers with an assured income from a high value cash crop. Forestry
development would support present small wood processing industries in Evros,
many of which are presently short of supply by providing an additional 17,000
m3/year of wood. The infrastructure investments will permit increased produc-
tion of not only sugar beet, but maize, melons, vegetables, maize silage and
other cash crops. The social investments provide for the development of the
prefecture's human resources as well as help reduce the disparity in living
standards between Evros and other regions in Greece. However, the main con-
tribution of the project to Greece may not be the specific investments, but
rather the example of how to coordinate the development and execution of eco-
nomically viable, complementary and mutually supporting investments.
50.       The project is expected to benefit most of the population in Evros
(138,000 people or 34,500 families). The largest benefits would accrue to
the 3,500 farm families in the Erythropotamos valley, the 400 member families
of forest cooperatives, the estimated 5,000 farm families to be served by
rural roads and the construction workers employed during implementation. In
addition, about 1,000 sawmill workers, and about 5,000 beet farmers outside
the Erythropotamos valley would improve their incomes. The present per capita
income of $540 for a typical farmer in the Erythropotamos valley, which is
well below the Evros average of $850, would increase at full development in
1986 by about 60 percent, to $880/capita. The project would also have a number
of beneficial environmental effects including protection of crops and land
against floods, improved drainage, reduced erosion, reliable water supply and
an improved social environment. With the exception of the sugar component,
project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with similar opera-
tions. Any investment in sugar processing involves some risks given the
volatile world market price of sugar. However, the financial risk is being
mitigated by the sound management of the company and by ensuring that the
proposed overall expansion program of the subborrower does not exceed esti-
mated domestic demand.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Hellenic State (the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution



- 18 -
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft Agreement conforms generally to the normal pattern for
loans for agricultural development and agro-industrial projects. Features of
the Loan Agreement of special interest are referred to in the appropriate
paragraphs of this Report.
52.       Special conditions of loan effectiveness are:
(a) A Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and HSI
is in effect;
(b) That HSI has increased its authorized share capital by
Dr 200 million and this has been subscribed and agree-
ments providing for payment are in effect;
(c) That the loan agreement between HSI and ABG has been
concluded and is in effect;
(d) That the Central Coordination Committee, the Regional Coor-
dination Committee and the Project Office Alexandroupolis have
been established and the Project Manager and two other staff
appointed.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 1, 1977



Z   a
0a
X :                                                                               a 
-  a.                         S..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fom        am: S.5        *
*  e  C   m ...i     - to.n                        tle C O.a       .C      C   .um. 
Oa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
27 It
M 4~~~~~~' s" .                           -t-tt.5   ~ .   5  a. .  .  .5 S
I0 tae *  aS  0s-  0.    N         oSe             *   le @00      C   0 N C C O
5  a      -O -   M - - - -  O                                                  CCC 
la~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- a  2 to        N  C~~~~~~~~~o  P-Ce                                   to Mm.0 C psC C  .- CW Ot
05  OSUt  -             C               P.  N  -    -t             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e  4L  as
ma  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  I 
ma                                                                     B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
s-a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 SC, l  0  aW  Wa3                        a.
u a  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Z _a
Ca  *                                                                   t4~~M   e  a 4Fa
a a  a.  a~ ~~0" 
*~~~~~~_                 M               0  a OS                                  a -r;W -c  W-Z 
a a  La. a e  -  cc  cocOa  p. . *  e~~~~~~~~~ .o  we.,  . a  M*  00 CZ M  CW*  0  0  C  0  CmO.  r
ma  StAIN                    C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- %0 O  :1Z 0  .               - O'
a  0  5~~~~~~M                               &  sem a6
an  p. t~~~~  a  --  -sCOOm  Out  a~~~~I  Mto..  01. -  S  S CCC  aC     OM ----C 00 OD
anO  tow_ a              e-                         N   .uts       - eZC.
f5 t  O4.a.I                                       -  -  8-      M    11 LZ a 1   a   0-
OaSM                              .   M O S! O 3  a)M a                     1
t  a                                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U'  -M a*_  s w4" 
..       0O                       , .C                         W  .  :rX .O -   -a w Z
*  050  0                        0Cm   i.p.mel  .                          M  0000 a
-t, a  - to  m0  *  sc.  p  uS 0   C-O  V Os-C      C Ca0        M.C   - I   aS mi
baa  ~~~~0 aaW                                    P.e M     M .v                 a.Wa



AM I
Page 2 of 6
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Xoat Recent Eatinats between
1973 and 1975.
*1975, Oursrent US$ satiaete based on Atlas mathodeleg.-
C Considering Greece's imminent entry into tihe Elaropean Covmmnity, comparison with the Frsoch aecnnomy is appropriate.
GREECE     1960        Ercluding persons in cocipulaeay military services;      A   IEaludAng usmeployed asasso      /c 1957-58, urban;      /d  1962;
eIncluding midwives and nuras with aidwifery qualifications;       If  Including maternity hospitals;     ZS   1960-62;
Teacher training not included in secandary school snrsllment ;    -i  Inside only.
1970 O  A   Du.i to emigration population growth rate is lever than the rate of natural Increase;      &   1967.
9102T RECENIT ESTIXATE,   /a  1971;    ID ixcluding unemployed esaen;       /-  1972;    /d   Including assistant ncrass and midwives;
7?  1969-n1 average;     If  Inaide wany.
SPAIN      1970    IA   B-ployment office satmait;     Ab  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
BELGIU     1970    IA  inluding unaeployed;       b  Including phyaicians practicing dentistry;      /.  Belgium and Gmaxebaurg;     Ld  Total urban
and rural;    /e   Inaids.
PEACE      1970     AIsExcluding unemployed;     A   Gero-rat hospital establish-enta.
R12, April 25, 1977
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Laed Ores (bhou I-')                                                                population nor nursinc prarso  - Popo;cctov divided by nonbar of pracciciog
Total   Totai sorfaca area voeprising land area sod iniand watara.                    oats and feeais graducais nor, ra, 'cr-icd" or 'certified" nars, an. .d
soric. M-ost r r...n  as .tiate of agricoicoral seas used temporariiy or p-re-        acaiiiar-y perneone with training orepsio.
santly for crops, pastursa, eurkit b kir-he- gacdcs or to lis caliln.              Popolatin eer bonits1 bed - PopulaItion divided by ntab.r of icapital bada
-availabl in publico and privatc gasnra1 and ep-oiaitsd baspita1 sod
GNP per -pnita (US$)  GNlP par capita actiates at curret c-cacht pric-a,               rehabiItation cancer; ...cluds s-rsing henna and sstablitsh-ast for
-caiclac-d by asas  --nsrioc -wtbod as World Banh Atias (1973-?5 basis) ;            cc_rodial sod pr-vsti-e cars.
i960; 1970 and i975 data.                                                          Psear.pita aurnly of cacts(% cf rca.iraon.sna   - ICapoted fran anargy
sqoi-aIser oc nsi fend sopplica avilabla in ceuntry per capita per day;
Pooulatian and vital sataitiaci                                                        available supplias canprian dameacic p-cd-otio, inporta lass seportt, and
PoPulation fold-year aillion)  sa of Jaly Pirst:  if not a-ilabia, avergs             changes in oto-k; not supplies a-olode  ninal faad, seeds, quantitiasose.d
of -u and-year -t cheates; 11~60, 1970 and 1075 dana.                                it feed proc....tng and icassa in diacibotioc; raqoirsuntc -cr  ..,i-ascad
by PAO ba...d en PbysioI.icgi caioda far norucI actiory and hsaich censid-
Popuiation danaicy - oar square kot - M4id-year popuiaticn per sqoare biio,uCcr        acing seiroiuataI tmoparatce, body nights, gs and sea diatribtcioca of
fili bcctars,) of total area.                                                       populatics, and a11imig lIt far wsac at houashaid is-s.
Poeolaotoo daciy .   e  square he of saric. land - Cenpotad as above for             par capita supply o  rotais (i-    per day) - Protein contact of par capita
agricoitursi land only,                                         se~~~~~~~nt opply offo  a  a;st auppiy af foed is dafined as above; raqira-
coats for aii ocoatries esibicahad by U100 oEnonie Ri....rob ISrei.a.
vitta ttatac a te                                                                   pr-vids for a aiinic   1 o...a.o cIf hi gram  of total protsin per day, and
Crodebrhats no       hnad      ecos-      na   lva birtha pr cqhoossodof'             20 gras of anhial and palas pcotsio, of which 11 g-n shoid be animal
aid-year popula.tion; ten_-yer aifMtic   v-ags e.  ding in  960 sand 1970,           prtetin; theme ataadard  are lowr thee thoae of 70 gras of total prootai
and fiv-ya-ra-acgs ending is 1975 far moat rae ..   a nt timace.                     andt23 gram  of nsinal protein asa anso-rage for ths world, prop  aed hy FAO
Crude death rats par thousand, a-roas - A-..Il deaths par theusasnd of aid-year        in he Third World Food Sor-y.
pop.lation ; ten-yasr rcithiatic averges ending in i960 and 1970 and fiv-          par osncaoroci sfri 1LyP11fra  acna an.d puisa - Proceio sopply of food
yeoavs-raga ending in i975 for inca rcrst as cinate.                                 dsis     r.aiaaodpls           in grano  par day.
Infant sorcalicy race f/thou)  -  ..Ioa deaths of infacca under one year of age      Oath rtet (/thou) assa 1-4 - Annal deaths pot thousnd to age groa   1-4
Per houadlIva births.                                                                Ycara, to chilidren in thio aga groop; -usgeoted as on inditcato  of
tleaoinyat birth (yr.) A-iarage niabac of yasra of lis remaining at            aInotritien.
birth; o...aily fio-y-e av-rgeg seding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for devalap-
leg cotirisa                                                                       Educatimon--hq                               n.l-to
ir-s reepodooI..taorto-ov-rage ocnhr of lion daughterea.    oe.   w ill bsar         udluatad ceroplsme~rc rtilo -eiayrbo-         colutofalgsaspa-
in ba nrmal reprducti,iv yarod if ash enpariasne    praseot age-apacifio               . etag  of prmc    olaeppltm;inldacide                     dii     er
fetilt  Iaos   ualyfv-year averges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1971                   hot adjuaco.d for different lengtrba of primacy sdueatisn; for coantriss with
for develping ooucrties.                                                             -o-ral1 sduoa tci, anrollwnt nay .....ed 100%. since u ce  pupils are hel1n
'Porolacben crouh carsCl)- total - Cnnpood aenasi growth rates of mid-year             or above the official school ugs.
populacion for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 197f-lI.                                       Adlostcd sorallInn  ra~tio -,secodary school - liapotad as above; -scodary
Panoistien crtwih rate MX  - orban - inpotd like growth rats of total                   docatten reqoire  atoIsaa  four ysara of aproved primary icatruotion;    -
popo.iaci; differsac deficitfona of orb. an  rsa  nay affscc camparbility of        providna gcneral, -ootional or ta..oher trteinig inacruetionns for popila
data anog oaotrleo                                                                   of 12 to 17 yasra of ags; oorrsspendsoa c-orse  ae generally esoludad.
Uirban poroisti"n  % of Ctola) - Ratio of urban to total population; different       Ter    fahoiasoidd (first sald seodlaes              - Total yeara of
dainitiona of urban crass say affent ... Va-iliy of data asas cantri.a.              shoigats          oedry isc_l,  _toci'sl isarsyati   may he partially cc
complataly saniudad.
Agas acruocursd (porcast) - Cibldren (f-li years), wo-bing-ags (15-64 Yosts),        Vooatiamal narsileast (1 of secodary) - Vocational inatituiciana include
and rcid (65 y-aRs ad over) as parcentagas of aid-ysar population.                tachnical, induestrial or ot her prngrams which operate indapeedastly or s
AMe dapondenoy ratcio -  tga  f population, aedr 15 aed 61 sad acer to chose           deparoan.ts of sacandory inasitoti"'a.
ofass1 through' (A.                                                            Aduli liceracy raco (7.) - Li cartctdolco (abla to road sod write) aso per-
tonaicd!pendeney ratio - R.isti  of populatioo onder 15 and 65 sod ovr to            ...ecags of total adult popularloy oged 11 years sod over.
the labor force Igcag  group of 15-64 years
faiy loIJ-o-poetor         cmoaia. thou) - Coul-tio- eunbr of actcptra              H...aino
of bicth-contro1 devicec  dscr oot plc-  of ostiea1 faily plonciog program         Persna par roam (ocba) - Average ounher of peoo-    per roam ie occpied
aimesnP" incpib.oovn-tional dwellings in orban area; d-Ilinga                                                                         cclu.de nan-parasann
Icoily p)snninc-at     (7. of narried coor) - Perce..ga   ofanidcnnof                  acocrsod on         'cPied pas
chl,ld-bsa.,ring Otis (15-44 years) uhou bt-v   trldvsaton 1    alcrid             iccoied dw-llnoi wihotpie ctr (%) - in..pied c--otitnia1 duallings
amciac aga groop.                                                             io rcbon sod rural arss without imaids or octaida pipcd cater facilities
aapaoetge of all ooupiad dw-llingo.
ftorloyent                                                                           Acoas trlo' aletriity (I of al Iweiii) t- Couvanicoal dweIllings with
Total labor forts (tho...and) - tEcnisically -otios parsoc, including armed            alecrtiotty in liing qar tarsaIpa1oet"   of total duelinga inurh.ancd
fo,csa and uoeoployed hoc esoludiog hoo..awi-ss, acodare,  t-c; dsfinitica.          %rurlres
in various coontries are not -aparsbls.                                            coral deellinsa contascted to sisocritic~y I   - Campotad as above for rural
Labor forts in aoricaltor C) - Agric,ultes   labor foro  (i farIng, foreatry,          dwellings oly.
honcing and fihing) as percentaeo    Ittllborfo.
DIepl oyd ft of labor force) -Uti"plcyed ars osolly dafined as parsons uhe            osmt
aresableaod'.illiing to tabs   job, out of a job em a givan day, r- itnad not       adarnias(ear than sop) - ill types of roesivter for radio broadcsste
o~f.a job, and sabinkig w-bck.fbors specified m.ioboo priod nor .....eding -c        to genaral public par thoossad of population; e.clodna uniicenssd reosivsra
na; Ia-no Pb tonaaIs     ates   cunriro don to diffarant defaicieina              in centniria  and in y.araie ren gistration of radio sets was in effact;
of cosoplayed sod source of data, e.   " pisyn"t offics statistics, .-mPia           data far ran..nt yase may not he campacable nince moat cnncfiea abolished
su-vys, compulsor   uneployanat insurancei-nsaing.
Pase ,e:or (par thea pop) - Pos..angar oars toprias sote  car  ascing
inOcn distributiona- Prcsotagetof private inoisu  (bath in cash and bind)             le,then sight parson; eaclodas -bala-o, hearass and ailitsry
received by richest It. ric hes  29%1.Poorat 20%, and poorest 40% of housa-           -hbicls..
holds.                                                                             tElCtrircy  pbbner nap) - Onua coiosiapcio        of induatria.1 tc-eria1,
poblio and priests a1-tricity in kilowatt henra par capita, gs...ralily
Distribution of land osacrshie - Percontaiss of land -.sd by ...sIthisat lif           base.d on produci   data,' wi.tbact alo.san  for bass. in grids hot allo--
and pooresi10 lofc land feas                                                          ogfr iparts and sapaort    ofI setricity.
tmeseint (bc/yr ear cap) -rPer capita aoaua1 c-sptie   I   itgrm
gsalth and Nutrition                                                                   a   timtd fro  dometic paductian pica mat imports of noasprte.
Population par physician - Popolation divided by eotsr, of prac.ticing
physicians qualified from a asdioal achaol a t oslosra Icy 1ava1



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
GREECE: ECONOiMIC DEVER7.OPtMT MIt
Av rage Annual Growth Rate
Actual                                     ProI c-td                      19/0      1973-     1974-    1975-
197Q    1973      1974      1975          1976      1977      1         98            1973      1974      1975     1980
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(1974-lB10bllllo- dracle)11
Crc... DeOtt  Product                  470.3    590.7     575.2    608.4          643.3     672.7    708.5     790.6          7.9      -2.7       5.6       5.5
Gain. fro  Tr.  of Trade                -1.8      -         -       -4.0           -3.9     -3.6      -3.8      -3.8           ..
Groe Dee-tic Inco                      468.5    590.7     575.2    604.4          639.4     669.1    704.7     786.8           7.8.     -2.7      5.0       5.5
E-porce-(s t nEc)                       56.6     88.8      87.5     95.5          102.6    l11.2     121.1     142.9          14.0      6.0       9.1       8.4
Inporte '8 (  nfn)                    -110.0   -156.3   -144.8    -137.4        -144.0    -150.8    -159.2    -179.6         12.5      -8.0      -5.1       5.5
Reco.ece .Blance                        453.4   -72.5    -57.3     -41.9          -41.4    -39.7     -38.1     -36.7
tn-eatnent                             141.5    188.3     146.2    148.1          155.8     161.4    170.8     191.5          10.2    -28.8       1.3       5.3
Con.e.lptoi                            380.4    474.9     486.3    498.3          525.0     547.4    571.9     632.1           7.3      2.4       2.5       4.8
D.e- tic Saving                          93.3    111.8     88.9     106.1         114.4     121.7     137.7    154.9           7.6     -23.3      19.4      7.8
Netlo.al  acIn-g.                       106.6   135.0     106.9     121.9         129.0     135.0     144.9    165.8           8,2      21.9      L4.0      6.4
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                          Share of GOP (factor coot) at '974 oricon
Agri-lt-re                               20.1    19.4      19.2      19.1          18.8      18.4     l8.0      17,1            . 
Induetry                                29.6     30.0      30.1     30.Z           30.4     30.9      31.4      3Z.9
Serv-ce-                                 50.2    50.6      50.6      50.7          50.7      5D.7     50.6      49.9            ..
C. PRICES   (1974.100)
Eport Price Inder-                      57.9     82.2     100.0     106.5         114.7     125.1    135.4     155.4           4.5      21.6      6.5       7.8
Import PrIce Icde.'2                    52.8     80 0     100.0     110.9         IL8.9     129.2    139.2     159.6           5.3     25.0      10.9       7.5
Iomes of Eraf, Index-2                  108.1   102.7     100.0      96.0          96.4      96.8     97.2      97.4
CDP Deflator-                            63.5    77.5     100.0     112.5         123.8     134.9    i47.0     174.7                   29.0      12.5       9.2
Acrge E-hacge R-tc ($1.00-D-.)           30.0    29.6      30.0      32.3
D. PUBLIC FINANCE                                 A per cent of GDP
Correct Rve.u.                           18.5    18.2      18.1     20.3
To x Recnu                               17.2    16.6      16.8      19.5
Curnt Expenditur                         16.2    15 5      17 4      19 6
Drf.n.e Ep-dicuro                        3.3      2.9       3.4      5.0
Coverne nt SacLogo                        2.3     2.7       0.7      0.7
Capitol Exp-nditura-                     4.3      5.1       5.7      4.8
F. SELECTED INDICATORS                          1965_73         1975-802/                 F. LABOR FORCE                            1961           19714/
lncrotrental Capltallomtpat Fatio              3.0             4.2                        Labor Force (illioc)                  3.86          3.39
Import Elanticity                              1.2             1.1                        U ..ploy,con cc(lilon)                0.22          0.11
Avorage Notional lacing. Reto                 16.7            19.8                          (7 of LF)                           5.7            3.2
Margi-nal Malocal Sacoge Rae                  24.2            24.5                        EFioy e. t (rolilon)                  3.64          3.28
Ieport/GDP                                    24.0            22.5                          2 ah-r of:
Agric-ltur                       53.9           40.5
Itdu-toy                         19.1           25.4
S .r-c L                         27.0           33.9
1i FLgur    for 1965 obte.i-d by applylog grovth r-ac. obtaLned fr-n the  ld national income a.o...te -rrie
expreenod In conetent 1958 price..  Th new eerie- .  pre.emd In conetoet 1970 pric..  Le aivalable only far 1970-75 and
concerelon to 1974 bane for pre c.t puo.po e. we arrIved at by ehifting the tmplkit GNP dofltor to 1974.
2/ .a.ed on Banxk eatlae   of ieteratitondl prion e-oe-nta.
3/ For r.   .n .xpre e  d In footnote 1/ .b-c, only a cough co.pootnon can bm mado bhtomon the two nt of -oid  Lodtcotoc value..
4/ Labor force data i currently uodor eajor re       dtt..n doe to tnaccuracl  dlacovered Ln the 1971 -rna.. particularly .Ith regard
to tht occupaticoal etr-cturo.  Thee. figr -, therefor, may not be coep-rable to thne  reported rec ntly eteewbare.
ENEMA RegIon
CPD I1-A
0ar-h 25, 1977



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
IMPORT DETAIL
1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1980
A. Constant 1974 Prices (Million $)
Food                                    869.8     585.4     602.5     590.1     592.3     678.2
Intermediate goods                      868.7     951.8     793.4     862.8    1004.9    1265.4
Petroleum and products                 1049.4     863.5     805.7     860.3     904.4    1083.2
Manufactured consumer goods             1128.8    941.3     999.0    1023.8     996.9    1155.8
Capital goo                            1337.8    1257.8    1174.0    1203.9    1253.5    1480.1
Other goods                              29.8      35.5      25.8       -         -         -
Total goods (c.i.f.)                   5038.5    4635.2    4400.4    4540.9    4752.0    5662.7
Non-factor servicesL                    582.5     539.6     505.8     602.4     633.5     750.5
Total goods and NFS                    5621.0    5174.8    4906.2    5143.3    5385.5    6413.2
B.  Price Indices (1974=100)
Food                                     87.0     100.0      88.0      99.0     109.0     126.9
Intermediate goods                       83.4     100.0     111.9     119.2     129.2     160.5
Petroleum and products                   39.4     100.0     109.2     118.3     128.5     159.1
Manufactured consumer goods              84.0      100.0    114.5     121.9     132.2     164.2
Capital goods                            87.0     100.0     117.2     124.8     153.3     168.1
Other goods                              80.0     100.0     132.0       -         -         -
Total goods (c.i.f.)                     80.0     100.0     110.8     118.5     128.7     159.1
Non-factor services2                     80.0      100.0    111.2     122.3     132.1     164.1
Total goods and NFS                       80.0     100.0    110.8     118.9     129.2     159.6
C.  Current Values (Million $)
Food                                    756.8     585.4     530.2     584.2     645.6     860.6
Intermediate goods                      724.5     951.8     865.5    1028.5    1298.2    2030.8
Petroleum and products                   413.5    863.5     840.5    1018.3    1162.6    1723.4
Manufactured consumer goods              948.2     941.3    1143.9   1248.0    1317.7    1897.9
Capital goo1y                           1163.9   1257.8    1462.5    1502.7    1696.0    2487.8
Other goods                               23.9     35.5      33.0       -         -         -
Total goods (c.i.f.)                    4030.8   4635.2    4875.7    5381.7    6120.2    9010.5
Non-factor services                      466.0    539.6     562.8     736.9     837.2     1232.2
Total goods and NFS                     4496.8   5174.8    5438.5    6118.6    6957.4   10242.7
j Obtained as a residual
2/ Total imports of goods, US$ 5038.5 million, is smaller than the sum of the components because of the
large differences in the movements of price indices
3/ Implicit import price index based on residual quantities
EMENA Region
CPD II-A
March 25, 1977



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EXPORT DETAIL
1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1980
A. Constant 1974 Prices (Million $)
Tobacco                                  124.5      158.4      143.2      171.3      178.2      200.4
Food and beverage                        374.5      374.2      500.6      429.9      445.0      498.2
Textiles and yarns                       213.3      202.0      214.9      229.1      244.0      297.5
Mineral and ores                          88.8      103.1      167.7      199.6      207.6      238.8
Metale                                    58.8      102.0      152.6      164.4      176.4      223.4
Petroleum products                       116.5      123.5       79.6       85.1       94.6      128.7
Other gooda-    t                        617.5      681.8      432.6      708.0      665.2      966.2
Total goods (f.o.b.)                    1593.9     1774.1     1751.2     1987.4     2011.0     2553.2
Non-factor services,                    1615.3     1632.0     1819.6     1814.3     2088.9     2686.8
Total goods and NFS                     3209.3     3405.0     3570.8     3801.7     4099.9      5240.0
B. Price Indices (1974-100)
Tobacco                                   71.9      100.0      119.6      126.2      135.8      167.4
Food and beverage                         92.6      100.0       88.0       99.0      109.0      127.0
Textiles and yarns                        72.9      100.0      112.0      119.2      129.2      160.5
Mineral and ores                          82.3      100.0       80.0       87.0       99.0       138.0
Metals                                    59.8      100.0       80.0       87.0       99.0      13B.0
Petroleum products                        39.8      100.0      109.2      118.4      128.5      159.1
Other good8t/                             80.4      100.0      166.8      126.0      158.5      187.4
Total goods (f.o.b.)                      77.2      100.0      111.9      119.2      129.2      160.5
Non-factor saervices-'                    87.8      100.0      101.3      117.7      121.0      149.5
Total goods and NFS                       82.2      100.0      106.5      114.7      125.1      155.4
C. Current Values (Million $)
Tobacco                                   88.3      158.4      160.4      216.2      241.9      335.5
Food and beverage                        346.8      374.2      493.4      425.6      485.0      632.1
Textiles and yarns                       155.5      202.0      240.7      273.0      315.2      477.5
Mineral and ores                          73.1      103.1      134.2      173.7      205.6      329.5
Metals                                    35.2      102.0      122.1      143.0      174.7      308.3
Petroleum products                        46.4      123.5       87.0      100.8      121.6      204.8
Other goods                              485.3      681.8      721.8      892.1     1054.1     1810.3
Total goods (f.o.b.)                    1230.5     1774.1     1959.6     2224.3     2598.2     4098.0
Non-factor services                     1407.6     1632.0     1843.3     2136.6     2529.1     4045.2
Total goods and NFS                     2638.1     3405.0     3802.9     4360.9     5127.3     8143.3
I/ Obtained as a residual
2j Implicit export price index associated with residual quantities
EMENA Region
CPD II-A
March 25, 1977



BAlANCE OF PAYMINTS AND EJITERNAL ASSIaUNCG                                   an
(In Currant US1$ Millton.)                                          Pe 6 of 6
ACtual                                                                 P-4-1ctd
1972            1973          1974          1975               1976           1977           1978           1979           1980
A. SOlIlARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS-
1. EXports (good. and NPS                1839.6          2638.1        3403.0        3802.9             4360.9         5127.3         6020.3         7011.3         8143.2
2.  Lport. (good. and NFS)               2726.4          4496.8        5174.8         5438.5            6118.6         6957.5         7912.8         8999.3         10232.8
3. Reource ...B1an.                      -886.8         -1858.7       -1768.8        -1635.6           -1757.7        -1830.1        -1892.6        -1987.8        -2089.5
4. Total net factor   on.        2/       514.0           683.5         550.2          626.4              584.2         617.7          621.6           630.3          642.3
a.  Interet nd profit. (net)          -56.3           -51.9         -95.1         -107.6             -187.8        -230.0         -294.0         -358.6          -425.3
b. Workers' eittan.es                 575.3           735.4         645.3          734.0              772.0         847.7          915.6          988.9          1067.6
5. Net transfers                            -               -             -             -                   -                                                          -
6.  Bal.nce on Current Account           -367.8         -1175.2       -1218.6        -1009.2           -1173.5        -1212.3        -1270.9        -1357.4        -1447.2
7. PrIvate Capitol Inflo                  681.3           789.2         736.3          964.5            1137.4         1331.0         1530.7         1760.2         2024.3
a. Direct foreign in e.tm. nt- 31     194.2           314.7         276.6          315.0              350.6         416.5          491.5          580.0          684.1
b. DeposIts ehh Coe     .1rcl Bank_   149.3           120.6         103.4          182.2             256.8          307.0          365.0          435.0          518.0
c.  Borrowing-   of which             337.8           353.9         356.3          467.3              530.0         607.0          674.2           745.2         822.2
Suppliers crodit. (net)        198.2           161.4         125.4          230.5              290.0         365.0          420.0          490.0           560.0
8. Publi   MoLt sd Short.-It  CapItal     315.2           418.0         486.6          635.2              596.0         586.3          584.7          569.5          637.9
a. Short term credite                 259.0           314.8         368.6          429.1             410.0          471.3          500.8          474.2          442.6
b. Poblic M.LT loan.                   56.2           103.2         118.0          206.1              186.3         115.0           83.9           95.3           95.3
9. A-ortLastlons                         -157.3          -172.2        -176.2         -335.7             -449.0        -565.0         -685.0         -790.9          -909.1
10. Not c-pitul tr-nsaction                839.2          1035.0        1046.7         1264.0            1284.4         1352.3         1430.4         1538.8         1653.1
11. Error. sd Oiat..on.                    -29.7          -152.6         -59.3         -247.9               -              -              -
12. Change Inreonrv -                     -501.1           -12.4        -112.6          .6.9             -111.2         -140.0         -159.5         -181.4         -205.9
B. LOAN CCOiiTFIENTS
Actual
1. Total publit MoLT loan                 106.7            95.0         180.1          357.9            PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT            1972        1973       1974       1975
.  IBRD                               23.5            15.0          30.0          110.0
6.EtIB                                  7.7            11.8           -             47.3             PuhIto 8D6D                    1339.9     1542.0    2031.1      2541.4
c.  Othbr-                             75.3            68.2         150.1          200.6             Intor-et                         61.7       90.7      143.4      172.4
A-otiot.tin                     110.7      175.2      187.2      269.6
2. Total poblit cori ol     .l.oan.       397.2           468.4         478.0          358.0             Total Dlbt Servica              172.4     265.9       330.6     442.0
C. PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT                       Outstanding Det. 31. 1975                                      Debt Service REtiO
(Dliahoned Only)                       Amount              Percent                                      Debt Srwic/Eporte NFS           9.3       10.0        9.8        11.6
1. IBRD                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dbht Survice/Enp.rta MrS o.
1.  1001                                   70.6                2.8                                            Ligrant's Remitt-nces        7.1        7.9       8.2        9.7
2. Other Ml1tilterol                       97.4                3.8
3. Covnrente                              323.7               (2.7                                       Term.
4. Fin .cial iScttiotlont                 1752.7              69.0                                         Interest on ?otal D04D/
5. Suppliers Credit                        152.8               6.0                                            Total DO8D                   4.6        5.9        7.0        6.8
6. Others                                  144.2               5.7                                         Total Dabt Servlci/Totol DO0D  12.9       17.2       16.3       17.4
TOTAL                              2541.4              100.0
IBRD DOD                        32.7       48.7       60.5       70.4
IBRD D048 as. o f rtota  004D     2.4        3.1        3.0        2.8
IB8D Debt ServIce s 7. of
Total DSbt Sorvine              2.3        2.1        2.4        2.6
1/ Bas d on tho balonce of payments doto co-pilod by the Central Bnk of Greece .slng 1971 Silth.onian parities for
convcraloo purposes bht..en dracho. and other curr .cl..   for 1972-1975 data.
2/ Includos not direct investment incomo and net dividends.
3/  Includne dir-ct inn-trcent under Lav 2687/53, real .tte inv-t-nt and other net private iovetsnt.
4/  For-ign-crr-ncy dnposita of Crook notional. ahroad with local . o. arc-al bank.
5/  Incldes loan, to private corporation.    net .oppli-e' credits  nd loon, to private bhnk.
6/  Borroning. by the Central Bnk of Greece and other pcblir ngcies.
7/ Includes IMF fuod.
EMENA Region
CPD Il-A
Mroh 25, 1977



ANNEX II
Page I of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GREECE
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of April 30,1977)
US$ Million
Amount
Loan                                                      (Less
Number    Year    Borrower          Purpose             Cancellation)  Undisbursed
Four loans fully disbursed                                  71.6            -
711       1970    Hellenic State    Education               13.8           4.9
754       1971    Hellenic State    Irrigation              25.0          10.2
859       1972    Hellenic State    Education               23.5          22.4
991       1974    Hellenic State    Irrigation              30.0          30.0
1134      1975    Hellenic State    Education               45.0          45.0
1135      1975    NIBID                                     25.0           9.8
1165      1975    Hellenic State    Irrigation              40.0          39.7
1240      1976    Hellenic State    Highway                 30.0          30.0
1/
1345-     1977    Hellenic State    Sewerage                36.0          36.0
TOTAL                                    339.9         192.0
of which has been repaid                28.0
Total now outstanding                    311.9
Amount sold                   21.0
of which has been repaid     2.8        18.2
Total now held by Bank_!                 293.7
Total undisbursed                                      192.0
1/ Not yet effective and not included in undisbursed total.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of April 30, 1977)
Fiscal                                                           Amount in US$ Million
Year    Obligor                              Type of Business   Loan    Equity   Total
1962    Aevol Industrial Company
Organic Fertilizers, S. A.          Fertilizers        0.60      -       0.60
1965    "Titan" Cement Company, S. A. I      Cement             1.00    0.50      1.50
1966    National Investment Bank for         Industrial
Industrial Development, S. A.         Finance            -     0.72      0.72
1966    General Cement Company, S. A.        Cement             3.50       -      3.50
1966    "Titan" Cement Company, S. A. II     Cement               -      0.03     0.03
1970    Aluminium de Grece, S. A.
Industielle et Commerciale I        Aluminium          3.50    5.10      8.60
1972    Aluminium de Grece, S. A.
Industielle et Commerciale II       Aluminium            -     0.05      0.05
1975    Hellenic Food Industries, S. A.      Food Processing    1.00     0.13     1.13
1977    Hellenic Food Industries,S. A.       Food Processing             0.11     0.11
Total Gross Commitments                            9.60    6.64     16.24
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            7.59    5.72     13.31
Total Commitments now held by IFC                  2.01    0.92      2.93
Total undisbursed                                 -_-_-



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 711 - First Education Project; $13.8 million Loan of November 5, 1970;
Effectiveness Date: March 31, 1971: Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The five project post secondary technical schools have been completed.
Contracts for furniture and for about 40 percent of the educational equipment
have been awarded. Procurement of the remaining equipment is expected to be
completed during 1977. Despite delays in construction and procurement, the
higher technical education program has been offered since 1974, both in
temporary facilities and in the partially-finished project schools. At
present, about 9,000 students are enrolled in the program, or more than 45
percent above original design capacity.
Loan No. 754 - Groundwater Development Project (Irrigation): US$25 million
Loan of June 21, 1971: Effectiveness Date: November 15, 1971: Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Implementation of this project began slowly due to delays in contract
awards, changes in design of the distribution network following consultants'
recommendations, and a protracted search for a satisfactory solution, found in
December 1973, to the question of farmers' contributions to the capital cost
of the project. The Government proposes phasing of the construction of the
permanent irrigation network through 1986. Drilling of the wells is 85 percent
completed and irrigation has started on about 8,000 ha of the 40,000 ha using
temporary facilities. The substantial cost overruns are being borne by the
Government.
Loan No. 859 - Second Education Project; $23.5 million Loan of October 2, 1972;
Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
Architectural designs for all project institutions are proceeding
satisfactorily. Procurement of equipment for existing schools has started and
some contracts have been awarded. The Education Project Unit in the Ministry
of Coordination and Planning is performing satisfactorily. However, due to
initial delays in proposing designs and bidding documents, project completion
is now expected only in 1980. These delays together with changes in educa-
tional and technical designs have led to cost increases about 70 percent above
the appraisal estimates, for which the Government is providing funds.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan No. 991 - Nestos and Yannitsa Irrigation Project: $30.0 Million Loan
of June 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: July 29, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1980.
Because of political changes in Greece, there were delays in com-
pleting the conditions of effectiveness. Project implementation has however
begun and the review of the tertiary canal design standards has been com-
pleted. The first contract was awarded in September and construction has
begun. The Government has requested deletion of the Nestos sub-project
pending new discussions with Bulgaria, the upstream riparian, on use of the
Nestos river waters, and to use the funds for Yannitsa.
Loan No. 1134 - Third Education Project; $45 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: April 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
A Steering Committee has been established to guide and monitor the
three studies on post-secondary education, pedagogical training and production
of education included in the project and consultants have been engaged for
the studies. The Ministries of Education and Labor are organizing technical
services for day-to-day implementation of the physical aspects of the project.
The Government is now in the process of passing the legislative framework for
even more reforms in technical education. Some delays have resulted from
having to reflect these developments, which do not affect enrollments or
costs, in the project school designs.
Loan No. 1135 - Fifth NIBID Project: $25 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
This loan has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1165 - The East Vermion Irrigation Project: $40.0 Million Loan
of October 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date: August 12, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Progress is satisfactory. Tender documents are being prepared and
the first contract has been let. A Project Manager and a steering committee
have been appointed and are functioning. The Government has requested post-
poning the feasibility studies for a future project in the Xanthi Komotini
area. The Bank has agreed that $300,000 of the funds assigned to Xanthi
Komotini be used to prepare a fresh fruit and vegetable project.
Loan No. 1240 - Highway Project: $30.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: January 5, 1977; Closing Date: December 30, 1980.
Progress is satisfactory; awards for some of the road maintenance
equipment have been approved; the road maintenance directorate is now operat-
ing; and the bidding documents for the project road are nearly complete.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan No. 1345 - Salonica and Volos Sewerage Project: $36 Million Loan of
February 3, 1977; Effectiveness Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Engineering consultants have been hired for Volos and selected
for Salonioca. The draft law for the Volos Authority is being presented
to Parliament.



ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I - TIMETABLE OF EVENTS
FAO/Bank Cooperative Program
Identification Mission to explore
Evros' agricultural potential:            September 1975
Bank In Depth Reconnaissance Mission
to explore Evros' overall development
potential, the potential for sectors
other than agriculture, and institu-
tional arrangements for integrated
development:                              November 1975
Bank Project Preparation Mission:           May 1976
FAO/Bank C.P. Project Preparation
Mission:                                  May 1976
First Stage Appraisal Mission:              November 1976
Second Stage Appraisal Mission:             February 1977
Completion of Negotiations:                 May 6, 1977
Planned Date of Effectiveness:              October 30, 1977
SECTION II - SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None.
SECTION III - SPECIAL CONDITIONS
1.        Agreement of the Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG) and the Hellenic
Industrial Development Bank (ETVA) to subscribe and pay in Dr 200 million
($5.5 million) of share capital of HSI, Agreement of ABG to make a long-term
loan to HSI of Dr 241 million ($6.6 million) and Agreement between the Govern-
ment and HSI to onlend $14.0 million to HSI at an interest rate of 11 percent
for 12 years including 3 years of grace (para 32).
2.        Creation of a Central Coordination Committee in Athens, a Regional
Coordination Committee in Alexandroupolis, and an Evros Project Office also
in Alexandroupolis with responsibilities and membership as detailed in the
report (para 38 to 40).
3.        Establishment of a special Fund (the Evros Special Development Fund)
to finance pilot projects and feasibility studies (para 41 to 42).



,   J \ W  S    ,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~204  < 
7      )                     204                         GREECE
i2         8 8 \     S       9 SEVROS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
X   iD O XkX~  it         FLOOD PROTECTION WORKS
IA  horio.                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing Lenees
O'MIkro - Dereins  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   eorloi.ISIto
________________________RiuS                                          i'
D-?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ie on Flo Ga.gi,d,\gs
/~~~4  yzt  S ~~~~~~KILOMETERS            Et LTHeZLs7  o  vj                 TURKEY            - 
BILE5                                                                To Aelandrou/)N/r I5 r onternatioa J l  B-dari
35.4 dS t,'"~CCC 
Aspro.e  0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ T  ALondopoi  2' hd &, ,, 



