77-4 /
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1457 GR
Loan Agreement
(Evros Development Project)
between
THE HELLENIC STATE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 27, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1977, between THE HELLENIC STATE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "LRS" means the Land Reclamation Service, an agency
within the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower;
(b) "TOEV" means Local Farmers' Water Users Association
(Topikos Organismos Enghion Veltioseon) organized and operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 3881 of 1958 as
amended from time to time;
(c) "GOEV" means General Farmers' Water Users Association
(Genikos Organismos Enghion Veltioseon) organized and operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 3881 of 1958 as
amended from time to time;


﻿- 3 -
(d) "Project Irrigation Area" means the area served by the
facilities provided under Part A (2) of the Project;
(e) "PPC" means Public Power Corporation (Dimossia
Epichirissis Ilectrismou-DEH) of the Borrower;
(f) "stremma" means an area measure equivalent to one-tenth
of one hectare;
(g) "Dr." and "drachmae" mean the national currency of
the Borrower;
(h) "ABG" means Agricultural Bank of Greece;
(i) "ETVA" means Hellenic Industrial Development Bank;
(j) "HSI" means Hellenic Sugar Industry, a public
corporation established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
(k) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the subsidiary loan
agreement to be concluded between the Borrower and HSI pursuant to
the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be amended from time to time;
and
(1) "Fund" means the Evros Special Development Fund
described in Part F of the Project.


﻿4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) Der annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial, administrative, agricultural,
engineering, agro-industrial, educational, public utility and
highway practices, as follows:
(i) Parts A, C, D, E and F of the Project shall be
carried out by the organization that shall be
responsible for the administration of the Evros
development program and which is described in
Schedule 5 of this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time; and
(ii) Part B of the Project by HSI.
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall permit and cause ABG and ETVA to
subscribe, and pay in five equal annual installments to be made
in the years 1978 through 1982, an aggregate amount of Dr.
200,000,000 of the share capital of HSI, and shall cause ABG to
make a long-term loan to HSI of Dr.241,000,000, under agreements
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to HSI the
equivalent of $14,000,000 out of the proceeds of the Loan, or such
other amount as shall be allocated from time to time to Part B of
the Project out of the proceeds of the Loan, under a subsidiary
loan agreement acceptable to the Bank pursuant to which HSI shall,
inter alia:
(i) repay the equivalent in terms of drachmae of
the proceeds of the Loan so relent (such equivalent
to be determined as of the respective dates of
withdrawal of the proceeds from the Loan Account)
in no more than 18 equal or approximately equal
semi-annual installments after a grace period of
three years;
(ii) pay interest at the rate of not less than 11%
per annum on the principal amount of the subsidiary
loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time;
(iii) carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with
the provisions of the Loan Agreement and take all
steps necessary or useful to enable the Borrower to
meet its obligations under the Loan Agreement in
connection therewith;
(iv) employ consultants to assist in the implementation
of Part B of the Project, whose qualifications,


﻿-8-
experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank;
(v) operate and maintain the sugar factory expanded
under Part B of the Project, and make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof promptly as required,
in accordance with appropriate financial,
engineering, commercial and agro-industrial
practices;
(vi) manage its affairs and conduct its operations in
accordance with appropriate administrative,
commercial, financial and agro-industrial practices
under the supervision of competent and experienced
management;
(vii) maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition;
(viii) have its accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank,
and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank within six
months after the end of each such year certified


﻿-9-
copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and a copy of the auditor's report;
(ix) not incur any debt maturing by its terms more than
one year after the date on which it was incurred,
unless its net revenues for the fiscal year next
preceding such incurrence or for a later 12-month
period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever
amount shall be greater, shall be not less than 1.3
times the largest aggregate annual amount of debt
service that shall be payable during any succeeding
fiscal year on all its debt including the debt to
be incurred;
(x) until Part B of the Project is completed, not
declare any aividend in excess of the equivalent of
10% of the nominal amount paid in on the subscribed
capital of HSI, unless the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree; and
(xi) furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower and the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the performance by
HSI of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and permit the accredited representatives
of the Borrower and the Bank to examine all plants,


﻿- 10 -
installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of HSI and any records and documents
relating to such obligations.
(b) The Borrower shall cause HSI to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all HSI's
obligations therein set forth and shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank; and the Borrower shall not
amend, suspend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity to be
payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement


﻿- 11 -
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, before December
15 in each year, a detailed program of the works to be carried out
under the Project during the next following year, together with
realistic cost estimates for such works, and shall, after having
reviewed the Bank's comments, if any, thereon, carry out such
works in accordance with such programs.
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary for the acquisition as


﻿- 12 -
and when needed of all such land and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project prior to their construction,
and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the land consolidation
to be carried out under Part A (2) of the Project on about 3,000
ha in the Erythropotamos Valley will be completed by May 1982.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that by May 1983 at
least 40,000 ha of agricultural land situated in the nomos of
Evros will be served by irrigationi facilities adequate to permit
the growing of sugar beets to be processed by the Orestias sugar
factory.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that before 1982 the
total sugar beet processing capacity in Greece will not be
expanded to exceed 29,000 metric tons of sugar beets per day
(TBD), unless (i) an increase in local or foreign demand for
sugar produced in Greece justifies such expansion and (ii) the
Borrower has consulted the Bank on such expansion.
Section 3.08. On or before October 1, 1977, the Borrower
shall have established the Fund and shall have paid to the Fund an
amount of Dr.10,000,000. After its establishment, the resources of


﻿- 13 -
the Fund shall be replenished by the Borrower at intervals of six
months until the Borrower has contributed to the Fund an aggregate
amount of at least Dr.37,000,000. The proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn on account of Part F of the Project shall be deemed to
be made available to the Fund in addition to, and without
affecting the amounts of, the before-mentioned contributions of
the Borrower to the Fund. The Fund shall be operated in accordance
with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause PPC to install the
power transmission lines required for Part A (2) of the Project,
before the facilities to be served thereby are completed for
placement into service and to provide at all times power
sufficient for the operation of such facilities, under a contract
with the Borrower which shall provide inter alia for an
installation schedule that is consistent with the irrigation
development schedule for Part A (2) of the Project.
Section 3.10. On or before March 31, 1978, the Borrower
shall have adopted suitable curricula for the schools included in
Part D (1) of the Project.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower (i) represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as
security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such
lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date; or (iii) any lien on commercial
goods to secure a debt maturing not more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred and to be paid out of the


﻿- 15 -
proceeds of sale of such commercial goods; or (iv) any lien upon
real estate or other property in Greece or revenues or receipts in
the currency of the Borrower, if such lien is given by a political
subdivision or by an agency of a political subdivision of the
Borrower under arrangements or circumstances which would not
result in priority in the allocation or realization of foreign
exchange.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
includes assets of the Borrower or of any of its political
subdivisions or of any agency of the Borrower or of any agency of
any such political subdivision or of the Bank of Greece or of any
other institution performing the functions of a central bank.
(e) If the Borrower, because of constitutional or other
legal provisions, shall be unable to make the foregoing effective
with respect to any lien on any assets of a political subdivision
or agency of a political subdivision, the Borrower, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall give to the Bank an equivalent
lien or equivalent priority in the allocation or realization of
foreign exchange, as the case may be, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,


﻿- 16 -
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause any GOEV or TOEV having
jurisdiction over any part of the Project Irrigation Area to: (i)
maintain in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices separate accounts for their respective
resources and expenditures in respect of the facilities
constructed or installed under Part A (2) of the Project
(including revenues generated by the charges levied per stremma of
cultivated land and the expenditures made on account of operation
and maintenance of said facilities), and have such accounts for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by the auditing services of the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance; (ii) furnish through the Borrower
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, the reports of such
audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts of such GOEVs
and TOEVs and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause all irrigation and
drainage facilities and flood protection works serving farmers in
the Project Irrigation Area to be operated and maintained and all


﻿- 17 -
necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement (as such Schedule may be amended from time to time) and
appropriate agricultural, engineering and financial policies and
practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that there shall be
established and maintained and collected from all farmers who
cultivate land served by irrigation or drainage facilities
constructed or installed under Part A (2) of the Project annual
charges per stremma of cultivated land at levels sufficient to
cover the actual aggregate costs of operating and maintaining the
irrigation and drainage facilities serving such land, including
the cost of power required for the operation of electrically
powered facilities, and, as of the second year of supply of water
under Part A (2) of the Project, an additional amount per stremma
to be collected annually, representing a provision towards
depreciation, which shall be paid to the Borrower into a separate
central account for replacement of such irrigation and drainage
facilities or for new investment, the sum of such additional
amounts to be each year equivalent to not less than 27% of said
actual aggregate costs accountable to the same year.


﻿- 18 -
(c) For the purposes of this Section, the term "irrigation
and drainage facilities" means all facilities used for irrigation
or drainage, or for the operation, maintenance or inspection of
other similar facilities, including without limitation canals,
drains, improved riverbeds, dikes, dams, power generating and
transmission facilities, roads, pumping stations, wells, weirs,
pipes and equipment.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the agricultural
extension and veterinary services, and the agricultural research
and experiment institutes and stations, serving the nomos of
Evros will at all times be appropriately equipped and staffed with
competent personnel in adequate numbers.
Section 4.05. The Borrower recognizes that in order to be
able to make full productive use of the resources in the nomos of
Evros, farmers, craftsmen and small manufacturers in the nomos of
Evros must have access to short-, medium- and long-term credit on
reasonable terms. To this end, the Borrower shall take all steps,
including the provision of refinancing facilities, which may be
necessary to ensure the availability to such producers, promptly
as needed, of an adequate volume of such credit.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause the roads and
facilities provided under Parts A (3) and (4), C and D of the
Project to be operated and maintained and all necessary repairs


﻿- 19 -
and renewals thereof to be made from time to time in accordance
with appropriate engineering and financial policies and practices,
and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) water charges are levied and collected on the supply of
drinking water from the facilities provided under Part D (5) of
the Project, sufficient to cover at least the costs of operating
and maintaining such facilities; and
(b) rents or taxes are levied and collected for the use of
each of the retail markets provided under Part D (4) of the
Project, sufficient to cover at least the costs of operating and
maintaining each such market.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and HSI, respectively, has been duly
authorized and ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b) the authorized share capital of HSI has been increased
by Dr.200,000,000, such increase has been fully subscribed and the
agreements between HSI and ABG and ETVA, respectively, referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and providing for the
payment of such subscription have been concluded and are in full
force and effect;
(c) the loan agreement between HSI and ABG referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement has been concluded and is
in full force and effect; and
(d) the Central Coordination Committee, the Regional
Coordination Committee and the Evros Project Office have been
established in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement; and the members of such Committees and the
Project Manager of the Evros Project Office and at least two


﻿- 21 -
members of his staff, all as specified in Schedule 5, have been
appointed.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and HSI, respectively, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and H:SI in accordance with
its terms; and
(b) that the actions described in paragraphs (b), (c) and
(d) of the preceding Section 5.01 have been taken in accordance
with the law of the Borrower.
Section 5.03. The date October 25, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 22 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance
Athens, Greece
With a copy to:
The Ministry of Coordination
Athens, Greece
Telex:
216326YSYNGR
Athens, Greece
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 23 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
THE HELLENIC STATE
By /s/ Menelas D. Alexandrakis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice Presieent
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categorins of items to be
financed ou.t of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works for               13,000,000        32%
Parts A (1), (2)
and (3) (b), B,
C (1) and D of
the Project
(2) Equipment, mate-              19,000,000        100% of foreign
rials and supplies                             expenditures
(including those                              and 90% of local
required by PPC if                             expenditures
not financed under                             ex-factory
Category (r))
(3) Goods and services             1,000,000        50%
for Part F of the
Project
(4) Consultants' ser-                100,000        100% of foreign
vices for Part B                               expenditures
of the Project
(5) Unallocated                    1,900,000
TOTAL         35,000,000


﻿- 25 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Eorrower on goods or services, or on the importa-
tion, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if
the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and


﻿- 26 -
(b) expenditures for goods or services under Category (3)
required for a study or pilot project included in Part F of the
Project and to be approved by the Bank pursuant to the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, unless the Bank has approved such
study or pilot project on the basis of an application that provides
a description and justification of the study or pilot project, a
realistic estimate of its costs, and such other information in
connection therewith as the Bank may reasonably request.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 27 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's overall development
program for the nomos of Evros in Thrace and consists of the
following:
Part A:   Agriculture
(1) Construction of flood protection works on the
Erythropotamos River and its tributaries adequate to
protect about 3,500 ha of agricultural land from 50-year
floods.
(2) Installation of about 75 tubewells, cement asbestos
pipes, hydrants and mobile sprinklers, together with
the construction of field roads and drains and the
necessary power transmission lines and the
implementation of land consolidation, as required for
the efficient irrigation of about 3,000 ha of fertile
land.
(3) Development of the forestry through: (a) the
construction of about 285 km of main and access forest
roads; (b) the construction of three permanent
residences for forest workers; (c) the provision of
three buses; and (d) the reforestation of about 3,000
ha; the road construction and reforestation equipment
and the location and design standards of the roads and


﻿- 29 -
the reforestation shall be as agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.
(4) Strengthening of agricultural extension and veterinary
services through provision of transport equipment to
such services, field and laboratory equipment to the
Borrower's agricultural field research station at
Orestias and laboratory equipment to the Veterinary
Research Center at Komotini.
Part B:   Sugar Factory
Expansion of the processing capacity of the Orestias
sugar factory from 3,000 to 6,000 metric tons of sugar
beets per day, to be completed by August 1982 in
accordance with a time schedule agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.
Part C:   Roads
(1) Construction of about 50 km of paved roads connecting
13 villages to the existing paved road network.
(2) Construction of about 250 km of gravel rural roads,
including the provision of equipment for their
construction and maintenance.
(3) Provision of the equipment necessary for the maintenance
of paved roads in the nomos of Evros.


﻿- 30 -
The location and design standards of the roads and a list of
the equipment to be provided under (2) and (3) shall be
as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Part D:   Community Facilities
(1) Construction and equipping of a technical lyc6e
and vocational secondary school designed to accommodate
about 540 students at Didimotichon and equipping of a
similar school designed to accommodate about 900
students and presently under construction at Orestias.
(2) Provision of about 55 km of paved streets, drainage
and street lighting in 18 towns and villages.
(3) Construction of community centers in 12 towns and
villages.
(4) Construction of retail markets in three major towns.
(5) Replacement of water supply facilities in 10 villages.
The towns and villages and the design standards of the
facilities included in (2) through (5) shall be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank.
Part E:   Establishment of the Evros Project Office
Provision of office equipment, furniture and three
vehicles for the proper operation of the Evros Project
Office.


﻿- 31 -
Part F:   Studies and Pilot Projects
High priority studies end pilot projects in the public
and private sectors aimed at advancing the development
of Evros, and the establishment of the Fund with initial
resources of at least Dr.74,000,000 out of which such
studies and projects shall be financed.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1981
through   March 1, 1992                      1,460,000
On September 1, 1992                               1,420,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 33 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General. Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1.65%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                6.00%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                          7.10%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                8.20%


﻿- 34 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of the goods other than those
referred to in Part B.1 and B.2 of this Schedule, and contracts
for civil works included in Parts A (1) and (2), B, C (1) and D
(2) of the Project, shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines) including the pertinent provisions of the General
Introduction thereto, on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part B of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
3.   Contracts for equipment and civil works shall be grouped so
as to attract broad international competition.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Except for Part B of the Project, contracts for equipment
required for immediate use, estimated to cost less than $20,000
equivalent each, may be awarded by the ad hoc local committees
referred to in Part A.2 (d) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement on the


﻿- 35 -
basis of the Borrower's procurement procedures, provided that the
aggregate cost of the contracts so awarded does not exceed
$1,000,000 equivalent.
2.   Contracts for equipment for Part B of the Project required
for immediate use, estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent
each, may be awarded on the basis of HSI's procurement procedures,
provided that the aggregate cost of the contracts so awarded does
not exceed $250,000 equivalent.
3.   Contracts for civil works included in Parts A (3) (b) and D
(1), (3), (4) and (5) of the Project may be awarded on the basis
of the Borrower's procurement procedures.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installatibn shall be included.


﻿- 36 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Greece may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Greece if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Greece equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Greece.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest


﻿- 37 -
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1. Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The


﻿- 38 -
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of
any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are
notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment, materials or
supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and
all contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,


﻿- 39 -
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contfact shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably


﻿- 40 -
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 41 -
SCHEDULE 5
Evros Development Administration
A.   Project Organization and Management
The development of the nomos of Evros will be planned and
managed by an organization consisting of a Central Coordination
Committee, a Regional Coordination Committee and a Project Office,
as follows:
1.   Evros Central Coordination Committee
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain at
Athens the Evros Central Coordination Committee whose
principal duties shall include:
(a) follow-up of project implementation and
coordination of the overall development program of
the nomos of Evros;
(b) reviewing said development program and the annual
investment budget proposals of the Regional
Coordination Committee and making recommendations
thereon to the Borrower;
(c) reviewing and evaluating the results of the
monitoring to be carried out pursuant to Part A.3
(b) (ii) hereof, the progress of said program
with respect to the effectiveness of the new
organization, the procurement procedures, the Fund


﻿- 42 -
and the effect of said program on income
improvement and distribution and on emigration; and
reviewing the annual Project progress reports for
submission to the Bank; and
(d) reviewing and approving proposed studies and
pilot projects to be financed out of the Fund that
exceed the limits specified in Part B hereof.
The Committee shall be chaired by a director general
from the Ministry of Coordination and shall further
include the Head of the Regional Development Service of
the Ministry of Coordination as member-secretary (such
Service to function as permanent secretariat of the
Committee), and senior officials from, inter alia, the
Ministries of Coordination, Interior, Agriculture and
Public Works, and ABG.
2.   Evros Regional Coordination Committee
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain
at Alexandroupolis the Evros Regional Coordination
Committee for the nomos of Evros whose principal duties
shall be:
(a) implementation of the Project (except Part B
thereof);


﻿- 43 -
(b) coordination and review of the development program
for the nomos of Evros and of the annual investment
budget proposals of the different departments for
all development schemes in the nomos of Evros and
making recommendations thereon to the Central
Coordination Committee;
(c) supervision of the implementation of the Evros
development program, and recruitment of staff, with
incentives if necessary;
(d) advise the Nomarch on the composition and functions
of the local committees which will be appointed by
the Nomarch on an ad hoc basis for the purpose of:
(i) evaluating and awarding of civil works
contracts under the Project (except Part B
thereof); and (ii) evaluating and awarding of at
least the equipment contracts which are within the
limits provided in Part B.1 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
(e) review of Project progress including the Orestias
sugar factory and of the public investment plans
for the nomos of Evros; and
(f) review and approval of studies and pilot projects
under Part F of the Project to investigate private


﻿- 44-
and public investment proposals with a view to
advancing regional development.
The membership of the Committee shall include, inter
alios, the Project Manager, the chief of the Komotini
office of the Regional Development Service, the direc-
tors of the Evros Departments of Agriculture, Public
Works and Forestry, the Director of the Orestias sugar
factory and a representative manager of the local
branches of ABG. The head of the nomos, the Nomarch,
shall be its chairman. The Project Manager shall be the
member-secretary of the committee. The directors of
departments dealing with the development program at the
nomos level shall report on the progress of the program
to the Regional Coordination Committee.
3.   Evros Project Office
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain
the Evros Project Office whose principal duties shall
be:
(a) with respect to the implementation of the Project,
to review and revise the parts related to the
implementation of the Project in the annual invest-
ment budget proposals of the various technical
departments in Evros; and


﻿- 45 -
(b) with respect to the overall development program
of Evros (including the Project):
(i) to coordinate the preparation of the Evros
development program and the annual investment
budget proposals under the supervision of the
Regional Coordination Committee;
(ii)  to oversee, to monitor and to coordinate
the implementation of the Evros development
program by the development departments in the
nomos of Evros;
(iii)  to provide secretariat services to the
Regional Coordination Committee;
(iv)  to initiate proposals for investigations,
studies and pilot projects included in Part F
of the Project;
(v)  to administer the Fund; and
(vi) to collect annually information required
for the monitoring of the Project in
accordance with criteria agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, and to prepare annual
Project progress reports with the assistance
of the different directors on the Project for
submission to the Regional Coordination


﻿- 46 -
Committee, the Central Coordination Committee
and the Bank.
The Evros Project Office shall be headed by a
full-time Project Manager residing in
Alexandroupolis and with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank, whose staff
shall include inter alios an economist, an engineer
and an accountant. The Project Manager shall be a
staff member of the Ministry of Coordination and
functionally responsible to the Nomarch.
B.   Operation of the Evros Special Development Fund
The Project Manager shall be responsible for the operation of
the Fund.
1.   Studies
Studies to be financed from the Fund whose estimated
cost exceeds the equivalent of $200,000 shall require
the prior approval of the Central Coordination
Committee, acting upon the recommendation of the
Regional Coordination Committee, and the Bank. All other
studies so to be financed shall require the prior
approval of the Regional Coordination Committee; the
Committee shall inform the Central Coordination
Committee and the Bank of all studies so approved.


﻿- 47 -
2.   Pilot Projects
All pilot projects to be financed from the Fund
shall require the prior approval of the Central
Coordination Committee and the Bank. No pilot project
whose estimated cost exceeds the equivalent of $500,000
shall be financed from the Fund. The Borrower shall
ensure that funds provided for pilot projects when
benefits shall accrue to identifiable private indi-
viduals shall be recovered from such individuals,
and the Borrower shall inform the Bank thereof.
C.   Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation and Drainage
Facilities
1.   The irrigation and drainage facilities serving the Project
Irrigation Area shall be operated and maintained as follows:
(a) in areas covered only by a TOEV, the TOEV shall be
responsible for operation and maintenance of all irrigation and
drainage systems situated in its area; and
(b) in the event that a GOEV shall assume responsibilities
in respect of all or part of the Project Irrigation Area, the main
irrigation and drainage systems situated in an area which comes
under the jurisdiction of a GOEV shall be operated and maintained
by such GOEV; the primary, secondary and tertiary irrigation and
drainage systems situated in that area shall be operated and


﻿- 48 -
maintained by the TOEV charged therewith; the GOEV shall supervise
and provide technical assistance to the TOEVs which come under
its jurisdiction; and
(c) the activities of TOEVs and GOEVs shall be supervised
by the Regional LRS.
The TOEVs and GOEVs shall be responsible for the timely
renewal of any irrigation and drainage facilities which fall under
their respective jurisdictions, and all their operating and
maintenance equipment, in accordance with Section 4.03 of the Loan
Agreement. All such renewals shall be financed out of the
resources of the TOEV or GOEV responsible therefor, or out of
funds borrowed by such TOEV or GOEV, or out of disbursements from
the central account referred to in Section 4.03 (b) of the Loan
Agreement.
2.   The TOEVs shall be responsible for the collection from
farmers of the charges and amounts specified in Section 4.03 (b)
of the Loan Agreement. For any area covered by a GOEV, the TOEV
shall transfer to the GOEV such portion of said amounts as shall
be required by the GOEV to operate and maintain the main
irrigation and drainage systems situated in the area over which
the GOEV has jurisdiction as well as the other charges, dues or
fees duly charged by the GOEV to the TOEV on account of
membership, technical assistance or other services.


