Report No. PID8838
Project Name                     Cameroon-PSD II
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Non-sector Specific
Project ID                       CMPE65927
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF CAMEROON
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances,
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 28, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 6, 2000 (actual)
Projected Board Date             May 30, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
After a long economic decline from 1986 to 1993, the Government of
Cameroon, following the devaluation of the CFA Franc, has launched a
structural adjustment program to restore the conditions for sustained
growth and to achieve a viable external and domestic financial position.
The first actions were aimed at: (i) restructuring the financial sector;
(ii) addressing macro-economic and budgetary imbalance; (iii) implementing
civil service reform; and (iv) improving transport sector operations.
After initial hesitation by the Government that led to a postponement of
critical reforms and also endangered the support provided by the Bretton
Woods Institutions, the period since 1996 has seen a substantial
improvement in economic management and implementing structural reforms.
On average, the primary budget surplus has exceeded 6 percent of GDP while
all external debt arrears have been cleared. In the financial sector, the
commercial bank restructuring has been successful with all the banks now
profitable and meeting the regional prudential requirement; a similar
process is on the verge of being completed in the insurance sector while
the performance of the National Recovery Agency has substantially
improved. As regards privatization, a large scale divestiture program is
being implemented that has already translated into the adoption of new
legal and regulatory frameworks aimed at opening-up and introducing
competition in the electricity, telecommunications, post, energy, air
transport and port sectors. In parallel, the sale of all major
agro-industries, public utilities and most of the other Government-owned
companies in the infrastructure sector is either completed or the calls
for bids have been launched. Finally, to support environment-friendly and
sustainable growth, reforms aimed at managing efficiently the forestry
resources are being put in place with: (i) the adoption of a new framework
to award concessions and harvesting rights; (ii) the strengthening of the
various institutions in charge of monitoring, evaluating, and enforcing
forestry policy; and (iii) rational management of bio-diversity. Despite
the scope of the reforms being implemented by GOC and the good budgetary
performance, after an initial jump-start, growth has dropped from 5.0
percent in 1995-1997 to 4.2 percent in 1998/1999 due to the decline in the
world market commodities prices, the Asian crisis, the non-secure business



environment and the governance issues in the country. Private investment
has only increased by 1.6 percent to 16.5 percent of GDP from 1995 to 1999
and foreign direct investment represented on average one percent of GDP
during the years 1996-1999, half of the results achieved by C¶te
d'Ivoire. Since the privatization process started late compared to other
countries and is not yet fully completed, infrastructure indicators remain
low compared to similar countries. Poverty is still high with 50t of the
population living below the poverty line and social indicators, such as
school enrollment or access to health facilities, have continued to
decline despite a recent increase in Government budgetary allocations.GOC'
s overall objective as stated in the letter of development policy signed
in March 1998 as part of the negotiations of the Third Structural
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 3102) is to consolidate a private sector-led
accelerated growth while alleviating poverty and improving access to
social services by: (a) strengthening the competitiveness of the economy;
(b) consolidating the coordination and complementarity between private and
public sectors by focusing Government activities on policy formulation and
evaluation; and (c) sharing the benefits of growth with the least
privileged. In spite of the reforms already implemented, Cameroon still
has a long way to go to meet its economic and social objectives especially
if it is to reverse the decline in the social sectors and the increasing
poverty and to improve its image as a heavily corrupt country. To address
sector issues, GOC has taken a series of steps. With respect to improving
infrastructure, after the adoption of new regulatory frameworks and the
privatization of public utilities (telecommunication, electricity, water)
GOC's objective is to attract additional operators in those sectors to
improve quality and provision of services. In the transport sector, an
ambitious reform program has been adopted for the Port of Douala; aimed at
reducing goods transit time and costs, the reform will lead to the
creation of privately managed entities for the various ports and the
transfer to private operators of all the industrial and commercial
activities. Road maintenance for the priority network is being
transferred to private entities after the creation of the road fund and
the Government is considering various options to attract private operators
in building and operating infrastructure. Regarding the business
environment, the Government has established a competitiveness committee
composed of business and administration representatives with the objective
of identifying major constraints to private sector operations and
incentives and improving the overall competitiveness of the economy.In the
financial sector, the Government has recently adopted a far reaching
strategy to reform and modernize the bankrupt pension system. The new
strategy involves the breaking-up of the existing institution into
separate and privately managed entities for family allowances, worker's
compensation, and pensions.Regarding the social sectors, GOC has already
increased budget allocations for health and education and is further
committed to adopt, before the decision point of the HIPC initiative
scheduled between June and September 2000, new sectoral policies aimed at
reversing the decline in service provision and improving their quality
with an emphasis on better economic management and transfer of resources
to the beneficiaries. A poverty alleviation declaration has been adopted
by the Government and it is currently designing an overall strategy to
include poverty alleviation tools in economic management decisions.
Finally, improved Governance has recently become an increasingly publicly
discussed topic leaving GOC no choice but to begin to address the issue.
- 2 -



2. Objectives
The project builds on the success achieved so far by the Privatization and
Private Sector Technical Assistance Credit as regards privatization and
financial sector restructuring; its objective is to : (i) continue
streamlining and securing the business environment, especially in the
infrastructure sectors; and expanding privatization and public/private
partnership in the overall economy    including thesocial sectors, (ii) to
complete the financial sector reform and, (iii) to develop a poverty
alleviation focus in GOC economic management. This would in turn help
Government refocus on its core functions of policy formulation and
management while attaining its goal of achieving a private sector led and
pro poor growth of at least 6tThe project will address lingering
constraints in the regulatory and institutional frameworks for private
sector development both at the macro and sector level through an improved
dialogue between business representatives, other stakeholders, including
the least privileged, and Government. Together with the continuation of
the divestiture program, the project seeks to expand public/private
partnership in various areas of the economy. By setting-up the right
framework in the health and education sectors it will pave the way for
better overall coverage while supporting private delivery of services
complementary to those of GOC. The project will also aim at consolidating
the financial sector reform by supporting the development of a financial
market, modernizing the pension system and privatizing the management of
the social security agencies, strengthening the micro finance
institutional framework, restructuring the Postal and Saving Bank and
privatizing the National Loan Recovery Agency. Finally, the credit will
help GOC have a better understanding of poverty in the country and develop
a poverty alleviation focus in economic management decisions.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is the best-placed institution to combine an active policy
dialogue for the removal of obstacles to private sector development, with
a pro-active involvement in the attainment of growth objectives at the
sector level. Most of the policy reform measures over the past few years
in Cameroon were carried out under the Bank-supported structural
adjustment program. Major reform areas included sector liberalization,
privatization, and financial sector reform.To generate a strong supply
response, ongoing reforms must also be complemented by concrete, targeted
and more pro-active actions aimed to overcome market imperfections, such
as poor institutional capacity or inadequate financial systems. The Bank
is well positioned to assist all stakeholders in Cameroon to achieve a
long-term shared vision for economic growth and private sector development
4. Description
(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)The project will include three mutually reinforcing
components:(a) The public/private partnership component has four main
objectives. First, it will seek to strengthen and consolidate into a
multisectoral regulatory agency all the various entities (i.e, the
telecommunication and electricity regulatory agency, and the railways and
water supervision unit that have been created as part of the modernization
of the infrastructure institutional framework) and develop pilot PPIs in
various sectors (transport, electricity, water, telecommunication...); as
part of that process, arbitration mechanisms will be put in place in order
to avoid immediate recourse to the judiciary in case of litigation. In
-3 -



addition, it will help develop a new framework to encourage concessioning
and contracting-out public activities at the national or local level
(cities, local communities). Finally it will strengthen the organization
and management of the three funds that have been created to finance
decentralized infrastructure - Water Development Fund, Universal Service
Fund and Rural Electricity Agency. Second, it will help setting-up the
right framework and implementing some of the preliminary conditions-
budget management, use and transfer of public resources - of the sectoral
policies in the education and health sector being currently designed by
GOC, in order to develop private provision of social services in those
sectors. Third, the project will support the competitiveness committee
in order to streamline the business regulations in Cameroon with a view to
reducing transaction costs. Fourth, it will support the creation of a
poverty alleviation unit attached to the Comite Technique de Suivi (the
unit within the Ministry of Finance to pilot economic reforms) in order
to: (i) monitor poverty in the country; and (ii) suggest poverty
alleviation actions to be included in economic management decisions.(b)
The privatization component will continue supporting the Government
divestiture program; it will: (i) help with the privatization of the
publicly owned hotels, the cotton sector, the port industrial and
commercial activities, and air transport infrastructure], the National
Investment Holding with all its participation, review the role and
reorganize SNH, the National Petroleum Company; (ii) develop IPOs in
conjunction with the creation of a financial market and a Regional Stock
exchange; and (iii) help with the institutional transformation of the
Privatization Technical Unit so that it can provide technical advice and
support for the implementation of the above mentioned public/private
partnerships;(c) The financial sector component will seek to: (i) to bring
MFIs under a well adapted regulatory framework; (ii) implement the reform
adopted by the Government for the modernization of the pension system;
(iii) transform the Societe Nationale de Recouvrement (SRC) into a private
entity; (iv) restructure the postal saving and checking and, (v) support
the establishment of a financial market
Public/Private partnership: (i) infrastructure framework and development
of pilot operations; (ii) private provision of social services; (iii)
business environment; and (iv) poverty alleviation and monitoring
Privatization: (i)
support to the divestitures program; (ii)
broad based participation program; (iii)
support to the privatization unit.
Financial sector: (i) pension reform; (ii) restructuring of postal
checking and saving banks; (iii) strengthening MFIs; (iv) establishment of
a financial market.
Non allocated
PPF refinancing
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0
IBRD
IDA                      18
Total Project Cost       18
-4-



6. Implementation
Implementation period: four years (July 2000 to June 2004) Executing
agencies Most of the actions supported by the project are managed by the
Ministry of Finance and coordinated by the Comite Technique de Suivi
(CTS), the Committee put in place within the Ministry of Finance to
implement the overall economic reform program in Cameroon since they are
either part of the current adjustment credit (SAC III) or of the ESAF
program with the IMF. The project will build on this strength.(a) The
consolidation of the infrastructure and PPP framework, implementation of
pilot operations sub-components and privatization components will be
managed by the Privatization and Liquidation Technical Commission
(Ministry of Finance);(b) The business environment sub-component will be
implemented by the Competitiveness Committee headed by the Minister of
Finance;(c) The private provision of social services and the poverty
monitoring unit will be managed by three special committees composed of
staff of the corresponding line Ministries that will be attached to the
CTS. (d) The pension reform system will be managed by the Ad-hoc
committee established by Ministerial decision [no . . dated .... 1; and,(e)
The other financial sector component will be managed by the Ministry of
Finance [Directorate of Economic Control]Project CoordinationThe overall
coordination of the project will be attached to the President of the
Comite Technique de Suiv,. the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry. The
overall coordination will not consist in reviewing day to day operations
(this will be the responsibility of the executing agencies); it will be
limited to: (i) organizing regular progress meetings; (ii) ensuring that
progress reports are prepared in a timely manner; and (iii) when required,
decisions are taken to address specific problems that any of the executing
agencies may face. Procurement, disbursement, accounting, financial
reporting and auditing arrangements. Because of the numerous executing
agencies, all procurement, financial and accounting activities (with the
exception of the management of the sub-accounts) will be the
responsibility of an independent Administrative and Financial Unit (AFU)
headed by a Chief Financial officer attached to the Ministry of
Finance.The executing agencies will be in charge of preparing the terms of
reference of the studies and the short-lists, to define their needs as
regards equipment and other operational costs. The AFU will then be in
charge of applying World Bank procurement guidelines, bookkeeping and
financial management procedures and preparing the financial statements.
AFU will also be the link between CAA and the executing agencies.The
project will have three Special Accounts: one for the Privatization Unit,
one for the ad-hoc committee in charge of the pension reform, and one
managed by AFU for the other subcomponents and the overall coordination.
[... Sub accounts for the following executing agencies .... I will be
opened for the payment of operational expenditures not to exceed [ US$
...]An overall procedure manual, building on the principles used for the
PE/TA Project, will be designed and will be a condition of effectiveness
of the project. The three special accounts will be opened at commercial
banks acceptable to IDA. All project accounts, including special
accounts, and all disbursements under SOEs will be audited bi-annually
according to international auditing standards by an independent auditor.
The audit reports will be submitted to IDA within three months of the end
of each semester. In addition, the overall financial statements of the
project will be audited annually.Monitoring and evaluation arrangements.
Each implementing agency will prepare quarterly progress reports, on the
- 5 -



basis of the project implementation plan and of the initial logical
framework. An overall progress report will be prepared by the project
coordination every year and prior to the project mid-term review. The
Government will prepare and transmit to IDA an implementation completion
report within six months of the closing date.Key performance indicators
for each activity will be agreed upon during appraisal and finalized
during negotiations. They will be reviewed annually by the
representatives of major stakeholders through project implementation
workshops. The output of these workshops will serve as a basis for
monitoring and evaluating project effectiveness. A mid-term review will
be carried out by March 30, 2002. The review will assess the overall
progress in project implementation.
7. Sustainability
Factors critical to the sustainability of projects benefits
include:Public/Private Partnership/PrivatizationAlthough GOC as a whole
has already shown its commitment as regards privatization, this commitment
is uneven among cabinet members. The divestiture process has been sometime
interrupted and delayed due to interference of vested interests at time
supported by Government representatives. While the scope of the proposed
divestiture program is somewhat reduced compared to what has been recently
achieved, it still includes very large enterprises (the Port of Douala,
SNI, SNH restructuring) whose privatization will reduce rent seeking
situation. Similarly, in the education and health sector, better budget
allocation, transparent transfer of resources, and tracking of expenditure
will generate resistance, it is therefore critical that Government deepens
its pro reform stance.Since the project aims also, on a pilot basis at
helping cities or local communities, develop contracting-out or concession
services such as urban transport or trash collection, GOC will have to
move forward on some aspects of decentralization for which limited
progress has been achieved so far.Finally, some of the actions above
combined with household surveys aimed at analyzing poverty, will clearly
pinpoint Governance issues and misuse of funds that GOC will have to
address.Financial sectorIn the financial sector, GOC has built a strong
record by successfully restructuring a sector in disarray. Most of the
actions supported by the project have already started under the previous
technical assistance project A strong consensus among stake holders
including GOC has already been built as regards social security reform,
creation of a financial market and strengthening MFIs. However, with
respect to the social security system, the Government will have to move to
the final stage of the process that will include the reduction of some
benefits and the private management of the three entities that will take
over CNPS.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The proposed project has been designed with the objective of building on
the results achieved and the consensus reached during the PE/TA project;
it takes also into consideration the requirement in Cameroon, to closely
link capacity building projects with structural adjustment operations to
increase chances of success. Finally, it is aimed at integrating the
poverty dimension and introducing new ways in the provision of public
services by private operators and therefore contributing to refocus
Government activities on its core functions of policy formulation, poverty
alleviation and addressing some of the causes of the Governance
issues.The proposed project draws also on Bank-wide best practices
- 6 -



developed in micro-finance, pension reform, infrastructure development and
private provisions of social services
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Attracting new investors in the cotton sector or
privatization of some public enterprises in sensitive areas could have
negative environmental impact. Therefore, as during the previous project,
a detailed environmental assessment will be conducted prior to each
privatization and PPI initiative and its conclusion, including the
mitigation action plan, will be inserted in the bidding documents. The
other aspects of the project are more of an institutional nature and are
not expected to generate potential environmental damages.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Eric F. Boucheny
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 81629
Fax: 72978
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 7 -



