Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20396 CM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.6 MILLION
(EQUIVALENT TO USD$20.9 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
PUBLIC/PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP FOR GROWTH AND POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
May 4, 2000
Private Sector and Finance
Country Department 7
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
= US$
US$I = 675 CFA Franc
FISCAL YEAR
2000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AER               Agence d'Electrification rurale
AFU               Administrative and Finance Unit
ARE               Agence de Regulation de l'electricite
ART               Agence de Regulation des Telecommunications
BICIC             Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et I 'Industrie - Cameroun
BOT               Build-Operate-Transfer
CAA                Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CCAA              Cameroonian Civil Aviation Authority
CDC               Cameroon Development Coorporation
CFA               Communaute Financiere Africaine
CIM               Comite Intermninisteriel
CNPS              Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale
CPAR              Country Procurement Assessment Review
CQ                Consultants Qualification
CTPL              Commission Technique de Privatisation et des Liquidations
CTS               Comite Technique de Suivi des Programs Economiques
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
EC                European Commission
ESAF              Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FCFA              Franc de la Communaute Financiere Africaine
FIAS              Foreign Investment Advisory Services
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GOC               Government of Cameroon
GPN                General Procurement Notice
HIPC               Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IAPSO             Inter-Agency Procurement Service
IC                Individual Consultant
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
ICSID              International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes
IDA                International Development Association
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:   Demba Ba
Task Team Leader:   Eric F. Boucheny



IFC               International Finance Corporation
ILO               International Labor Organization
IMF               International Monetary Fund
IPO               Initial Public Offering
LCS               Least-Cost Selection
LIL               Learning and Innovation Loan
MIGA              Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NCB               National Competitive Bidding
NGO               Non Government Organization
OHADA             Organisation pour l'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires
PE/TA             Privatization and Private Sector Technical Assistance Credit
PFP               Policy Framework Paper
PPI               Private Participation in Infrastructure
PSA               Private Sector Assessment
QCBS              Quality and Cost Based selection
SAC               Structural Adjustment Credit
SME               Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise
SNH               Societe Nationale des Hydrocarbures
SNI               Societei Nationale d'Investissement
SOE               State-owned enterprise
SONEL             Societe Nationale d'Electricite
SRC               Societe Nationale de Recouvrement des Creances du Cameroun
LJNDP             United Nations Development Program
--NFPA            United Nations Fund for Population Activities






CAMEROON
PUBLIC/PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP FOR GROWTH AND POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           12
2. Financial                                                                           13
3. Technical                                                                           13
4. Institutional                                                                       13
5. Social                                                                             13
6. Environment                                                                         14
7. Participatory Approach                                                             14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     15
2. Critical risks                                                                      17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     18



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         18
2. Other                                                                           18
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      19
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       20
Annex 2: Project Description                                                          27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      37
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        38
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  44
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    45
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  55
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                56
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               57
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         59
Annex 1 1: Link between the project and the existing economic reform program          61
Annex 12: A building block in a broader Private Sector Development Strategy           62
Annex 11 - Link between the project and the existing economic reform program - Annex 12 - A building
block in a broader Private Sector Development Strategy
MAP(S)



CAMEROON
Public/Private Partnership for Growth and Poverty Reduction Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTPS
Date: May 4, 2000                                 Team Leader: Eric F. Boucheny
Country Manager/Director: Serge Michailof         Sector Manager/Director: Demba Ba
Project ID: P065927                               Sector(s): MY - Other Non-sector Specific
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
D Loan         1 Credit         Cl Grant       F] Guarantee    F] Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 20.9
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                  Service charge: 0.75%
FintN Plan  iE:  $ource                                      Local        Foeign          Total
GOVERNMENT                                                     2.45            0.28          2.74
IBRD
IDA                                                            9.07           11.84         20.91
OTHER                                                           1.73           0.63          2.36
Total:                                                         13.25          12.76         26.00
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
a        [; 20031 200                2003        2004
Annual     6.5           7.6         3.4         3.4
Cumulative     6.5         14.1         17.5        20.9
Project implementation period: 2001-2004 (IDA FY)
Expected effectiveness date: 10/31/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD F-.,,, R. MVrd ,.



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project is closely linked to the macroeconomic program and the on-going IMF program; it also
supports the preparatory work for the upcoming HIPC; it is a follow-on to the Privatization and Private
Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PETA, Cr. 2882-CM). The project concentrates on the Govermnent's
efforts to grow out of poverty through private sector led growth and financial reform, together with a
heightened emphasis on poverty alleviation. It thus accentuates the need for greater competitiveness of the
Cameroonian economy and more effective policies and programs to deliver public services to the least
privileged groups in society. The key development objectives are to: (a) improve business environment and
competitiveness through privatization and effective public/partnership with the view to increase private
investment; and (b) strengthen the poverty alleviation focus in GOC's economic management.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Performance indicators include an increase in private sector investment as business confidence rises, better
provision of infrastructure as measured by an improved level of service and growth, in the number of
customers and more competitive prices in the water, electricity and telecommunications sectors. At the
same time, improvements in the safety net for the urban population through reform of the pension and the
social security system will also be measured.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 15275-CM                Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/12/98
The project is consistent with the CAS discussions of 1998 and the draft for the proposed June 2000 CAS
update. The strategy outlined in both these documents indicates that IDA will support two main objectives
over the next year:
(a) completion of the on-going reform program that includes: (i) further restructuring the economy to
consolidate the benefits of the devaluation; (ii) creating a climate favorable to private sector development
and improving competitiveness so as to set the stage for faster growth; and (iii) alleviating poverty; and
(b) use of the enhanced HIPC initiative to support second generation reforms (governance, social
sectors and poverty reduction) more rapidly and effectively. Not only is the proposed project important to
help GOC achieve its objectives under the on-going Adjustment Credit (SAC III), it is also a critical tool to
shift towards economic management which will put poverty reduction at the center of the program (PRSP).
Within the CAS framework, the emphasis of the project is on sustained growth and participation of the
poor in the fruits of growth. GOC intends to achieve these goals by associating civil society to build
powerful partnerships for change: with the private sector, to achieve sustainable growth and with lower
income families in the design of poverty reduction measures. With a substantial macroeconomic program
launched, GOC is now tackling second generation reforms designed to secure a supply response: continuing
the privatization program, addressing key constraints in the business environment, removing infrastructure
constraints and deepening financial markets. Many of these actions also target the less privileged,
particularly measures in the financial sector (pension reform and micro-finance). On poverty alleviation,
the project relies on a series of surveys and a poverty monitoring system to be carried out under the project
-2 -



to build the information base and enhance the analysis of the roots of poverty in Cameroon. In this way,
the project puts poverty alleviation at the core of decision-making and integrates it into economic and sector
policy and the design of efficient delivery systems for services at the central and local levels.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Following a period of pronounced terms of trade volatility in the early 1980s, an appreciation of the
exchange rate, and expansionary unproductive fiscal policy, Cameroon fell into a decade long recession
from 1985-94. Starting in 1988, Camneroon implemented a series of economic and structural reforms aimed
at stabilizing the economy, restoring internal and external viability, fostering economic growth, and
improving social conditions. In particular, structural reform efforts concentrated on the liberalization of
the coffee and cocoa sectors, the revision of the forestry code, liberalization of prices and the labor code.
Despite the concerted international support, the reform program was implemented haphazardly in the early
stages and lacked government commitment. A new Government was appointed in September 1996, with a
specific mandate to bring the situation under control. Since then, the Government has concentrated its
economic reform program on macroeconomic stability, public finance, relations with external creditors,
restructuring the banking system, privatization, economic liberalization, transportation, and forestry. In
this context, the Government has demonstrated commitment and encouraging progress has been made in
these areas, albeit at times at a slower pace than was originally envisioned. As stated more recently in the
March 1998 letter of development policy as part of the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 3102), the
Government's goals are to consolidate private sector-led accelerated growth while alleviating poverty and
improving access to social services by: (i) strengthening the competitiveness of the economy; (ii)
consolidating the coordination and complementarity between private and public sectors by focusing
Government activities on policy formnulation and evaluation; and (iii) sharing the benefits of growth with
the least privileged. In particular, the program addresses privatization, the financial sector and the
framework for improving competitiveness.
Growth, which had been negative in the crisis years, rose to 5 percent between 1995-1997 but dropped
down to 4.2 percent in 1998/1999 following the decline in world commodity prices. Growth was also
affected by the Asian crisis (e.g. the forestry sector), an unfriendly business environment and governance
issues in the country. A sustainable high-growth rate is not possible in the absence of a balanced
investment program: public investment had all but disappeared during the crisis and although overall
private investment reached 16.5 percent of GDP from 1995 to 1999, foreign direct investment represented
on average only one percent of GDP during the years 1996-1999. Poverty is still high with 50% of the
population living below the poverty line and social indicators, such as school enrollment or access to health
facilities, are still declining. On the other hand, the primary budget surplus has exceeded 6 percent of GDP
on average in recent years, while all external debt arrears have been cleared.
As regards sector policies, the Government's overall intent is to provide an environment which increases the
opportunity for firms to make productivity gains, to enhance their competitiveness in other words.
Privatization is resulting in the more efficient delivery of services for business and consumers alike (e.g.
telecommunications); and the divestiture program has already translated into adoption of new legal and
regulatory frameworks aimed at introducing competition in the following sectors: electricity,
telecommunications, post, energy, water and transport (surface, maritime and air).  Infrastructure
indicators, while still low compared to similar countries (teledensity is 0.5 percent, water and electricity
customer numbers are 150,000 and 400,000, respectively), are expected to increase quickly in the near
future, especially in the telecommunications sector. In the transport sector, an ambitious reform program
has been adopted for the Port of Douala. Aimed at reducing transit times and costs, the reform will lead to
the creation of public/private partnerships for the management of the various ports and the transfer of all
-3 -



port-related industrial and commercial activities to private operators. Following the creation of the road
fund, maintenance of the priority network is being transferred to private companies and the Government is
considering options to attract private operators in building and operating infrastructure. In the financial
sector, the commercial bank restructuring program was very successful with all large banks now profitable
and meeting regional prudential requirements; a similar process for the insurance sector will be completed
shortly.
In parallel, the sale of the agro-industries, public utilities and most other Government-owned infrastructure
companies has been either completed or the calls for bids launched. Finally, to support environmentally
sustainable growth, reforms aimed at managing forestry resources efficiently are being adopted: (a) a new
regulatory framework to award concessions and harvesting rights; (b) strengthening of the institutions in
charge of monitoring, evaluating, and enforcing forestry policy; and (c) rational management of
bio-diversity.
Notwithstanding these reforms, the Government of Cameroon knows that it still faces a challenge if it is to
reverse the decline in the social sectors, reduce poverty, complete its privatization program, and improve its
image which has been tainted by corruption. It is taking a series of steps to meet these challenges. The
Government has established a joint Competitiveness Committee with business representatively to identify
major constraints to growth and improve the overall competitiveness of the economy. In the financial
sector, with banking and insurance reforms well established, the Government is now addressing the
remaining gaps with special emphasis on the reform of the social security system which recognizes the
needs of different groups of beneficiaries (family allowances, workers' compensation and pensions) and
micro-finance. In infrastructure, GOC's objective is to attract additional private operators in utilities and
infrastructure to improve the quality and provision of services. On poverty, the proposed assessment will
indicate directions in which to stem the decline in social services. GOC has already increased budget
allocations for health and education. It is further committed to adopt, before the decision point of the HIPC
initiative (June-September 2000), new social sector policies aimed at reversing the decline in service
provision and quality with emphasis on more equitable and efficient transfer of resources to beneficiaries.
Most of these issues go to the heart of improving governance and competitiveness in Cameroon and they
represent foundations for building a Government focused on the core functions of policy formulation to
both catalyze growth and to stem the decline in the standard of living.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Building on the success of the Privatization and Private Sector Technical Assistance Project (PE/TA, Cr.
2882-CM), which closes in June 2000, the project aims at forging new public/private partnerships in the
economy while introducing a poverty focus in economic management. It will address two key sets of issues:
(a)    removing constraints to private sector led growth by reducing transactions costs and
improving the economy's competitiveness by: (i) strengthening regulatory frameworks and
attracting new partners in infrastructure and other sectors; (ii) continuing the divestiture
program; (iii) streamlining cumbersome business procedures and regulations through the
Competitiveness Committee; and (iv) supporting deepening of the financial sector; and
(b)    putting poverty at the center of economic decision-making and improving the standard of
living of the least privileged by: (i) understanding the roots of poverty better and
introducing pro-poor economic policies and programs; and (ii) strengthening and
progressively regulating micro-finance institutions and restructuring the postal saving
systems, the best known options for savings and access to funds for investment outside the
- 4 -



large urban areas.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will include three mutually reinforcing components designed to improve competitiveness and
afford the poor greater access to services.
(1)    Enhanced competitiveness. This component has three sets of activities:
(A)   continuing support for privatization of public enterprises including: the main cotton company (and
attracting new investors to the sector); port-related industrial and commercial activities; air
transport companies and infrastructure; the petroleum product storage facility; the public works'
equipment company. It will include an assessment of the role of the National Investment Company
(SNI) as a potentially efficient private sector development tool, as well as the sale of its holdings in
33 companies. It will also assist the national petroleum company (SNH) to refocus on its core
business. Lastly, it will launch IPOs for the formerly state owned companies to support GOC's
objective of encouraging significant local participation;
(B)    institutional support to strengthen: (a) the new  regulatoiy  agencies and  committees
(telecommunications, electricity, railways, water, and air transport); (b) the Privatization Technical
Unit's capacity to provide advice and support for concessions and contracting-out of public
activities at the national and local levels and promote pilot public/private partnerships in
infrastructure and other areas; and (c) the organization and management of the Water Development
Account, the Universal Service Fund (telecommunications) and the Rural Electrification Agency;
and
(C)   support the Competitiveness Committee, help it define and implement an action plan to facilitate
increases in firm-level productivity and streamline business regulations with a view to reducing
transaction costs, including the introduction of arbitration mechanisms, pending reforms in the
judicial branch of Government.
(11)    The financial sector. This component aims to deepen the financial sector reform and address the
remaining gaps; it will seek to:
(A)    implement the Government's reform  program  for the modernization of the pension system,
including breaking CNPS into three separate activities (family allowances, workers' compensation
and pensions), to be managed privately;
(B)    implement the regulations applicable to micro-credit finance institutions to ensure that they became
efficient savings institutions and encourage investment through proper use of their resources;
(C)   refocus the Societe Nationale de Recouvrementdes Cr&tnces (SRC) as a for-profit debt collection
agency (factoring);
-5 -



(D)   restructure the postal savings office and checking banks in the absence of commercial banks
outside urban areas; and
(E)    support the establishment of a financial market to foster long term debt and equity financing.
(III)   Partnership for poverty reduction. This component will support the creation of a poverty
alleviation unit attached to the Comite Technique de Suivi, in the Ministry of Finance to:
(A)   establish a baseline for poverty through household surveys and constitution of a database; and
coordinate with civil society and other beneficiaries to monitor poverty in the country on a regular
basis; and
(B)   help implement GOC's poverty alleviation strategy by introducing pro-active measures aimed at
placing poverty alleviation at the core of economic management decisions.
(IV)   Other. The project will also: (a) finance an Administrative and Financial Unit put in place in order
to deal with all financial management and procurement issues and, (b) refinance-PPF No. Q1650
for an amount of US$0.75 million. This project preparation facility was provided to the
Government to assess the country readiness with respect to Year 2K issues for critical systems
such as Budget management, tax collection and, and delivery of priority services including water,
electricity, telecommunication and payment of pensions. That assessment and the related mitigation
actions taken were important in making sure that there would not be any interruption of service
and that the privatization of the utilities could move forward.
-6 -



Indicative            Bank-      %ot
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of   financing   Bank-
-:__________ :    US$M)    Total       (iS$M)    cin
I. Enhanced competitiveness                                        0.0                 0.0
A. Privatization                                       6.62       25.5      5.89      28.2
B. Infrastructure framework, pilots                    3.90       15.0      3.00       14.4
C. Competitiveness committee                           2.30        8.8      1.62       7.8
II. Financial Sector                                               0.0                 0.0
A. Social Security reform                              3.17       12.2      2.00       9.6
B - Other financial reforms (Postal and                1.88        7.2      1.68       8.0
Checking Bank, SRC, Micro-finance,
Financial markets)
III. Partnership for poverty reduction                 5.20       20.0      3.85       18.4
-Poverty information and monitoring
-Partnership for poverty reduction
IV Administrative and Financial                        0.56       2.2      0.49        2.3
Unit
Audits                                                 0.32        1.2      0.32        1.5
PPF No. Q1650 Refinancing                              0.75        2.9      0.75       3.6
Physical/Price Contingencies                           1.30       5.0       1.30       6.2
Total Project Costs                   26.00      100.0     20.90      100.0
Total Financing Required                    26.00      100.0     20.90     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms of the project are to assist Government to focus on its main roles,
such as economic management and enhancing competitiveness by ensuring that its declared policies are
reflected in responsive agencies which support growth and poverty alleviation. Reforms in these areas
should also stimulate private investment in infrastructure, the productive sectors and the delivery of
non-traditional services through partnership with the private sector and civil society. In this way, it can
seek innovative ways to remove barriers to growth and enhance social equity, and at the same time ensure
better access to fnance for the business sector.
-7-



3. Benefits and target population:
By promoting a better business environment and creating opportunities in sub-sectors where GOC has
traditionally been the main operator, the project will contribute to sustained economic growth and
employment creation. Consumers will receive more efficient infrastructure services and the services will be
extended to areas not previously served. Similarly, firms would benefit from lower overall costs in
infrastructure and better services, especially those which require uninterrupted service for industrial
processes (in spite of possible increases in some unit costs at first). Lower-income families will participate
more in the benefits of growth and access to more services and opportunities through social security
reform and strengthened local financial institutions. Government will see improvement in its fiscal
situation as subsidies to inefficient public enterprises are cut and tax revenues from a growing private
sector are increased.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: four years (July 2000 to December 2004).
Executing agencies
Most of the actions supported by the project are part of the overall economic reform program in Camneroon
and will thus be supervised by the Minister of Finance and the special committee (Comite Technique de
Suivi) created to oversee the implementation of reforms. At the same time, since the project addresses
specific issues in various sub-sectors not always directly related, the technical management of the
sub-components will be decentralized in order to provide accountability as was successfully done under the
PE/TA project. All the technical units involved, with the exception of one (the poverty committee) have
been working with IDA under the previous credit. However, there is a need to ensure a certain level of
coordination for each of the components and specially for the enhanced competitiveness component since
the privatization committee will have to work closely with the regulatory agencies in order to develop the
number of proposed pilot investments. To that end, GOC will appoint component coordinators (preferably
one technical manager) for each component that will be responsible for reviewing progress under the
component and address budget matters. These coordinators will not be directly involved in the technical
work implemented by the specific technical agencies (except their own), but will be in charge of overall
oversight for the component and will be responsible for the consolidation of progress reports. The
component coordinators and the technical agencies will be organized as follows:
Enhanced competitiveness: President of the Privatization Committee
Technical agencies
*     The privatization and the infrastructure regulatory framework and pilots operation
sub-components will be managed by the Privatization Committee;
*     The business environment sub-component will be implemented by the Competitiveness Committee;
Financial Sector: Office of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance
Technical agencies
*     The pension reform system will be managed by the steering committee established by Ministerial
decision in April 1998;
-8 -



*     Micro-fnance, financial markets SRC will be under the responsibility of the Direction des
contr6les economiques et des finances exterieures;
*     The postal saving and checking bank component will be managed by the postal reform steering
committee established by Ministerial decision in July 1997.
Partnership for poverty reduction Permanent Secretary of the Comite Technique de Suivi assisted by
an advisory committee.
Technical agencies
*     The policy sub-component will be managed by the Permanent Secretary of the CTS;
*     The surveys, monitoring and other statistical activities will be managed by the Director of
Statistics in the Ministry of Finance.
Project Coordination
As described above, the three components of the project are clearly independent, so there is no need to put
rigid coordination between them. However, the outcome of these components will be a major input for
economic management decisions and conditions of success of the overall economic reform process. As a
result, general progress will be supervised by the president of the Comite Technique de Suivi (CTS), the
General Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Day to day operations will be the responsibility of the
technical agencies. The president of the CTS will focus on: (a) organizing regular progress meetings; (b)
ensuring that activity reports are prepared in a timely manner; and (c) when required, taking decisions to
address specific problems that any of the technical executing agencies may encounter.
Procurement, disbursement, accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
With respect to procurement, disbursement and financial management, the project will build on the
organization of the current PE/TA project. The existing Administrative and Financial Unit will act as a
service provider for all the components and will deal with all procurement, financial and accounting
activities. The AFU will be attached to the CTS.
The technical agencies will be in charge of preparing terms of reference for studies and short-lists and
defining their needs as regards equipment and other operational costs. The AFU will then be in charge of
applying World Bank procurement guidelines, bookkeeping and financial management procedures and
preparing the fnancial statements. AFU will also be the link between Caisse Autonome d'amortissement
(CAA) and the executing agencies.
The project will have one Special Account and three sub-accounts corresponding to each of the
components will be opened for the payment of operational expenditures not to exceed US$5,000. This
management model was used for the previous technical assistance credit and related guidelines were
summarized in a procedure manual that will be up-dated in order to include the new technical agencies.
Adoption of the revised manual will be a condition of effectiveness of the credit. The special account will
be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. All project accounts, including the specials account,
and all disbursements under SOEs will be audited annually by an independent auditor according to
international auditing standards. The audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
each year.
9-



Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. Each implementing agency will prepare quarterly progress
reports on the basis of the project implementation plan and the logical framework. An overall progress
report will be prepared under the guidance of the CTS every year and prior to the project mid-term review.
The Government will prepare and transmit to IDA an implementation completion report within six months
of the Closing Date.
Private sector representatives and beneficiaries will be involved in monitoring and evaluation. Key
performance indicators for each activity have been agreed upon during appraisal and finalized during
negotiations. They will be reviewed annually by the representatives of major stakeholders through project
implementation workshops. The output of these workshops will serve as a basis for monitoring and
evaluating project effectiveness. A mid-term review will be carried out by June 30, 2002. The review will
assess the overall progress in project implementation.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Broader range of interventions: The process of macroeconomic reform and technical assistance to
implement not only policy but also operational reform has succeeded in achieving results and building
strong partnerships with GOC in the financial sector and privatization areas. The PE/TA operation has
broken new ground and opened a new perspective for reforms. An alternative to the proposed project could
have been to embrace a broader agenda with a strong judiciary component. Such an option was rejected
for several reasons. First, it was important to keep the project at a manageable level. It already covers
many areas but mainly builds directly on progress already achieved and on an institutional environment that
has proven to be successful (privatization with the Technical Committee on Privatization, financial sector
and the steering committee on pension reform, etc.) Second, other areas require more preparatory work
before results could be achieved, such as judiciary strengthening. While there is a broad consensus that
this is an important issue in the reform program and a hindrance to private sector development, it was felt
that conditions were not yet right to include a full fledged judiciary component. Efforts by other donors,
such as the French and Canadian Development Agencies, to reform the judiciary have been almost fruitless
because of institutional resistance and insufficient links to the overall economic reform process; the Bank
has also been unsuccessful so far in tackling judicial reform in Cameroon. A better approach would be to
first build consensus on the root causes of the problems and on the actions to be taken.  The
Competitiveness Committee could be an entry and a rally point. A strategic study would be financed by the
project under the Competitiveness Committee with the objective of bringing together the various partners in
the reform around a solid program. There is indeed a better chance of achieving more efficient Government
through entry points and a process of learning. In fact, many of the measures under the project are linked
to combating corruption and building a more efficient Government apparatus: the regulatory agencies are
addressing service standards and tariff issues; competition in telecommunications is leading to lower tariffs;
the financial sector meets most required prudential regulations; and the other measures to improve
firm-level productivity proposed by the competitiveness commission (e.g. fiscal issues) are more likely to
succeed by pressure from private operators.
Proposing a LIL. Given that one of the objectives of the project is to support pilot operations in
infrastructure and other sectors, one alternative considered was to prepare a separate LIL. It was rejected,
however, as the proposed project achieves the same objectives in terms of learning and carries the process
further than a LIL would have. Moreover, since the Government is quite supportive of the current
approach, nothing would be gained by changing vehicles at this point in time.
- 1 0 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
_____________________________  -______________________  (Bank-financed   project     Only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
PE/TA (P041553)                   S             S
SAC III (P054443)                 S             S
Transport Sector (P000393)        S              S
Other development agencies
European Commission (EC)           Transport (Road Fund)
Agence Francaise de Developpement   Port Reform
(AFD)
French Government                  Reform of tax management at
the city level, decentralization
KFW                                Competitiveness Committee
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project builds on the key lesson that macroeconomic reforms do not in and of themselves always assure
a supply response. Experience with the SAC program and the PE/TA operations shows that the
combination of an adjustment operation and of a capacity building operation proves quite successful; it also
underscores  the importance of harmonized activities to achieve in parallel macroeconomic and
microeconomic reforms. Many of the issues which arise in the privatization program are in fact micro
issues related to specific enterprises and the conditions under which they are to operate. Experience also
indicates the need to extend IDA relations to all stakeholders both within Govemment and outside; for
examnple, contacts with the private sector have been critical in designing responsive policies. This has led to
an emphasis on public/private partnerships and the need to extend the benefits of growth to the poorer
groups of society. It is also clear from experience that achieving societal change and even changes in
behavior in Government and at the enterprise level can only be reached with time; instead of suggesting that
Cameroon has been slow to change, this project takes the view that the Cameroonians have been responsive
on many fronts and that the magnitude of changes proposed simply requires time to mature. This project is
therefore part of a continuum and builds on the team that has been constituted in Cameroon as well as an
effective country team in the Bank.
The proposed project also draws heavily on Bank-wide best practices developed in building public/private
partnerships, infrastructure regulatory frameworks, and pension reform. The support to the
Competitiveness Committee takes into account lessons learnt from IDA and Bank-supported projects in
other African countries such as Senegal, Tunisia, and Ivory Coast. The action plan under the project has
been designed by the Competitiveness Committee itself during various meetings and seminars and reflects
the major bottlenecks to be addressed by the Government to improve Cameroon's competitiveness. The
infrastructure, legal and regulatory frameworks that have been adopted in Cameroon are more advanced on
many aspects and open to competition than most other African countries; the project will build on this
strength to develop quickly the proposed decentralized infrastructure pilots. Finally, with respect to the
social security system, the reform calls for: (a) the break-up of the inefficient CNPS and the establishment
- I 1 -



of separate funds within separate institutional structures for family allowances, workers' compensation and
pensions, (b) private management of these entities, and (c) a mix of defined benefits and defined
contributions (the former being pay-as-you go and the latter fully funded); such a bold program  could
become a model for the whole sub-region.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Over the past three years, under the IMF ESAF and IDA Adjustment programs and the supporting capacity
building operations, GOC has implemented ambitious macroeconomic and sectoral reforrns that set the
scene for greater growth and confidence in the economy to generate private investment. Many other
reformns have taken place where there are entrenched interests in either the public sector (privatization) or
the private sector (forestry), yet the Govermment has forged ahead. These reformers can be found in the
Presidency, in the Prime Minister's office, the Ministry of Finance and some line ministries. Despite this
record, it must be recognized that these reforms have not been achieved effortlessly or implemented as
effectively as one might wish. Commitment is spotty at different levels within the Government and
delaying tactics still impede progress in some areas. Some reforms still are only at an initial stage (e.g., the
regulatory frameworks for infrastructure) and require a sustained effort to see them through to their logical
conclusion. Two areas which have been disappointing concern poverty reduction and good governance,
which require not only institutional commitment but also behavioral change, difficult to attain in any
environment, including Cameroon. Nonetheless, there is already greater cooperation and a sense of
teamwork that did not exist three years ago and that gives reason for optimism that progress is being made.
In summary, there is consensus on privatization and the financial sector; the groundwork is laid on poverty
alleviation and good governance, and Cameroon's partners must stay the course to ensure success.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The challenge faced by Cameroon is to continue deepening macroeconomic reforms, move to second
generation reforms to catalyze private sector development, and at the sarne time to find more equitable and
efficient solutions for poverty alleviation. The Bank Group is well placed to support this framework and
brings a number of advantages: an active policy dialogue at the macro level; proactive involvement in the
attainment of growth objectives at the sector and micro-economic level; and support for poverty alleviation.
Many policy reform measures over the past few years have been carried out under IMF/Bank programs.
IFC is active in a number of associated matters, e.g. the privatization of SONEL, the power company and
the privatization of BICEC, a commercial bank. MIGA participated in the Hevecam rubber privatization
and is looking for additional activities in Cameroon. In addition, the Bank Group plays a supportive role in
working with other multilateral and bilateral donors to attain the Government's objectives.  The
privatization program, for example, has been supported by France and the EC and the poverty program
enjoys the support of Germany and the EC. Thus, this project and its predecessor play an important part in
this process of deepening reform and improving institutions in Cameroon.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit   NPV=US$15.5 million; ERR = 29.6 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
(supported by Annex 4)
- 12 -



2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
n.a.
Fiscal Impact:
3. Technical:
The project addresses technical issues at several levels. It addresses regulatory issues in competition, the
financial sector, utilities and other infrastructure, and brings international experience to bear in the search
for appropriate technology and state of the art applications, as needed. In the financial sector, it introduces
sound prudential regulation, supervision and credit policies, as well as a framework for progressively
introducing bond and equity markets in the financial sector. It also provides an in-depth reform of the
social security system. In parallel, it provides capacity building in the techniques of privatization and
mobilizing private funding through mechanisms such as public/private partnerships in infrastructure and
support for firms to learn and acquire the skills needed to compete effectively in open markets. In questions
of poverty analysis, the project is introducing state of the art techniques to the evaluation and analysis of
poverty.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
See section 4
b. Project management:
IDA-financed investment projects in Cameroon have often been hampered by poor management and
procurement deficiencies. A recent audit of procurement and SOEs for six projects in Cameroon confirmed
that assessment. The PE/TA project was one of the six projects audited and emerged with a clean slate,
thus demonstrating that staff-intensive supervision and commitment to a strong relationship with
Government will lead to positive results. The proposed project builds on this strength. All procurement,
financial and accounting matters will be handled by the Administrative and Financial Unit which is
independent of all the executing agencies. Given the increased workload this unit will face, it will be
strengthened with the recruitment of a procurement specialist. The accounting system is already in place
and will be adapted to the new project.
5. Social:
Under SAC III, the Government's declaration of a poverty strategy was annexed to the letter of
development policy and its strategy is to be prepared by September 2000, with the support of NGOs and
civil society. The proposed project takes up these issues in various ways. First, it will help GOC have a
better understanding of poverty through better knowledge of the determinants of poverty and information on
families through household surveys, thus setting the basis for better pro-poor economic management.
Second, strengthening of the micro-finance sector should both mobilize and protect depositors' savings and,
at the same time, encourage use of these funds in productive activities at the local level. Support for
decentralized infrastructure, especially water and electricity, will also have a significant impact on growth
prospects for local economic activities, while restructuring of the pension system will improve the situation
of urban population.
- 13 -



6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: B (Partial Assessment)
The only components of the project that may have some environmental implications are the privatization
and support to pilot operations sub-component. The other aspects of the project are more of an institutional
nature and are not expected to generate potential environmental damages.
With respect to the privatization program, it includes the institutional transformation of the ports and the
transfer of all their industrial and commercial activities to the private sector, the sale of SODECOTON
(Cotton company) and the arrival of new investors in the sector, the privatization of MATGENIE (a public
work equipment company), of the national flag carrier CAMAIR, of the petroleum product storage facility
(SCDP), of the holdings in numerous companies owned by SNI and SNH and the institutional
transformation of the former, and the concessioning of the airports. Among those companies, SNI and
SNH are not expected to have any environmental impact. That might not be the case for SODECOTON.
Therefore, in order to assess any potential liability or environmental risk, and similar to what has been done
under the existing privatization and private sector technical assistance project, an overall environmental
audit will be conducted for the enterprises to be privatized. Based on that audit, detailed environmental
assessments will be conducted prior to each privatization and its conclusion, including the mitigation action
plan, will be inserted in the bidding documents.
As regards, the infrastructure component and development of pilot operations, the objectives are to: (a)
build on the momentum achieved by the adoption of new regulatory frameworks in the public utilities
sectors and their privatization to extend concessioning agreements mainly in the electricity and
telecommunication sector in rural areas (local phone companies, decentralized generation and distribution);
and (b) to expand similar public/private partnerships at the local or national level such as BOT for schools
or other Government activities.
While a potential list of pilot operations has been identified, the first year of the project will be used to
consolidate the existing regulatory agencies; hence, it is not expected that the pilots will start before 2001 at
the soonest. In addition, since the approach will be market-oriented and will build on requests made by
local communities in large part, at this stage, there is no finalized list of projects. Potentially, the most
environmentally sensitive operations are related to the development of electricity generation (thermal or
micro-hydro) although these facilities will be very small (less than 1 MW). The electricity law already
includes specific guidelines with respect to environment protection and those will have to be enforced
through the regulatory agencies. Nevertheless, as in the use of the privatization program, all potentially
sensitive operations will be completed only after an environmental assessment has been completed.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
For the past few years, the Bank Group and the IMF have worked closely to associate stakeholders with the
process of economic development in Cameroon. The Private Sector Assessment (PSA) was a first step in
this direction (1996) and brought together representatives of Government, businessmen and women, as well
as donors, NGOs and the universities.   Subsequent missions have met with consular organizations
representing large industry, SMEs and microfinance organizations, as well as individual business concerns
and NGOs. It is now recognized in Cameroon that good policy depends on sound inputs and that
businesses should have the opportunity to voice their concerns in matters which affect them. Thus, the
project is built around the idea of better communication between the public and private sectors and a
- 14 -



recognition that each is necessary to support the other. The Competitiveness Committee brings together
representatives of Govemment (e.g. Ministries of Finance, Commerce and Industry, Agriculture and the
various infrastructure sectors) and private sector agencies representing large industry, SMEs and
micro-enterprises (e.g. GICAM, SYNDUSTRICAM and APECAM). Moreover, IDA and IFC have
worked closely on the privatization program (water and electricity). The poverty alleviation component
relies on household surveys and a participatory process to identify critical constraints and practical
solutions. The most recent development is the PRSP process to which Cameroon has aligned itself; it will
follow a participatory approach and has already started ahead of the project's presentation to the Board.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The donors active in Cameroon have also been closely involved in the project design: specific collaboration
has been developed with the French Cooperation and the KFW that are respectively supporting the pilot
operations committee and the Competitiveness Committee.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Cameroon can only develop if there is a sound economic policy framework in place, effective support for
private sector and a social policy which recognizes the need to share the fruits of growth and provide a
minimal social safety net. On economic policy, many macroeconomic reforms are underway, along with
various supporting activities to improve competitiveness: (a) privatization sets the scene for more efficient
delivery of utility services; (b) the state is withdrawing from agribusiness and commercial sectors; and (c)
measures are being taken to improve the business environment and provide better access to finance. The
proposed project draws the business sector more effectively into the mainstream via the public/private
partnership and the poverty reduction component should lead to a more equitable distribution of the fruits
of growth. It is a continuing process but the project will help create the confidence that investors need to
make long-term investments which Cameroon needs if it is to be launched on a sustainable path. In the
short run, Cameroon must allay the fears that it is not a good place to do business by addressing the
negative press it has received; some of the measures to be undertaken under the project are designed with
this in mind (e.g. dispute resolution mechanisms).
Enhanced competitiveness
It is clear that reformers in Govemment are committed to the process of privatization. They recognize that
such programs will lead to more efficient delivery of critical services (power, water, transport and telecom),
more entrepreneurial behavior in finns (commercial and agribusiness, for example) and that they will
reduce the drain on the state budget by eliminating transfers and subsidies. The project addresses
privatization and/or restructuring of the remaining large enterprises that will lead to greater opportunities
for private sector led growth. However, there are entrenched interests that see privatization as an assault
on their prerogatives; this leads to difficulty in coordinating public responses and leaves the impression that
Govemment capacity is weak. The process of privatization in Cameroon has been hampered by such
stone-walling but experience has shown that public discussion in a transparent fashion leads to a dynamic
process where laggards find their prerogatives diminished and rent-seekers their options reduced or
eliminated.
The process has moved forward in Cameroon to address competitiveness more generally by focusing on
regulatory frameworks on the one hand and transactions on the other; this strategy has resulted in
significant achievements. Public/private partnerships thus offer the opportunity at one level to encourage a
- 15 -



more transparent dialogue; at another level, they offer the prospect for greater investment and participation
of nationals and foreigners in the investment process. The project also aims to help cities and local
communities on a pilot basis, by encouraging out-sourcing or concessioning of public services, such as
urban transport or solid waste collection.
Financial sector
The Government has built a record of reform in the financial sector for which it deserves full recognition
and most of the actions under the proposed project build on these foundations. They represent logical
progress towards deepening the financial sector and supporting the emergence of capital markets in
Cameroon. With bank restructuring successfully completed and its regulatory and supervisory framework
in place, there is consensus among stakeholders to address social security reform, create a financial market
and strengthen micro-finance institutions. With respect to the social security system, there are a number of
difficult decisions to take, including the reduction of some benefits and the private management of the three
entities that will emerge from the split of CNPS; this, however, is expected to lead to a sustainable social
security system, which has eluded Cameroon so far.
- 16 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating:          Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Enhanced Competitiveness                   N         Policy dialogue, link with the Adjustment
Operation (SAC III ) and with IMF program.
Privatization: Government unable to        M         Policy dialogue, stakeholders involvement, close
implement structural reforms where rents             supervision, link with SAC III and HIPC
are pervasive.                                      framework.
Competitiveness Committee lacks            M         Intensive supervision and dialogue, training of
leadership and is not representative of the         the permanent staff, periodic change in business
overall private sector.                              representatives.
Financial sector
Major stakeholders besides GOC not         M         Policy dialogue, communication campaign,
involved in the decision making in the               beneficiary participation in design and
pension system reform.                               implementation.
Partnership for poverty reduction
GOC acts with limited commitment and       M         Policy dialogue, link with the HIPC initiative
does not introduce poverty reduction                 (i.e. PRSP and participatory process of
mechanisms in economic decisions.                    economic policy).
From Components to Outputs
Enhanced Competitiveness                   M         Bidding/selecting process are closely reviewed.
Privatizations are not transparent
Political cronyism affects the             S         Establishment of financial guidelines for the
implementation of the decentralized                  management of the three funds; regular audits
infrastructure                                       and close review.
Financial Sector
MFIs licensing process is not transparent  S         Regular MFI survey
Stakeholders refuse any CNPS benefit       M         Communication campaign, intensive
reduction                                            supervision, involvement of beneficiaries.
Partnership for poverty reduction
-17 -



GOC does not involves closely other        M         Communication program, supervision
stakeholders
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Experience has shown that privatization and financial sector reform are often controversial as they not only
tend to reduce rents substantially but may also expose the misuse of funds in some sectors. While the
benefits to the population as a whole and for GOC itself will clearly offset the political costs that may arise
in the short-term, rearguard actions  may delay project execution. The risks emanating from such
controversial aspects may be alleviated by a strong communication campaign broadening support for the
Government program.
Other controversies may arise in the choice of pilot projects, particularly at the community level. A well
designed consultation process and ownership at all levels should contribute to keeping the project on track
in this area.
Social security reform may also be a controversial topic as it touches upon all kinds of vested interests. The
consultative approach followed so far, which brought the full support of the unions and the employers'
association, should help in this regard.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Since most of the policy measures that will be supported by the project have either already been adopted by
GOC, or are part of the conditions of SAC III or of the proposed HIPC decision/completion points, the
project does not include policy-based conditions. The main conditions of effectiveness include the
strengthening of AFU and the adoption of adapted implementation guidelines.
*      Recruitmnent of a procurement specialist by AFU;
i      Adoption of the updated project implementation manual including revised financial management
guidelines.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*   Completion of the environment audit prior to the divestiture and investment pilot operations.
- 18 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
D 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0l 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Eric F. Boucheny                        Ba                          Serge Michailof
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 19-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CAMEROON: Public/Private Partnership for Growth and Poverty Reduction Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:    Sector) country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Cameroon to achieve     GDP growth of at least 6%  National Accounts and  Continued Government
accelerated pro-poor growth p.a.                 Household surveys       commitment to reform;
World commodity prices do
not decline
Project Development     Outcome I Impact         Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
Private companies invest in Additional investments  National accounts,   The public/private
Cameroon and see the    linked to the project exceed  Annual reports from  partnership in policy design
business environment as    US$ 600 million by project regulatory agencies and  and implementation works
competitive and sustainable end.                 utilities               efficiently and leads to
adopt private sector friendly
Weighted infrastructure                          regulations. GOC maintains
index (number of customers)                     its commitment towards
to go from 100 in 2000 to                        divestiture and its pro
140 by project end.                              competition policy in the
utilities sector.
jPoverty determinants are   PRSP adopted by end 2001  Sector statistics, annual    GOC remains committed to
better understood and                            project report, surveys  a participatory approach in
poverty reduction becomes                                                 addressing poverty
anchored in economic
decisions by GOC
-20 -



Hierarchy of Objectives   Key Performance          Monitoring &
_  : Indicators            Evaluation  ;      Critical Assumptions
Output from each         Output Indicators:    Project reports:        (from Outputs to
component:                                                             Objective)
The business environment
is attractive to private
investors and supported by
Public/Private Partnership
Remaining PEs are divested  4 PEs are fully divested  PE financial statements,  Upstream reform in the
(Sodecoton, Matgenie,  GOC budget,           cotton sector implemented,
Camair, SCDP).        supervision missions,    institutional port reform
together with the     advertisement of sale    completed.
industrial and
commercial activities
of the Port of Douala
An assessment of the
airports is completed
with the view of
concessioning the
infrastructure
4 IPOs implemented
Securing the infrastructure   Coherent and consistent Amendments to the laws  The Minister of Finance
framework mission        appeal mechanisms      and decrees adopted by   and other line Ministers
introduced in the     Parliament and GOC,    continue to work closely
regulatory framework.  supervision missions  together to help moving
At least 50% of       Agency reports,        forward the reforms.
litigation in the     electricity and        GOC's appointees in the
telecommunication and  telecommunications    board of directors of the
electricity sectors (for   companies surveys  regulatory agencies have
which ART and ARE                            good leadership and
are competent) are                           vision.
definitively resolved by
ART and ARE
Additional private       Overall 6 pilots       Progress reports,      Required legal, regulatory
investment in infrastructure  investment operations   supervision missions  and institutional reforms
and private provision of  and Government out-                          are addressed up-front
public services          sourcing (privately                           No lag in private sector
financed) implemented                        response to new
by project end.                              investment opportunities
By end 2002 the first
pilot is implemented
Business regulations are  Business satisfaction    Business survey, FIAS    The Competitiveness
streamlined              with progress on      type study              Committee continues to
reforms increases                            work towards solutions
continuously during the                      that benefit to the private
project life (a baseline                     sector as a whole.
will be established by
project start)
- 21-



The remaining gaps in the
efficiency of the financial
market are filled
Social security system is    Delay of payments of   Client survey, CNPS  Stakeholders continue to
modernized               pension system and    reports, external audit   be closely associated to
other allowances to                          the design and
beneficiaries are                            implementation of the
reduced from 7 months                        reform.
(current) to three weeks
in 2003.
Outstanding
contributions do not
exceed three months
Postal and savings bank  The bank meets the     Audited financial      GOC has strong leadership
restructured             sector prudential      statements             and is willing to reduce
regulations by                               fraud in order to
December 2002.                               successfully restructure
Increase of 15% (by                          the bank
project end) in the
number of active
accounts
SRC is sustainable as a  SRC is restructured and  Supervision mission,
private entity           recapitalized by July    surveys
2001 and its equity is
opened to private
investors in accordance
with GOC's divestiture
policy of financial
institutions by July
2003
MFIs are effectively subject All MFIs are licensed    Supervision mission,
to the regulatory framework  by February 2001. Non  Progress reports from
licensed MFIs are    the Ministry of Finance,
closed by end 2001    MFI survey
with no loss to
depositors.
Implementation of
revised prudential
ratios is monitored
starting in mid 2001
Financial market is being    Inter-broker lean
put in place             market operational no
later than December
2000; at least six new
stocks issues by 2002
-22 -



Hierarchy of Objectives   Key Performance         Monitoring &
_____________ __    _Indicators      Evaluation         Critical Assumptions
GOC and civil society    The poverty committee  Supervision mission,    All stakeholders are
capacity to factor poverty   is operational and  Progress report, HIPC    closely involved in the
into economic decision is   effective and the PRSP  condition         assessment and the policy
improved                 recommendations are                          design
implemented
Improved availability   Publication of surveys
of poverty information  result
to all partners
- 23 -



irarchyd of Obecti vs               ; Key Perfrac  MQnitorin  &
Project Components/Sub-   lnputs: (budget for  Project reports:        (from Components to
components:               each component)                              Outputs)
]Enhanced Competitiveness
Assistance for the        US$5.89 million     Consultant reports, Project Government maintains its
privatization program                         progress reports,        pro-privatization
disbursement reports    commitment
.Bidding documents for 4                                               Staff of the privatization
companies and Port of                                                 unit shifts to a results
Douala industrial and                                                  oriented approach and
commercial activities                                                  benefit from GOC support.
completed
.4 IPO brochures prepared
Bidding process for the
zmanagement of the
privatization fund prepared
Communication campaign
launched
Support to the privatization
ianit (local experts, operating
costs and equipment)
Assistance to consolidate the  US$3.0 million  Consultant reports, Project  The privatization unit
infrastructure regulatory                     progress reports,        builds strong partnerships
framework and to launch                       disbursement reports,    with the regulatory
pilot operations                              supervision missions,    agencies and local
surveys                  authorities.
New regulations drafted by
November 2001
Guidelines prepared for the
management of the various
funds by June 2001
30 man months of training to
the regulatory agencies
Assistance provided to the
regulatory agencies to draft
bidding documents for the
pilot operations
Support to the            US$1.63 million     Consultant reports, Project The competitiveness
Competitiveness Committee                     progress reports,        committee expands its
disbursement reports,   representativity over the
supervision missions,   lifespan of the project
surveys
- 24 -



Hierarehy d Objecti    Ke Perform cMono                     
n--      - -  dicats  --:-EvAlution     Critical Assumptions
Competitiveness study                                               The Private Sector is
completed by December                                               strongly financially
2001.                                                               involved in supporting the
CC
Business regulatory
environment assessment
completed by June 2001
Communication campaign
starts by December 2000
Support to the
Competitiveness Committee
(operating costs on a
declining basis, consultants,
training, equipment)
Financial sector         US$3.68 million
Capacity building and    US$2.00 million    Consultant reports, Project Government regulates the
advisory services to support                progress reports,       CNPS reform process
the restructuring of CNPS                   disbursement reports,   without imposing its view
supervision missions,  ex ante and a strong
surveys                 communication campaign
is put in place to build a
consensus
Following studies for CNPS
restructuring completed: (i)
implicit debt; (ii) definition
of benefits; (iii) new legal
framework; (iv) by-laws of
the new entities
Communication campaign
Support to the steering
committee
Other financial sector   US$ 1.68 million                           GOC does not interfere in
reforms. Capacity building                                          the process and the MFI
and training                                                        licensing process is
equitable and transparent
6 man/months training                                               Management of SRC
provided to the MFI unit                                            approves the
within the Ministry of                                               transformation and
Finance                                                              accepts a market driven
approach
Restructuring plan
completed for Postal Office
and Savings Banks
- 25 -



Hiierarchy of Objectives  Key Performance        Mnitonring &
_____________E_______       Indicators      V     Evaluation          Critical Assumptions
Institutional study to
transform SRC completed
Partnership for poverty   US$ 3.85 million
reduction
Improved availability of  US$2.10 million    Consultant reports, project
poverty information and                      progress reports,
nmonitoring                                  disbursement reports,
supervision missions,
surveys
Completion of household
surveys by 2001 and 2003
P'articipatory expenditure
monitoring and tracking
Partnership for policy design  US$1.75 million                        Stakeholders are involved
and implementation                                                    in design, implementation
and monitoring.
Consultative process and
vorkshops to prepare the
P'RSP
I)iagnostic studies
Development of the
Cameroon Poverty
Reduction network
Support to the poverty
committee
Administrative and        US$ 0. 49 million                           AFU remains client
]Financial Unit                                                       oriented towards the
technical agencies
IFinancial and procurement
support is provided to all the
technical agencies without
delays
Financial statements are
established within one
imonth after the end of each
lquarter
- 26 -



Annex 2: Project Description
CAMEROON: PubliclPrivate Partnership for Growth and Poverty Reduction Project
This project is designed to enhance Cameroon's productivity and competitiveness by providing more
efficient utility services, cutting subsidies from the state and thus freeing up resources for needed social
services. It supports the jointly sponsored Competitiveness Committee which will deliberate on constraints
to growth and participate in the process of finding workable solutions to impediments to growth. The
project also emphasizes second generation reforms in support of the macroeconomic program: reforms to
ensure that public institutions obtain the skills' enhancement they need to provide better service under the
economic policy framework. In addition to privatizations, it includes the regulatory agencies which have
been created and the financing mechanisms put in place to support sectoral reforms (water,
telecommunications and rural electrification funds).  It also supports firm level activities by providing
dispute resolution mechanisms to resolve the contractual issues that arise in the course of doing business.
The financial component is designed to deepen the financial system and to give local populations access to
banking services; it focuses too on regulatory frameworks as regards financial markets, postal savings bank
and microfnance. Social security reform will strengthen an important safety net for the urban population
and also rectify the errant financial management of the past in the sector. The partnership for poverty
reduction component brings a more consistent poverty orientation to private sector development and will
reinforce partnerships that are necessary for the identification, implementation, monitoring and evaluation
of poverty actions.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$10.51 million
Enhanced competitiveness
(A) Privatization US$5.89 million
In addition to the restructuring sale of financial institutions (see page 31 below), over the last three years
period, GOC has completed the following transactions:
-      Camtel (telecommunication fixed network)
Camtel Mobile (mobile network)
*      Award of a second cellular license with intemational access
*      Regifercam (railways)
*      Sonel (electricity company)
*      Snec (water company)
*      Socapalm (Palmoil)
*      Hevecam (rubber)
*      Camsuco (sugar)
Furthermore, the call for bids for Cameroon Development Corporation (CDC), the largest agro-industry in
the country has been launched. Cameroon, despite a late start compared to a number of other West African
Countries is now well ahead of many African countries in this respect. In addition, the revised regulatory
frameworks in key sectors that have been adopted by GOC as part of the divestiture process are in many
aspects far more advanced than in most African countries.
The above mentioned transactions have led to a total transfer of assets (through sales or concessioning
-27 -



agreements) in excess of US$2 billion to private operators while at the same time modernizing the legal and
regulatory frameworks and introducing competition in the following sectors: (a) electricity; (b) petroleum
products; (c) telecommunications, (d) water; and (e) port and air transport. Despite some delays in
completing the transactions, these regulatory changes have already had a major impact on the economy
specially in the telecommunication sector and it is expected that, in the near future, improvement in
infrastructure services will be substantial while the privatization of agro-industry will lead to consequent
increases in exports.
Despite these results, the privatization agenda is not yet complete:
First, the Government is still involved in numerous activities, among which: (a) in the port sector,
the Government has agreed to sell or concession all related commercial and industrial activities; (b) SNI,
the National Investment Company created in the mid-eighties to act as the investment arm of the
Government which has holdings in 33 companies; (c) SNH, the National Oil Company, in addition to its
own involvement in exploration and production, has followed a path similar to that of SNI and also holds a
significant number of holdings in non-core sectors; (d) the national flag carrier, Cameroon Airlines, while
accumulating huge losses, is still Government owned; (e) the airports, while under private management,
still require substantial improvement, which can only be achieved by transforming the management contract
into a full concession; (f) the cotton sector has not yet been liberalized, nor the single operator,
SODECOTON, privatized; and (g) MATGENIE (the public works equipment company); and SCDP (the
petroleum product storage facility is still Govemment owned).
Second, although GOC was willing to implement a broad-based participatory program aimed at
selling up to 20 percent of the shares of privatized companies to nationals at discounted prices, results have
been very limited so far. Progress towards setting-up a fornal capital market in Cameroon should help in
this context.
*     Third, along with liberalization and opening sector up to competition, one of the objectives of the
project was to attract new operators. With the exception of the telecommunications sector, results have
also been less than was hoped for.
Thus, under this component, the project will finance advisory services to: (a) expedite divestiture of the
companies mentioned above, for which an agreement has been reached with GOC and are already included
in the PFP and SAC III; (b) launch IPOs to offer nationals the possibility of participating in the divestiture
program; (c) complete a strategic assessment of SNH and SNI in order to refocus the former on its core
business and, transform the latter into an efficient private investment promotion tool; and (d) provide
support to the privatization unit to help it implement public/private partnerships in infrastructure (PPI) as
vehicles for growth as discussed in the pilot investment component below. In addition, it will finance part of
the operating costs of the privatization unit and help with its institutional transformation, so that by project
completion, it will have acquired the skills and knowledge required to promote PPIs and other
public/private partnerships in the future.
(B) Infrastructureframework andpilot investment operations (US$3.0 million)
Over the past two years, Cameroon has seen a major transformation of its legal and institutional
framework, not only in the public sector but also broad changes in the following areas: (a) competition law;
(b) business laws, as part of the OHADA Treaty (Actes Uniformes); and (c) telecommunications,
-28 -



electricity, postal services, port and air transport laws and regulations. In parallel, two regulatory agencies
have been created in the telecommunications and electricity sectors and one ad-hoc committee was set-up to
enforce the concessioning agreement in the railways sector. The same approach is envisaged for the water
sector. In addition, the competition law has created a Competition Commission competent for all sectors.
Finally, to support decentralized infrastructure in remote locations, three funds, financed through levies on
the revenues of the operators in these sectors, have been created: (i) the Universal Service Fund for
Telecommunications; (ii) the Water Development Fund (a special line in GOC's budget); and (iii) the Rural
Electricity Development Agency.
Table 1. Public utilities institutional framework
The separation of functions and the introduction of arbitration mechanisms represent
considerable progress but there are still numerous links between the regulatory units and
with the judiciary system which still hold considerable risks.
[Ad m inistrative]
Teli jCouris di 
in i str ies             > Reuy                            A          r e
in,isReory                             Lower           Curt ofu
-                        . Courts        .A ppCoalris  /International
r  SuperYi50,y   >                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~arbitration
Agency fory                                                      IC S ID
Roitro S                                                           Int'l
Sope-ervitory
C om 11Ditec for 
Executive                 Regulation/                    Judiciary               Independent
corm petition                                         arbitratieon
While these foundations are solid, this overall framework still needs to be improved and
implemented effectively.
*     First, these new  rules have been built without always checking consistency between
regulations; and some implementation decrees are still missing.
*     Second, most of the competition and regulatory agencies and units, although formally created,
are not yet fully operational and will require institutional support and training. At the same
time, the competition and regulatory institutions must be cost efficient; it is crucial for the
utility sectors that no new bureaucracies are created. To be efficient and credible, the
competition and regulation institutional framework will require a comprehensive consolidation
and guarantee of autonomy. This consolidation must be at the legal and judiciary level (e.g.
frontiers between the Competition Commission and the regulatory agencies) but also at the
operational level (e.g. knowledge and cost sharing).
-29-



*     Third, the management rules for the three funds and the eligibility criteria for, subsidies and
other financing are still to be drafted and adopted.
*     Finally,in some cases, litigation has to be brought before the courts, while in other cases, local
or international arbitration mechanisms apply. Given the poor performance of the judiciary in
Cameroon and the limited progress achieved so far in improving its perfornance, there is a
need to expand arbitration mechanisms in those sectors to secure investors in conformity with
OHADA Uniform Acts.
Under this component, the project will finance two different sets of consulting services:
Strengthening the overall frameworks and regulatory agencie swill include the following: (a) an
assessment to clarify GOC's mission as part of the overall new institutional framework for electricity and
adoption of standard guidelines for the regulatory agencies; (b) a transversal review of existing utility
regulations including a study to strengthen agencies in charge of competition and regulation and to facilitate
recourse to arbitration; (c) a training program for the regulatory agencies; (d) a study to clarify the
framework for private participation in public services or public infrastructures at the national level and
local level (cities, regions, other local communities), and adoption of a common new regulatory framework
(as it is already the case for tax matters concerning concessions) or modification of some specific
regulations (public procurement Code, privatization law, municipality and regional laws); and (e)
establishment of clear management rules for the above-mentioned funds and definition of eligibility criteria
for the beneficiaries.
Completing at least six pilot investment operations (including PPIs): in the electricity sector,
there are major requirements for new generation capacities at the national level and for small communities
not connected to the grid. In the water sector, there are large needs to create services in rural areas. In the
telecommunications sector, the creation of local phone companies or infrastructure companies (backbone
and local loop) can be envisaged. In other areas, such as provision of solid waste collection, private
management of urban public transport, management of public health facilities, or other public services,
there is a need to develop private provision of public services and infrastructure. Since the privatization of
the main utility companies, private companies exclusively provide (or will provide in the near future)
services as telecommunications, water, railways or energy. On the one hand, PPIs complement the
privatized utilities and, on the other hand, they offer the possibility of a new generation of public service
providers, as a way of out-sourcing Government activities. The project will provide advisory services to
develop at least six pilot investment operations or similar operations (contracting out, out-sourcing,
concessions, lease, management contracts). The project will take advantage of the opportunity
decentralization presents (a new law in process will increase the autonomy of cities and regions) and of the
political agenda (local elections in January 2001). The pilots at a local level will be chosen in one of the
six cities where the Government is currently implementing a program of tax and finance reform with the
assistance French Cooperation. In addition, the French Cooperation is ready to provide financing for some
pilots where needed. A significant number of possible pilot operations were identified during appraisal; the
regulatory agencies have already received licensing requests from private investors in the electricity and
telecommunication sector while at the local level, there are numerous opportunities to improve services
through private concessioning or similar arrangements. However, it was agreed with GOC that prior to
supporting these operations, guidelines for the regulatory agencies will have to be adopted and specific
criteria defined for local operations through a participatory approach; for the latter, key criteria will be the
possibility of reproducing the similar operations on a larger scale in other communities.
- 30 -



(C) Support to the Competitiveness Committee US$1.63 million
As regards the business environment, which was a minor component in the earlier technical assistance
credit, the following actions have been completed: (a) creation of a Competitiveness Committee composed
of Government and business representatives in order to discuss private sector constraints and policies; (b)
adoption of a competition law and creation of a national competition commission; and (c) drafting of the
petroleum and mining codes.
Over the last months, the Competitiveness Committee has been staffed and it has formulated a detailed
action plan that includes the following major outcomes/objectives: (a) establish the credibility and the
representativity of the committee; (b) support the reform of the judiciary through lobbying efforts and
close collaboration with magistrates in training sessions; (c) assess the transaction costs and the
competitiveness of the economy as a whole and in specific sub-sectors; (d) streamline business regulations;
and (e) support for deepening of the financial sector reform by creating new tools such as venture capital
funds. The component will provide advisory services to support the above mentioned objectives, studies
and a review of the incentives system. In addition it will provide financing, on a declining basis, for the
equipment, staffing and operational costs of the Competitiveness Committee itself.
Project Component 2 - US$3.68 million
Financial Sector
Under the previous and on-going adjustment credits (SAC II and SAC III), with the support of the PE/TA
Project, Carneroon has come a long way since the mid-nineties in restructuring a financial sector that was
in disarray. In a bold move, two large commercial banks were liquidated, two have been restructured by
their shareholders and one has been split (scission/liquidation); as a result, all large commercial banks are
now solvent, liquid and profitable; the privatization of the last publicly-owned bank was completed in
January 2000. The loan recovery agency (Societe de Recouvrementdes des Creances du Cameroon) has
been reorganized leading to a marked improvement in its performance, assisted by strong anti-delinquency
measures. The focus has now shifted to MFIs; a census is currently underway that will provide the
framework for regulatory reform. The restructuring of the insurance sector has followed a similar path and
is close to completion (four insurance and reassurance companies have been liquidated); the public
insurance company is currently undergoing a restructuring-cum-privatization. A far reaching action plan
to reform the pension system has been adopted by Government. Work is progressing on the development of
a regional financial market, starting with an over-the-counter market in Cameroon. Legislation to that
effect has just been adopted by Parliament.
This component would continue funding financial reform and would introduce complementary efforts to
deepen the financial sector and develop services to benefit the poor as well as the regions. It will include
the following: (a) implementation of the social security reform; (b) regulation of MFIs; (c) completion of
liquidations managed by SRC and refocusing its activities exclusively on providing loan recovery services;
(d) support to the development of financial markets; and (e) restructuring of the postal savings and
checking banks.
(A) Social Security Reform (US$2 .0 million)
Several audits over the past six years had demonstrated the dire condition of the two main parts of the
social security system composed: (a) CNPS, the social security institution catering to private sector and
public enterprises employees; and (b) the Government system dealing with regular public servants. The
- 31 -



two systems are for all practical purposes bankrupt and suffer from liquidity problems. In April 1998, the
Government set up a steering committee composed of various stakeholders (representatives from the
Ministry of Labor, the Ministry of Finance, unions and the business community) with the double mandate
of: (i) rehabilitation of some areas of CNPS; and (ii) a global strategy for social security reform.
By September 1998, the committee had proposed the first draft of a strategy that was fully discussed with
civil society at seminars (funded by the World Bank) in various locations of the country. Comments and
suggestions made at these meetings were incorporated in the strategy adopted by the Interministerial
Council (CIM) in October 1999 and validated by the President the following November. It calls for: (a) the
break-up of the inefficient CNPS and the establishment of separate funds within separate institutional
structures for family allowances, worker's compensation and pensions; (b) private management of these
entities; and (c) a mix of defined benefits and defined contributions (the former being pay-as-you go and the
latter fully funded). As part of the implementation process, the CIM recommended a number of studies to
finalize the technical design of the new system. These include: (i) actuarial studies to assess the implicit
debt of the existing system and define the new levels of benefits and contributions; (ii) studies on the mode
of financing of the individual funds, particularly those based on defined benefits, and on how to resolve
potential cash flow problems; (iii) design of the legal framework for the new system; (iv) design of the
institutional structure to minimize operating costs; (v) study of the financing of the transition from the old
to the new system; and (vi) studies on the possibility of introducing medical insurance and extending the
benefits of the system to the population currently not covered.  In parallel, the steering committee
contracted with the ILO to proceed with the cleaning up of the employees' and employers' file, the
strengthening of recovery procedures and updating financial statements; all were prerequisites to some of
the studies requested by the CIM.
The project will support the implementation of the reform. It will finance: (a) train the studies mentioned
above, (b) the operations of the steering committee; and (c) training and information campaigns. This is a
fundamental program with large beneficial social fall-outs over time. GOC has so far shown its
determination to break the deadlock that had prevented any progress in the early and mid-1990s and move
ahead with a bold program that could become a model for the whole sub-region.
(B) Regulatory framework for micro-finance institutions (US$0.40 million)
It is estimated that Cameroon has over 700 micro-finance institutions, heretofore unsupervised and on
which very little informnation is available. Some of them definitely put their depositors' money at risk and
even constitute a threat to the recently restructured banking system. In September 1998, the Prime Minister
issued a decree, reaffirming existing regional legislation subjecting all MFI operations to a licensing
process (agrement) and to the supervision of COBAC. The license is granted by the Minister of Finance
subject to a non-objection from COBAC. A micro-finance supervision unit has been created within the
Ministry of Finance and is currently conducting a census of all institutions and processing their requests for
licensing.
In parallel, the regional regulator is conducting a study of the main characteristics of the various
institutions to define specific prudential regulation adapted to the different categories. It is expected that
size will be a determining factor. Small institutions will only be required to obtain a license and will not be
subject to close monitoring; medium ones will be submitted to some form of control; only the larger ones
will be strictly supervised. The regional regulator benefits from technical assistance from the French
Government.
In a nutshell, this is a two-step process: a census-cum-licensing process by the national authority while
- 32 -



legislation is prepared by the regional regulator. The latter should be available by July 2000 at the time
when the licensing process will be completed. Licensing requirements are very broad and are basically
aimed at registering MFIs and at bringing them under a flexible regulatory framework. There was urgency
with this registering process as failures in this type of institution have skyrocketed mainly because of
dishonest operators. This two-step approach in an emergency process is supported by all donors in the
field.
Actions at both the Ministry and at the regional regulator levels, are complementary and closely
coordinated. The regulation will be flexible providing all the room needed for these institutions to grow and
serve the needs of the poor, while at the same time protecting the members' deposits.
The project will support the following actions: (a) finance part of the operations of the MFI unit to
complete the census and proceed with the licensing; (b) a training program to enforce the regulations; and
(c) provision of technical advisory services to help with the implementation of the reform.
(C) Development of Financial Markets (0.20 million)
With the restructuring of the banking sector completed and that of the insurance sector almost complete, it
is now time to turn to development of financial markets to mobilize longer term savings and provide longer
term financing and equity capital. In addition, the success of the privatization process depends on the
existence of exit mechanisms for investors in privatized enterprises. Financial markets provide such a
mechanism.
Studies conducted under an IDF grant concluded that a regional stock exchange in the CEMAC zone was
the most appropriate structure for the six member countries. A blueprint for such a regional stock
exchange, as well as draft regulations, have been prepared by consultants. It is expected that the exchange,
a fully private venture, would be operational in 2002. The six CEMAC Governments agreed that countries
could in the meantime develop a transitory market mechanism which would be folded into the regional
exchange at its creation. Cameroon chose to do so and a law for the regulation of such transitory
mechanisms was adopted by Parliament in December 1999. These will be over-the-counter transactions
between licensed brokers, mainly the commercial banks. The credit will fund the additional studies
required to make the transitory national system operational.
(D) Postal banks (US$. 60 million)
The postal checking and savings banks play a key role in the mobilization of savings from the poor and in
providing a safe heaven for these savings. Unfortunately, these two institutions are bankrupt; all the
depositors money has been transferred to the Treasury. These institutions have been managed without
appropriate accounting. A review conducted by a consultant concluded to the need to rebuild from scratch
a postal financial institution while protecting all depositors. A new postal financial establishment has been
created (on paper) and in time will take over the deposits of the former banks. The project will fund
technical assistance to set up operationally this new institution and move the deposits to this new
establishment.
- 33 -



(E) National Recovery Agency (US$ 0.48 million)
The National Recovery Agency (SRC) was created as part of a first attempt at restructuring the financial
sector at the beginning of the nineties; it had the dual objective of: (a) managing the liquidation of
commercial banks and other financial institutions; and (b) increasing loan recovery in order to repay
depositors. In 1996, under SAC II, SRC was reorganized and strengthened with Bank support to improve
its performance. The composition of the Board of directors has been modified to include private sector
representatives and top management is selected by the Board at a two-thirds majority; an expatriate
recovery specialist has been hired as adviser to the general manager; finally, delinquent borrowers were
denied from access to further bank credit and from bidding for public procurement on privatizations. As a
result, from 1997 on, SRC has recovered CFAF 15 to 18 billion (US$32 to 38 million) annually. The
remaining stock of loans that can be recovered in the existing liquidations (with the exception of the two
banks that were recently placed in liquidation) is decreasing rapidly and most of the liquidations will be
closed by December 2000. The activities of SRC will be refocused on providing credit recovery services
to banks and other institutions, financial, industrial or commercial. The company will then be recapitalized
and its equity open to private investors in accordance with the divestiture policy of financial institutions
adopted by the Government.
The project would fund: (a) the adviser to the general manager (which had been funded under the previous
TA project); and (b) some studies to transform SRC into its new functions and open its equity to private
shareholders
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.85 million
Partnershipsfor Poverty Reduction
Poverty context: A 1996 household survey indicated that nearly 40 percent of households, representing
about half the population, fall below the poverty line (about $240 per year). Poverty is predominantly rural,
with 84 percent of the poor population living in rural areas. The poverty rate in rural areas is around 65%.
Regional disparities are significant, with higher poverty rates in the northern provinces. Key urban poverty
issues are the increase in unemployment, currently around 25 percent of the labor force, and the increasing
informalization of the economy. Poverty has significant gender dimensions. Male/female differences in
labor force participation and earnings, in time allocation, in land ownership and usage rights, and in
schooling and literacy are critical impediments to poverty reduction. Economic growth has resumed since
1995, but the impact of this growth on the poor cannot be determined for lack of data. Income distribution
is known to be highly uneven: the Gini coefficient has remained around 49.0 since the 1970s, a level
slightly higher than the SSA average of 44.7. This inequality makes it unlikely that substantial benefits
could accrue to the poor from growth without accompanying measures, notably highly effective
investments in basic social and public services.
Social indicators with respect to nutrition, health standards and education have declined in the 1990s,
reflecting the weakness of the public sector in delivering basic services. The poor often avoid public
services because they are seen as unreliable and of insufficient quality. Consequently, many services are
provided by non-govemmental actors-this is estimated at more around 50 percent for primary health care.
Moreover, public education and health services are heavily concentrated in the richer parts of the country,
reinforcing the dynamic behind regional disparities. They also reinforce gender differences.
Operational context. Since 1998, the Government has begun developing a set of policies to address poverty
- 34 -



issues. A Declaration of Poverty Policy was prepared in 1998. Several poverty-related commitments are
supported under the PFP, and their implementation is being supported under SAC III. The Declaration is
annexed to the Letter of Development Policy for SAC III.
The Government has subsequently begun developing this Declaration into a national poverty reduction
strategy. These efforts included some initial participation by NGOs and civil society. In the meantime, the
Enhanced HIPC program has been launched, offering the possibility for eligible countries to benefit from a
substantial reduction in their external debt. A key requirement for eligibility is that the country prepare a
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. As Cameroon wishes to benefit from the Enhanced HIPC program,
there is now an added urgency to the ongoing poverty strategy efforts. There is also a need for the result to
be highly operational and for the preparation process to be more participatory than previously if it is to
satisfy the rigorous HIPC criteria.
Whatever the content of the national poverty strategy, it is already clear that strengthened partnerships
between Government and civil society are needed. The proposed component of the project therefore aims at
helping build this partnership. It aims to strengthen Cameroonian capacities to design, implement, monitor
and evaluate an operational poverty strategy. These capacities will be built in part inside Government, in
part among civil society. The constraints include: a) unavailability of basic data to establish a baseline for
poverty programs; b) an inadequate poverty monitoring system to track results; c) inadequate
communications (horizontal and vertical) between potential partners in the poverty domain; d) lack of
experience with participatory approaches; e) few successful ongoing partnerships between Government and
civil society in program implementation, and in many cases a legacy of mutual suspicion; f) inadequate
focus on gender issues; and g) inadequate ability to evaluate the effectiveness of public expenditures in
reducing poverty.
The main activities to be supported by the component are listed below.
(A) Improvements in poverty information (US$2.2 Million)
* Establishment of a website and regular publications for sharing existing and future (publicly held or
civil society) poverty information and analysis.
*   Implementation of a priority households survey in 2000 comparable to the 1996 survey to permit an
updated evaluation of poverty levels and trends. This will meet some requirements related to the
preparation of a full PRSP.
*   Implementation of a community/villages comprehensive survey which will gather social and economic
infrastructure and services in order to develop a sounder basis for poverty and economic planning and
mapping; however, the Government will seek the technical and financial support of UNFPA and other
donors for the census itself.
*   Implementation of a full-scale household living standards survey in 2002.
(B) Partnerships for participative monitoring of poverty  and policy design and implementation
(US$1.65 Million)
*   Participatory activities related to the preparation of a PRSP and initial implementation of its main
themes. The activities will include consultative processes and workshops to build a dialogue on the
poverty impact of national economic policies; technical studies to relate their findings to key economic
policies (employment policy, competition policies, regulatory fiamework, fiscal policies); and actions
to build partnerships for implementation of key activities.
- 35 -



*   Reinforcement of civil society capacities. Diagnostic studies of civil society capacities in areas such as:
design and implementation of cross-sectoral activities to reduce poverty; developing and applying
targeting methodologies; developing strategies and methods to address gender constraints. Activities
would include diagnostic workshops and studies.
*   Development of the Cameroon Poverty Reduction Network (affiliated to APRN). Support to activities
of the network, which focus on exchanges of experience and information between groups in-country;
exchange of experience on participatory approaches; dissemination of promotion on areas for
public/private partnerships.
*   Participatory public expenditure monitoring and tracking: focus on whether resources are reaching
target groups and how services are perceived.
*   Organization of a poverty monitoring system. A broadly acceptable system has been designed as
regards quantitative monitoring. The establishment of a participatory monitoring system has yet to be
designed.
The responsibility for overall coordination of the component would rest with the Permanent secretary of the
Comitei Technique de Suivi.
*   The individual delegated to manage the component on a day to day basis would be responsible for: (a)
assuring the implementation of project activities; (b) preparing regular reports on progress in
implementation; (c) meeting specific thematic responsibilities including assuring a participatory
approach to activities and assuring gender sensitivity in the project activities; (d) specific activities
such as preparing the terms of reference of the studies and short-lists, defining equipment needs,
operational costs and so on.
-   The delegated manager will be guided by a five person council of expert advisors composed of two
members appointed by Government, two members appointed by civil society organizations, and one
member (Cameroonian) appointed by the UNDP. The council would advise on terms of reference for
studies and the choice of consultants, on proposals for workshops, on arrangements for information
sharing, on appropriateness of participatory approaches, etc.
-   Statistical activities will be implemented by the Direction de la statistique et de la comptabilite
nationale (DSTAT) and would be implemented in line with normally accepted procedures for such
activities.
Project Component 4 - US$1.24 million
Other
The project will also: (a) finance an Administrative and Financial Unit put in place in order to deal with all
financial management and procurement issues and, (b) refinance PPF No. Q1650 for an amount of
US$0.75 million. This project preparation facility was provided to the Govermment to assess the country
readiness with respect to Year 2K issues for critical systems such as budget management, tax collection
and, delivery of priority services including water, electricity, telecommunication and payment of pensions.
That assessment and the related mitigation actions taken were important in making sure that there would
not be any interruption of service and that the privatization of the utilities could move forward.
- 36 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CAMEROON: PubliclPrivate Partnership for Growth and Poverty Reduction Project
LboaI       Foreign       Total
Prjed Coot BY Componen .t:               US $million   US $million   US $miHion
Enhanced Competitiveness                                  0.00          0.00         0.00
1. Privatization                                          2.58          4.03         6.61
2. Infrastructure framework and pilots                    0.98          2.93         3.91
3. Competitiveness committee                               1.42         0.88         2.30
Financial Sector                                          0.00          0.00         0.00
1. Social Security reforrn                                1.66          1.51         3.17
2. Other Financial Sector Reforms                         0.87          1.01         1.88
Partnership for Poverty Reduction                         4.29          0.91         5.20
Administrative and Financial Unit (AFU)                   0.50          0.06         0.56
Audits                                                    0.32          0.00         0.32
PPF                                                       0.10          0.65         0.75
Total Baseline Cost                                       12.72        11.98        24.70
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.52          0.78         1.30
Total Project Costs             13.24         12.76        26.00
Total Financing Required              13.24        12.76         26.00
Foreign       T
ProJect Cost Ey Categoy.                US $rniItion   US $illion   US $mfflion
Consultants, training and seminars                          9.12          10.76        19.88
Operating Costs                                             2.28          0.11          2.39
Equipment                                                   0.40          0.40          0.80
Unallocated                                                 0.52          0.78          1.30
PPF refinancing                                             0.10          0.65          0.75
Audits                                                      0.32           0.00         0.32
AFU                                                         0.50           0.06         0.56
Total Project Costs     13.24         12.76        26.00
Total Financing Required     13.24          12.76        26.00
- 37 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CAMEROON: PubliclPrivate Partnership for Growth and Poverty Reduction Project
Recent Macro-Economic Developments
Since mid-1996, there is evidence of true determination to tackle the economy's fundamental problems.
Cameroon had come to a cross roads and realized that its future as a member of the CFAF zone depended
on its ability to undertake serious economic reform. Changes were made in the composition of Government,
and policy and economic management began to benefit from the able interventions of a technocratic Prime
Minister and a decisive, politically powerful Finance Minister. An Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) was approved by the IMF Board on August 20, 1997, and the two remaining tranches of IDA's
Second Structural Adjustment Credit were disbursed. The possibilities of sustained reforrn have been
further enhanced by recent governmental changes following peaceful legislative and presidential elections
held, respectively, in May and October 1997. The ruling party gained a number of seats and so obtained
an overall majority in the Assembly. President Paul Biya easily won the presidential elections following the
decision of the two major opposition parties to boycott them. The composition of the new Government,
announced in early December 1997, consolidates the position of the coherent reformist group which
emerged in late 1996. The Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, and their economic team which
successfully negotiated the ESAF remain in place, while other reformers have been promoted to high level
positions. Of perhaps equal significance is the fact that longtime opponents of reform, largely responsible
for the failed macroeconomic and structural adjustment programs, have been replaced by younger
technocrats in favor of change.
There have been sufficient signs of an upturn in economic activity, though this was somewhat affected by
the Asian crisis. The Asian market is important for some Cameroon exports, for example timber and
cotton. Moreover, Cameroon will still have to compete with Asian producers of rubber and other
commodities. Growth has been steady following the devaluation -- an average of 5 percent per year since.
Certainly a higher growth rate is well within the country's potential and is needed to make a marked impact
on per capita incomes (population is rising by nearly 3 percent per year) and, above all, to create
significant employment opportunities for the rapidly growing young labor force.
Poverty remains widespread. According to preliminary data from a 1996 household survey, about half the
population are poor, and of these nearly 60 per cent live below the poverty line of 148,000 CFAF (about
US$250) per year. Eighty-four percent of the poor live in rural areas, and nearly two thirds of the residents
of rural areas are poor. The sharp fall in per capita incomes during the decade of economic crisis ending
with the 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc led to a dramatic increase in poverty. Following the
devaluation, the incomes of cash crop producers, mostly small farmers, improved. On the other hand, the
currency adjustment had a negative impact on urban incomes, and the household survey indicates an
increase in urban poverty in the period 1993-96.
- 38 -



Objectives and Description of the Project
The overall objective of the project seek to forge new public/private partnerships in the economy while
introducing a poverty focus in economic management. This is will promote the economy through an
accelerated private sector led development of economic activities. Specifically, the project will support
three major components: (a) enhanced competitiveness - (i) continuing support for privatization of public
enterprises, (ii) institutional support to consolidate the activities of the new regulatory agencies and
committees, and (iii) support to the Competitiveness Committee; (b) deepening of financial sector reform
by addressing remaining gaps (i) modernization of pension system, (ii) implementation of regulations for
micro finance institutions, (iii) restructuring the post savings and checking bank and (iv) supporting the
establishment of financial market; (c) poverty alleviation component aiming at providing institutional
capacity building support in particular for baseline poverty assessment through household surveys and
monitoring of poverty on a regular basis. It is expected that the project will help increase performance and
efficiency of privatized and restructured enterprises, promote private investment and facilitate private
sector and economic growth and help reduce the level of poverty in the country.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Overall Project
Methodology. The cost-benefit analysis concentrates on identification and measurement problems that are
encountered in all project evaluations. Therefore, to address the identification issue for the project costs and
benefits, only direct and indirect incremental impacts on the Government and society of Cameroon were
considered. The welfare gains and losses were estimated by using net change in average economic output
price. Where explicit prices were not available, and or non-indicative of true socioeconomic cost and
benefits, indicative proxies have been applied. The evaluation was done in terms of economic cash flow
analysis which was developed from the financial cash flow of the project. Recognition was given to the fact
that not all economic costs and benefits are measurable in monetary terms.
Most of the expected benefits would occur in the medium term since the project is expected to facilitate
essentially institutional development in both public and private sectors. The identified indirect benefits were
quantified to obtain their monetary values because no direct cost recovery mechanisms have been built into
the project. Monetary values inputted to the indirect benefits represents measurable gains from additional
income generated from newly created jobs, economic efficiency from reduction in factor costs and business
cost of capital and consumer surplus. Furthermore, expected non-monetized benefits from the project
include  improved management, changes in quality and quantity of services, conducive business
environment, changes in poverty alleviation and social distress. Non cash flow fmancial values such as
amortization charges, sunk costs for physical requirements, and the debt service obligations were
considered only in relation to fiscal impact of the project.
Cost-benefit analysis was done for the whole project to determine the economic rate of return and net
present value. The distributional aspect of the benefits have been analyzed by identification of the project
beneficiaries.
It has been difficult to deal with inter-firm linkages and inter-industry dependencies within the PE sector
and other firms. Therefore, it is assumed that the benefits such as reduction in factor costs, incremental
- 39 -



employment opportunities, value added through productivity enhancements and gains in efficiency of
service delivery, include inter-firm benefits.
Project Costs. The estimated total project costs for the Public /Private Partnership, Growth and Poverty
Reduction during the four- year period 2001 to 2004 is US$ 26.0 million. The costs would finance
technical assistance requirements, transaction costs for restructuring, privatization, financial reform,
institutional and capacity building support, management and operating costs of the project. They include
GOC's and other's contribution which is estimated at 20 % of total project costs. The price contingencies
of 5% of the total project costs are included in the total project costs. The proposed project will neither
affect the ability of businesses in the private sector to survive, plan or grow; nor will it affect availability of
services to the consumer. Therefore, indirect costs have not been included in the cost-benefit analysis of the
project.
Project Benefits. Four major economic benefits have been identified and quantified:
(a) Benefits from newly created employment opportunities in the private sector. (Govemment and the
public enterprise sectors account for about 200,000 out of 500,000 of overall employment). The additional
income from newly created employment opportunities has been estimated on the basis of expected
additional job creation due to new investment and new demand for services.
Project Component                                    Total
1. Enhanced Competitiveness                                      12.81
2. Financial Sector                                               5.06
3. Partnership for Poverty Reduction                              5.20
4. AFU/Audits/PPF/Unallocated                                     2.93
Total Project Cost                                              26.0
Table 1. Project Costs by Component (US $ million)
(b)    Benefits in Productivity and Output: Gains are expected from higher total factor productivity,
resulting from expected changes in work ethics, training, better management, better equipment and new
technology. Additional gains will also be derived from efficiency in the financial system. It will include (i)
the additional return linked to an increase in resource mobilization, (ii) a reduction of transaction costs and
(iii) improved management in financial institutions which would lead to better allocation of resources in the
-40 -



economy.
(c)    Consumer Surplus (Gains in price and tarifl): Benefits to the consumer are expected in the form
of low price/tariffs and improved service quality, wider coverage due to competition and private sector
involvement. Only benefits from expected long term reduction in prices have been quantified for the
analysis. Gains accrued to consumers due to service accessibility, availability and reliability of services
have not been quantified.
Target group.Key target groups have been identified and include:
a)     Consumers who would gain about US 2.8 million. The sources of benefits (consumer surplus)
include expected long tern reductions in tariffs, expected increase in access to services, expected
elimination of waste, expedited accounts receivable collection and probable productivity gains.
b)     Employees welfare in the privatized enterprises is expected to increase. This would be achieved
either through employee share purchase plans and new labor contracts, that normally accompany
privatization or through expected gains from increases in the average wage bill due to private enterprise
productivity performance and additional employment opportunities.
c)     Working adult population whose employment is at risk because of the current stagnation of
employment in the private sector would benefit from the project due to expected growth in the private
sector which will generate new employment opportunities to assist in poverty alleviation. Unemployed
people and new graduates would also benefit from the new jobs expected to be created by privatized firms
and new entrants in the productive sectors of the economy.
Table 2. Projected Economic Benefits 2001-2015 (US $ million)
Economic Benefit                             Total
A. Additional Income from Employment Opportunities                1.9
B. Gains in Productivity & Output                                21.3
C. Consumer Gains in Price/Tariff                                 2.8
D. Retum from Additional Savings Mobilization                     7.5
E. Reduced Financial Transaction Cost                             4.6
TOTAL                                                            38.1
-41-



d)    The private sector, including both local and foreign investors, whose investment opportunities
have been restrained due to unfavorable business environment resulting from public enterprise monopoly
power, would benefit from removal of entry barriers and reduction in factor costs of production like in
telecommunications. This is shown on the economic benefit values on estimated increases in productivity
and output, and in reduced costs of investment. (See Table 1). Growth in the private sector is expected to
generate employment opportunities to further alleviate the social costs of unemployment. These economic
benefits are reflected in the estimated benefits from increased employment, productivity and output.
e)     Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises would benefit from the project in form of conducive
business environment. Businesses in the informal sector and small and micro enterprises would be freed
from constraints encountered in high factor costs of production and financial market distortions. In addition
the improved financial sector services and accessibility of credit would stimulate further growth in this
sector.
Base Case Results. The net present value of the project is estimated at about US $15.5 million for a 12%
discount rate, and its internal economic rate of return is estimated at 29.6%. The net present value of the
project varies from about US$ 22.0 million to US$ 3.9 million for discount rates of 10% and 17%,
respectively.
Main Assumptions:
Assumptions: It has been assumed:
(a) that GOC is fully committed to Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization. The project design reflects
the need to accelerate PE reform by accommodating country and political objectives of employment
opportunities, public participation and awareness, enterprise continuity and social obligations.
(b) that GOC will continue with its prudent economic policies to stabilize the country's macroeconomics
environment. The GDP growth rate is estimated to average at least 5% per annum during the life of the
project.
(c)  that the project would develop a market friendly and competitive environment through the
establishment of an appropriate regulatory framework which would, in turn, help attract foreign capital,
technology, and managerial expertise required to improve the efficiency of the sectors and their value added
contributions to GDP.
(d) that the private sector, both local and foreign investors, will respond positively to the sector reforms
from the project. A positive response is critical for the realization of the indirect benefits.
(e)  that private and investment will be increased substantially due to projected business, regulatory
framework and infrastructure proposals. It is expected that 50% of the proposed investment will be
materialized.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity Analysis. Two sensitivity tests were carried out: (a) The first assumed that (i) additional
income from employment opportunities, (ii) gains in productivity & output were half of the base case and
(b) the second assumed a 50% reduction in (i) Gains in Productivity & Output, (ii) return from additional
-42 -



savings mobilization, coupled with a zero growth in (iii) additional income from employment opportunities,
and (iv) consumer gains. The results are shown in Table 4.
Table 4. Sensitivity Analysis
Gains in productivity &    Base Case             -50%                   -50%
Output
Additional income from
employment              as estimated             -50%                   Zero growth
opportunities
Consumer gains in long
term price/tariff changes   as estimated         as estimated           Zero growth
Return from additional
savings mobilization
as estimated             as estimated           -50%
Reduced financial
transaction cost        as estimated             as estimated           as estimated
IRR (%)    NPV           IRR (%)       NPV                    NPV
Overall Project         29.6        15.5         20.5         3.8       16.9          0.1
They show an IRR at 20.5% and a NPV at $3.8 million, and an IRR at 16.9% and a NPV at $0.1 million,
respectively. This table demonstrates that this project produces robust results.
In addition, the project will generate $ 6.6 million of savings in public finance which is expected to come
from significant reduction in direct and indirect subsidies to public enterprises, reduction of transfer of
productive capital resources into the PE sector and increase in corporate and other tax gains from
privatized and new firms. This would reduce government fiscal burden and would free resources for new
investment in the social sectors.
-43 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CAMEROON: Public/Private Partnership for Growth and Poverty Reduction Project
Years Ending
| Year i  I Year 2       Year 3  | Year4 4     Year 5     Year6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
lnvestmnent Costs            7.3        8.7         3.8        3.5        0.0         0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.8         0.8        0.6        0.5         0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs            8.1        9.5         4.4        4.0        0.0         0.0       0.0
Total Financing                8.1        9.5         4.4        4.0        0.0         0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    6.5         7.6        3.4        3.4         0.0       0.0
Govemment                   0.8         1.0        0.5        0.4         0.0       0.0
Central                  0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial               0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0
Others                      0.8         0.9        0.5         0.2        0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing       8.1        9.5         4.4        4.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
-44 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CAMEROON: Public/Private Partnership for Growth and Poverty Reduction Project
Procurement
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Cameroon was carried out in 1993, showing that
procurement procedures in Cameroon do not conflict with Bank Guidelines. No special exceptions, permits,
or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents since Cameroon's procurement practices allow IDA
procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. A procurement audit of all
on-going IDA financed investments projects in Cameroon completed in 1999 has shown that procurement
capacity needs to receive particular attention at time of project preparation to establish efficient and
transparent contract management system.
Goods financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), and
Bank Standard Bidding Documents, and Standard Evaluation Report will be used for ICB. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would be carried out in accordance with Cameroon's
procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that they assure economy, efficiency,
transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank Guidelines. Under NCB, the
procedures should ensure that: (i) methods used in evaluation of bids and the award of contracts are made
known to all bidders and not be applied arbitrarily; (ii) any bidder is given adequate response time (four
weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (iii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly
specified in bidding documents; (iv) no preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers (v) eligible
firms are not precluded from participation; (vi) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in
accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods; (vii) bid evaluation reports will clearly state the
reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; and (viii) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard
bidding documents prepared as annexes to the Project Implementation Manual are submitted to IDA and
found acceptable.
Consultant services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank borrowers (January 1997 revised in September 1997 and
January 1999). The Standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will be used for
appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e. those not
exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individual consultants. The Government has been briefed
during.appraisal and will receive any additional clarification during negotiations about the features of the
new Consultants Guidelines, in particular with regards to advertisement and bid opening.
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and issued in the United Nations Development
Business at time of negotiations, to advertise for major consulting assignments and ICB. Publication of a
GPN to be published in the national press or official gazette is also required for NCB. The program
elements by disbursement category, their estimated costs, and procurement methods for the first two years
are summarized in Table A below. Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods
and prior review are summarized in Tables Al and B below.
Procurement of goods
Procurement of computer equipment, and other office equipment, and materials, although in limited
numbers would be preferably carried out under ICB. Procurement through IAPSO may be envisaged for
-45 -



small items. Other goods (mainly furniture, office supplies and small equipment) locally available at
economical price and costing less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
US$230,000 will be procured through NCB under procedures acceptable to IDA. Equipment and software
for the management of AFU computerizing system of monitoring contracts to cost less than US$25,000 per
contract will be procured through National Shopping by comparing at least three quotations obtained from
reliable suppliers up to an aggregate amount of US$250,000.
Consultants services and training
Consulting services financed by IDA would be for: (i) consultancies on technical matters, (ii) training,(iii)
support of project implementation, (iv) financial management support and financial audits. Consultants
financed by IDA, totaling US$15.5 million, would be hired in accordance with Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 revised September 1997 and January
1999 (Consultant Guidelines). Selection would be based on competition among qualified short-listed firms
through Quality-and Cost-based selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposals before
combining quality and cost evaluation by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. The AFU
would ensure widely publicized procurement notice to get candidacy from consultants. Based on agreed
upon criteria, AFU will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to establish short-lists.
Other methods would also apply. For audits and other services of a standard nature, up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.3 million, the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) would be the most appropriate method. The
firm with the lowest price being selected provided its technical proposal received the minimum qualifying
mark. Consultants services for small and simple services (estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per
contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000) would be based on Consultants' Qualifications
(CQ).
Services for lecturers and small studies, which can be delivered by individuals, would be selected through
comparison of qualifications among Individual Consultants (IC expressing interest in the assignment or
approached directly).
-46 -



Short-Lists of consultants for contracts estimated under US$50.000 may be comprised entirely of national
consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified frmns (at least three) are locally available at competitive
costs. This would particularly apply to contracts for auditing services. However, if foreign firms have
expressed interest for those contracts, they will not be excluded from consideration.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurefmet Methiod'
Expenditure Category             Ica    i                                     W. -   -' 1 :  B-F.    , Total Cost
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~O ther   _ _ _  _
1. Works                             0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.40            0.23           0.25            0.08           0.96
(0.25)         (0.15)          (0.25)         (0.00)         (0.65)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           18.40           1.97           20.37
(0.00)         (0.00)         (16.61)         (0.00)         (16.61)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00            2.32           0.30           2.62
(0.00)         (0.00)          (1.60)         (0.00)         (1.60)
PPF refinancing                      0.00            0.00            0.75           0.00           0.75
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.75)         (0.00)         (0.75)
Unallocated                          0.00            0.00           0.00            1.30           1.30
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.30)         (1.30)
Total                             0.40            0.23           21.72           3.65           26.00
(0.25)         (0.15)         (19.21)         (1.30)         (20.91)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local Government
units.
-47 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Review by the Bank of the selection of consultants
IDA Reviews. Contracts financed by IDA above the threshold value of US$100,000 equivalent for goods
will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Selective post-review of contracts awarded below the
threshold level will apply to about one in three contracts and will be carried out by Bank staff using audits,
and other consultants, as necessary.
Bank staff will also review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the Borrower.
Prior IDA review for the selection of consultants will include the review of budgets, short-lists, selection
procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, contract awards, and negotiated contracts. Prior
IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to
cost less than US$100,000, and US$25,000, equivalent, respectively. However, the exception to prior IDA
review will not apply to the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of their value, to
single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, or to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value above the above-mentioned prior review thresholds. For all consultant
contracts subject to prior review (estimated above US$100,000), opening the financial envelopes will not
take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation. Documents related to
procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the borrowers for ex-post review by
auditors and by IDA supervision missions.
For training abroad, the program, containing names of candidates, costs estimates, content of courses,
periods of training and selection of training institutions- will be reviewed and approved by IDA annually.
Modification or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing to any material extension,
or any modification or waiver of the conditions of contracts that would increase aggregate cost by more
than 15% of the original price, the Borrower should specify the reasons thereof and seek IDA's prior
on-objection for the proposed modification
Procurement Statuts of Ongoing Projects and Proposed Arrangements. National bidding procedures
for public procurement in Cameroon have not improved. A procurement audit of all on-going IDA financed
investrnents projects in Cameroon completed in 1999 has confirmed that procurement capacity is generally
weak in the country; it has led, among other factors, to slow down disbursements and in some case to
misprocurement cases. the above mentioned audit has pointed out poor management capacity, poor filing
system and lack of internal controls. The proposed project has already improved its filing capacity and staff
received procurement training. The project will build on that strength and on the fact that all the executing
agencies of the project and the Administrative and Financial Unit (AFU) which will be in charge of all
procurement matters are already familiar with IDA procedures. With respect to procurement, AFU will act
as a service provider for all executing agencies; it will ensure that terms of reference, short-lists or
specification for goods provided by those executing agencies are acceptable. It will then prepare the
requests for proposals and make sure that they are consistent with World Bank guidelines. To ensure that
AFU is able to play its role efficiently given its expanded mission under the proposed project, an additional
procurement staff will be hired and its selection will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Procedures Manual. AFU procedures manual and internal organization will be upgraded to better serve
as a practical guide describing procedures agreed upon in the DCA including: (i) procedures for calling for
bids, selecting consultants, and vendors, and awarding contracts; (ii) internal organization for supervision
-48 -



and control, including operational guidelines defining the role of each executing agency and reporting
requirements and (iii) disbursement procedures. The adoption of the procedures Manual will be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
During negotiations, the Government has reviewed and agreed with IDA on: (a) a draft procurement plan
for the first phase prepared during appraisal's mission; (c) standard bidding documents to be used under
NCB procedures for goods. The Government has also given assurances that it will (a) use the Procedures
Manual; (b) use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, the Standard request for Proposals for
the selection of consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Reports; (c) apply the procurement
procedures and arrangements outlined above; (d) update the procurement plan on a regular basis during
annual reviews with IDA and others donors, to compare target times and actual completion, and transmit it
to IDA, during implementation, with all procurement-related documents; and (e) carry out, during annual
reviews, an assessment of the effectiveness of bidding procedures and performance, as they relate to the
program's procurement experience, and propose for IDA and other donors' consideration any modification
to the current procedures to the extent that they would accelerate procurement, while still maintaining
compliance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and adequate control over contract awards and
payments.
The Government has also given assurances at negotiations that it will take the necessary measures to ensure
that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
Procurement Phases                         Maximum number of Weeks
Preparation of Bidding Documents                   4 (6 for large contracts)
4 (6-10 for ICB)
Proration of Bids by Bidders
2 (4 for large contracts)
Bid Evaluation
2
Signature of Contracts
3
Payments
-49 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
,0;~~~~~onrc Vau                                                  Co,,nt3racs' SubjecX0,"  >tj', 0;.to01
1. Works
2. Goods                In excess of US$100,000         ICB            All contracts exceeding the
Equipment and material                                                        threshold
Between US$25,000             NCB             The first three contracts in
and US$100,000                                an amount of less than
US$100,000 every year
Less than US$25,000      National shopping           See above
3. ServicesC
4. Consultantsitraining   In excess of US$ 100,000     QCBS              All TORS, short lists,
drafts contracts, and
selection reports
Less than US$100,000          QCBS               All TORS, and single
source
Less than US$25,000    Consultant qualification
Routineistandard         Less than US$50,000          Least cost         All TORS, short lists,
contracts                                                                 drafts contracts, and
Selection reports and;
All single source contracts
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 50 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent for goods and consulting firms, US$50,000 for individual
consultants. Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by the project for review by periodic
Bank supervision missions and external auditors.
Special account:
As the project will use the traditional method of disbursements for the first year (not PMR-based) of
implementation, the initial deposit amount in the special account should be estimated for four months
expenditures. The special account will be replenished on a monthly basis.
The disbursement method will be reviewed in December 2001, when the Borrower will have the option of
graduating to the PMR-based disbursement. An action plan dated April 11, 2000 sets out the steps
required to enable the project to produce PMRs by December 2001.
The project will have one special account with three sub-accounts corresponding to the three components of
the project: one for the enhanced competitiveness component, one for the financial sector component and
one for the partnership for poverty reduction component
Special Account
Authorized allocation of CFAF 400 million.
Half of the authorized allocation will be paid as the initial deposit in the Special Account after
effectiveness. Once approximately 25% of the IDA credit funds have been disbursed, the remaining balance
of the authorized allocation will be advanced to the special account. Replenishments will be submitted on a
monthly basis regardless of the amount.
Direct payment: minimum application amount above or equivalent to 20 percent of Special Account
deposit.
Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project implementation
management and supervision such as spare part, fuel, rental, electricity, telecommunication, office supplies,
travel allowance of project staff, but excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants. Project staff such
as those from the privatization unit and AFU will be paid under the category consultants and training.
Disbursement risk mitigation
One of the major disbursement risk identified during appraisal that might slow-down disbursement is the
fact that two agencies will be involved: the Administrative and Financial Unit on one hand, CAA on the
other hand. In order to avoid overlapping controls and other bureaucratic bottlenecks that may affect
disbursement, the procedure manual will clearly define the different responsibilities and standard times to
proceed with the various procedures. The latter will be monitored so that problems can be identified and
corrected quickly.
- 51 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Exptw e(Satpgpyy            Atn*&Wnt l-~ U$$tj,iIJi0n      i         PFercen
1. Consultants, training and seminars     16.31                  100% of expenditures
2. Operating costs                         1.60                90% of local expenditures
3. Equipment                               0.63               100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditure
4. Audits                                  0.32                  100% of expenditures
5. Unallocated                             1.30                          n.a
6. PPF Refinancing                         0.75            Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02
Total Project Costs                        20.91
Total                                      20.91
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Table C- 2: Allocation of Credit Proceeds per Component
(in US$ million)
Category          Enhanced    Financial    Partnership for    AFU     Audits   TOTAL
Investment    Sector        poverty
reduction
1. Consultants, training      9.48        3.23             3.39      0.20               16.30
and seminars
2 Operating costs             0.67        0.45             0.28      0.20                1.60
3. Equipment                  0.36                         0.18      0.09                0.63
4. Audits                                                                      0.32      0.32
5. Total base costs          10.51        3.68             3.85      0.49      0.32     18.85
Unallocated                                                                              1.30
PPF refinancing                                                                          0.75
TOTAL                                                                                    20.9
Special account:
Assessment of the Financial Management System
(See Assessment Report and Action Plan)
- 52 -



Financial Management System
Accounting
During the previous Privatization and Private sector technical Assistance Credit, an accounting and
auditing firm has been hired to design and implement a centralized computerized accounting system within
AFU. This accounting software is flexible and will be adjusted by an accounting firm to reflect the design
of the new project. The same firm will also up-date the existing financial and accounting procedures
manual, including internal control systems and providing reasonable assurances that accounts are properly
recorded and resources safeguarded. In addition, this firm will include in its mandate the PMR based
disbursement requirements and train the project accountant and Chief Financial Officer so that the project
can shift to the new standards by end December 2001.
The existing Chart of Accounts for the project is based on the National Chart of Account and in conformity
with the Intemational Accounting Standard satisfactory to the Bank (IDA).
Financial Reporting
AFU and all executing agencies will prepare quarterly Activity Reports together with quarterly Financial
Reports.
The annual Financial Statements of the project will be prepared in accordance with accounting principles
acceptable to IDA. The Financial Statement will include at least a statement of. sources and uses of funds, a
statement of reconciliation of the special accounts and a balance sheet. The Financial Statements will be
submitted to IDA no later than three months after the end of each fiscal year.
3. Auditing
An Independent Auditor acceptable to IDA will audit the financial statements of the project.
The auditor will provide an opinion on:
a)    Adequacy of Accounting and Internal Control System
b)    Financial Management System
c)    Project Financial Statements
d)    Special Accounts and Statement of Expenditures
Project accounts, special accounts and all disbursement under SOE will be audited annually. The annual
audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
4. Staffing
AFU, the project financial management unit, is already headed by a qualified accountant/financial analyst
with an assistant. This unit will be strengthened with the hiring of an additional accountant with
procurement skills.
5. Project Management Reports
In 1996, the Bank introduced an initiative to strengthen compliance with fiduciary requirement in new
- 53 -



operations and standardize financial reporting in Bank Group Projects. The Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI) now renamed FMI (Financial Management Initiative) assists projects to put in place
sound Financial Management, Procurement and output Monitoring Systems. Where appropriate, if these
systems are in place, disbursements may be made on the basis of agreed quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMR) rather than on the basis of individual invoices or statements of expenditures.
An assessment has been made that the executing agencies will gradually apply LACI. PMR procedures will
be implemented progressively during the first year of project implementation. There is the need to ensure
that the systems put in place are operating smoothly. The monitoring and evaluation process will include
output of reports that are consistent with the PMR requirements.
The financial, procurement and output monitoring systems will be reviewed in December 2001 to assess
whether it will be appropriate to move to full PMR based disbursement at that time.
-54 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CAMEROON: Public/Private Partnership for Growth and Poverty Reduction Project
Project Schedule                                  P                            Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      7
First Bank mission (identification)             10/01/99                      10/01/99
Appraisal mission departure                     03/07/2000                   03/07/2000
Negotiations                                    04/26/2000                   04/26/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/31/2000
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Eric Boucheny                     Private Sector Specialist
Paul Lignieres                    Private Sector Specialist
Marie-Fran9oise Marie-Nelly       Principal Private Enterprise Specialist
Andre Ryba                        Senior Banking Sector Specialist
Roger Key                         Principal Human Resource Specialist
Paula Donnelly                    Senior Social Scientist
Antoine Simponpietri              Senior Statistician
lain Christie                     Consultant
Guy Joseph Malembeti              Procurement Specialist
Michel Layec                      Senior Energy Economist
Andrea M. Vasquez                 Team Assistant
Richard Cambridge                 Lead Specialist
Jean Christophe Ngo               Consultant
Joseph Bolong                     Financial Specialist
Amy Champion                      Program Assistant
Lucy Kimani                       Team Assistant
Lucy Fye                          Consultant
- 55 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CAMEROON: Public/Private Partnership for Growth and Poverty Reduction Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Action plan for the following sub-components: (a) privatization, (b) infrastructure framework and pilot
investment operations, (c) competitiveness committee, (d) financial sector.
*   Procurement plan and procurement assessment.
*   Financial management assessment and action plan.
*   Draft terms of reference for an auditing firm to up-date the project implementation plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Review of the infatructure legal, institutional and regulatory framewework.
*   Progress report on privatization and financial sector reform.
*   Aide-memoire for the preparation of an interim PRSP.
C. Other
*   Draft CAS progress report.
*   Preliminary financial assessment of the postal saving and checking banks
*   SAC III report including letter of development policy.
*   SAC III and Privatization and Private Sector Technical Assistance Credit progress reports.
*   List of relevant laws and regulations related to privatization and infrastructure.
*   Govemment of Cameroon declaration on poverty reduction.
*   Strategy for the social security reform adopted by the Govemment
*Including electronic files
- 56 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CAMEROON: Public/Private Partnership for Growth and Poverty Reduction Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions            disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                        Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P045348         1999 Cameroon                      AG.EXT.&RES. SUPPORT                        0.00       15.10         0.00       13.72       3.97      0.00
P000411         1995 Cameroon                      HLTH/FERT/NUTRITION                         0.00       43.00        20.12       11.68      27.17       1.70
P055684         1998 Cameroon                      IUT DOUALA (LIL)                            0.00        4.86         0.00        4.68       2.61      -0.03
P041553         1996 Cameroon                      PErTA                                       0.00       12.60         o.0o        5.21       5.86      0.00
P054443         1998 Cameroon                      SAC III                                     0.00      193.10         0.00      103.71     73.26      77.49
P000393         1996 Cameroon                      TRANSPORTSECTOR                             0.00       60.70         0.00       30.10      19.61      0.00
Total:        0.00      329.36        20.12      169.10     132.48      79.16
- 57 -



CAMEROON
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1995               AEF Comp Avicole                0.26    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.26    0.00     0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Notacam                     0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.68    0.00       0.00    0.00
1994/96            AEF Proleg                      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Saicam                      0.00    0.00     0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994/96            AEF United Trspt                0.28    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.28    0.00     0.00    0.00
1979               Alucam                          0.00    0.93     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.93     0.00    0.00
1986               CICAM                           1.88    0.00     0.00     0.00    1.88    0.00     0.00    0.00
1992/94/97/98      Pecten Cameroon                48.00    0.00    0.00   152.00   17.46    0.00      0.00   55.29
Total Portfolio:        51.10    0.93     0.37   152.00   20.56    0.93     0.00   55.29
Approvals Pending Commitrnent
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
2000               AEF Complexe II                    0.00      0.00    169.71      0.00
1999               AEF EPA                         997.68       0.00      0.00      0.00
1999               AEF LUNA                        246.86       0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      1244.54      0.00    169.71       0.00
- 58 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CAMEROON: Public/Private Partnership for Growth and Poverty Reduction Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Lo%-
Cameroon      Af1ica  Income      Developnent diamond
1998
Pooulatron. mid-vear tinilions)                      1413      828     3,515                Life expectancy
GNP owr cagita (Atass method US$1                    610       480       520
GNP (Atlas method USS bifons)                         8.7      304      1844
Average annual orowth.  1992-9
Pooulation f%)                                       2 8        2.6      17
Labor forne 1%)                                      3 2        2.6      1 9     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estmate talest vear avatabl 1992-9                                   per                            primary
Povertv (% otoooulabon belownationa toovertvJ&e.
Urban Dooulation 1% oftotal DooDulafion)              47        33        31
Life esxectancv at birth (veaWJ                       57        51        63
Infant mortalift (oer 1.000 live biftrsl               2        91        69
Child malnutrtion (16 of children under 5)                                                Access to safe water
Access to safe water f% of otouwion)                  41        47        74
Illiteracv (% of oooulaon age 15.                     28        42        32
Gross orimanr enrollment (%ds 0f'oola  oulio,         89        n         O8                 Cameroon
Mal                                                 g3        84       tl3                 Low4-ncome group
Female                                              84        69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997     1998
Econoilc ratioa
GDP((ISS biIions)                           3.4      12.3       91       87
Gross domnestic invesimentiGDP             28.5    24.7        16.2      184
Exorts of ooods and serAcesiGDP            25.1      15.7      26.8     26.8                    Trade
Gross dmestic savinas/GDP                  25.7     21 0       20.6     20,2
Gross national savin&s/GDP                  3.2    20.0        14.9     1S9
Curnt account balance/GDP                   -7,6    -5 0       -1.3     -2.5
Interest oavmentsAGDP                       0.9       1.5       21       3.6     Domestic                    Investment
Total debt/GOP                             31.4     33.2      101 9     110.3    Savmgs
Total debt serviceexsoorls                  7.9    304         204      27.2
Pesmnt value of debt/GDP                                       870      94.7
Present vakle of debVexoorts                                  314.5    339.6
i977-7  198S^9      1 1997    1998  199943                   Indebtedness
(avernge annuaioroieflwr
GOP                                75       40.6     5.1        5.0      5.3                   Camneroon
GNP nercewita                       64      -a8       1 7       3.7      2.4                   Low-income group
Exoorts of ooods and services      134      -i'S     11 5       4.7      3.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998     Growth rates of output and invesntf)
/96 of GDPJ
Aoriculture                                33.6    24.8        42.1     42 4     2e
Industrv                                    18.4    30.1       22.1     21.6            A
Manufacturina                              9.0    13.2       10.6      10.7
Services                                   48.0    45.1        35.8     35.9   -t        '               95   97   98
Private consumotion                        64.4    66.9        71.2     70.6    -x0
General oovemment consumotion               9.8    12.2         8.2      9.2                    GDt       0  GDP
Imoorts of ooods and services              27.8      19.4      22.4     25.0
197747  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth rates of exports nd imports(f)
taveraoe annual arorwbO
Aoriculture                                  5.0      3.9       7.5      6.8    3tO
Industrv                                    15A     -4.3        7.7      7.7    20 -
Manufacturino                             11.5     -1.6       8.2       8.2    10 ;
Services                                    6.0      -1.7      -0.9     -0.8      o
Private consumotion                         6.1      0.9       11.2      3.3   9107   98
General oovemment consumotion               9.5      -0.9     -15.4      16.1   -20
Gross domestic investment                   9.9    -3.3         9.5     17. 9    30
ImDorts of goods and services               10.8     0.5       19.5     83                   Expons     l Imports
Gross national oroduct                      9.5      -1.0       4.6      6.7
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its inoome-oroug average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomolete.
- 59 -



Cameroon
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987      1997      1998      Inflabon
Domestic prices                                                                     I    n
(% change)
Consumer prices                              14.8    13.2         5.2      2.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         5.9    -2.4         2.7      1.1     1
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes cunrent grants)                                                              94   95   9s   97    9
Current revenue                               0.0    18.4        15.1     16.2    -10
Current budget balance                        0.0      4.7        0.8      1.3                   GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       0.0    -13.0       -0.7     -1.6
TRADE
(USS millions)                              1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                           809    1,729      1,968    1,875     tso
Fuel                                          .,    843         743      592
Cocoa                                         ,,    291         245      298
Manufactures                                         230        291      423           *
Total imports (cif)                                  1,853      1,347    1,379
Food                                         ..      133        155      173
Fuel and energy                                       16        136      149
Capital goods                                 ..    580         399      403        0
92  93  94  9!i  93  97  98
Fxnnrt niner index (1995=100)                          60        104       105
lmDort orice index f1995=100)                  ..       46        97       101              * Exports     n Imports
Terms nf trade 11995=100)                              131       1n8       104
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987      1997      1998     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%
(UISS millions)
Exports of goods and services                851    2,054      2,443     2,343 o
Imports ofgoods and services                  944    2,538     2,041     2,185                        - 'E         q
Resource balance                              -93     -484       402       158
Net income                                   -197     -159      -609      -471
Net current transfers                          34       31        86        95     3       'U
Current account balance                      -257    -611       -120      -218
Financing items (net)                         255    1,168       263       180    -s
Changes in net reserves                         2     -557      -142        39    -e
Memo:
Reserves includino oold (USS millions)        45        ..        11        11
(Cnnversinn rate (DEC. local/USSI           247.8   318.7       541.1    602.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                     Composibon of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,057    4,081      9,293    9,597
IBRD                                        72      545        410      350                        A: 350
IDA                                         88      239        609       701              G: 1,427        B: 701
-NMN  C: 156
Total debt service                             68      652       513       659                                   :D 405
IBRD                                          6      70        113        97         F 681i
IDA                                           1        3         9        10
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             37       50        137
Official creditors                         209      158         18       -62
Private creditors                          145       17        -28       -40
Foreign direct investment                    9        12        45        50
Portfolio equity                             0        0          0         0                          E: 5,577
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0         0         0       218     A- EDRD     -                  - Pilatera
Disbursements                               36       82        126        82     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Pnncipal repayments                           1       30        81        74
Net flows                                   35       52         45         8
Interest payments                            5       43         41        33
Net transfers                               29        9          4       -25
Development Economics                                                                                                9/22199
-60 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
LINKS BETWEEN THE PUBLIC/PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP GROWTH AND POVERTY
REDUCTION PROJECT AND THE EXISTING ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
r *   rvatization of all public       \* Restructuring of SNH and                                           \
/   utilities and major agro-                                        SNI;
industries,;*   Adoption of a strategy to
* Port Reform;                                                         reform the social securuty
*   rFinancial sector                                                system;
restructuring and                 R                                 Review  of business
\Mdivesiture.                                  rganregulations and incentives;ys
*Adoption of a poverty                                                Support to arbitration
rduction strategv/\/
\   /       *  ~~~Adoption of an interim PRSP;           \       /
l           *  ~~~~~Strengthenin  the Ieultor\                  /
1              ~~~~frameworkfrifatupe 
tCompletiop e en
1              ~~~~program;        //
l          *  ~~~~Implementto gfoilscrty                //
11~~~~~-1
Competitiveness                Financial Sector Reform               P Rteductipornoet
* Privatization                  Social security Reform;
Restructuring SRC and the           Formulation of propoor
* Infrastructure                      Postal Bank;                         economic policies;
framework and pilot            Support to Financial
operations                          markets                         Establishemnt of a baseline
.    Microfinance regulations                  and surveys;
*Support to the
Competitiveness
committee
-61 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Public[Private Partnership, Growth and Poverty Reduction Project
A building block in a broader Private Sector Development Strategy
In 1994, after years of decline, the economy of Cameroon was in disarray; negative growth for the past 8
years had led to reduce by half the GDP per habitant; the primary budget deficit was in excess of 10
percent of GDP, infrastructure had been neglected for years and the commercial banks sector was bankrupt
with a non operating portfolio exceeding US$1.5 billion.
Despite a long tradition of entrepreneurship in the Private sector in Cameroon, a solid industrial basis,
fertile land available conducive to the development of efficient agro-industries, the overall economic decline
has dramatically affected private operators. The latter combined with an overextended Government, poor
infrastructure, cumbersome business regulations, a bankrupt financial sector, and major governance issues
especially in the judiciary has led to a large decline in private investments and the quick development of the
informal sector.
The World Bank Group Private Sector Development Strategy in Cameroon has been designed with the
view of addressing all these bottlenecks in a coherently sequenced approach starting by the most basic, i.e.;
to restore a sound macroeconomic climate without which private investors cannot operate.
To achieve this objective, a mixed of Technical Assistance and Structural Adjustments Credits has been
used, the former being utilized in two ways: (a) to support the implementation of reforms under the ongoing
Adjustment Credits and, (b) to pave the way for the next Adjustment operation by fostering dialogue with
the Government in order to broaden the reform agenda. The latter has been achieved by finding entry
points and then building on these sound basis to expand reforms with the objective of putting in place a
business environment conducive to an accelerated private sector led growth while reducing poverty. The
sequencing of the reforms is illustrated in table 1 bellow that shows the main focus of the last adjustment
operations.
World Bank Adjustment Credits            Major issues addressed
SAC I                                    Macroeconomic imbalances, Trade reforms
SAC II                                   Macroeconomic framework, Trade reforms,
Financial sector
SAC III                                  Macro economic framework, privatization of
infrastructure and agro- industries, financial
sector, Forestry, poverty reduction
With respect to the TA credits, the main objectives of the 1996 Privatization and Private Sector Technical
Assistance Project were: (a) to support SAC II in implementing a far reaching restructuring plan of the
financial sector, (b) to launch a large regulatory and divestiture program targeting the public utilities and
-62 -



agro-industries, the outcome of which would be conditions of SAC III adopted by the World Bank board in
1998; and (c) to start improving the dialogue between the Govemment and the Private Sector through the
Competitiveness Committee while setting the pace for other regulatory reforms such as the drafting of a
new mining and petroleum codes.
Despite delays, the combination of these projects has led to: (a) successfully restructure the banking sector
and the insurance sector, (b) to develop a far reaching strategy with regards to the social security reform,
(b) to open-up the infrastructure sector and privatize the SOEs operating in these sectors, therefore paving
the way for increased competitiveness through improved availability and quality of services; (c) to divest
large agro-industries thus unleashing growth while generating revenues in rural areas and, (d) to set the
basis for reforming the business regulations thus starting to address the transaction costs issue.
At that stage, a first milestone has been reached: (a) solid foundations have been put in place as regards the
macroeconomic environment and the financial sector and, (b) the privatization program is reducing the
overextended Govemment while already having an impact in the infrastructure especially in the
telecommunication sector where by end 2000, it is expected that the number of lines will have doubled.
The next phase of the PSD strategy will be similarly designed; it will use a combination of TA and
Adjustment operation (through the HIPC) to: (a) continue the privatization program, (b) consolidate
reforms in the infrastructure sector and expand them by supporting the regulatory agencies and attracting
new operators through PPIs, (c) start implementing the business environment regulatory reforms through
the competitiveness committee and pave the way for the judicial reform and, (d) deepen the financial sector
reform. If these reforms combined with the focus on poverty succeed, Cameroon will have gone a long way
from where it was in 1994. However, while these reform can bring a new momentum, they won't bear all
their fruits until GOC seriously addresses the Govemance issues and especially the reform of the judiciary.
-63 -



