Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3359 CM
Development Credit Agreement
(Public/Private Partnership for Growth and Poverty Reduction Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   June 28, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3359 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“ADER” means Agence d’Electrification Rurale, the agency 
responsible for promoting rural electrification, established by the 
Borrower’s Law No. 98/22, dated December 24, 1998;
(b)
“AFU” means the administrative and financial unit within the 
CTS (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“ARE” means Agence de Régulation du Secteur de 
l’Electricité, the regulatory agency in the electricity sector 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 98/22, dated 
December 24, 1998, and Decree No. 99/125, dated June 15, 1999;
(d)
“ART” means Agence de Régulation des Télécommunications, the 
regulatory agency in the telecommunications sector established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 98/014, dated July 14, 1998, 
and Decree No. 98/197, dated September 8, 1998;
(e)
“CAE” means the compte d’affectation spéciale pour les 
projets en matière d’eau, provided for in the Borrower’s Law No. 98/5, 
dated April 14, 1998;
(f)
 “CAMAIR” means Cameroon Airlines, a PE (as hereinafter 
defined) transportation company established and operating under the laws 
of the Borrower;
(g)
“CCAA” means Cameroon Civil Aviation Authority, the 
aeronautical authority established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Law No. 98/023, dated December 24, 1998 and Decree No. 99 
dated September 16,1999;
(h)
“CFA Franc” or “CFAF” means the currency of the Borrower;
(i)
“Competition Commission” means the Commission Nationale de 
la Concurrence established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 98/13, 
dated July 14, 1998;
(j)
“Competitiveness Committee” means the Comité de 
Compétitivité established by the Borrower’s Decree No. 97/235, dated 
December 31, 1997;
(k)
“CPP” means the ad hoc technical committee responsible for 
the implementation of the restructuring of the postal sector established 
by the Borrower’s Decision No. 02556, dated July 23, 1997;
(l)
“CPSS” means the Comité de Pilotage responsible for the 
rehabilitation of Caisse de Prévoyance Sociale and the social security 
system reform established by the Borrower’s Arrêté No. 86, dated April 
13, 1998;
(m)
“CTP” means Commission Technique de Privatisation et des 
Liquidations, the technical unit established and operating pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Decrees No. 97/1 and 97/3, dated January 3, 1997;
(n)
“CTS” means the Comité Technique de Suivi des Programmes 
Page  3
Economiques established by the Borrower’s Decree No. 97/133, dated August 
20, 1997;
(o)
“DCE” means Direction des Contrôles Economiques et des 
Finances Extérieures, a directorate within MINEFI (as hereinafter 
defined);
(p)
“DSTAT” means Direction de la Statistique et de la 
Comptabilité Nationale, a directorate within MINEFI (as hereinafter 
defined);
(q)
“FST” means Fonds Spécial des Télécommunications, the 
universal service fund for telecommunications, established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 98/104, dated July 14, 1998, and 
Decree No. 98/197, dated September 8, 1998;
(r)
“MATGENIE” means Parc National de Matériel de Génie Civil, a 
PE (as hereinafter defined) established and operating under the laws of 
the Borrower;
(s)
“MINEFI” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for 
economy and finance;
(t)
“MINPAT” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for 
public investments and regional development;
(u)
“PE” means any enterprise in which the Borrower has directly 
or indirectly (through any of its subdivisions or through any other 
enterprise) a financial participation equivalent to 25% or more of the 
equity of such enterprise;
(v)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual to be 
adopted pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, outlining 
policies, procedures and guidelines, including financial management 
guidelines, to be followed in the implementation of the Project;
(w)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(x)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement signed on behalf of the Association on June 15, 1999 and on 
behalf of the Borrower on July 2, 1999;
(y)
“SCDP” means Société Camerounaise de Dépôts Pétroliers, a PE 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(z)
“SNH” means Société Nationale des Hydrocarbures, a PE 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower; 
(aa)
“SNI” means Société Nationale des Investissements, a public 
financial entity established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower;
(bb)
“SODECOTON” means Société de Développement du Coton, a PE 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower; 
(cc)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(dd)
“SRC” means Société de Recouvrement des Créances du 
Cameroun, a public financial entity established by the Borrower’s Decrees 
No. 89/1283, dated August 18, 1989, and No. 91/066, dated January 23, 
1991.
Page  4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Page  5
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 
2010 and ending January 15, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on January 15, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the CTS with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, banking, legal and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
Page  6
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
Page  7
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan, acceptable to the Association, for the strengthening of the 
financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2001, 
or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Page  8
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted a project implementation manual in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
the Borrower has employed, in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the procurement specialist 
referred to in Section 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for public investments and regional development is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Investments and 
  Regional development
Yaoundé
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINPAT
8203KN
(237) 
22 15 09
Yaoundé
With copy to:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Yaoundé
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINEFI
8260KN
(237) 
23 37 17
Yaoundé
(237) 
22 50 74
Caisse Autonome d’Amortissement
P.O. Box 7167
Yaoundé
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
CAA
8858 KN
(237) 
Page  9
22 01 29
Yaoundé
      For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
              Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Crecy Tawah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 (1)
Equipment 
    470,000
100% of foreign
and supplies
expenditures and 
90% of local
Page  10
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’services
 12,440,000
100%
(including auditing),
training, workshops
and seminars
(3)
Incremental operating
  1,200,000
90% of local
costs
expenditures
(4)
Refunding of
    560,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) 
of
Advance
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
    930,000
TOTAL
 15,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower ; provided, however, that, if the currency of 
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which 
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “Incremental operating costs” means incremental 
expenditures incurred on account of Project implementation, management 
and monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and 
supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s 
civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) 
under contracts for goods and for the employment of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) under contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 each; and 
(c) for training and operating costs; all under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to help establish a 
competitive and sustainable business environment that will attract 
private sector investors in the Borrower’s territory; and (b) to put 
poverty reduction at the center of economic management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
Page  11
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Enhanced Competitiveness
Privatization
1.
Provision of technical advisory services:
(a)
to help in the completion of on-going privatization;
(b)
to expedite the divestiture and/or the restructuring of 
commercial and industrial activities in the port sector, airport 
management, CAMAIR, SODECOTON, SCDP and MATGENIE;
(c)
to help Cameroonian nationals to participate through public 
offers in the share capital of enterprises privatized or to be 
privatized;
(d)
 to complete: (i)  a strategic and operational assessment of 
SNH to make it more efficient; and (ii) a strategic assessment of SNI 
aiming at transforming SNI into a more  efficient private investment 
promotion entity; and 
(e)
to help remedy year 2K problems.
2.
Further strengthening of CTP’s capacity to propose and implement 
appropriate public/private partnerships in infrastructure and other 
sectors.
Infrastructure Framework and Regulatory Agencies
3.
Provision of technical advisory services for the carrying out of:
(a)
an assessment and a new definition of the institutional and 
legal responsibilities of the State in the new legal framework for 
electricity;
(b)
a review of utility sector regulations and procedures, 
including support and recommendations to strengthen the Competition 
Commission, ARE, ADER, ART and CCAA with a view to ensure that said 
agencies have coherent supervisory and conciliatory responsibilities, and 
to adopt revised standard regulations and procedures;
(c)
a review of the legal framework for  private sector 
participation in public services and infrastructure with a view to ensure 
competition, including recommendations for amendments to, and/or adoption 
of, if needed, laws and regulations governing the partnership framework 
between the private sector, the State and public collectivities, 
including in particular procurement and privatization; and
(d)
the definition of management regulations and eligibility 
criteria for FST, CAE and ADER. 
4.
The carrying out of a training program for the agencies referred to 
in Part A.3 (b) above, following the definition of an overall training 
strategy.
5.
Provision of technical advisory services for the development of at 
least six pilot operations, which could be duplicated, involving private 
Page  12
sector participation in infrastructure and public services, such as local 
telephone companies, management of public health facilities and of urban 
public transport, and the provision of trash collection, through 
contracting, concession, lease, management contracts, and other 
appropriate instruments.
Competitiveness Committee
6.
Strengthening the Competitiveness Committee, through: (a) the 
provision of technical advisory services; (b) training; (c) an enhanced 
public/private partnership through information campaigns; and (d) the 
acquisition of equipment.
Part B: 
Financial Sector
1.
Social Security System Reform
(a) 
The carrying out of a series of studies aimed at achieving 
the implementation of the reform of the social security system, 
including, but not limited to, actuarial studies, the design of the legal 
framework for the system, the sustainability and mode of financing of 
specific regimes, the organization of the transition from the previous to 
the new system, and the introduction of medical insurance for the 
population which is not covered by the new system.
(b)
The carrying out of a training program and of information 
campaigns, through the provision of technical advisory services.
2.
Micro-finance Institutions
(a) 
The completion of the census of micro-finance institutions 
in the Borrower’s territory and licensing thereof; and
(b)
the carrying out of a training program and of information 
campaigns to help in enforcing the regulations applicable to 
micro-finance institutions;
all through the provision of technical advisory services.
3.
Financial Markets
The carrying out of a study to make the financial  market 
operational.
4.
Postal Financial Institution
Provision of technical advisory services to assist in the 
restructuring of the  Post Office Savings Bank (Caisse d’Epargne Postale) 
and the Postal Check Account (Comptes Chèques Postaux).
5.
SRC
Supporting SRC to assist in refocussing its operations on the 
provision of loan recovery services on a commercial basis, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of 
management software.
Part C:
Poverty Reduction
1.
Improvements in Poverty Information
(a)
The establishment of a website and issuance of regular 
publications for sharing existing and future poverty information and 
analysis;
(b)
the carrying out of a preliminary household living standards 
Page  13
survey to be followed by a full survey in calendar year 2002;
(c)
the carrying out of a community and villages comprehensive 
survey to develop a sounder basis for poverty measuring and development ; 
and
(d)
the implementation of a financially sustainable permanent 
system for the monitoring of key indicators for poverty measuring;
all through the provision of technical advisory services and the 
acquisition of equipment.
2.
Partnerships for Participative Monitoring of Poverty and Policy 
Design and Implementation
(a)
Organization and functioning of a participatory poverty 
monitoring system;
(b)
the carrying out of participatory activities related to the 
preparation of a poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP) and initial 
implementation of the main themes thereof, including: (i) the provision 
of technical advisory services; (ii) consultative processes; (iii) 
workshops; and (iv) technical studies on (A) employment policies, (B) 
competition, and (C) assessment of the efficiency and effectiveness of 
public expenditures for social sectors and basic infrastructure;
(c)
the carrying out of diagnostic studies of civil society 
capacities for designing and implementing cross-sectoral activities to 
reduce poverty, developing and applying targeting methodologies, and 
developing strategies and methods to address gender constraints; and
(d)
the development of a poverty reduction network to focus on 
exchanges of experience and information between groups and on 
participatory approaches;
all through the provisions of technical advisory services, workshops and 
the acquisition of equipment.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines), and (b) 
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  14
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $230,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles and small office equipment may be procured from the 
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United Nations (IAPSO) in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more and, every year, with respect to the 
first three contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $100,000 each, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
Page  15
equivalent of $25,000 or less, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association 
a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f ), 2 (g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services for  the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing services and other services of a standard 
nature estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for small and simple services estimated to cost less than 
$25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  16
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for lectures and small studies that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
General
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual.  Said Manual shall not be amended or waived 
without the Association’s prior written approval.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that all its departments and agencies 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof shall comply 
with the policies, procedures and guidelines included in the Project 
Implementation Manual.  Under the overall management and coordination of 
the CTS, said departments and agencies shall be respectively responsible 
as follows:  the CTP for Part A.1 through 5 of the Project; the  
Competitiveness Committee for Part A.6 of the Project; the CPSS for Part 
B.1 of the Project; the DCE for Part B.2, 3 and 5 of the Project; the CPP 
for Part B.4 of the Project; the DSTAT for Part C.1 of the Project; and 
the Permanent Secretariat of the CTS, with the assistance of an advisory 
council of experts, for Part C.2 of the Project.  In addition, the AFU 
Page  17
shall be responsible for the overall Project compliance with procurement, 
financial management and accounting.  To this end, the AFU shall employ 
and maintain in functions a procurement specialist in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.
Not later than October 31, 2000, and thereafter by April 30 of each 
year, the Borrower shall, through the CTS, furnish to the Association, 
for its review and approval, proposed detailed work plans and budgets in 
respect of Project activities for the forthcoming fiscal year.
4.
Prior to the divestiture and/or restructuring of any PE listed in 
Part A.1 of the Project and of any operation involving private sector 
participation in infrastructure and public services referred to in Part 
A.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that an environmental 
audit/assessment and an environmental analysis are respectively carried 
out on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and that the 
results thereof, including any remediation action plan, are incorporated 
in the bidding documents, specifications and/or authorization required.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, beginning on or about April 
30, 2001 and thereafter on or about April 30 of each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar year 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2002, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and 
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
Page  18
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to CFAF 400,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 
200,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR 4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the  Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
Page  19
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  20
