Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14558
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1375-PAK)
JUNE 2, 1995
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Pakistan Rupees per US$)
Appraisal Year (1982/83)            13.0
Intervening Years' Average          19.3
Completion Year (1993/94)           30.3
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)               = 30.5 centimeters (cm)
I yard (yd)               = 0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)               = 1.609 kilometers (km)
I acre (ac)               = 0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)     = 259 ha
1 cubic yard (cu/yd)      = 0.765 cubic meters (m3)
1 acre foot (ac/ft)       = 1,233.5 Mi3
I cu. ft/sec              = 0.0283 m3"sec
1 pound (lb)              = 0.454 kilograms (kg)
I long ton (Ig toII)      = 1,016 kg (1.016 metric tons)
I maund                   = 37.3 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
CCA        Commanded Cultivable Area
DGIS       Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Directorate General
for International Cooperation
DRIP       Drainage and Reclamation Institute of Pakistan
EC         Electrical Conductivity
FIDIC      Federation Internationale des Ingenieurs-conseils
GOP        Govern.ment of Pakistan
GOPunjab  Government of Punjab Province
IWASRI   International Waterlogging and Salinity Research Institute
ODA        Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
OFWM       On-Farm Water Management
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
PID        Punjab Irrigation Department
PLL        Precision Land Levelling
RAP        Revised Action Programme for Irrigated Agriculture
RSC        Residual Sodium Carbonate
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4380-PAK dated April 27, 1983)
SCARP    Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SGW        Saline Groundwater
SMO        SCARP Monitoring Organization
WAPDA    Water and Power Development Authority
WUA        Water Users Association



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General                                                          June 2, 1995
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Pakistan
Fourth Drainage Project (Credit 1375-PAK)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Pakistan Fourth Drainage project
(Credit 1375-PAK). Parts I and III were prepared by FAO/Bank Cooperative Program for the South
Asia Regional Office and Part II by the Borrower.
This project built upon the experience of the Khairpur Tile Drainage and SCARP Mardan
projects (Crs. 648 and 877). It installed sub-surface drainage on 30,000 ha and improved surface
drainage on 120,000 ha of previously irrigated land, much of which was suffering from waterlogging,
salinity and/or sodicity, some to the point of abandonment.
During implementation, sub-surface drain design was simplified, cutting unit costs
considerably. These savings made it possible to expand watercourse improvements tenfold, and to
increase land levelling, demonstration plots, and training. Project management and technical assistance
were effective, but implementation took double the projected period. Appraisal had underestimated the
difficulties of gearing up. There were contract disputes, partly over whether co-financed equipment
met specifications. Cooperation between the Borrower and the cofinanciers (IDA, the United
Kingdom and the Netherlands) was good.
Major agricultural benefits from drainage and other project works are already evident and
should continue to grow if project works are maintained. The PCR re-estimates the economic return
to be 23 percent. Thus, the outcome of Pakistan's first large-scale sub-surface drainage project is
rated as satisfactory. The institutional capacity to install such drains has been successfully developed.
Hence, institutional development is rated as substantial. However, the PCR notes unsatisfactory
maintenance and institutional capacity to maintain. Sustainability, therefore, is rated as uncertain.
The PCR is factual, concise, and provides a balanced assessment of project achievements.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE    ................................................    i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ...................................... ii
PARTI ..................................................  1
1.  Project Identity  ...........................................   1
2.  Background   .............................................   1
3.  Project Objectives and Description  ...............................   2
4.  Project Design and Organization   ................................   4
5.  Project Implementation   ......................................   5
6.  Project Results  ...........................................   8
7.  Project Sustainability   .......................................   9
8.  Bank Performance   .........................................  10
9.  Borrower Performance   ...................................... 11
10.  Project Relationship  ........................................ 12
11.  Consulting Services  ........................................ 12
12.  Project Documentation and Data   ................................ 13
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ...                                                      ....... 14
A.  Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III .....                             ..         ..........  14
B.  Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part I ......                              ..         ..........  14
C.  Evaluation of Bank's Performance    ...... ...... ..                                    .................  15
1.  Bank's Performance during Evolution   ......................... 15
2.  Bank's Performance during Implementation  ...................... 16
D.  Evaluation of Borrower's Performance  ............................. 17
1. Borrower's Performance during Evolution
and Lessons Learned  ....................................  17
2.  Borrower's Performance during Project Implementation   ..............  17
E.  Effectiveness of the Relationship between Bank and Borrower   .....                                     .........  18
F.  Evaluation of the Performance of Co-financiers   ........                            ..         .............  18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III ............................ 20
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ............................ 20
2.    Project  Timetable    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21
3. Credit Disbursements. .            .......................... 22
4.   Project Implementation   . . .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .  . .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  . 23
5. Project Cost and Financing. ...........................   24
A. Project Cost. .              .......................... 24
B. Project Financing.. .  ........................ 24
6. Project Results .  ............ . ..............   25
A. Direct Benefits. .  .    ........................ 25
B. Economic Impact..  .   ........................ 25
C.    Financial  Impact   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
D. Studies.         . .......................... 26
7. Status of Covenants.     .         .......................... 27
8. Use of Bank Resources. ...........................   28
A. Staff Inputs . . . . . ................. . ...................    . ... ... . .... .. . . 28
B. Missions.. .    ... 29
MAP - IBRD 16902R
ANNEXES
Annex 1:          Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 2:          Comments from the Netherlands
Annex 3:          Comments from ODA



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Credit 1375-PAK)
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name            Fourth Drainage Project
Credit No.              1375-PAK
RVP Unit                South Asia
Country                 Pakistan
Sector                  Agriculture
Sub-sectors             Irrigation and Drainage
2. Background
2.1        Agriculture dominates Pakistan's economy and boosting agricultural production by
increasing yields has been all along at the heart of Government policy. About 75% of the
cultivable land is commanded for irrigation which generates about 90% of the nation's
agricultural output.
2.2        The Indus Irrigation System is the largest contiguous irrigation system in the world.
The system now commands about 34.5 million acres (ac). Although the need for land drainage
was acknowledged by the designers of the irrigation system, little drainage work was carried out
when the system was built, mainly because at that time the groundwater table was deep (often
70 ft below ground level), and also the need was to reduce the cost of development. However,
over the years the water table under the irrigated areas of the Indus Plain rose, leading to serious
waterlogging and, in many areas, salinization of the soil profile. In 1981 the Indus Basin Salinity
Survey" reported that 22% of the Indus Basin had a water table within 6 ft of the ground
surface, and a further 30% within 10 ft. The effect of salinity and waterlogging on yields was
disastrous.
2.3        Recognizing the above situation. the "Revised Action Programme for Irrigated
Agriculture" (RAP)2' accorded high investment priority to projects involving subsurface
drainage in irrigated areas with a high saline groundwater table. In a policy statement in
I/ "Indus Basin Salinity Survey",Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), 1981.
21 Published in May 1979 by WAPDA, based on a four-year Indus Basin Planning Study funded by UNDP
with the Bank as executing agency.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Credit 1375-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The main objectives of the project were to alleviate surface flooding and facilitate
field drainage in an area of 295,000 acres (ac) by improving and extending the existing surface
drainage system; to lower the water table in an area of 75,000 ac within the surface drainage
area by constructing subsurface (tile) drains whose effluent would be pumped up for disposal in
the surface drainage system; to improve soil fertility in an area of 12,500 ac by addition of
gypsum to the soil; and to improve irrigation efficiency at watercourse level in 190 watercourse
commands comprising 75,000 ac by On-Farm Water Management (OFWM) techniques. The
project also provided training to create a cadre of technicians with experience in tile drainage
construction, operation and maintenance. Monitoring and evaluation studies were carried out
by WAPDA's SCARP Monitoring Organization (SMO).
Implementation Experience
2.        Project implementation closely followed the SAR, but there was some variation in
the size of components. Total project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$101.4 million,
but an over 40% saving was made in the subsurface drainage component by finding a cost
effective design.  The resulting excess funds were partly spent on enlarging the OFWM
component to 1,137 watercourses but the final project cost will still be about US$26.9 million
(about 27%) less than estimated in the SAR.
Results
3.        The project achieved most of the drainage objectives, rehabilitating and constructing
both surface and subsurface drainage works, but at the time of the PCR mission's visit still
needed to complete installation and testing of 60% of the subsurface drainage pumps to enable
water table control. WAPDA estimated that this would be done by June 30, 1994, and Part II
(received in September 1994) states that the project is now substantially complete." Because
the water table control work has been so late coming on-stream, monitoring and evaluation do
not at this stage provide any guidance on crop yield increases. Economic re-evaluation - based
mainly on the SAR assumptions, updated for prices, inputs and with adjustment to some yield
I/ See comment in Part II, B(a). SA3AG.



- iii -
predictions - indicates that, assuming the project is sustainable, the economic rate of return
(ERR) will be 14.5%, compared with 15% at appraisal.
Sustainability
4.         The project is sustainable if funding for operation and maintenance (O&M) of the
drainage works is adequate and timely. O&M is to be to be carried out by the Punjab Irrigation
Department (PID) which, at present, is not effectively maintaining the drains it has taken over
from WAPDA. If sufficient funds (Rs 17.2 million p.a.) are not available for O&M in the
financial year 1994/95 and subsequently. in a timely manner, efficient drainage will cease and
benefits will fall.
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.         Findings. The project was quite well prepared. The concept of drainage was sound
within the boundaries of the project area. The roles and responsibilities of the main agencies
concerned with implementation were well defined and understood. The standard of supervision
was good. The project has met most of its implementation targets and exceeded some, although
with significant delay. Project benefits are likely to be substantial if O&M is adequately funded
and efficiently carried out.
6.         Lessons Learned. The main lessons of experience for the Bank are (Part I, para
8.3): (a) previous implementation experience in the country must be used when setting progress
rates for projects; (b) bilateral co-financing can influence project performance if it affects the
supply of appropriate equipment; (c) supervision staffing should take into account the problems
being experienced by the project; and (d) arrangements for O&M need to be fostered by
establishing a budget for the O&M organization well before the expenditure will commence.
The main lessons for the Borrower are (Part I, para 9.4): (a) pre-qualification of bidders needs
careful thought if a good short-list is to be established; (b) contracts extending for more than one
year should include price escalation clauses, as required in the Bank's guidelines; and (c) an
offer of grant aid tied to purchase of supplies or equipment must be carefully considered, to
ensure that adequate after-sale service is provided within the country.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Credit 1375-PAK)
PREFACE
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Drainage Project for
which Credit 1375-PAK in the amount of SDR 60.3 million (US$65.0 million equivalent) was
approved on May 31, 1983. Cofinancing was provided by the United Kingdom (grant of
US$9.8 million equivalLnt) and the Netherlands (loan of US$3.5 million equivalent). During
the implementation period an amount of SDR 29.0 million (48% of the credit) was cancelled.
After five one-year extensions, the final credit closing date was December 31, 1993. The credit
account was kept open until April 30, 1994, and the last disbursement was made on May 18,
1994, raising the disbursed total to SDR 27.76 million (89% of the revised credit). The
undisbursed balance of SDR 3.54 million was cancelled.
2.        The PCR, except Part II, was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program mission, which visited Pakistan in February/March 1994," and reviewed by the
Agricultural Operations Division, Country Department III, South Asia Region.
3.        The PCR is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the legal
documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and other
Bank records, relevant Bank reports on the sector, and discussions with Government officials,
project staff and Bank staff associated with the project. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
I/ Mr. J.B. Downs (engineering consultant; mission leader) and Ms. B. Winkler-Lo Giudice (project analyst).



connection with the Structural Adjustment Program", the Minister of Finance of the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) indicated that critical drainage of waterlogged and saline areas
was to receive emphasis in future public expenditures in the agricultural and water sectors.
2.4        In line with the RAP recommendations and GOP's policies, the Bank included an
Irrigation/Drainage IV Project in the FY83 lending program to support improved land drainage
in Faisalabad District, Punjab Province using tile drains, and soil improvement to encourage
more efficient irrigation at watercourse level, and to train a cadre of technicians for use in future
tile drainage projects. The first IDA mission to consider the project took place in October 1981,
and an area in the Lower Rechna Doab, favored by the Ministry of Water and Power, was
selected. Subsequently WAPDA prepared two feasibility studies for the selected area2".
Appraisal was carried out in June/July 1982 and the SAR was issued in April 19833'.
2.5        The Fourth Drainage Project area (Map 1) is divided into two discrete drainage
areas. One, now known as "Schedule I Area" (149,000 ac commanded cultivable area (CCA)),
is 10-25 km south of Faisalabad and the other, now known as "Schedule II Area" (146,000 ac
CCA), is located 0-35 km north. Both areas were served by an existing surface drainage system
which was to be rehabilitated, extended and in some cases deepened under the project. Each
of these surface drainage catchments included zones of very high watertable, which were to be
provided with subsurface tile drains discharging into the surface drainage system (47,250 ac
CCA in the northern and 27,750 ac in the southern area).
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        The main objectives of the project were to increase agricultural production and to
strengthen the capability of WAPDA and Punjab's Departments of Irrigation and Agriculture in
carrying out similar projects. In order to achieve the agricultural objective, the project was to
improve and extend the existing surface drainage system, provide subsurface drains to areas of
high water table, leach out salinity and treat alkalinity to restore normal productivity of the soil,
improve on-farm water management (OFWM) and strengthen the agricultural extension program.
Water application efficiency at watercourse and field level was to be improved by the
encouragement of Water Users Associations (WUAs). The reduction in water table, combined
with flood alleviation, soil improvement and more efficient irrigation was expected to increase
the very low yields of major crops by 100%, and prevent an anticipated decline of 40% in yields
if no action were taken to ameliorate the situation. No increase in annual area cropped was
anticipated.
11 Supported by a Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (Ln. 2166-PAK and Cr. 1255-PAK).
2/  "Lower Rechna Remaining Sub-Project", May 1982, and "Khairwala Unit Lower Rechna Remaining", June
1982.
3'  Staff Appraisal Report, Pakistan, Fourth Drainage Project, Report No. 4380-PAK, April 27, 1983.



- 3 -
3.2         The project, as designed, " consisted essentially of:
(i)     Improvement of existing surface drainage for a total area of 295,000 ac by:
(a) rehabilitating 100 miles (mi) of branch drains and 14 mi of sub-drains; (b) new drain
construction of 7 mi of branch drains and 56 mi of sub-drains; and (c) provision of new
structures (18 surface water inlets, 100 culverts, 50 watercourse syphons, and 7 automatic
gauging stations).
(ii)    Installation of tile drains (in fact the tiles, as is usual these days, were
slotted PVC tube), for an area of 75,000 ac, including: (a) 225 mi of collector drains; (b) 1,383
mi of lateral drains; (c) 250 sumps from which to pump the drainage water into the surface
drains; (d) 2,640 manholes for inspection of the collector and lateral drains; (e) 78 mi of linking
channels f-om sumps to surface drains; (f) electrification of all sump pump installations; and (g)
supply of 25,000 tons of gypsum for soil amelioration.
'iii)    Te;hnical assistance and training which included: (a) an advisory team on
subsurface drainage; (b) surface drainage consultants; (c) OFWM supervisory consultants, and
training of 1,190 staff and farmers; and (d) training of WAPDA and PID staff (30 international
study tours, 200 persons to be trained in-country).
(iv)    Support for strengthening OFWM and extension including: (a) renovation
of 190 watercourses (including 5,352 control structures, 114 culverts, 95 buffalo wallows); (b)
precision land-levelling (PLL) for 19,000 ac; and (c) organization and use of 190 demonstration
plots.
(v)     Provision for: (a) recurrent costs (O&M) during implementation; (b) a
small amount of roads and infrastructure; (c) construction equipment and vehicles2";
(d) administration and engineering; and (e) project monitoring and evaluation by the SCARP
Monitoring Organization (SMO) of WAPDA.
3.3         The IDA credit became effective in November 1983. Total estimated project cost
was US$101.4 million (Rs 1,317.2 million). The credit - SDR 60.3 million, or US$65.0 million
equivalent - was to finance about 64% of the cost. Additional co-financing was provided by the
United Kingdom (Overseas Development Administration, ODA, grant of US$9.8 million
equivalent3") and the Netherlands (Directorate General for International Cooperation, DGIS,
loan of US$3.5 million equivalent). GOP, the Government of Punjab (GOPunjab) and farmers
were to contribute the remaining US$23.1 million. The subsurface drainage component was
I/ See comment in Part 11, B(b). SA3AG.
2/ Most of the construction equipment for open drains is being handed over to PID for O&M at the
conclusion of the project; equipment for tile drain construction is being passed on to other projects or being
stored by WAPDA, awaiting a suitable project on which to use it. Allowance for this is made in the
financial and economic evaluation.
3J  The original ODA commitment was £ 9.1 million (project side-letter signed November 29, 1983), equivalent
to about US$13.4 million, while the amount shown in the SAR and Development Credit Agreement is US$9.8
million.



- 4 -
estimated to account for about 83 % of total project cost. The project was to be implemented
by WAPDA and the OFWM Directorate in Punjab's Department of Agriculture.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1         The project concept was good and its design was simple and clear, consisting of
subsurface drainage in areas of high water table with effluent to be pumped into open surface
drains which would discharge into the rivers Chenab and Ravi. The action of rain and irrigation
would leach salt out of the soil profile and thus provide better conditions for crop growth. Areas
of alkaline soils would be treated with soil amendment (gypsum) to improve fertility. The
OFWM  approach would be used to improve irrigation practices at watercourse level".
4.2         The scope and scale of the project were appropriate to the situation in the area
(problems of salinity and waterlogging). However, the main thrust of the project (land drainage)
aimed to treat the symptoms, rather than the causes of the problems (low irrigation conveyance
and application efficiency). The addition of canal lining could have been considered and
discussed in the SAR.
4.3         No consideration or discussion of the disposal of the saline effluent from the project
occurs in the SAR except for one sentence: "Effluent from the subsurface drains would be
disposed through the surface drainage system" (para 3.07). Whilst tile drains usually produce
less saline drainage water than tubewells in comparable locations, the water from tile drains in
saline groundwater (SGW) areas can be very saline; present monitoring of the project shows
about 50% of the drainage water to be of hazardous quality - unusable for irrigation even when
mixed with good irrigation water2".
4.4         The project was designed as a large scale public scheme with construction by a large
contractor. No thought appears to have been given to the possible alternative of developing
private tile drainage projects, perhaps by encouraging a number of small contractors who could
more economically provide tile drainage for small areas of land. Such an approach has been
promoted by the Drainage and Reclamation Institute of Pakistan (DRIP) with a good deal of
success over the past six years. However, DRIP is a pilot project based organization and has
not developed the contracting part of this idea.
The creation of WUAs was probably a good idea at the time, though later experience has been mixed (see
"Water Users Associations in World Bank-Assisted Irrigation Projects in Pakistan", World Bank Technical
Paper Number 173, December 1992).
2/  The drainage water in 46 sumps was sampled and analyzed in 1992. Of these, 9% provided usable water,
41 % marginal water and 50% hazardous water (hazardous water is defined as having an electrical
conductivity (EC) of greater than 2,700micromhos/cm2, residual sodium carbonate (RSC) above 5 meq/l
and sodium absorption ratio above 18). See Annual Report, Monitoring and Evaluation, Fourth Drainage
Project, Volume I, SMO/WAPDA, December 1993.



- 5 -
4.5         The project was quite well prepared. There was a critical lack of data about soil
permeabilitv parameters which was to cause delays during implementation (para. 5.2). The time
schedule for carrying out the project was grossly optimistic"1.
4.6         The timing of the project was appropriate with regard to Government policies at the
time. A certain amount of experience had been gathered by WAPDA during the implementation
of the: Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development Project (Cr. 684-PAK) and
more could hardly have been expected, since the Fourth Drainage Project was the first large
scale tile drainage project to be implemented in Pakistan.
4.7         The roles and responsibilities of the main institutions and agencies responsible for
the project were clearly defined and understood. However, the risk to the project's sustainability
in the evtnt of inadequate O&M of works was insufficiently stressed in the SAR.
5. Project Implementation
5.1         The project was modified during implementation to take account of implementation
expe:ience, savings on costs, currency variations and other factors (see Part 111/4). The
modifications did n-ot alter the objectives of the project but represented changes in detailed design
and in size of components. The major increase in cost was in OFWM (39%), the major
decrease in subsurface drainage (47%) - nevertheless the planned drainage area was developed.
The subsurface drainage layout was redefined on the basis of soil investigations made during
implementation; this reduced costs and improved the chances of good O&M2' and thus of
project sustainability. Surface drainage cost was also increased because it was found that besides
dc-silting of the existing system some deepening and widening3' was required.
5.2         Design of subsurface drainage works commenced with field investigations in 1984,
and by April 1985 design was sufficiently advanced to expect physical work to commence in
1986. However, various difficulties with contract documentation and negotiation4' delayed the
contract award to a Canadian-Pakistan Joint Venture until January 1987 (appraisal target October
1984; SAR, Annex 3, Table 1). Pipe laying commenzed in March 1988 but stopped in May
1988 owing to a dispute between the contractor and the pipe manufacturer over the increased
cost of (imported) resin (PVC powder). This combined with the contractor's problems in
"   See SAR, Annex 3, Table 2. The SAR could hardly have expected credit effectiveness much before it
occurred (November 30, 1983), but all construction plant is shown to be on-site by June 1984. In fact, the
first trenchers, Dutch funded, were shipped from Holland in December 1984; and in October 1984
discussions were still going on about precisely what makes of equipment would be supplied through the
ODA grant.
21 Reduction in drain length, better access to the buried pipes through an increased number of manholes, and
reduction in the number of sumps to service will all reduce the workload on PID.
3/  Original text changed. See comment in Part II, B(c). SA3AG.
4/ Drafting of pre-qualification criteria for contractors dragged on for some time and criteria were eventually
written to exclude all contractors except those who had experience in tile drainage - a rather narrow
decision since it was by no means guaranteed that the pre-qualified companies still employed people with
relevant experience.



- 6 -
commissioning equipment" (trenchers) delayed the re-commencement of tile laying until
November 1988. There was further stoppage of tile laying work for 12 months (April 1990 to
March 1991) due to a dispute between WAPDA and the contractor over claims - equipment
supplied by WAPDA to the contractor not being suitable, and extra haulage for gravel. From
1991, progress has been good and by the time of the PCR mission's visit 98% of the tile drains
had been laid and all sumps had been constructed. However, in the Schedule I Area six sumps
still awaited pump installation, and in the Schedule II Area all 41 sumps still required pump
installation. In all, about 119 pumps were to be put in position by June 30, 1994. WAPDA was
sanguine about meeting this program, but the PCR mission felt that it might take longer than
this.2'
5.3         The revised physical targets for construction of new drains and rehabilitation of
existing drains under the surface drainage program have been fully met. The targets originally
fixed under the OFWM and extension component were significantly revised upwards and the
actual achievement has exceeded the revised targets (see Part III/4).
5.4         By the time all sumps are fitted with pumps (para. 5.2) and the subsurface drainage
targets are fully met, project implementation will have taken double the planned five years.
Although the time-frame for implementing the project was over-optimistic (para. 4.5), some
delays in construction could have been avoided. These were caused by: (i) construction and
supply contracts not being provided with suitable price escalation clauses for imported materials
(PVC powder is a particular case - about six months delay); and (ii) serious disputes between
WAPDA and the contractor for subsurface drainage construction - about 14 months delay (much
of which was attributable to a dispute over haul costs for gravel (para 5.6 (vi)3 ).
5.5         The risks identified in the SAR - changes in benefits and costs and delay in
implementation - were correct in concept. While it is too early to judge precisely the project's
impact on benefits, the calibration for costs and delay were underestimated. Costs decreased
by 27% whilst the SAR naturally considered a rise in costs4; the effect of delays on the ERR
was tested to a maximum of two years, not the five years that actually occurred. However, to
a great extent these two variations, in ERR terms, have cancelled out.
5.6         Problems and delays in implementation were caused by:
(i)     Difficult construction conditions5'.
(ii)    An over-optimistic estimate of construction plant delivery time.
Soils were so unstable that positive screw-feed of envelope gravel had to be installed in the larger
trenching/pipelaying machines. [See comment in Part 11, B(e). SA3AG.]
21  See comment in Part 11, B(a). SA3AG.
3'  See comment in Part 11, B(f). SA3AG.
4/  Variation in subsurface drain design based on information obtained during implementation resulted in lower
costs for subsurface drainage, which provided the opportunity to extend the project by switching some of
the surplus funds to OFWM development.
51  Extremely unstable soils which were predictable from even the limited information available at appraisal.



- 7 -
(iii)    Use of a measured works contract format that involved WAPDA  in
providing the contractor with the construction machinery with which to carry out the work. This
may have been a result of the co-financing situation, but in effect placed the contractor in a
strong contractual position for making claims for additional costs and resisting criticism of
progress.
(iv)    The pumps and their electric control equipment specification, which appear
to be unsuitable for their operating environment and have resulted in disappointing reliability.
(vi)    The contract between WAPDA  and the suibsurface drainage contractor,
which did not contain escalation clauses for overseas supplies. Since the contractor had back-to-
back contracts with sub-contractors, this caused problems where major imported items were
involved (PVC powder). The resulting delay appears to have been compounded by a lack of
control/understanding of contractual disputes by the supervising engineer.Y'
(vi)    TI e initial design of the gravel envelope for the subsurface drains, which
caused delays because of contractual claims, and also necessitated some research work to clarify
the gravel specification. Again, it would appear that greater speed in clearing up this matter
could have teen achieved if the supervising engineer had had better control/understanding of
contractual disputes,2/
5.7          The first four of the above factors should have been foreseen, and the fifth might
reasonably have been foreseen by engineers experienced in the approach to civil engineering
contracts in South Asia. The gravel envelope problem was probably unique3", and could not
have been anticipated.
5.8          Following the modifications in detailed design and size of the project (para. 5.1),
the SAR estimate of project cost was revised downwards (Part III/5A) and an amount of SDR
29.0 million out of the IDA credit was cancelled in June 1991. Actual project cost (up to
December 31, 1993) is estimated to be US$74.5 million (73% of the appraisal estimate).
I/ See comment in Part 11, B(g). SA3AG.
2/  See conumment in Part 11, B(h). SA3AG.
3/  In order to save costs by reducing haul distance, crushed stone which could be obtained closer to the site
than river-run gravel was used initially. Whilst the material met the contract specification for grading, its
actual shape increased the voids ratio of the envelope laid around the drain pipes and allowed an
unacceptable amount of soil particles to enter and, subsequently, block the pipes. The contractor was in
a very strong position because he had provided envelope material to the specification demanded by the
contract.



-8-
6. Project Results
6.1         General.  The project achieved its main objectives of land drainage" , flood
alleviation, on-farm improvement and soil amendment. Human resource development was good
as was technological gain. The project also assisted in forming WUAs. Thus, so far the project
appears to be successful, although it is too early to deternine whether the effect on agricultural
yields will be as predicted in the SAR2' .
6.2         At appraisal, economic returns were based upon the assumption that project works
would be completed in five years. In fact the project took ten years. The economic rate of
return (ERR) for the project is re-estimated at about 14.5% (all costs included) as compared to
15 % calculated at appraisal. Farmers benefitting from project works in the subsurface drainage
areas will be likely to more than double their income.
6.3         Impact. The impact of the project has up to now been concentrated on:
(i)     Human Resource Development. The project has provided training and
experience about project preparation, design and implementation to a large number of people -
engineers, agriculturalists and administrators. The result has been to have on the project a very
competent team whose experience will be most useful for future projects.
(ii)    The Physical Environment. The increase in depth to water table, gradual
reduction in salinity, flood alleviation and removal of permanent swamps and stagnant water
from most of the project area has undoubtedly improved the physical environment and farming.
It is likely that saline drainage effluent has been transferred to other irrigation areas supplied by
barrages downstream. Had additional leaching water been supplied to the project (as was done
in the Khairpur Project), the effect on the environment would have been improved.
(iii)    Technology.  The project has contributed to many practical aspects of
drainage technology in Pakistan, and is likely to continue to do so because it is a site chosen by
the International Waterlogging and Salinity Research Institute (IWASRI) for long-term studies.
(iv)    Poverty and Income Distribution. If the predicted yield increases  are
achieved, the smaller farmers will be better off. However, income distribution is likely to be
unchanged or, if anything, be more skewed toward the larger, richer farmer.
(v)     Local Institutions. WUAs have been formed, and whilst they are likely
to be of a transient nature3', the farmers' experience of combining to share a common goal will
The results of land drainage in the Schedule I Area, where pumps have been installed, have been very good
and have exceeded expectations.
21 In fact it will be many years before this can be decided. The problem in establishing accurately the benefit
due to the project is that many parameters external to the project affect crop yields - extension efficiency,
use of fertilizers, monsoon and post-monsoon rainfall, irrigation supplies - besides project related matters
such as the standard of O&M carried out by PID.
31  See footnote to para 4.1.



- 9 -
be of an enduring nature and may form a foundation upon which to build other initiatives in the
future.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1          The project is likely to maintain an acceptable level of net benefits, provided the
issues listed below are addressed throughout its economic life.
(i)     Whilst it is understood that PID will receive a budget for O&M  of surface
and subsurface drains for the financial year 1994/95, it is essential that this budget is adequate,
and that the project continues to receive adequate budgets in the future.
(ii)    PID must bring up-to-date its backlog of surface drain maintenance, which
was in evidence at the time of the PCR mission's field visits in March 1994.
(iii)    Pumps and switch-gear must be made reliable"1, and funds made available
for maintenance and spare parts or, perhaps, supply of replacement pumps from local
manufacturers" .
(iv)    Reliable electric power supply, in terms of timeliness, reduced voltage
fluctuation and reliable transformers, is a necessity.
(v)     Funds need to be available for the monitoring of water table, subsurface
and surface drains to ensure quick reaction by the responsible department to any problems. At
present it is understood that no funds will be available for much of this work after June 1994.
7.2          The risk of deterioration can only be reduced by ensuring that adequate budgets are
provided, on time, to PID for O&M. It must also be ensured that PID, which has a lot of drains
to maintain in this particular drainage circle, allocates enough funds for O&M of project
works3 .
l/  Three main problems have affected the pumps: rapid wear of shaft bearings, failure of time switches and
of electric relays. One reason advanced for bearing wear was that the pumps were not installed closely
enough to vertical; the requirement was that the shafts should not be more out of vertical than 0.5 mrn in
a distance of 4,990mm. No waming of this need was found in the manufacturer's instruction manual. The
rapid breakdown of the relays and time switches is probably caused by relatively large voltage fluctuations
aggravated by very frequent power outages.
2/  An excellent prototype floating pump, using a locally manufactured mono-block pump, has been designed
and built by the project and installed in one of the sumps. It has been tested since May 1991, and so far
has performed very well.
3'  WAPDA estimates that efficient O&M  of the project, including amortization for maintenance plant and
vehicles, would cost Rs 17. l5million per year. This figure includes depreciation allowances, staff costs etc.;
the amount allowed for physical works and cost of electric power for O&M is about Rs 9.13 million. At
the briefing meeting held in Islamabad, just before the PCR mission completed its field work, the
Superintending Engineer, Drainage Circle, PID, Faisalabad, confirmed that his department had requested
Rs 6.2 million for 1994/95.



- 10 -
7.3        Whilst WAPDA appreciates the need for good O&M, the responsibility for this task
passes on to PID as soon as the drains are handed over. As at December 31, 1993, 32 out of
54 surface drains have been handed over to PID, with the remainder to be handed over very
soon. Some of the drains seen by the PCR mission were in a most unsatisfactory condition, with
dense weed growth obstructing drainage water flow. The situation is apparently not tenable and
gives grave concern about the future maintenance of these drains and for the sustainability of the
project.
7.4        PID has no practical experience in maintaining tile drains, and whilst some training
has been given by WAPDA to engineers nominated by PID, the experience of working on the
installation of the drains is lacking. In Egypt", it was found necessary to establish an O&M
wing of the Drainage Authority to maintain the tile drains and the smaller surface drains. A
similar approach may be desirable in Pakistan as the amount of tile drainage increases.
8. Bank Performance
8.1        At appraisal, the Bank produced a document which has lead to a promising project,
although the SAR can be criticized for the overall delay that occurred, which was partly the
result of the over-optimistic assessment of likely progress. This resulted from the lack of
appreciation of the time needed to specify and procure equipment and the generally rigid
approach to contract supervision in South Asia. These reasons were compounded by the
decision to supply the tile-laying contractor with the construction plant for the work, instead of
relying upon him to buy and import his own equipment. The Bank did not appreciate the effects
of co-financing on selection of equipment and in so doing the contractual implications of
choosing construction plant-for the eventual contractor.
8.2        The main strength of the Bank's performance throughout most of the project cycle
has been its approach to supervision and its acknowledgment that implementation is a dynamic
process needing flexibility. Although supervision reporting was of variable quality, supervision
appeared to be well organized and good co-operation with the other co-financiers was evident
from supervision reports. In view of the management problems noted in the supervision reports
in the first few years, a management, procurement or administrative specialist could have been
advantageously included in subsequent supervision missions.2'
8.3        Main lessons of experience for the Bank are:
(a)    Appraisal estimates of the implementation period of a project must be based
on long-term experience of the way work is implemented in the country concerned and avoid
too optimistic predictions of rates of construction. In this case, what was probably an eight-year
construction program was predicted to take five years (paras. 4.5 and 5.4).
(b)    Bilateral co-financing, when tied to manufactured supplies from the country
providing the funds, may result in unsuitable but important components of a project being used.
I/  Report No. 3993,Nile Delta Drainage Project I (Credit 181-UAR), PPAR, June 21, 1982.
21  See comment in Part 11, B(i). SA3AG.



- 11 -
In the case of this project, the pumps would have been better purchased from Pakistani
manufacturers. The foreign pumps supplied have proved unreliable under Pakistani operating
conditions and will cause problems in the future, with difficulties in obtaining spare parts and
manufacturer's advice and service.
(c)    Care should be taken in deciding the composition of supervision missions.
It is important to realize that delays in construction may be better solved by an administrative
or management specialist than an engineer; when project progress slows down or stops, it is
necessary to analyze carefully why this is happening in order to choose the right persons for
supervision.
(d)    Writing O&M arrangements into Project Agreements" does not guarantee
that they will be carried out. Covenants tend to be more rigorously examined for compliance
during implementation than afterwards when supervision has stopped. It is necessary for the
Bank to ensure, well ahead of project completion, that the relevant department has established
appropriate procedures for obtaining adequate O&M budgets, so that the funds will be available
when required.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1         The Borrower was technically competent and generally performed well in technical
(design and construction) aspects of the work during implementation. The main restraint on the
Borrower's performance related to contract administration. There appears to have been a
lethargic approach to solving contractual matters, and the delays caused by institutional
weaknesses, possibly compounded in early project years by lack of contract supervision
experience2'
9.2         The Borrower deployed staff well on the project and there was good staff continuity,
with many members of staff having served on the project since implementation. Consultants
were recruited to assist with the subsurface drainage design and, once fully established,
performed well in advising and promoting the final design.
9.3        All legal covenants except two were complied with; the two exceptions relate to
O&M and sustainability. Both are GOPunjab responsibilities: (a) GOPunjab to provide
sufficient funding for adequate O&M of drainage facilities under the project (Project Agreement,
Sec. 2.01(d)); and (b) GOPunjab to increase water charges periodically to recover full O&M
costs of irrigation facilities in the Province by July 1990 (Sec. 3.03). The two covenants have
been replaced by agreement reached under the Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia (South) Irrigation and
Drainage Project (Cr. 2410-PAK, October 1, 1992), following which GOPunjab shall achieve,
through water and/or drainage charges, full recovery of the O&M cost of its surface irrigation,
It  See Punjab Project Agreement, Section 2.01 (d).
2/  Direct contract supervision by government employees anywhere in the world causes problems, because it
is almost impossible for the supervising engineer to make the necessary quick decisions to avoid costly
delays.



- 12 -
fresh groundwater tubewell and drainage facilities by July 1, 1998. As a first step, water
charges were increased by 25% in August 1993.
9.4        The main lessons for the Borrower are:
(a)    Pre-qualification of bidders should be based on successful performance in
generally relevant construction rather than a particular technique (e.g., tile laying). In the case
of the subsurface drain construction contract, the prime pre-qualification requirement was that
the bidder should have experience in tile laying. In the event, it took some time for the
contractor to place on site a technician with the requisite knowledge.
(b)    Contracts extending for more than one year should include appropriate
conditions. In the case of the subsurface drain construction contract, great problems arose
because the contract failed to provide a suitable price escalation clause as required in the Bank's
guidelines.
(c)    If bilateral grant aid is tied to particular sources of equipment, it should be
ensured that adequate after-sale service, including a stock of spare parts, is provided within the
country (paras. 5.6 (iv) and 7.1 (iii)).
10. Project Relationship
10.1       The Bank maintained good relationship with GOP and GOPunjab, with other
agencies in Pakistan and the two co-financiers (ODA  and DGIS).  There was good
communication with the co-financiers and a high proportion of joint supervision missions (five
out of 15 missions, Part III/8B).
10.2       At the end of a ten-year period, the project provided the impression of a cohesive,
well run and harmonious team, which had built up very good relationships with officials from
both the provincial agriculture and irrigation departments. There appear to have been three
reasons for this situation: (a) the personality of the current WAPDA Project Director and his
handling of the team provided by WAPDA; (b) the provision of a separate tranche of funds for
the Department of Agriculture to control its part of the project; and (c) the effort project
management has made to familiarize the PID Drainage Circle with the project, combined with
the training given to PID officers.
11. Consulting Services
11.1       Consultants were employed for two main purposes. An advisory team to provide
"technical assistance in the evaluation and resolution of irrigation and drainage problems for the
project""', and a firm of consulting engineers to analyze the hydrology of the area, the work
being principally aimed at determining run-off into the surface drainage system and advice on
surface water control. The advisory team was funded under the IDA credit and the firm of
/ Design Memorandum Subsurface Drainage, October 1989, page 2.



- 13 -
consulting engineers under the ODA grant. "  Both groups provided the background of
experience necessary to help produce good quality design and, in the case of the advisory team,
advice on construction supervision as well. The relationship with WAPDA project staff was
harmonious and fruitful.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1       The SAR was useful and provided a practical framework for the Bank, the co-
financiers and the Borrower during project implementation. The legal agreements for the project
worked well; no real problem arose in connection with covenants relating to implementation.
The data relevant to the PCR were examined both in Washington and Islamabad (Resident
Mission Pakistan). Most of the required data were available, much had been collated for the
use of the PCR mission before its arrival in Washington prior to its visit to Pakistan.
The advisory team was appointed on a sole source basis and initially faced problems in posting
permanent staff.



- 14 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part IH
The financial statements appearing in the Project Completion Report slightly differ in
figures as compared to those contained in the Project books. Main reasons for the difference
are:
(a) The project expenditure is booked in SDR/Pak Rupees, whereas the PCR's
statement shows expenditure in US dollars.
(b) The average rate of conversion of SDR/US$, vis-a-vis Pak Rupees, has been
differently applied.
(c) The PCR is prepared on the concept of all-inclusive costs whereas the Project
books follow the practice of current costs under historical costs concept.
(d) Financial figures of the PCR include expenses of On-Farm Water Management
whereas the accounts maintained by WAPDA did not have this information.
It would be desirable if the system of bookkeeping in the Bank and at the Project was
compatible. This would simplify exchange of information particularly during supervision
missions.
B. Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part I
The report is well prepared. The findings and lessons learned are generally endorsed.
However, certain information contained in this part needs to be corrected.
(a) It is indicated that 60 percent of the subsurface drainage pumps had not been
installed. This was true at the time of the visit of the PCR mission but the
Project is now substantially complete. All references relating to the status of
Project Completion in Part I of the report may therefore be corrected.
(b) The title for paragraph 3.2 may be qualified as "the Project as designed in the
SAR" because the actual design features of the Project are much different from
those given in the SAR.
(c) Page 5, last line of para 5.1: Please add "and widening" after the word
"deepening".



- 15 -
(d) The PVC resin price had escalated by an average factor of 3 and not by a factor
of 10, as reported in para 5.2.1/
(e) Para 5.2, footnote 1, reference to modification of trenching machines which
caused the dispute between the Employer and the Contractor resulting in
suspension of work from April 90 to March 91. This was not an item of dispute
at that time but was a subsequent problem experienced after resumption of work
by the Contractor.
(f) Para 5.4: Please add "and equipment sufficiency and capability" after the word
"gravel" in the second from last line of the paragraph.
(g) Para 5.6 (v): The contractual dispute was well understood by the parties. The
delay resulted from a lack of mechanism for speedy resolution of disputes.
Supervising engineer does not have the power for resolution of disputes. The
institutional arrangements within WAPDA may require strengthening. Also, the
relevant clauses of the contract relating to disputes need to be amended.
(h) Para 5.6 (vi):  This was not merely a matter of control/understanding of
contractual disputes. Improvement in the gravel envelope required laboratory and
field testing of various design alternatives before the contract specifications could
be modified.
(i) Para 8.2: Inclusion of a management, procurement or administrative specialist
in the Bank's supervision missions may not have helped, as the disputed issues
were being handled in the courts of law and by a high level Negotiation
Committee.
C. Evaluation of Bank's Performance
1. Bank's Performance during Evolution
(a) Planning and Design
The approach to planning and design of surface and subsurface drainage components
as presented in the SAR was rather superficial as it was based on scanty field investigations
information. Subsurface drainage component was grossly overdesigned whereas surface drainage
component was underdesigned.
The remodeling of surface drains for which there was a clear possibility was not even
considered. How superficially the subject was treated can be seen from the fact that the SAR
provides for only 18 inlet structures for a surface drainage system which covers an area of
295,000 acres. Eventually, inlet structures had to be provided.
" Refers to an earlier text version. SA3AG.



- 16 -
In the case of subsurface drainage, depth to barrier was badly misjudged. In later
design, the number of sumps was reduced from 250 to 79 and length of subsurface pipe drains
reduced from 1,600 to 500 miles.
Leaching requirement for permanent salt balance was not given due importance. As
a result an important component of the lining of distributaries and minors for Integrated Project
Development got omitted. This is now being covered in phase II of the Project.
(b) Implementation Schedule
The implementation schedule presented in the SAR was unrealistic. Preparation of
specifications for 200 items of specialized and standard equipment, preparation of bidding
documents, invitation of bids, evaluation and processing of bids through a multi-tier hierarchical
system of WAPDA and British Crown Agents, award of contracts, manufacturing, shipment,
custom clearance, inland transportation, testing and commissioning were all supposed to
complete in 6 months after the effectiveness of the loan and arrival of consultants. In fact
specifications of trenching equipment could not have been finalized unless basic design, which
determines the capacity and capabilities of the machines, had been prepared.
Considering the requirements of detailed field investigations before starting of design,
fulfillment of Bank's requirement for prequalification of contractors and for procurement of ICB
contracts and extremely difficult site conditions, eight to nine years would have been a realistic
time for planning, design, preparation and construction of the project.
When a radically different design was presented by the Project Design Team to one
of the earlier review missions, the density of field investigation survey for hydraulic conductivity
was increased from one observation for 200 acres to one observation for 46 acres.  The
additional field survey did not materially change the design, but had a negative impact on the
time frame for project preparation.
(c) Procurement for Technical Assistance
Being a negotiated contract with USBR, fielding of consultants took less time and
proved an effective arrangement. The experience of having technical assistance arrangement in
the form of USBR advisors worked very well due to their bold and unconventional approach in
planning and design concepts. Commercial consultants may not have varied the subsurface
drainage design components of the SAR/PCI as drastically as was rightly done by USBR.
2. Bank's Performance during Implementation
(a) The Bank was very supportive of WAPDA's position whenever there was a crisis
during implementation. In fact when the ODA challenged basic design concept
of subsurface drainage, the Bank immediately sent a special mission to resolve the
issue. Most of the missions were helpful and it was because of this effective
coordination that the Project which was being implemented in extremely difficult



- 17 -
conditions technically as well as contractually, ultimately got implemented with
good results.
(b) Some disbursement applications were delayed which caused cash flow problems
for the contractor.
D. Evaluation of Borrower's Performance
1. Borrower's Performance during Evolution and Lessons Learned
(a) In the Planning and Design Directorate, WAPDA and USBR engineers worked
as a team--Team Leader being WAPDA designated Director. This arrangement
proved conducive for transfer of technology.
(b) The Design Team also supervised field investigation work which eliminated
interoffice coordination problems and ensured reliability of data. It also provided
an element of flexibility in directing field teams to adjust their work program
according to the needs of the Design Team.
(c) Prequalification criteria (which also had the concurrence of the Bank) were too
rigid which resulted in elimination of some good contractors and allowed
marginal contractors to be qualified.
(d) The PCI was based entirely on the SAR without undertaking further field
investigations.  The Project prepared later on the basis of detailed field
investigations was therefore much different from that approved by GOP.
(e) The arrangement made by GOP with the Government of UK for procurement of
the equipment under UK grant delayed the timely launching of the implementation
stage and later attracted contractor's claims about the adequacy and sufficiency
of the equipment.
(f) Going for technical assistance under a negotiated procurement was a good
decision as it helped the project in quality of service: design of subsurface
drainage works resulted in substantial savings and transfer of technology was a
redeeming aspect.
2. Borrower's Performance during Project Implementation
(a) Decision making for variation orders and claims of the contractor was fairly
involved and a time consuming process. Had it not been for the personal
intervention of Member (Water), contractual disputes could have lingered in
courts. The Project's success owes a great deal to his guidance and the direction
he provided to the Project Team.



- 18 -
(b) Some of the engineering staff that received foreign training in tile drainage could
not be retained at the Project due to policy matters relating to transfer of staff.
(c) Excessive paperwork relating to accounts, administration and audit consumed
much of the Project Director's time. Procedures need to be simplified.
(d) Special quality control and quality assurance procedures were developed at the
Project and were very helpful in maintaining a high standard of quality of works.
(e) Foreign and on-the-job training for project staff was given special attention. All
training and study tour opportunities provided in the SAR were availed. Problem
related seminars and weekly group discussions helped groom the junior staff.
(f) Implementation problems relating to revision of specifications of gravel envelope,
modification to trenching machines, improvement of pumping systems,
development of special dewatering techniques and trench backfilling arrangements
were scientifically analyzed by the Project Team and sound decisions were taken
to evolve proper solutions. Monitoring and research at the Project was well
coordinated. A number of technical papers have been produced and presented at
international forums relating to problems experienced at Drainage IV Project.
(g) Activities between Federal and Provincial agencies were well coordinated and
effective.
(h) The Borrower has not been able to ensure adequate and timely funding for O&M
through Provincial Government. This may affect project results. There should
be a mechanism whereby GOP can deduct at source the share of a Provincial
Government that defaults in providing agreed O&M funding.
E. Effectiveness of the Relationship between Bank and Borrower
(a) Relationship during Evolution. The working of the Borrower and the Bank
during evolution seems to have resulted in a hurried approach to the preparation
of the Project.
(b) Relationship during Project Implementation.  During implementation, the
relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was very harmonious. There
was a prompt and supporting action from the Bank whenever a critical issue was
brought to the notice of the Bank. The Borrower complied with all covenants of
the Bank, except for the problem relating to Government of Punjab's O&M
funding, which is being sorted out.
F. Evaluation of the Performance of Co-financiers
(a) During evolution of the Project, smooth working dominated the relationship
between the Borrower and the co-financiers (ODA and DGIS). The British



- 19 -
Crown Agents who worked as agents to the Borrower and the ODA for
procurement and supply of equipment failed in their commitment for timely
supply of equipment. There was a delay of one and half years from the agreed
time frame for delivery of equipment.
(b) There was no problem at all in reimbursement of local costs for surface
drainage component by ODA which was handled very efficiently.
(c) There were a few problems of lack of understanding with ODA during
implementation of the Project relating to honoring of commitment for supply of
spare parts and equipment.
(d) ODA and Crown Agents failed to convince the suppliers of pumps to honor their
contractual obligations.
(e) There was uncalled for interference in the Project design although ODA had
originally accepted the designs.
(f) The off-shore contingencies part of the ODA grant which was meant to be utilized
in special situations has not been allowed.
(g) Dutch equipment and spares had all been received prior to implementation.



- 20 -
PART III
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title                             Purpose                   Year of    Credit Amount        Status      Comments
Approval
Khairpur Tile Drainage and      Tile drainage and irrigation              1976        US$14 M.        Completed     PCR issued
Irrigated Farming Development    development. Pilot project of 14,600 ha                                            June 1989
Project (Cr. 648-PAK)           of tile drainage.
Salinity Control and Reclamation    Control of salinity and water-logging.  1977      US$70 M.        Completed     PCR issued
Project (SCARP) VI              Use of evaporation ponds for saline                                                 March 1994
(Cr. 754-PAK)                   effluent disposal.
Salinity Control and Reclamation    To increase agricultural production   1979        US$60 M.        Completed     Draft PCR
Project (SCARP) Mardan          through drainage of waterlogged lands                                               issued Jan.
(Cr. 877-PAK)                   and reclaim marginally productive                                                      1994
and/or abandoned land, along with
increasing on-farm water management
efficiency.
On-Farm Water Management        To increase agricultural production by    1981       SDR 33.4 M.    Comple.ted      PCR issued
(OFWM) Project (Cr. 1163-PAK)   improved management of water saved                                                  June 1988
through watercourse renovation and
cleaning and related measures in the four
provinces.
Command Water Management        To increase agricultural production       1984       SDR 43.7 M.    Completed       Draft PCR
Project (Cr. 1487-PAK)          through improved water management                                                   issued June
along with supplying agricultural                                                      1994
services and non-water inputs in seven
sub-project areas located in all four
provinces.
Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage I   To provide an ultimate outlet to the sea  1984  SDR 147.6 M.       Ongoing
Project (Cr. 1532-PAK)          for drainage effluent from irrigated areas
of the Lower Indus Basin.
Second On-Farm Water            To consolidate gains achieved under       1985       SDR 34.8 M.    Completed       PCR issued
Management Project              Cr. 1163-PAK and improve OFWM                                                        May 1993
(Cr. 1603-PAK)                  programs in the four provinces to enable
them to realize their potential.
SCARP Transition Pilot Project    Testing transfer modes of public        1986       SDR 8.7 M.       Completed     PCR issued
(Cr. 1693-PAK)                  tubewell operation in fresh groundwater                                             June 1993
areas to private ownership and
operation.
Third On-Farm Water             To increase agricultural production by    1991       US$36.3 M.,       Ongoing
Management Project              effective use of water saved through                 SDR 33.4 M.
(Ln. 3327-PAK, Cr. 2245-PAK)    renovation of watercourses and related
measures in irrigated as well as barani
areas of the four provinces, FATA and
FANA.
Second SCARP Transition Project  Follow-up on SCARP Transition Pilot      1991       SDR 14.8 M.       Ongoing
(Cr. 2257-PAK)                  Project to transfer public SCARP
tubewells to private ownership and
operation in fresh groundwater areas.
Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia         To increase agricultural productivity and  1992      SDR 39.6 M.      Ongoing
Irrigation and Drainage Project    income by improving reliability of water
(Cr. 2410-PAK)                  supplies and surface drainage and reduce
the need for subsurface drainage.



- 21 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                        Date Planned            Date Revised             Date Actual
Identification                    -                       -                   June 1980
Preparation                       -                       -                May/June 1982"
Appraisal Mission                 -                       -                 June/July 1982
Post-Appraisal Mission            -                       -                  January 1983
Credit Negotiations2'          04/04/83                   -                    04/08/83
Board Approval                 05/24/83                    -                   05/31/83
Credit Signature                  -                       -                    06/30/83
Credit Effectiveness           09/29/83                11/30/83                11/30/83
Credit Closing                 12/31/88               12/31/933'               12/31/93
Credit Completion                 -                        -                  05/18/944'
" Issue dates of WAPDA reports.
21 Starting date.
3/ Last of five one-year extensions.
4/ In accordance with current Bank practice, the credit account was kept open beyond the closing date to
accommodate final disbursements. The last disbursement was made on May 18, 1994 (see Part 111/3).
Comments:
Delayed implementation, due to deficiencies in planning as well as equipment specifications resulted in
five extensions of the credit closing date to enable completion of project works.



3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (Million)
(IDA Fiscal Year)                        FY84         FY85        FY86         FY87        FY88         FY89        FY90         FY91        FY92         FY93        FY94
Appraisal Estimte
-  SDR                                    2.8         15.3        27.8        41.5         55.2         60.3 
-  USS                                   3.0          16.5        30.0        44.7         59.5         65.0          -           -            -            -           -
Revised Estiaete 1/
-  USS                                   0.23         1.24        3.95         5.97        8.36        11.42        14.60       19.84        28.56       32.10        33.74
Actual
-  SDR                                   0.22         1.23        3.65         5.23        7.02         9.39        11.85       15.71        22.04       25.54        27.76
-  uss                                   0.23         1.24        3.95         5.97        8.36        11.42        14.60       19.84        28.56       33.50        36.59
Actual as Z of Appraisal Esti-ate
-  SDR                                   7.6          8.0         13.1         12.6        12.7         15.6        19.7         26.1        36.6         42.4        46.0
-  usS                                   7.7          7.5         13.2         13.4        14.1         17.6        22.5         30.5        43.9         51.5        56.3
Date of Final Disbursement: May 18, 1994.
1/ MIS PFPMR4 (run date 02/03/94) - Based on formally revised credit amount, after canceLLation of SDR 29.0 miLLion (USS31.26 miLlion) in June 1991.
Note: Disbursed total of SDR 27,763,006.03 is 88.7% of revised credit amount before cancellation of undisbursed balance (SDR 31,300,000.00).



- 23 -
4. Project Implementation
Physical Targets and Achievements
Indicators                                        Unit      Appraisal Estimate  Revised Estimate         Actual up to    Actual as % of
1/                 2/                  02/24/1994          Revised
Subsurface Drainage
Sumps                                           No.                     250                 79                   79               100
Manholes                                        No.                   2,640                655                  636                97
Collector Drains                                Mi                      225                214                  211                99
Lateral Drains                                  Mi                     1,383               309                  300                97
Linking Channels                                Mi                       78                 14                 13.5                96
Pumps 3/                                        No.                     250                200                   68                34
Gypsum 4/                                      tons                  25,000             16,000               15,000                94
Surface Drainage
(a) New Drains
Branch                                       Mi                        7                 32                   32               100
Sub-Drains                                   Mi                       56                 28                 27.4                98
(b) Rehab. Drains
Branch                                       Mi                       100               119               118.15                99
Sub-Drains                                   Mi                        14                78                   78               100
On-Farm Water Management and Extension
Watercourse Improvement                        No.                      190              1,092               1,137               104
Precision Land Levelling                        ac                   19,000            26,160               37,831               145
Demonstration Plots                            No.                      190              1,050               1.806               172
Training of Staff and Farmers                  No.                    1,190             2,600                2,673               103
1/ SAR and original PC-I estimate.
2/ As a result of a variation in the design of subsurface drains, physical quantities were revised in June 1990. The
OFWM component was first revised in October 1988 and again in June 1990 when its scope was extended to eleven
saline groundwater districts of Punjab.
3/ Appraisal and revised estimates - pumps supplied, actual - pumps installed (estimated completion of installation June 30, 1994).
4/ Actual: about 10,000 tons applied by WAPDA and 5,000 tons by OFWM.



- 24 -
5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
... Appraisal Estimate " . .  ... Revised Estimate 2/.Actual 3/ (thru 12/31193)
Local    Foreign    Total   Local    Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total
Item
........................... .(USS million) .
Subsurface Drainage       45.60      39.00     84.60   22.22      31.98     54.20    19.58     29.46     49.04
Surface Drainage           4.90       1.60      6.50     5.63      4.57     10.20     5.52      4.57     10.09
OFWM & Extension            8.60      1.70      10.30    7.12      8.24     15.36"4   7.12      8.24      15.36
Total Project Cost         59.10     42.30     101.40   34.97     44.79     79.76    32.22    42.27      74.49
I/   Including physical and price contingencies.
2/   Includes maintenance costs for both subsurface and surface drainage systems up to June 1995 at which time PID will take over the maintenance
of the drainage system.
3/    Derived from actual Rupee figures as provided by WAPDA and OFWM Directorate. Small discrepancies are due to rounding.
4/    The OFWM component was first revised in October 1988, and again in June 1990, at the latter time expanding its coverage to eleven saline
groundwater districts of Punjab (all of Faisalabad District plus ten other districts) in order to finance OFWM activities in the additional areas until
effectiveness of the proposed Third On-Farm Water Management Project (Ln. 3327-PAK, Cr. 2245-PAK).
B. Project Financing
.... . Planned ......... ...... .Revised" ........ . ..... ... Final .
USS million    %    US$ million    %    USS million    %    US$ million    %
(a)                 (b)
IDA CREDIT                            65.00      64       41.13       52       41.13      52       36.59       49
1. Civil Works                        54.30               28.86               28.86                25.88
2. TA & Training                       5.50                5.53                5.53                 4.18
3. Admin. & Engineering                5.20                6.74                6.74                 6.53
OTHER EXTERNAL SOURCES 2/             13.30      13       18.52       24       18.52      23       16.13       22
- UK a                                 9.80               14.64                14.64               12.25
Civil Works                          3.60                 3.72                3.72                 3.72
Equipment and Vehicles               6.20                10.82               10.82                 8.44
TA                                    -                   0.10                0.10                 0.09
- Netherlands                          3.50                3.88                 3.88                3.88
Equipment                            3.50                 3.88                3.88                 3.88
DOMESTIC                              23.10      23       19.04       24      20.11       25       21.77       29
-GOP and GOPunjab                     22.40               18.34                19.41               21.07
- Farmers                              0.70                0.70                0.70                 0.70
TOTAL                             101.40      100      78.69       100      79.76      100      74.49       100
I/   Revised schedule (a) reflects cancellation of SDR 29.0 million as of June 26, 1991; revised schedule (b) was drawn up to include maintenance
costs for both drainage systems up to June 1995.
2/   Grant of £ 9.1 million from the United Kingdom (later revised to £ 9.16 million) and loan of Dfl 9.7 million from the Netherlands. Disposition
of the unspent balance under the UK grant (£ 1.32 million, US$1.98 million equivalent) is not known. The Dutch loan was fully disbursed.
3/   The original commitment of £ 9.1 million (project side-letter signed November 29, 1983) was equivalent to about US$13.4 million, while the
amount shown in the SAR and Development Credit Agreement is US$9.8 million.



- 25 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimate           PCR Estimate
Indicators                         Units
............ .Full Development .
Surface Drainage Area                                acres                295,000                   295,000"
Subsurface (Tile) Drainage Area                      acres                 75,000                    75,000
Cropping Intensity                                     %                     142                        142
Increased Wheat Production                         '000 tons                40.2                       58.9
Increased Sugarcane Production                     '000 tons               343.2                      484.1
Increased Kharif Fodder Production                 '000 tons                120.9                     165.4
Increased Rabi Fodder Production                   '000 tons               224.0                      398.1
Directly Benefitting Farm Families                    No.                  32.070                    32,800
Generated Farm Employment                        M w.day/year                1.32                     2.04
Valued Added in Agriculture 2/                     Rs M/year               314.7                      545.4
Increased Farm Income 31                            Rs/farm               12,050 4'                  25,640 '
I/    Calculations are based on surface less subsurface drainage area.
2/    At full development.
3/    Average size farm of about 9 ac.
4/    In constant 1983 prices (restated in constant 1994 prices: Rs 33,500).
5/    In constant 1994 prices.
B. Economic Impact 1/
Appraisal Estimate (%)              Actual (%)
Underlying Assumptions
- Project Life (years)                                       30                          30
- Full Development                                5 years after project            5 years after
completion              project completion
- Standard  Conversion Factor (SCF)                         0.9                          0.9
Project ERR                                                  15                          14.5
" Details in Annex 1.



- 26 -
C. Financial Impact
Not Applicable
D. Studies
Studies           Purpose as Dermed at Appraisal            Status                    Impact of Study
Design Memorandum        Provide guidance for the design of   Completed in October  The study records investigations and
Subsurface Drainage      subsurface drainage works         1989                     design process and proves useful as a
(USBR).                                                   future reference document.
Weir Pump Model          Not anticipated at appraisal.     Completed in April       As a result of this study,
Study                                                      1987                     modifications were made to the
design of the sump which resulted in
substantial sump flow regime
improvement.
Agro-Economic            For monitoring and evaluation of    Completed in October   An input to the evaluation of project
Baseline Survey          project benefits.                 1987                     benefits.
Standing Operation       To assist PID in developing its   Completed in June 1992   The study provides in one document
Procedures (SOP)         O&M program.                                               complete operating instructions for
the Operating and Maintenance
Agency.
Plan for Operation and   To assist PID in developing its   Completed in June 1993   Outlines the organizational structure,
Maintenance (POM)        O&M program.                                               rules and procedures of the Punjab
Irrigation Department.
Planning, Design and     Not anticipated at appraisal.     Expected to be           Review the planning and design of
Research of Drainage                                       completed by June 1994   Drainage IV and provides guidance
IV Project                                                                          for future design of similar projects
in Pakistan.
Tale of Water Table      Not anticipated at appraisal.     Completed in May 1993   The study presents an analysis of
Fluctuations                                                                        water table fluctuations with a view
to assessing losses from the irrigation
system, analyses water table rise in
response to rainfall events and helps
future policy measurement decisions.
Final Plan for Surface   Not anticipated at appraisal.     Completed in July 1988    The study established design
Drainage Component                                                                  parameters for the design of Surface
Drainage works in the project.
Gypsum Application       Not anticipated at appraisal.     Completed in February    Presents criteria and program for the
Report                                                     1989                     application of gypsum for
reclamation of sodic and saline sodic
lands. Also defines the role of
various agencies involved in this
program.



- 27 -
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant                  Subject                 Deadline for Compliance   Status              Comments
Development Credit Agreement
3.03      Borrower to employ consultants.      Not later than 2 months      OK       Deadline for employmiient of
after date of effectiveness           full-time drainage engineer
and supervisory consultants
3.04      Borrower to use civil works designs    -                          OK
and specifications satisfactory to
IDA.
3.06      Borrower to establish and maintain a    Condition of effectiveness  OK
Project Coordination Committee.
3.07      Borrower to establish and maintain a    -                         OK       To be established when first
Project Policy Committee.                                                  project subunit becomes
operational
4.01(c)    Audit reports to be furnished to IDA    -                          OK
not later than 9 months after the end
of each FY.
WAPDA Project Agreement
2.07(a)    WAPDA to establish a project office    Condition of effectiveness  OK
under its Chief Engineer, Faisalabad.
2.07(b)    WAPDA to establish and maintain a    01/01/84                      OK
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
Punjab Project Agreement
2.01(d)     GOPunjab to provide sufficient funds   -                          RV      Covenant replaced by
for O&M of drainage facilities under                                      agreement reached under Cr.
the project.                                                              2410-PAK, October I. 1992
(Fordwah)
3.03      GOPunjab to increase water charges    07/01/90 (original)         RV       Covenant replaced by
periodically to cover full O&M costs                                      agreement reached under Cr.
of its irrigation facilities by July                                      2410-PAK, October 1, 1992
1990.                                                                     (Fordwah): in August 1993,
water rates were increased
by 25%
1/    OK = Covenant complied with; RV = Covenant was revised.



- 28 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Pre-Appraisal     Appraisal       Negotiations    Supervision          PCR             Total
Pre-FY 82             12.7                                                                                12.7
FY 82                 17.6            16.8                                                                34.4
FY 83                                 94.6             12.1             1(0.4                            117.1
FY 84                                                                   32.9                              32.9
FY 85                                                                   31.4                              31.4
FY 86                                                                   41.9                              41.9
FY 87                                                                   23.5                              23.5
FY 88                                                                   2(0.0                             20.0
FY 89                                                                   16.7                              16.7
FY 90                                                                   16.8                              16.8
FY 91                                                                    7.6                               7.6
FY 92                                                                   22.4                              22.4
FY 93                                                                    6.1                               6.1
FY 94                                                                    7.9             15.9 !           23.8
TOTAL:             30.3            111.4            12.1            237.6             15.9            407.3
1N    Excluding PCR.
2/    Includinig 14 staff-weeks spent by FAO!CP staff for PCR preparation.



B. Missions
Performence Rating 31
Mission Type        MNnth/Year         N Mo. of Persons   Days in Field   Specialization Represented a                             Types of
Status      Trend      Problem  4/
Identification          Oct. 1981             ND               ND                       ND
Pre-appraisal            May 1982       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carried out by WAPDA    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appraisal               June 1982             7                23               2 A, 2 EC, 2E, DE
Supervision 1 61        June 1984             1                1471                     A                     28/         1B/           Mel
Supervision 2          October 1984        4 OJM)9/             7                 2 EC, 2 IE, A               2           2             M
Supervision 3 6/        March 1985            1                11                       A                    ND           ND           ND
Overall   Dev.          cqptl. v.    Project   Avail.
Status   lIqact         Covenants    Nngt t.    Funds
Supervision 4          October 1985           2                 7                     EC, IE                  2           1             -           2          1
Supervision 5           April 1986            2                 9                     EC, IE                  2           1             -            2         1
Supervision 6          January 1984            1                6                       EC                    2           1             -            2         1
Supervision 7          January 1988         1 (JM)              7                       EC                    2           2             -            2         1
Supervision 8          October 1988         1 (JM)             11                       EC                    2           2             -           2          1
Supervision 9         September 1989        1 (JM)              9                       EC                    2           2             1           2          2
Supervision 10          June 1990              1               ND                       IE                    -           -             -            -         -
Supervision 11 6      September 1991           1               14"7                     IE                    -           -             -            -         -
Supervision 12        November 1991         1 CJM)              7                       IE                    2           2             1           2          2
Supervision 13 10/       May 1992             2                 5                     FA, IE                  2           2             1            1         1
Supervision 14          July 1992             2                10"                  IE, IE, FA                2           2             1            1         1
Supervision 15          July 1993             3                 5                   EC, FA, DE                1           2             1            1         1
PCR                     March 1994            2                21                     DE, PA
1/   Date of return to headquarters.
2/   A = Agriculturalist;  DE = Drainage Engineer;  E   Engineer;  EC = Economist;  FA = Financial Analyst;  IE = Irrigation Engineer;  PA = Project Analyst.
3/   1 = Problem free or minor problems;   2 = Moderate problems;   3 = Major problems.
4/   F = Financial;   M = Managerial;   T = Technical.
5/   Two reports by WAPDA:  "Lower Rechna Remaining Sub-Project" (May 1982) and "Khairwala Unit Lower Rechna Remaining" (June 1982).
6/   In form of combined OTO, no Form 590 located.
7/   Mission dealt with several projects during its stay.
8/   Ratings obtained from subsequent supervision Form 590.
9/   Number of Bank staff given;  CJM) indicates additional mission meters from co-financiers.
10/   Limited supervision report.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Cr. 1375-PAK)
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS



- 31 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Credit 1375-PAK)
ANNEX 1
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. INTRODUCTION ........................................ 
B. ASSUMPTIONS ........................................ 
C. BENEFITS . ....................................... 2
D. CROP BUDGETS ......................................... 3
E. INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION ................................... 4
F. RE-ESTIMATED ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN   ......................  5
G. SENSITIVITY TESTS  .......................................    5
H. FARM INCOME .......................................... 5
TABLES
Table 1         Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 2(a)      Economic Prices for Traded Commodities in Year 1994
Table 2(b)      Economic Prices for Traded Commodities in Year 2000
Table 2(c)      Economic Prices for Traded Commodities in Year 2005
Table 3         Inflation Factors and Exchange Rates
Table 4(a)      Project Expenditure by Year (Financial) - Appraisal Estimate
Table 4(b)      Project Expenditure by Year (Financial) - Actual
Table 4(c)      Project Expenditure by Component (Financial) - Actual
Table 5(a)      Total Surface Drainage Area - Without Project
Table 5(b)      Total Surface Drainage Area - With Project
Table 5(c)      Total Subsurface Drainage Area - Without/With Project
Table 5(d)      Total Surface Drainage Area Less Total Subsurface Drainage Area -
Without/With Project
Table 6         Economic Analysis



- 32 -
Annex 1
Page 1
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. INTRODUCTION
1.       The main components of the Fourth Drainage Project, located in Faisalabad District of
Punjab Province, included surface drainage serving an area of about 295,000 ac; subsurface pipe
drainage for about 75,000 ac within the surface drainage area; and on-farm water management
(OFWM) works.
2.       Project objectives were to mitigate the effects of waterlogging and soil salinity on crop
yields. Agricultural production was mainly increased by:
(a)   reducing rain flooding by rehabilitation, remodelling and extension of surface
drains. this was achieved by resectioning, straightening and desilting surface drains, thus increasing
drain capacity;
(b)   reducing waterlogging" and salinity by installing a system of subsurface drains
leading to sumps fiom which the effluent is pumped into surface drains; subsurface drainage areas
are 38,000 ac in Schedule I and 37,000 ac in Schedule II;
(c)   increasing irrigation water supplies through savings resulting from  improved
OFWM  practices; the OFWM  program  improved 1,137 watercourses (original estimate:  190
watercourses) and carried out precision land levelling of approximately 38,000 ac.
3.       Whilst benefits accruing from parts of the project already completed are encouraging, a
full evaluation of project impact on crop production and farm income will only be possible after the
remaining Schedule II subsurface drainage works have been completed and all pumps installed.2'
Thus, this analysis evaluates benefits based on future yield projections, as estimated in the SAR.
B. ASSUMPTIONS
4.       Project Life. Thirty years, with full development in the 75,000 ac subsurface drainage
area reached in project year 16, and in the 220,000 ac net surface drainage area3' in project year
12.
5.       Prices. Financial and economic prices of agricultural outputs and inputs used in the
analysis are presented in Table 1. Economic prices of traded commodities are based on World Bank
commodity price forecasts (November 1993), while those for non-traded goods are based on domestic
financial prices. Among traded goods, export parity prices have been used for sugarcane, and import
parity prices for wheat and fertilizers (Tables 2(a) to 2(c)). The market wage for labor as well as
other domestic prices and price components have been translated into border prices by applying a
I  Reducing the water table to below an average of 5 feet from the ground level in the post-monsoon period.
2/ See Part 1, para 5.2 and comment in Part 11, B(a). SA3AG.
'  Total surface drainage area (295,000ac) less subsurface drainage area (75,000ac).



- 33 -
Annex 1
Page 2
standard conversion factor of 0.9. These economic prices are considerably lower than SAR
estimates.
6.       Costs. All investment costs, incremental crop production and O&M costs have been taken
into account. Actual costs are used for FY83 to FY93; past project expenditure has been adjusted
by the Pakistan wholesale price index for the local cost component, and the MUV index for the
foreign exchange component (Table 3). All values are expressed in 1994 terms, the project's
completion year.
7.       Investments still needed to complete subsurface drainage works (completion expected by
June 30, 1994) amount to Rs 112.5 million (7% of total project cost). During FY95, costs of
contractor's maintenance and WAPDA's allowance for one year's maintenance of surface drains
amount to Rs 45.6 million.
8.       Local cost components for construction, equipment and materials, and O&M costs have
been adjusted by the standard conversion factor of 0.9. O&M costs have been included for
subsurface and surface drains at a rate of Rs 15.5 million p.a. Irrigation charges have been included
in crop budgets" at the currently prevailing rates and increased by 10% annually up to 1998. The
residual value of equipment (30% of original cost) having a longer useful life than the project
evaluation period has been deducted from  the cost stream  in project year 11 (1993/94).
Miscellaneous equipment and vehicles have been replaced according to their useful life2' and
included in the project cost. Provision for a mobile crane has been made in year 12 (Rs 1 million).
C. BENEFITS
9.       Benefits.  The project's main benefits come from increased agricultural production
resulting from relief of the drainage constraint described above, yield increases due to improved
water distribution, and avoided non-agricultural losses from  storm  flooding.  To maintain
comparability with the SAR, the economic re-evaluation takes into account only the incremental
production of wheat, sugarcane, Kharif and Rabi fodder (green maize and berseem, respectively),
which are the dominant crops, although the cropping pattern found in the project area is more
diversified. Benefit build-up is the result of the assumed phasing of areas drained (Tables 5(a)-5(d))
and progressive increases in yield.
10.      Non-agricultural benefits from the alleviation of flood damage have been estimated at about
Rs 15 million p. a. These estimates have been derived from average actual annual flood damage'
to roads, railways, buildings, livestock and forestry observed over ten years (1970-1980), and
adjusted to 1993/94 prices.
11.      Estimated Benefits from the Subsurface Drainage System. During appraisal it was
assumed that "without project" production would gradually decline due to increased waterlogging and
i Irrigation charges include O&M costs for drainage, but as they are minor, they have not been removed from
the crop budgets.
2i Replacement years: 8 - vehicles, 14 - pumps, 15 miscellaneous equipment.
"1 Source: WAPDA.



- 34 -
Annex 1
Page 3
salinity to 50% of present levels over a 30-year period, thereby reducing cropping intensity from
140% to 110%. Incremental yields "with drainage" are estimated to range from 52% to 108% at
full development, compared with pre-project levels. The yield build-up would take about five years
on each parcel of improved land. Cropping intensity has been assumed to increase from 140% to
142%. All farms are assumed to reach full development in sixteen years.
12.     Estimated Benefits from the Surface Drainage System. In the SAR, benefits "with
project" were estimated to be about 5% of "without project" crop production in the Kharif season
(sugarcane and fodder). In the re-evaluation, the whole surface drainage area", now covered by
watercourse improvement, has been included for deriving benefits. Both Kharif and Rabi crops have
been considered; yield declines "without project" have been assumed to be the same as in the
subsurface drainage area, whereas in the "with project" situation a yield increase of 5% per crop,
compared with "pre-project" levels, has been attributed to improved surface drains. The yield
increase would be attained over a period of five years.
D. CROP BUDGETS
13.     The re-calculation of the ERR is based on crop models developed from recent field
investigations by the Water Monitoring and Evaluation Department of WAPDA. The Department's
records comprise baseline (from a wide coverage of the area in 1986-87) as well as average and
maximum yields based on records from 15 and later 5 watercourses. The observation period being
rather short, the PCR mission has made the following yield projection, based on its own judgement
and the SAR. Sugarcane yields represent an average which can be expected under assured water
supply in an average year assuming satisfactory supporting services to the drainage system. Kharif
fodder (maize) projections by WAPDA seemed rather high, considering actual average rainfall in
the recorded years; a lower yield has therefore been assumed. SAR predictions for wheat appear
likely to be achieved at full development, taking into account the low and variable rainfall in Rabi
during the recorded years, whereas the predictions for Rabi fodder (berseem) seem low and slightly
higher yields have been assumed by the mission. No changes in yields and cropping pattern are
assumed for the "future without project" situation. Yields in the "without" and "with project"
situation are summarized below.
I/ Surface drainage area minus subsurface drainage area.



- 35 -
Annex 1
Page 4
Without  W           ..... ...Ao.c..  Future with Project .
.Y-ie Yldd  . . .   Subsurface DralnAge Yield   Surfoee Drange Yeld
kgpe;re    'g/acre   'gae
.  -  .  -  .SAR . - .   SA R  : PFC:R Midon  --- R     :PCR       on:
~~~~ 3f            l~~~~~~~~~~                  JE~~~~~~-stmautes
| - .: ~~~~~YearO: .Y . 3D -. .-..      :--      :   
Kharif Crops
Sugarcane                    10,550        6,970        21,100           21,100        n.a.         11,080
Kharif Fodder (Maize)         7,890        4,580        15,780-          12,000  .      a. .         8,300
Rabi Crops
Wheat                           610         400          1,220            1,220        n.a.            640
Rabi Fodder (Berseem1)       12,470        7,340      .24,940            26,000.       na.          13,100
aI The SAR does not specify future 'with project' yields in the surface. dranage area.
E. INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION
14.         The recalculated  incremental production is based on per acre crop budgets.   At full
development, annual incremental production"' for the total drainage area (subsurface and surface)
would be about 484,100 tons of sugarcane, 165,400 tons of Kharif fodder, 58,900 tons of wheat,
and 398,100 tons of Rabi fodder. Details are shown below.
Based on the yield estimates presented in para 13.



- 36 -
Annex 1
Page 5
Crop Production Estimates
-Before: V    With Prject PY 3(1) i    Wit;! ut Pr?ectt(PY 3u)   Incremental Productox:-
Crops.         SAR ...........                                                     ..1.......
..                ....... *.....merctns.........*...
Sugarcane   .: : ::z:.. ::9      :772,.  :..:946.7  428.8     - 462.6343            44,1
Kbarif Fio d    32 .6   i    272E.6     323. 1F:     151.7.    157.7       120.9:   16.4
Wheat        2~~~~5.6 .:::  53A.    114.3        12.9      55.4        402       58..9
Rabi Fodder     149.6         299.3    ::705.0 Q75.3:    306.9             224.0    398.1
3/ Diffrs from SAR be#Uc ofa kdiffcrcnttevaluation:approachinthe suitace drhage :ara (Khani:andRabi crops included; Q 
F. RE-ESTIMATED ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
15.       Appraisal Estimate. At appraisal, the economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated to
be 15%, based on the following assumptions: project life of 30 years; and full development in the
75,000 ac subsurface drainage area reached in year 10.
16.       Re-estimated ERR. The project's ERR has been re-estimated taking into account the
actual implementation schedule, actual costs, and the cropping patterns, yields and economic prices
mentioned above. The calculation is based on a project life of 30 years. With these assumptions,
the ERR is now 14.5%  (Table 6) compared to 15% at appraisal.
G. SENSITIVITY TESTS
17.       The project is more sensitive to yield than cost variations. Sensitivity of the ERR has been
tested assuming a 20% reduction in yields of Kharif or Rabi crops. With this reduction, the ERR
would drop by about 3.5 %, respectively, to  11%. Thus, even with a 20%  reduction in yields the
project would remain economically viable. Moreover, projected yields and cropping intensities are
well within the reach of the average farmer.
H. FARM INCOME
18.       The typical smallholder in the project area grows as main crops wheat, sugarcane and
fodder. Next in importance are maize, cotton and paddy. Whilst improvements carried out under
the project in the whole surface drainage area would lead to a considerable reduction in crop losses
(sugarcane and Kharif fodder) from rain flooding, no change in farming practices could be foreseen
in the near future. Therefore, only marginal yield increases of 5 % over the 'present without project'
situation have been attributed to the project. On the other hand, farmers benefiting from works
carried out in the subsurface drainage area would be inclined to change their cultivation practices,
i.e. increase input usage and better maintain their farms. Thus, yields would generally be double
the present very low levels, with a corresponding impact on the farmer's income.



- 37 -
Annex I
Page 6
19.         The impact of the project on farm  incomes is illustrated by a farm  model for an average
size farm of 9 ac (SAR) in the subsurface drainage area (see table below). The budget shows an
increase in net production value (in constant FY94 prices) of Rs 25,640, rising from Rs 19,030 in
the present situation to Rs 44,670 (+135%) at full development, whereas without the project there
would be a decline to Rs 14,100 by project year 10 and to Rs 7,430 by year 30, because of
increasing waterlogging and salinity. Net production value per day of family labor would rise from
Rs 90 to Rs 200 with the project, and net production value per capita from Rs 2,840 to Rs 6,670.
The increase in net crop production value estimated at appraisal, restated in 1994 prices (Rs 33,500),
is higher than the PCR estimate, which is explained by the lower yield forecasts for Kharif fodder
(-24%) and higher input costs and water charges used in the PCR.
Subsurface Area Fanm
(Average Size 9 ac)
Present                                 .. . .. 
Cropped Area (ac)                         10.2 '         10.4           9.5          1       0.4
Gross Production Value (Rs)               36,8555       73,480        30,560.      .73,480      '{,473
Input Costs (Rs) .                        17,827 -    28,814          16,456        28j814       11,039
Of which! Water chatges (R-s).             (412)         (611)         (561)        to1          (465
Net Production Valuo (Rs)                 19,028        44,666        14.104-       44,666       7 ,434'-
Of which:
- Wheat                                  (6,380)       (15,562)       (4,734)      (lW 362) " A2,51)7
- Sugarcane                              (6,755)       (15,904)       (4.990)      (15,90.4)   ..(2,622):
- Maize fodder                           (1.907)        (3,414)       (1,419):      (3.414)      '(745)
- Berseem                                (3,986)        (9,786)       (2,961)       (9.786)     (1.550)
Net Production Value (Rs)
- per cropped acre                         1,870        4,300          1,490        4,300         930
-per day of family labor                    88           203            82           203          43
-percapitaP                               2,840         6,670         2,110         6,670        1,110
" Cropping pattern: 5,04 Sc wheat, 2.48 ac sugarcane, 1,17 ac Kharif.fodder..and 1.44'ac Rabi fodder (cropp '  -
intensity 140%). With project, cropped area under wheat is 5.22 ac; cropping intensity rises to 142%.
F Including hired labor.
E' Average family size is 6.7 persons,



- 38 -
PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 1. Prices Used in Flnancial and Economic Analysis
(in Rupees)
Unit    Financial  ......Economic Prices.
Prices
1994      1994        2000       2005
Outputs
Wheat                               ton        4,021     6,270       6,480       5,660
Kharif Fodder (sorghum, maize)      ton         395        356        356         356
Rabi Fodder (berseem)               ton         425        383        383         383
Sugarcane                           ton         496        300        450         560
Inputs
(a) Seed
Wheat                             kg        4.02       5.74        5.93       5.19
Karif Fodder (sorghum, maize)     kg        5.13       4.62        4.62       4.62
Rabi Fodder (berseem)             kg        40.00     36.00       36.00       36.00
Sugarcane Cuttings                kg        0.75       0.41        0.61       0.62
(b) Fertilizer
Farmyard Manure                  cart        90.00     81.00       81.00      81.00
Urea                             ton       4,400.00   5,580.00    6,580.00    6,420.00
DAP                              ton       6,200.00  6,320.00    6,990.00    6,830.00
SSP                              ton       3,000.00  2,700.00    2,700.00    2,700.00
SOP                              ton       4,400.00   3,960.00    3,960.00    3,960.00
(c) Pesticides
Wheat                          applic/ac     50.00     45.00      45.00       45.00
Sugarcane                      appliclac     30.00     27.00      27.00       27.00
(d) Wage Rate
Farm Labor                     workday       50.00     45.00      45.00       45.00
(e) Bullock Pair                    pairday      45.00     40.00      40.00       40.00
(f) Mechanization
Tractor Hire                     hour        74.00     66.60      66.60       66.60
(g) Water Rates
Sugarcane                      Rs/acre       88.00     79.20      115.96      115.96
Kharif Fodder                  Rs/acre       18.70     16.80      24.64       24.64
Wheat                          Rs/acre       29.70     26.70      39.13       39.13
Rabi Fodder                    Rs/acre       15.40     13.80      20.29       20.29



- 39 -
PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Annex 1: Econoniic and Financial Analysis
Table 2(a). Economic Prices for Traded Commodities in Year 1994
Unit       Wheat   Sugarcane        Urea         DAP
I           I           I           I (bagged)      (bulk)
Projected World Market Price 1/
In 1990 Dollars                         US$/mt         158        209          115          124
In 1994 Dollars                         US$/mt         175        232          127          137
Quality Adjustment                         %          0.86        0.95          1.0         1.0
Adjusted World Market Price             US$/mt         151         220         127          137
Freight, Handling, Insurance            US$/mt         30          35           30           30
Border Price (CIF or FOB Karachi) 2/    US$/mt         181         185         157          167
Border Price in Rupees 3/                Rs/mt       5,484       5,606        4,757       5,060
Port Charges, Handling, Storage 4/       Rs/mt        250         250          110          550
Rail Transport to Faisalabad 4t          Rs/mt        431         431          431          431
Internal Marketing and Handling 4/       Rs/mt         160         180         180          180
Processing or Nutrient Ratio               %           100          10         100          100
Processing Cost 4/                       Rs/mt          -         1,430         -            -
Wholesale Price                          Rs/mt       6,325         332        5,478        6,221
Transport to/from  Farm 4/               Rs/mt          55          32           97          97
Economic Farm Gate Price (rounded)       Rs/mt       6,270        300         5,580        6,320
1/ World Bank: Revision of Primary Commodity Price Forecasts, November 12, 1993.
2/ Import parity prices for wheat, urea and DAP, and export parity price for sugarcane.
3/ Exchange rate Rs 30.3/US$1.
4/ Adjusted by SCF of 0.9.



- 40 -
PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 2(b). Economic Prices for Traded Commodities in Year 2000
Unit       Wheat    Sugarcane        Urea         DAP
I           I           I  (bagged)      (bulk)
Projected World Market Price 1/
In 1990 Dollars                         US$/mt         166         255          144          143
In 1994 Dollars                         US$/mt         184         283          160          159
Quality Adjustment                         %          0.86         0.95          1.0          1.0
Adjusted World Market Price             US$/mt         158         269          160          159
Freight, Handling, Insurance            US$/mt          30          35           30           30
Border Price (CIF or FOB Karachi) 2/   US$/mt          188         234          190          189
Border Price in Rupees 3/                Rs/mt       5,696       7,090        5,757        5,727
Port Charges, Handling, Storage 4/       Rs/mt         250         250          110          550
Rail Transport to Faisalabad 4/          Rs/mt         431         431          431          431
Internal Marketing and Handling 4/       Rs/mt         160         180          180          180
Processing or Nutrient Ratio               %           100          10          100          100
Processing Cost 4/                       Rs/mt          -         1,430          -            -
Wholesale Price                          Rs/mt        6,537        480         6,478       6,888
Transport to/from  Farm 4/               Rs/mt          55          32           97           97
Economic Farm Gate Price (rounded)       Rs/mt        6,480        450         6,580       6,990
I/ World Bank: Revision of Primary Commodity Price Forecasts, November 12, 1993.
2/ Import paritiy prices for wheat, urea and DAP, export parity price for sugarcane.
3/ Exchange rate Rs 30.3/US$1.
4/ Adjusted by SCF of 0.9.



- 41 -
PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 2(c). Economic Prices for Traded Commodities in Year 2005
Unit       Wheat    Sugarcane         Uread         DAP
(bagged)      (bulk)
Projected World Market Price i/
In 1990 Dollars                          US$/mt         137          290          140           139
In 1994 Dollars                          US$/mt         152          321          155           154
Quality Adjustment                          %           0.86         0.95          1.0          1.0
Adjusted World Market Price              US$/mt         131          305          155           154
Freight, Handling, Insurance             US$/mt          30           35           30           30
Border Price (CIF or FOB Karachi) 2/    US$/mt          161          270          185           184
Border Price in Rupees 3/                 Rs/mt       4,878        8,181         5,606        5,575
Port Charges, Handling, Storage 4/        Rs/mt         250          250          110          550
Rail Transport to Faisalabad 4/           Rs/mt         431          431          431          431
Internal Marketing and Handling 4/        Rs/mt         160          180          180           180
Processing or Nutrient Ratio                %           100           10          100           100
Processing Cost 4/                        Rs/mt          -          1,430          -             -
Wholesale Price                           Rs/mt        5,719         589         6,327        6,736
Transport to/from  Farm 4/                Rs/mt          55           32           97            97
Economic Farm Gate Price (rounded)        Rs/mt       5,660          560         6,420        6,830
l/ World Bank: Revision of Primary Commodity Price Forecasts, November 12, 1993.
2/ Import parity prices for wheat, urea and DAP, export parity price for sugarcane.
3/ Exchange rate Rs 30.3/US$1.
4/ Adjusted by SCF of 0.9.



- 42 -
PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 3. Inflation Factors and Exchange Rates
Fiscal Year I/   Wholesale Price    Inflation Factor    G-5 MUV Index   Exchange Rate 4/
Index 21       (1993/94 = 100)          3'           (Rs per US$,
(1980/81 = 100)                      (1993/94 = 100)   Period Average)
1983/84               124.4              2.183              1.541              13.48
1984/85               130.9              2.075              1.575              15.16
1985/86               137.0              1.983              1.562              16.13
1986/87               143.8              1.889              1.325              17.17
1987/88               158.2              1.717              1.206              17.56
1988/89               173.5              1.565              1.125             19.16
1989/90               186.2              1.456              1.132             21.39
1990/91               208.0              1.306              1.072             22.37
1991/92               227.3              1.195              1.048             24.78
1992/93               248.5              1.093              1.005             25.90
1993/94 51            271.6              1.000              1.000             30.30
11 July I - June 30.
2/ Through 1991/92 from Report 11590-PAK, Pakistan: Country Economic Memorandum FY93.
3/ World Bank, Revision of Primary Commodity Price Forecasts, November 12,1993.
4/ IMF - International Financial Statistics.
L5 Exchange rate estimated on the basis of information for the first semester (Rs 29.7/USSI).



PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic and Financial AnaLysis
Table 4(a).  Project Expenditure by Year (Finamial) - Appraisal Estimte
(Rs MiLlion)
Expenditure                                                       Estisated Expenditure                                                     Foreign Exchange
CategoryI
1963/84          1984/85           1985/86           1986/87          1987/88             Total               z              Ainsmt
IMESTIEMT COSTS
A.  Civil Works                        41.02            129.97             159.78           156.84            146.11            633.72              38.1            241.25
B.  Equipment & Vehicles               156.74             6.38              6.41              6.15             6.11             181.79              58.9            107.13
C.  Adninistration &                    3.26             12.01             14.94             14.65             13.58             58.44              20.1             11.72
Engineering
D.  Technical Assistance &              11.51            12.54             12.06             10.46              9.66             56.23              61.9             34.78
Training
TotaL Investment Costs                 212.53           160.90             193.19           185.10            175.46            930.18              42.5            394.88l
RECRREMT COSTS                                                                                                                                                                    (
A.  Civil Works O01                       -               1.27              3.61              5.42              8.66             18.96              20.7              3.93
B.  Watercourse O&M                       -               0.31              0.62              0.93              1.24              3.10              20.7              0.64
C.  Equipment Repair &                  0.91              1.37              2.29              3.20              3.66             11.43              50.0              5.72
Maintenance
0.  Vehicle O0M                         0.08              0.08              0.08              0.08              0.08              0.40              51.1              0.21
Total Recurrent Costs                   0.99              3.03              6.60              9.63             13.64             33.89              31.0             10.50
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                   213.52           163.93             199.79           197.73            189.10            964.07              42.0            405.38
Physical Contingencies                  13.01            18.90             23.79             23.77             22.87            102.34              41.4            42.37
Price Contingencies                     18.02            28.88             52.51             68.86             82.57            250.84              40.5            101.59
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    244.55           211.71             276.09           290.36            294.54           1317.25              41.7            549.34
USS Equivalent (Million) 1/             18.81            16.29             21.24             22.33             22.66             101.33             41.7             42.26
1/ At Rs 13.0 per USS.



PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 4(b).   Project Expenditure by Year (Financial) - Actual
(Rs Million)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Actual Expenditure   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    Foreign
Expenditure Category                                                                                                                                       Excdwuee
1963/84   1964/85   1985/86 | 1986/87   1987/88 |188/8.    1969/90           _       1991/°2 | 19923   19°3t94         Total       X      A-cunt
1. IMKSTMENT WSTS
A. CiviL Works 2/         11.44     33.08      30.30      55.05     61.55      62.65      90.28    171.68    261.18       61.23      85.36      923.80   52.7   487.05
B. Equipment               3.80     20.95      90.56    115.46      31.69       3.02    (3.61)    (1.44)        7.59       8.11       2.80      278.93   73.9   206.23
& Vehicles
C. Administration          3.42      8.77      12.26      16.31     20.00      21.21      20.80     57.64      27.17      27.91      16.17      231.66   34.9    81.01
& Engineering
D. Techn. Assist.          0.02      4.60       7.35       0.01     15.10      13.52       7.43     24.86       7.82       5.00        1.50      87.21    99.2    86.52
L Training
Total Investuent          18.68     67.40    140.47    186.83    128.34    100.40    114.90    252.74    303.76    102.25           105.83   1,521.60   56.6   860.81 |
Costs
2. RECRENT  STS
A. Civil Works OiN            -          -         -          -          -                    -      0.30       0.70       1.17       0.33        2.50       -         -
Total Rectwrent               -         -          -          -          -         -          -      0.30       0.70       1.17       0.33        2.50       -         -
Costs 3/
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          18.68     67.40    140.47    186.83    128.34    100.40    114.90    253.04    304.46    103.42           106.16   1,524.10   56.5   860.81
USS Equivalent                1.39       4.45      8.71      10.88       7.31      5.24       5.37      11.31     12.29       3.99        3.55      74.49   56.8    42.27
(million) 4/
1/ Up to December 31, 1993.
2/ Includes costs of equipment repair and maintenance and vehicle O&M.
3/ Partly included in I.A above.
4/ For exchange rates see Table 3 of this Annex.



PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 4ic). PFoject Expenditure by Component (Financiall - Actual
(IRs Million)
|Poject Component..                                                      |                                           eu.. . .F..e........ ......................... .......... .....  Actual Expentu   ....................... ..... .....  .  .  .  F-ig Echange
1983/84      19841851    1985/861    1986/87           1987/881    1988/89        1989/90     1990191         1 1991/921    1992i93   1993/94 .           ; Total!        %        Anmount
|I. S.bsrlece D.inage                     8,00        43.94        11102         14665         83.00         71.29         68.34         73.97        217.73         79.66        98.62      1,002.22          58.7       587.89
1. Investment Costs                                                                                                                                                                             0.00
Civil Works 2/                         4.03         18.36         12.15        29. 15        24.42         37.39         46.04         26.95       176.06         39.32         78.45        492.32          48.8       239 85
Equipment and Velocles                 1.81         14 24        81.51        103.96         28.67          2.39         12.941    t   1.271         6.12          6.49          2 24        24122           74.8       180 51
Admm. and Engineering                  2.14          6.74         10.01        13.53         16.81         17.99         17.81         23.19        27.17         27 91         16.17        17947           45.3        81 01
Techn. Assisi. and Training            0.02          4.60          7 35         0.01         15.10         13.52          7 43         24.86          7.82         5.00          1 50         87 21          990         86.52
Sub-Total                             800         43.94        111.02        146.65         8300          71.29        6834          7373         21,17          78.72         98.36      1,00022          588         58789
2. Recuwent Costs
Civil Works O&M                            -.                          .                                        -                       024          0.56          0.94          0.26          2 00
M. Sufascs Dimnege                       2.43         11.81         11.56         20.69        22.85         12.31         18.05         38.85         37.62         23.53         7.47        207.17          42 5        87.95
1. Investment Costs
Civil Woks 2/                          1.89          5.10          2.51         9.19         18.15         11.71         18.72         39.02        36.15         21.91          6.91        170.96          36.4        62.23
Equipmet and Vehicles                  0.84          6.71          9.05        11.50          4.70          0.60         10.671        10.17)         1.47          1.62         0.56         36.21          71 0        25.72
Sub-Total                            2.43         11.81         11.56         20.69        22.85         12 2.31       18.05         38.85        37.62         23.53          7.47        207.17          42.5        8795   .-n
2. Recurrent Costs
Civil Works O&M                            .            .             .                    .      .                                     0.06          0.14         0.23          0.07          050              .             .
18. OnFeurm Waler Malgment                8.25        11.65         17.89         19.49         22.49        16.80         28.51        140.16         48.97             ..-                   314 21          58 9       184 97
1. Investment Costs
Civil Works 2/                         5.82          9.62         15.64        16.71         18.98         13.55         25.52        105.71        48.97              ..                    260.52          71.0       184 97
Equipment and Vehicles                 1.15                                                   0.32          0.03      -                    .             .             -             .         1 50
Admnn. and Engineering                 1.28          2.03          2.25         2.78          3.19          3.22          2.99         34.45             .                           - .      5219
Total Project Costs                     1868          67.40        140.47        186.83       128.34        100 40        114 80        253.04        30".46       103.42        106.16      1.524.10          56 5       86081
US1 Equivalent Milhon) 3/                1.39          4.45          8.71         10.88          7.31          6.24         6.37         11 31         12.29          3.99          3.55        74 49          568         42.27
1/ Up to December 31. 1993.
2/ Includes costa of equiPment repai fnd meinenance end veicie O&M.
31 For exchsng rates se Table 3 of ths Annex.



PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Annex 1: Econoumic and FinanciaL Analysis
Table 5(a).  TotaL Surface Drairnge Area - Without Project
Table shows Commanded Cultivable Area (CCA) available for cultivation
in without project situation, cultivation intensity and individual crop areas
(NOTE: Sugarcane counted in Kharif and Rabi)
Total                            Total
Surface  CuLtivation Intensity   Annual               Kharif Crops (2)                                   Rabi Crops (2)                         Annual
Area        (% CCA) (1)          CuLt.           Sugarcane         Fodder              Sugarcane            Wheat            Fodder           Cropped
PY   Year  (Acres)  Kharif  Rabi   Total    Area            Inten-   Area  Inten-   Area         Inten-   Area    Inten-    Area   Inten-   Area             Area
sity           sity                  sity              sity              sity
1   1984   295000   40.6   99.6   140.1    413341          27.6    81289  13.0    38350          27.6    81289    56.0    165200   16.0    47200           413328
2   1985   295000   40.3   98.7   139.0    409950          27.3    80523  13.0    38204          27.3    80523    55.5    163670   15.9    47018           409940
3   1986   295000   39.9   97.9   137.8    406559          27.0    79758  12.9    38059          27.0    79758    55.0    162141   15.9    46836           406551
4   1987   295000   39.6   97.0   136.7    403168          26.8    78992  12.9    37913          26.8    78992    54.4    160611   15.8    46654           403162
5   1988   295000   39.3   96.2   135.5    399778          26.5    78227  12.8    37767          26.5    78227    53.9    159081   15.8    46472           399774
6   1989   295000   39.0   95.4   134.4    396387          26.3    77461  12.8    37622          26.3    77461    53.4    157552   15.7    46289           396385
7   1990   295000   38.7   94.5   133.2    392996          26.0    76696  12.7    37476          26.0    76696    52.9    156022   15.6    46107           392997
8   1991   295000   38.4   93.7   132.1    389605          25.7    75930  12.7    37330          25.7    75930    52.4    154493   15.6    45925           389608
9   1992   295000   38.1   92.8   130.9    386214          25.5    75165  12.6    37185          25.5    75165    51.9    152963   15.5    45743           386220
10   1993   295000   37.8   92.0   129.8    382823          25.2    74399  12.6    37039          25.2    74399    51.3    151433   15.4    45561           382831        a'
11   1994   295000   37.5   91.3   128.8    379835          25.0    73744  12.5    36842          25.0    73744    50.9    150237   15.3    45282           379849
12   1995   295000   37.2   90.6   127.7    376847          24.8    73089  12.4    36646          24.8    73089    50.5    149040   15.3    45004           376867
13   1996   295000   36.9   89.8   126.7    373859          24.6    72433  12.4    36449          24.6    72433    50.1    147844   15.2    44725           373885
14   1997   295000   36.6   89.1   125.7    370871          24.3    71778  12.3    36252          24.3    71778    49.7    146648   15.1    44447           370903
15   1998   295000   36.3   88.4   124.7    367883          24.1    71123  12.2    36056          24.1    71123    49.3    145451   15.0    44168           367921
16   1999   295000   36.0   87.7   123.7    364896          23.9    70468  12.2    35859          23.9    70468    48.9    144255   14.9    43889           364939
17   2000   295000   35.7   86.9   122.7    361908          23.7    69812  12.1    35662          23.7    69812    48.5    143059   14.8    43611           361956
18   2001   295000   35.5   86.2   121.7    358920          23.4    69157  12.0    35466          23.4    69157    48.1    141862   14.7    43332           358974
19   2002   295000   35.2   85.5   120.7    355932          23.2    68502  12.0    35269          23.2    68502    47.7    140666   14.6    43054           355992
20   2003   295000   34.9   84.8   119.6    352944          23.0    67847  11.9    35072          23.0    67847    47.3    139469   14.5    42775           353010
21   2004   295000   34.6   84.0   118.6    349956          22.8    67192  11.8    34876          22.8    67192    46.9    138273   14.4    42496           350028
22   2005   295000   34.3   83.3   117.6    346968          22.6    66536  11.8    34679          22.6    66536    46.5    137077   14.3    42218           347046
23   2006   295000   34.0   82.6   116.6    343980          22.3    65881  11.7    34482          22.3    65881    46.1    135880   14.2    41939           344064
24   2007   295000   33.7   81.9   115.6    340992          22.1    65226  11.6    34286          22.1    65226    45.7    134684   14.1    41661           341082
25   2008   295000   33.4   81.1   114.6    338004          21.9    64571  11.6    34089          21.9    64571    45.2    133487   14.0    41382           338100
26   2009   295000   33.1   80.4   113.6    335016          21.7    63915  11.5    33892          21.7    63915    44.8    132291   13.9    41103           335117
27   2010   295000   32.9   79.7   112.6    332028          21.4    63260  11.4    33696          21.4    63260    44.4    131095   13.8    40825           332135
28   2011   295000   32.6   79.0   111.5    329040          21.2    62605  11.4    33499          21.2    62605    44.0    129898   13.7    40546           329153
29   2012   295000   32.3   78.2   110.5    326052          21.0    61950  11.3    33302          21.0    61950    43.6    128702   13.7    40268           326171
30   2013   295000   32.0   77.5   109.5    323064          20.8    61295  11.2    33105          20.8    61295    43.2    127505   13.6    39989           323189
(1)  As per SAR.
(2)  Slight difference from SAR due to calculation method - not significant.



PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic and FinanciaL Analysis
Table 5(b). Total Surface Drainage Area - With Project
Table shows Commanded Cultivable Area (CCA) available for cultivation
in with project situation, cultivation intensity and individual crop areas
(NOTE: Sugarcane counted in Kharif and Rabil
Total    Total Sub-    Surface                             Total
PY   Year   Surface    surface     less         Cultivation Intensity   Annual              Kharif Crops W21                             Rabi Crops i21               Annual
Area      Area    Subs. Area       (% CCAM1)               Cult.        Sugarcane          Fodder           .ugarcane       Wheat          Fodder      Cropped
Drained    Developed    (Acres)    Kharif    Rabi    Total  Area     Inten-    Area    Inten-     Area    Inten-   Area  Inten-   Area   Inten-   Area    Area
(Acres)    lAcresi                                                    sity               sity               sity          sity            Sity
1   1984        0           0         0      40.6    99.6   140.1           0     27.6         0    13.0          0    27.6       0  56.0       0    16.0       0        0
2   1985     9735           0       9735     40.3    98.7   139.0       13528     27.3      2657    13.0       1261    27.3   2657  55.5   5401    15.9   1552   13528
3   1986    30385           0      30385     39.9    97.9   137.8       41876     27.0      8215    12.9       3920    27.0   8215  55.0  16700    15.9   4824   41875
4   1987    74635         868      73767     39.6    97.0   136.7    100815       26.8      19753    12.9      9480    26.8  19753  54.4  40162    15.8  11666   100814
5   1988   121835        1429    120406      39.3    96.2   135.5    163172       26.5     31929    12.8      15415    26.5  31929  53.9  64930    15.8  18968   163170
6   1989   180835        3329    177506      39.0    95.4   134.4    238512       26.3     46610    12.8      22638    26.3  46610  53.4  94801    15.7  27853   238511
7   1990   228035       10014    218021      38.7    94.5   133.2    290445       26.0     56682    12.7      27697    26.0  56682  52.9  115309   15.6  34076   290446
8   1991   272285       18618    253667      38.4    93.7   132.1    335017       25.7     65291    12.7      32100    25.7  65291  52.4  132846   15.6  39491   335020
9   1992   289985       26768    263217      38.1     92.8   130.9    344604      25.5     67066    12.6      33178    25.5  67066  51.9  136483   15.5  40815   344609
10   1993   295000       33103    261897      37.8    92.0   129.8    339865       25.2     66050    12.6      32883    25.2  66050  51.3  134440   15.4  40448   339872
11   1994   295000       38660    256340      37.5    91.3   128.8    330057       25.0     64080    12.5      32014    25.0  64080  50.9  130548   15.3  39348   330070
12   1995   295000       74792    220208      37.2    90.8   127.7    281304       24.8     54558    12.4      27355    24.8  54558  50.5  111254   15.3  33594   281319
13   1996   295000       74792    220208      36.9    89.8   126.7    279074       24.6     54069    12.4      27208    24.6  54069  50.1  110361   15.2  33386   279093
14   1997   295000       74792    220208      36.6    89.1    125.7    276844      24.3     53580    12.3      27061    24.3  53580  49.7  109468   15.1  33178   276867
15   1998   295000       74792    220208      36.3    88.4   124.7    274613       24.1     53091    12.2      26914    24.1  53091  49.3  108575   15.0  32970   274641
16   1999   295000       74792    220208      36.0    87.7   123.7    272383       23.9     52602    12.2      26768    23.9  52602  48.9  107682   14.9  32762   272415
17   2000   295000       74792    220208      35.7    86.9   122.7    270152       23.7     52113    12.1      26621    23.7  52113  48.5  106789   14.8  32554   270189
18   2001   295000       74792    220208      35.5    86.2   121.7    267922       23.4     51624    12.0      26474    23.4  51624  48.1  10b896   14.7  32346   267963
19   2002   295000       74792    220208      35.2    85.5   120.7    265692       23.2     51135    12.0      26327    23.2  51135  47.7  105002   14.6  32138   265737
20   2003   295000       74792    220208      34.9    84.8   119.6    263461       23.0     50645    11.9      26180    23.0  50645  47.3  104109   14.5  31930   263511
21   2004   295000       74792    220208      34.6    84.0   118.6    261231       22.8     50156    11.8      26033    22.8  50156  46.9  103216   14.4  31722   261285
22   2005   295000       74792    220208      34.3    83.3   117.6    259000       22.6     49667    11.8      25887    22.6  49667  46.5  102323   14.3  31514   259059
23   2006   298000       74792    220208      34.0    82.6   116.6    256770       22.3     49178    11.7      25740    22.3  49178  4C.1  101430   14.2  31306   256833
24   2007   295000       74792    220208      33.7    81.9   115.6    254540       22.1     48689    11.6      25593    22.1  48889  45.7  100537   14.1  31098   254606
26   2008   295000       74792    220208      33.4    81.1    114.6    252309      21.9     48200    11.6      25446    21.9  48200  45.2   99644   14.0  30890   252380
26   2009   295000       74792    220208      33.1    80.4   113.6    250079       21.7     47711    11.5      25299    21.7  47711  44.8  98751   13.9  30682   250154
27   2010   296000       74792    220208      32.9    79.7   112.6    247818       21.4     47222    11.4      25153    21.4  47222  44.4  97858   13.8  30474   247928
26   2011   295000       74792    220208      32.6    79.0   111.5    245618       21.2     46733    11.4      25006    21.2  46733  44.0  96965   13.7  30266   245702
29   2012   298000       74792    220208      32.3    78.2   110.5    243388       21.0     44243    11.3      24859    21.0  46243  43.6  96072   13.7  30058   243476
30   2013   206000       74792    220208      32.0    77.5   109.5    241167       20.8     46714    11.2      24712    20.6  45754  43.2   95179   13.6  29851   241250
11) As pw $A. Lmeuwility dtbthhs wi thre in saim dretIgm  owleAig to high Wor tatitrit_y.
12) SU  dllma.eut km 1  dua e to cioon maed - not alenlt.



PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 5(c).  Totatl S*surfwce Drainage Area - Without/With Project
Table shows Commanded Cultivable Area (CCA) available for cultivation
in with project situation, cultivation intensity and individual crop areas
(NOTE: Sugarcane counted in Kharif and Rabi)
Total Sub-                            Total
surface   Cultivation Intensity   Annual                Kharif Crops (2)                                 Rabi Crops (2)                          Annual
Area         (% CCA) (1)           Cult.         Sugarcane          Fodder            Sugarcane            Wheat             Fodder          Cropped
PY   Year  Developed  Kharif Rabi(3) Total    Area            Inten-   Area   Inten-  Area          Inten-   Area   Inten-    Area   Inten-   Area             Area
(Acres)                                           sity              sity               sity              sity               sity
1   1984           0   40.6    99.6  140.1            0       27.6         0   13.0         0      27.6        0    56.0           0   16.0          0            0
2   1985           0   40.6    99.6  140.1            0       27.6         0   13.0         0       27.6        0    56.0          0   16.0          0            0
3   1986           0   40.6    99.6  140.1            0       27.6         0   13.0         0       27.6        0    56.0          0   16.0          0            0
4   1987         868   40.6    99.6  140.1         1216       27.6       239   13.0       113      27.6      239    56.3         489   16.0        139         1219
5   1988        1429   40.6    99.8  140.3         2005       27.6       394   13.0       186       27.6     394    56.6         808   16.0        229         2010
6   1989        3329   40.6   100.0  140.6         4679       27.6       917   13.0       433       27.6     917    56.9        1893   16.0        533         4693
7   1990       10014   40.6   100.2  140.8        14098       27.6      2759   13.0    1302        27.6    2759    57.1         5722   16.0       1602        14145
8   1991       18618   40.6   100.4  141.0        26252       27.6      5130   13.0    2420         27.6    5130    57.4       10692   16.0       2979        26352
9   1992       26768   40.6   100.7  141.2        37803       27.6      7376   13.0    3480        27.6    7376    57.7        15449   16.0       4283        37964
10   1993       33103   40.6   101.6  142.1        47043       27.6      9122   13.0    4303        27.6    9122    58.0        19200   16.0       5296        47043
11   1994       38660   40.6   101.6  142.1        54940       27.6    10653   13.0    5026         27.6   10653    58.0        22423   16.0       6186        54940
12   1995       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723         27.6   20609    58.0        43379   16.0    11967         106288
13   1996       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723         27.6   20609    58.0        43379   16.0    11967         106288
14   1997       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723         27.6   20609    58.0        43379   16.0    11967         106288
15   1998       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723         27.6   20609    58.0        43379   16.0    11967         106288
16   1999       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723         27.6   20609    58.0        43379   16.0    11967         106288
17   2000       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723         27.6   20609    58.0        43379   16.0    11967         106288
18   2001       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723         27.6   20609    58.0        43379   16.0    11967         106288
19   2002       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723         27.6   20609    58.0        43379   16.0    11967         106288
20   2003       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723          27.6   20609    58.0       43379   16.0    11967         106288
21   2004       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723          27.6   20609    58.0       43379   16.0    11967         106288
22   2005       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723          27.6   20609    58.0       43379   16.0    11967         106288
23   2006       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723          27.6   20609    58.0       43379   16.0    11967         106288
24   2007       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723          27.6   20609    58.0       43379   16.0    11967         106288
25   2008       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723          27.6   20609    58.0       43379   16.0    11967         106288
26   2009       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723          27.6   20609    58.0       43379   16.0    11967         106288
27   2010       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723          27.6   20609    58.0       43379   16.0    11967         106288
28   2011       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723          27.6   20609    58.0       43379   16.0    11967         106288
29   2012       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723          27.6   20609    58.0       43379   16.0    11967         106288
30   2013       74792   40.6   101.6  142.1    106288          27.6    20609   13.0    9723          27.6   20609    58.0       43379   16.0    11967         106288
(1)  As per SAR.
(2)  Slight difference from SAR due to calculation method - not significant.
(3)  Intensity is greater than 100X in Rabi owing to multiple cropping of fodder on same area.



PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 5(d).  Total Surface Drainage Area Less TotaL Subsurface Drainage Area - Without/";th Project
Table shows Commanded Cultivable Area (CCA) available for cultivation
in with project situation, cultivation intensity and individual crop areas
(NOTE: Sugarcane counted only in Kharif)
Total   Total Sub-  Surface                             Total
Surface   surface       less   Cultivation Intensity   Annual               Kharif Crops (2)                           Rabi Crops (2)                  Annual
Area      Area    Subs.Area       (% CCA) (1)          Cult.          Sugarcane           Fodder                Wheat             Fodder            Cropped
PY   Year  Drained  Developed   (Acres) Kharif  Rabi   Total    Area               Inten-   Area  Inten-   Area          Inten-    Area   Inten-   Area             Area
(Acres)   (Acres)                                                       sity            sity                  sity              sity
1   1984         0           0         0  40.6    72.0  112.6            0         27.6         0  13.0         0        56.0          0   16.0         0              0
2   1985     9735            0      9735  40.3    71.4  111.7        10871         27.3      2657  13.0      1261        55.5      5401   15.9       1552          10871
3   1986    30385            0     30385  39.9    70.8  110.8        33662         27.0     8215  12.9       3920        55.0      16700   15.9      4824          33660
4   1987    74635         868      73767  39.6    70.3  109.9        81067         26.8    19753  12.9       9480        54.4     40162   15.8    11666            81061
5   1988   121835         1429    120406  39.3    69.7  109.0    131253            26.5    31929  12.8    15415          53.9     64930   15.8    18968           131241
6   1989   180835        3329    177506  39.0    69.1  108.1    191921             26.3    46610  12.8    22638          53.4     94801   15.7    27853           191902
7   1990   228035       10014    218021  38.7    68.5  107.2    233791             26.0    56682  12.7    27697          52.9    115309   15.6    34076           233764
8   1991   272285       18618    253667  38.4    68.0  106.3    269764             25.7    65291  12.7    32100          52.4    132846   15.6    39491           269728
9   1992   289985       26768    263217  38.1    67.4  105.5    277583             25.5    67066  12.6    33178          51.9    136483   15.5    40815           277542
10   1993   295000       33103    261897  37.8    66.8  104.6    273866             25.2    66050  12.6    32883          51.3    134440   15.4    40448           273822
11   1994   295000       38660    256340  37.5    66.3  103.8    266033             25.0    64080  12.5    32014          50.9    130548   15.3    39348           265990
12   1995   295000       74792    220208  37.2    65.8  103.0    226797             24.8    54558  12.4    27355          50.5    111254   15.3    33594           226761
13   1996   295000       74792    220208  36.9    65.3  102.2    225060             24.6    54069  12.4    27208          50.1    110361   15.2    33386           225024
14   1997   295000       74792    220208  36.6    64.8  101.4    223323             24.3    53580  12.3    27061          49.7    109468   15.1    33178           223287
15   1998   295000       74792    220208  36.3    64.3  100.6    221586             24.1    53091  12.2    26914          49.3    108575   15.0    32970           221550
16   1999   295000       74792    220208  36.0    63.8   99.8    219849             23.9    52602  12.2    26768          48.9    107682   14.9    32762           219813
17   2000   295000       74792    220208  35.7    63.3   99.0    218112             23.7    52113  12.1    26621          48.5    106789   14.8    32554           218076
18   2001   295000       74792    220208  35.5    62.8   98.3    216374             23.4    51624  12.0    26474         48.1    105by6   14.7    32346            216339
19   2002   295000       74792    220208  35.2    62.3   97.5    214637             23.2    51135  12.0    26327          47.7    105002   14.6    32138           214602
20   2003   295000       74792    220208  34.9    61.8   96.7    212900             23.0    50645  11.9    26180          47.3    104109   14.5    31930           212865
21   2004   295000       74792    220208  34.6    61.3   95.9    211163             22.8    50156  11.8    26033          46.9    103216   14.4    31722           211128
22   2005   295000       74792    220208  34.3    60.8   95.1    209426             22.6    49667  11.8    25887          46.5    102323   14.3    31514           209391
23   2006   295000        74792    220208  34.0    60.3   94.3    207689            22.3    49178  11.7    25740          46.1    101430   14.2    31306           207654
24   2007   295000       74792    220208  33.7    59.8   93.5    205952             22.1    48689  11.6    25593          45.7    100537   14.1    31098           205917
25   2008   295000       74792    220208  33.4    59.3   92.7    204215             21.9    48200  11.6    25446          45.2     99644   14.0    30890           204181
26   2009   295000       74792    220208  33.1    58.8   91.9    202477             21.7    47711  11.5    25299          44.8     98751   13.9    30682           202444
27   2010   295000       74792    220208  32.9    58.3   91.2    200740             21.4    47222  11.4    25153          44.4     97858   13.8    30474           200707
28   2011   295000        74792    220208  32.6    57.8   90.4    199003            21.2    46733  11.4    25006          44.0     96965   13.7    30266           198970
29   2012   295000       74792    220208  32.3    57.3   89.6    197266             21.0    46243  11.3    24859          43.6     96072   13.7    30058           197233
30   2013   295000        74792    220208  32.0    56.8   88.8    195529            20.8    45754  11.2    24712          43.2     95179   13.6    29851           195496
(1)  As per SAR.  Intensity diminishes with time in surface drained area owing to high water table/salinity.
(2)  Slight difference from SAR due to calculation method - not significant.



PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Aninex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
(Page 1)
Tatle 6. Ecrogeic Analysis (Rfs Million)
1984     1985      1956      198?      1988      1909      1990      1991      1992     1993      1994      1995      1996     1997      1998      1999     2000      2001     2002
lenef its
tnrem.Prod. - Subsurf.Drainage Area
Rabi    W neat                                                                                     0.3       1.2       3.1       7.7      18.4     35.8      55.8      74.5    101.4    144.6    182.2    195.5    203.8    205.9   207.9
Rabi .Fodder                                                                      .         -      0.1       0.5       1.2      3.0        7.2     13.8      21.5      28.6      38.9     55.4      69.8      75.0     75.85    76.6       77.5
rIharil    Sugarcane                                                    -         -         -      0.2       0.5       1.3      3.1        7.4     14.2      22.0      29.3     39.8      56.7      71.5      76.7    117.5    118.7    119.8
Kirard  - Fodder                                              -         --                         0.1       0.2       0.3       0.8       1.9      3.6       5.6       7.6      10.4     14.9      18.9      20.4     20.8      21.2     21.6
Iotal  lni:rem.Prod. -Subsur.Drainage Area                    -         -         .        -       0.5       2.3       5.8     14.4      34.7      67.3    104.8    139.9    190.4   271.5    342.4    367.5   417.8   422.2   426.7
ln:re,-.trod. - Surface Drainage Area
Rabs    w heat                                                -0.4                       2.1      6.5      ¶4.8      27.3      42.8      59.3      74.1     85.3      92.4      94.6      93.5     92.8      95.5    102.9    107.1    111.2
Rabi    l odder                                                         -      0.2       0.9       2.7      6.2      11.4      18.0      25.2      31.8     36.9      40.2      41.4      41.1     41.0      42.3      44.3     46.3    48.2
Charnt    Suparcane                                                            0.2       0.9      2.7       6.0      11.1      17.4      24.1      30.)     34.6      31.4      39.3      40.2     39.7      39.2      60.8     63:2      65:5 
Lnarif    Fodder                                                               0.1       0.5       1.3      3.0       5.6       8.8      12.3      15.6      18.0      19.7     20.3      20.1     20.1      20.8      21.8     22.7      23.7       n
- - - - -   -- - -   - - - -   - - - -   - - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - - - -   - - - -   - - - -   - - - -   - - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- -   - - - -   -- - -   - - --   - -- -
Total In:remt.Prod.      Surface Drainage Area                                 0.9       4.1     13.1      29.9      55.4      86.9    120.7    151.4    174.7    189.5    195.5    194.8    193.5    197.7   229.6    219.2   248.6
I;en-aqgricultural  LOsses fromt Flooding                     .         .         .        -         .15.0                               15.0      15.0      15.0      15.0     15.0      15.0      15.0     15.0      15.0      15.0     15.0
Salvage Value Drain.&ojipr.and mlachitiery                    .         .         .        -         .         -         .         .         -         -     75.1                             -        -         .-.-
70rat  Benefits                                                                0.9       4.1I    13.6      32.1      61.1    116.3    170.4    233.6    369.5    344.3    400.9   481.2   550.8    550.2    662.4   676.4   690.2
nvest.nen   Costs                                         35.7     99.5    183.4    216.5    166.7    113.3    122.1    269.7    308.4.    90.0    198.9              30.3-                                     .
lieolazere.Costs for Drainage Systems.                                  .         .        .         .                                                                  1.0                4.5                4.8          .2.4
tc-erat on and Maint. Drainage Sysitem.                                 .         .                                             0.3       0.7       1.1       3.6      10.8      15.5     15.5      15.5      13.5     25.1      15.5     15.5
Incren, Prod. Costs   usr    riaeAe                                                     0.2       0.5       1.2       3.1       7.0      13.1      20.8     40.3      63.8      78.8     92.8    103.5    113.0    121.9    122.3    122.8
lrem. Prod. Cost   Surface Drainage Area                             .         .                          0.3       1.9      4.1       6.8       9.4      75.5      72.0     67.9      67.8      67.6     67.5      69.9      70.4      70.9
to:aJ  Costs                                              36.7      99.5    183.4    216.7    167.1    114.6    127.0   281.0    328.9    121.2   318.0    177.7    162.2    180.5    386.5    200.7   207.2    208.1   211.4
ket Incremenrtal Benefits
Total Acet  ;incremenital  Bene-fits                     -36.7    -99.5  -182.6   -212.6   -153.6    -82.5    -65.9  -164.7   -158.5    112.5               51.6    166.6    238.8    300.8   364.4    379.5    455.2    463.3   478.9



PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
(Page 2)
Tabte 6.  Economic AnaLysis (Rs Million)
2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    201-    2013
ttrnrf i t
Inrem.rrod. - Stilyctsrf.Drain-ige Area
Rabi - Wheat                                       209.9   212.0   187.4   189.2   191.0   192.8   194.5   196.3   198.1   199.9   201.7
Rabi - Fodder                                       78.3    79.1    79.9    80.7    81.5    82.4    83.2    84.0    84.8    85.6    86.5
Kharif - Sugarcane                                 121.0   122.1   153.1   154.5   156.0   157.4   158.8   160.3   161.7   163.1   164.6
Kharif - Fodder                                     22.0    22.4    22.8    23.2    23.6    24.0    24.4    24.8    e3.2    25.6    26.0
Total Increm.Prod. - Subsurf.Drainage Area    431.1   435.5   443.1   447.5   452.0   456.4   460.8   465.3   469.7   474.1   478.6
Increm.Prod. - Surface Drainage Area
Rabi   Wheat                                       115.3   119.3   107.9   111.2   114.5   117.6   120.8   123.8   126.8   129.7   132.5
Rabi   Fodder                                       50.1    52.0    53.9    55.7    57.5    59.3    61.0    62.7    64..4    66.i    67.7
Kharif   Sugarcane                                  67.8    70.1    89.7    92.4    95.0    97.5    99.9   102.3   104.6   106.9   109.1
Kharif   Fodder                                     24.7    25.6    26.6    27.5    28.4    29.3    30.2    31.1    31.9    32.8    33.6
Total Increm.Prod. - Surface Drainage Area    257.8   266.9   277.9   286.6   295.2   303.6   311.8   319.8   327.6   335.3   342.7
Non-agriculturat Losses from Flooding               15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0
Salvage Vatue Drain.Equipm.and Machinery               -   I             .        .       .                 .        .        .       .
Total Benefits                                    703.8   717.3   736.0   749.1   762.1   774.9   787.6   800.0   812.3   824.4   836.3                                                           u
Costs
Investment Costs                                       -
Replacem.Costs for Drainage System                   2.4      2.4     6.9      2.4                  -       -          -                     4.5
Operation and Maint. Drainage System                15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5
Increm. Prod. Costs Subsurf.Drainage Area         123.2   123.6   122.4   122.8   123.2   123.6   124.0   124.4   124.9   125.3   125.7
Increm. Prod. Costs Surface Drainage Area          71 3    71.8    71.6    72.0    72.3    72.7    73.0    73.3    73.6    73.9    74.1
Total costs                                       212.2   213.1   216.2   212.5   210.9   211.7   212.4   213.1   213.8   214.5   219.7
Net Incremental Benefits
Total Net Incrementat Benefits                    491.6   504.2   519.8   536.7   551.2   563.3   575.2   586.9   598.5   609.9   616.6
.....---    --  ..... .    . ................................. .. ......... ..........   .. .... ........    -- - - - -- - - - -  --- --  ------- ------
Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
1TOT                       14.49X
PRESENT VALUES OF NET SIREAMS AT A DISCOUNT RATE OF 122
BlOT       UP 10X      UP 202        UP 50X    DOlW 10   0DOWN 202    DOVAt 50X  LAG 1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
ClOT                 237.7        398.2        558.8      1,040.6          77.1        -83.6       -565.4         65.6        -88.1       -225.3
UP 101               100.8        261.4        422.0        903.8        -59.9        -220.4       -702.2        -71.3       -224.9       -362.1
UP 201               -36.1        124.6        285.2        766.9        -196.7       -357.3       -839.0       -208.2       -361.8       -498.9
UP 50%        ~~-446.6      -286.0       -125.4        356.5       -607.2        -767.7    -1,249.5        -618.6       -772.3       -909.4
UPW  102             374.5        535.1        695.7      1,177.4         213.9         53.3       -428.5        202.4          48.8       -88.5
Domis  202           511.3        671.9 -      832.5       1,314.2        350.7        190.1       1291.7        339.2         185.6        48.5
00DM  501            921.8      1,082.4      1,243.0       1.724.?        761.2        600.6        118.9        749.7        596.1        458.9
LAOW 1  EA                                          .-                                                           212.2          55.6       -78.7
LAG I YEAR                                                       -                         -                          -       189.5         52.3
LAG 2 YEARS                                                                                                                        -        169.2
LAG 3 YEARS



PAKISTAN: Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
Amnex 1:  Economic ard Financial Analysis
(Page 3)
Table 6. Economic AImlysis (Cs Million)
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NET STREAMS
BTOT      UP iOX       UP 20%       UP 50%    DOWN 10%    DOWN 20%    DOWN 50%  LAG 1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
CTOT               14.490       15.980      17.353       20.958       12.851       11.019       3.275       12.639      11.191       10.026
UP 10%             13.007       14.490       15.850      19.402       11.370        9.526       1.471       11.338       10.029       8.977
UP 20%             11.655       13.136       14.4°0      18.003       10.010        8.143      -0.332       10.147       8.964        8.013
UP 50%              8.143        9.657      11.019       14.490        6.428        4.427      -6.362        7.042       6.185        5.502
DOWN 10'           16.138       17.645       19.038      22.714       14.490       12.658       5.133       14.079       12.473      11.183
DOwN 20%           18.003       19.536      20.958       24.727       16.333       14.490       7.099       15.698       13.909      12.476
DOWN 50%           25.855       27.555      29.145       33.408       24.023       22.029      14.490       22.383       19.763      17.701
LAG 1 YEAR              -            -            -            -           -            -            -      14.490       12.639      11.191
LAG 2 YEARS             -            -            -            -           -            -            -           -       14.490      12.639
LAG 3 YEARS             -            -            -            -           -            -            -           -            -      14.490
SWITCHING VALUES AT 12%
APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENTAGE
STREAM                  VALUE         VALUE         CHANGE
B5                     807.52        569.92        -29.43%
B10                    724.40        486.80        -32.80%
B11                     52.38       -185.23       -453.69%
B12                     21.59       -216.02    -1,100.55%
Cl                     901.27      1,138.87         26.377
C2                       3.58        241.18     6,646.65%
C3                      33.19        270.80        715.88X
C4                     251.89        489.49         94.33%
C5                     178.36        415.96        133.22%
TOTAL BENEFITS       1,605.88      1,368.28        -14.80%
TOTAL COSTS          1,368.27      1,605.88         17.37%
Net Present Value at OCC 12% = 237.6
Internal Rate of Retutrn = 14.5%
Coupon Equivatent Ratqe of Return = 14.4%



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Cr. 1375-PAK)
COMMENTS FROM THE NETHERLANDS



- 54 -
AMBASSADE VAN HET KONINKRIJK DER NEDERLANDEN
ROYAL NETHERLANDS EMBASSY
Economic Division
4200 Linnean Avenue N.W.
Washington D.C. 20008
Tel. (202) 244-5300
Telefax (202) 966-0737
EA-gsb                                        July 19, 1994
Mr. Peter Streng
Sr. Economist
SA3AG
World Bank
Room MC 10-377
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington DC 20433
Re: Pakistan Fourth Drainage Project.
Dear Mr. Streng:
With reference to your letter of June 27, 1994 on the Completion Report of the Fourth
Drainage Project, I advise you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no comments on the
said report.
For your information I communicate to you that the Netherlands contribution amounts to
NGL 9,688,925.59, built up as follows:
1984: Dfl. 1.698.927,-
1985: "     424.731,74
1986: "   6.033.639,97



- 55 -
1987: "   1.508.409,97 and
1988: "      23.217,--.
We hope that those data will be useful.
Sincerely Yours,
11 I
Marinus van Wier,
First Secretary (Economic)
c.c. WB, Ms. E. Herfkens
DAL/CO



56 -   :-  nternatICnai infs;tuca ror L-3ra
1:l-_:Aec!amarnn and Improvement
FACSIMILE TRANSMISSION
FL-ASc OELIVPS FCLLCWING PAGiES 70:
name:   HA. ?aTAC 7       r<Z,v_                        date: Asp5S7r Ao4 IS
tIrm:    wsrNf   /R vA.e  a  AS,4/I
city/countr/   VA!5,ViW roA                        teSiccpier  /  . ot  S-.L 0 ?7?7
la. S. A .
FROM:           vAA' A4*e
regarclng:    ?c,A - "b RA-#'      AJOs  - '- ?,4  31AA1
total at J pages wil be transmitted (including thls letter)
MESSAGE
ZC,4Ae  '-grx
-ro4AWOdC   #I   *  d-I L   FAMX -OF       'YA   ZJ4S.
LIA            AXzWc  '2y,:efj/w  WV#SG:  yda~ NXN7.,JM94f,   AiX   7-A Afg
j vAIr  AyAMI  7lvfeo4,yv  rY'v   iEp,),RT r      :   ,wv    a;
4ZPIAJdCAd    ,47 I7 r  rTt-C  A   7,e    ?r-oA      Qr' 7/%
eXAL A.)ry.          7AA  VDo*O ra'VAt  WA?&Z,4  W'AA- T' AX t r
et A    40F  70VIC   A     A ov.f      o Al    f   XTfE 14P  9a'0P0    AAIJi
ajll   w,ij r7zs# .  7r.4/   A,Cjvr  7WO  aC-EjCS  aF  W`nE1s.4fe
Z  VA/L   A    /Z   ,   hAA'XO . AWv0  W14- Zey 7a  7' iT   e*
J   il^L   ,#fO*z  yc^   iqAcw r~v Swt, 7sAt,Jiv
I C'497   .4e         7&/i  rp,AXH/W,          ft 7A  s
_aJ Al                          eC ., JU'  Y    A-AJ)  g    ,'r*A   afF A/°#O4E
-4J  ?'A9e  o6)  hi      6      24Trz: -  fS   scOPC   I'SrAr4f  dF  If-a
/5-*r  kqA4 *.n
AOOPESS: LAWIC<SEc ALLEE I 1, WAGENINGEN_  THE NETHERLANOS
MAILING AOQfOEaS: P.C. BOX 45. 6700 AA WAGENINGEN. THE NXTHERLANDS
PHCNE.4"a 1 -837,O-90l 4-   rELEEX.45888 INrAS NL.  rELPFAX:-.a31 -8370-I1717
t O'd   H 39 HIH3.PM 9             8 I 1  8 all  I a  d .   6Vt-Z : 6 . go, a C



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Cr. 1375-PAK)
COMMENTS FROM ODA



- 58 -
FAX MESSAGE
WESTERN ASIA DEPARTHENT
94 VICTORIA STREET
WNDON Swil
TOs     Peter Streng
World Bank Washington
FROM:   Esther Allen
DATE:   12 August
PAGES:  3
REPLY:  071-917-0291
PAKISTAN: FOURTH DRAIKAGE PROJECT
with reference to your fax of 8 August to Miss Balogun regarding
the above, I enclose a copy of the comments previously faxed to
you on 19 July.
Regards
ESTHER ALLEN
Western Asia Department



NO.859 902
-59 -4 6(/,A
Owerea Dev'aopment
AdsimistraU,s
94 ViLturia Set, London SWIE SJL
Peter Streng                                   Dircct Lin: 1-917
Senior Economist                               GT      511
Agriculture Operations Division                GTN:      3535
Country Department III
South asia Region                              19 July 1994
(Fax 202-522-1778)
Dear Mr Streng
RE. PAKISTAN - FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT (CREDIT 1375-PAX) PROJECT
COMPLETION REPORT
Thank you for your letters of 27  une and 1 July to Me Balogun.  We
have the following comments on the draft PCRs
para 3.3. The ODA grant was for E9.lm of equipment and local
costs and E0.06m of technical assistance. I suggest you
indicate the date of the exchange rate used to calculate the US
dollar equivalent.
para 6.3. we would welcome some elaboration of the claim that
smaller farmers will be better off. Has the possibility been
considered that larger farmers will capture all the benefits?
para 8.3. We do not consider it inevitable that foreign pumps
should prove unreliable under Pakistan operating conditions.
We would therefore suggest deletion of the word "predictably"
from the second sentence.
Part III. 5. We would welcome an explanation for the change
in UK financing between that planned and revised when the
sterling amount did not change - presumably this reflects
changes in the exchange rate. I attach a table showing the
breakdown between civil works, equipment and vehicles, and
technical assistance.
Regards.
R Teuten
Western Asia Department
cc Mr Hunt, Mr Owen, Mr M Wilson
Silchbounrd 071 917 70  Telex 2639D7-8  Au Q1.g7917 Qzl



- 60 -
DRAINAGE IV:  ODA COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSNEZTS (EDOD)
Civil Works    Equipment &    Technical    Total
Vehiclea         Assistance
Commitment       2,300             6,800               60        9,160
Disbursement
1984          -                    6               -            6
1985         409                  68               -          477
1986         199              3,324                -        3523
1967         368                 969                        1,357
1988         810                 302               -        1,112
1989         397                 399              49*         845
1990          97                  10               2          109
1991          -                   -                -            -
1992          -                  217               -          217
1993          -                   98                           98
1994 (est)   -                    92               -           92
Total      2,300              5,485               51        7,836
Unspent Balance   -                 1,315                9        1,324
* Cumulative expenditure 1986-59



______________________________________________________                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 16902R
71°30                                    72-00                                     72°30'                                    7 3-00'                  /A   983
PAKISTAN                                                                                                                             Pkod, Shoir,on   o  /
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Chmm        <           !>,
*3    Project Units
Existing:                                                                                                 PAiARANG
Irrigation System                                                                                                                             AMUND 1
Branch Canals                                                            ,Bha.an,                                                                      hchkot
Distributary Canals                                                                                                                    Khu-a.wa1a
31'30'                     Drainage System                                                                                                                                               31'30'>
Main Drains
Other Drains                                                                                          FAISALABAD
-   -  Rivers
Ponds                                                P~
Bo  Towns and Villages
-       Metalled  Roads
Railways
International Boundaries    c        .      ..
O   IC  ~~~~2C  3C  4C                                 |f\                         .J0/ o m ne  
KILOMETERS
310C'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10'
-31°OC'                                                         , b,}                 Tobc Tek 5,                                    /     X </~~~ g3°0
71'30'
I              ,-. .e '             _  ~~~ Shorkot  /                                /    \                ^                        \Sho
AFGHANISTAN                                           Sho4o|
1   _  |   b    ,                           /1l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K c/m cr~~~~~~~~~~ho ,I                r rhw
<I            f Area of_D
\1.     PAKISTAN          J      !         -                               SandhI,arnwoI
It.' N D I A                           ----                                                                            Tr ac,c'eab
-      ~ ,   ~   |   72'00'      fo Khanewrl/                 72°30'                                     73,00'                                    73.30'









IMAGING
Report No:       14558
Type: PCR



