Document of
The World Bank                                 F
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3561-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 60.3 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
May 6, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1             =   Rs 13.0
Rs 1             =   US$0.08
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMIS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ac        -   Acre
ADP       -   Annual Development Program
cca       -   Canal Command Area
FGW       -   Fresh Groundwater
GOP       -   Government of Pakistan
GOPunjab  -   Government of Punjab Province
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB       -   Local Competitive Bidding
OFWM      -   On-Farm Water Management
O&M       -   Operation & Maintenance
PLL       -   Precision Land Leveling
PID       -   Punjab Irrigation and Power Department
SCARP     -   Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SGW       -   Saline Groundwater
TW        -   Tubewell
WAPDA     -   Water and Power Development Authority



Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3561-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 60.3 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
May 6, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1             =   Rs 13.0
Rs 1             =   US$0.08
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYIS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ac        -   Acre
ADP       -   Annual Development Program
cca       -   Canal Command Area
FGW       -   Fresh Groundwater
GOP       -   Government of Pakistan
GOPunjab  -   Government of Punjab Province
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB       -   Local Competitive Bidding
OFWM      -   On-Farm Water Management
O&M       -   Operation & Maintenance
PLL       -   Precision Land Leveling
PID       -   Punjab Irrigation and Power Department
SCARP     -   Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SGW       -   Saline Groundwater
TW        -   Tubewell
WAPDA     -   Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
4        Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiary:           Punjab Province
Amount:                SDR 60.3 million (US$65 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Project Description:  The project is designed to increase agricultural
production by reducing waterlogging and salinity by
installing a system of subsurface drains in 75,000 ac;
reducing rain flooding by providing an improved system
of surface drains in 295,000 ac; increasing irrigation
water supplies by improving on-farm water management
practices; and strengthening the capabilities of WAPDA
and Punjab's Departments of Irrigation and Agriculture
in carrying out similar projects. The project involves
no special risks.
Estimated Costs:                                 Local      Foreign     Total
--------US$ million…-------
Subsurface Drainage                          32.9        28.7        61.6
Surface Drainage                               3.8         1.2        5.0
On-Farm Water Management
and Extension                               6.3         1.3         7.6
Total Base Cost                              43.0        31.2        7T
Physical Contingencies                         4.6         3.3        7.9
Price Contingencies                           11.5         7.8       19.3
Total Project Cost                         59.1        42.3       101.4
Less:  Taxes and Duties                     14.1        -          14.1
Total Net Project Cost                      45.0       42.3        87.3
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Financing Plan:                                  Local      Foreign      Total
---    US$ million--------
GOP/GOPunjab                                 22.4          -        22.4
IDA                                          32.9         32.1      65.0
U.K.                                          3.1          6.7       9.8
Netherlands                                                3.5
Farmers                                       0.7          -         0.7
Total                                   59.1         42.3      101.4
Estimated Disbursements:  IDA FY 1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
-----------------US$ million----------------
Annual                          3.0    13.5    13.5    14.7    14.8        5.5
Cumulative                      3.0    16.5    30.0    44.7    59.5    65.0
Rate of Return:    15%
Appraisal Report:  No. 4380-PAK dated April 27, 1983
Map: IBRD 16902R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN FOR A FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 60.3 million (US$65
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Fourth Drainage
Project. The United Kingdom and the Kingdom of the Netherlands are
4         expected to participate in the financing of the project by providing a
grant of US$9.8 million equivalent and a loan of US$3.5 million equivalent
with a term of 30 years, including eight years of grace, with interest at
2.5% per annum, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOIIY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 4215-PAK, dated February 11, 1983) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on February 16, 1983.
3.      The past five years have witnessed a significant economic recovery
in Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY82 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging about
2.8% p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real
terms by 10% p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 3.8%
p.a. and in industry by 9.3% p.a. This performance contrasts markedly with
the economic stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP
averaged only 3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was
negligible.
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather anil higher domestic demand associated
with better crops, rising rural incomes and workers' remittances from the
Middle East. Various policy changes introduced by the Government have also
contributed significantly to the recovery.
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-3507-PAK (Population Project) dated April 7, 1983.



-2-
5.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all
major crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices.
At the same time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy
(which has been creating budgetary problems) and to separate it from the
development budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for
other priority agricultural projects and programs.  An Agricultural Prices
Commission has been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes
in crop support and input prices on a consistent and tinely basis.
6.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricul-
tural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated
agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the
water delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and
better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; ane to expand the role
of the private sector, for example, through the promotion of private
tubewell development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pes-
ticides, seeds, agricultural credit, extension, research and farm
power--have also been strengthened. These initiatives are still at an
early stage and a breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the
farm level is yet to take place.
7.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on
the private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most
agricultural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized;
constitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against
further arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the
private sector have been widened. A wide range of incentives including tax
holidays, excise and import duty concessions, concessionary credit and
income tax provisions, and direct cash rebates have been granted to
encourage private investment and exports. These have been supplemented by
a partial liberalization of imports which has improved the availability of
inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure has been streamlined. These
measures have led to an improvement in private sector confidence and to a
sharp increase in private investment, mainly in small and medium-scale
projects.
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which
has been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been
completed of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial lIanagement (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and



-3-
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have
little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
These measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain
skilled technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the
fertilizer subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity
utilization substantially in the public sector.
9,      The higher level of economic activity during the past five years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new
taxes and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. The
budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80 through FY82.
Government revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79,
rose by an average of 18% p.a. during the next three years as a result of
the continued growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases and inten-
sified efforts to improve tax collections. Although political developments
outside Pakistan's borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints
were maintained on total spending; the growth of public expenditures was
limited to 13% p.a. The expansion of development and administrative expen-
ditures were restrained, while subsidies were reduced by more than 25%.
These restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and some
improvement in surpluses generated by public sector agencies helped to
increase the availability of non-inflationary domestic resources. During
FY80 through FY82, the overall budget deficit averaged 5.7% of GNP and the
bank-financed budget deficit 1.7% of GNP; both figures are well below those
of the late 1970s.
10.     Pakistan's export performance improved considerably between FY77
and FY81. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578
million in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, also greatly assisted the
external position. These increases, however, were partly offset by an
increase in the value of imports, mainly petroleum, oil and lubricants,
fertilizer, edible oil and capital goods. The current account deficit was
US$991 million or 3.3% of GNP in FY81, compared to US$1,050 million or
nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in current prices.
11.      A number of developments contributed favorably to Pakistan's
ability to finance the FY81 current account deficit. These included the
conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement withl the IMF in Novem-
ber 1980; a positive response from aid donors to the country's improved
economic performance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows;
and an agreement with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for
rescheduling of debt service payments on official concessional debt falling
due over an 18-month period beginning mid-January 1981. As a consequence
of improved performance on both current account and capital account, for-
eign exchange reserves increased from US$748 million to US$1,039 million
during the year; the latter was the equivalent of about two months' worth
of import of goods and services.



-4-
12.     The balance of payments tleLeriorated somewhat during FY82.  The
principal reasons were a 17% decline in the value of exports coupled with
relatively slow growth of migrant remittances (6%). For Pakistan's major
exports, rice and cotton, the combination of deteriorating world economic
conditions plus output expansion in other countries led to a decline in
both unit values and volumes. For manufactured exports, the slowdown in
the world economy, together with a deterioration in Pakistan's competitive-
ness resulting from the linkage of the rupee to the US dollar up to January
1982 (the currency is now being nanaged with reference to a weighted basket
of currencies), led to a decline in value as compared with the previous
year. Because of the decline in world petroleum prices and import sub-
stitution in some key sectors (most particularly, fertilizers), the volume
of imports of essential raw materials and capital goods could still grow
sufficiently to provide for a real GDP expansion of 6% while the total
value of imports expanded by only 2%. Owing to the above factors, Pakis-
tan's current account deficit rose from US$991 million in FY81 to US$1,530
million in FY82 (the latter being equivalent to 4.7% of GNP). Net inflows
of official assistance, private capital and IIFf resources were not suffi-
cient to cover the increased deficit and there was a drawdown of about
US$200 million in reserves. At the end of FY82, reserves were US$840
million, the equivalent of about 1.5 months of imports.
13.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent
welcome steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essen-
tially structural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improve-
ments, further wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are
limiting economic growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to
sustain its recently improved economic performance over the present decade
and bring about a modest improvement in the living standards of its popula-
tion. These issues include the farm-level factors affecting low produc-
tivity in agriculture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial
sector; the need to improve performance of public sector enterprises; the
factors lying behind continued rapid growth in population; the need to
redirect social service expenditures; and the problems of resource mobi-
lization.
14.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, emmploying about 55% of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.
Despite recent improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental
factors continue to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below
the potential implied by the resources and technologies already available.
Generally, output growth has not been commensurate with the substantial
increases in available inputs, especially water and fertilizer. While
considerable potential still exists for the additional use of fertilizer
and other inputs, it appears essential to give greater priority to evolving
complementary policies and programs which would have a direct impact on



-5-
yields at the farm level. The importance of increasing farm productivity
is recognized in the Government and a beginning has been made in addressing
this problem. Nevertheless, support for programs to strengthen research,
extension, water management and other programs in the agricultural and
water sectors needs to be intensified, while fertilizer subsidies must be
further reduced, accompanied by necessary adjustments in output and con-
sumer prices.
15.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in
manufacturing production, though recently better, remain below the levels
attained in the 1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts
for nearly 40% of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets. Although there have been some recent improvements in the
output and profitability of public enterprises, these improvements need to
be carried further through appropriate reforms to remove distortions in
pricing and improve performance criteria and incentives to managers. To
assist the recovery in private investment and to maintain the increased
momentum in the industrial sector will require an adequate supply of local
and foreign financing, both for investments and current inputs, and the
more rapid provision of necessary utilities and other infrastructure
requirements. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Govern-
ment's incentive system supports those industries in which Pakistan has a
comparative advantage. Analysis is in progress to determine levels of
effective protection in order to provide the basis for formulating an
appropriate industrial development strategy for the 1980s.
16.     The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by
adjusting domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other
energy forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources,
have met with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been
restrained by the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resour-
ces as well as by petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity
in the oil sector has been stepped up, in some instances through joint
ventures with foreign private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of
technical, geological and other reasons, progress on exploration of new
fields as well as the development of existing fields has been slow and
Pakistan's considerable potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be
realized. The Government has begun to implement a number of reforms relat-
ing to such matters as energy planning, pricing and organization in order
to accelerate progress.
17.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in
population, currently running at about 2.8% p.a., which has seriously
handicapped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family
planning programs have so far had little effect and there have been few



-6-
changes in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany
declines in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on
government resources simply to maintain education and health programs at
their current inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy
rates, improved health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is
doubtful that population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on
social services have been low and undue emphasis has been given to higher
education and urban health facilities.  The Government has recently shown
more awareness of this problem; a new and more promising population program
is in the initial stages of implementation, and several special programs to
improve basic health and education facilities were introduced in the FY83
budget, especially for rural areas.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and
will have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and exter-
nal resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of pay-
ments, a fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels
in the economy, particularly in public savings. At 12% of GNP, national
savings are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but
are still low for a country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage
of development. The continuation of the Government's recent efforts to
restrain public spending, improve the performance of the public sector and
encourage private investment will help to reduce present imbalances between
investment and savings flows. At the same time, an increase in savings
inevitably calls for restraining private consumption through further
appropriate price adjustments and selective duty increases on non-essential
imports. Continued restraints on spending and measures to further improve
revenues through improvements in tax administration and tax and rate
increases (for example, property taxes, domestic water rates and irrigation
water charges) are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses,
potatoes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countries. In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
well as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial
sector.  Increased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral
fuels and fertilizer would help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     Although, as described above, the Pakistan economy continues to
face a number of difficulties, the improvements over the past few years in
demand management and in planning, incentives and government programs in
agriculture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more
conducive to rapid economic growth and better international trade perfor-
mance, and have established an improved framework within which further



-7-
reforms can be effectively pursued. The recent government policy initia-
tives, which have been formulated in close consultation with the Bank and
Fund, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial borrowing
and for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing.
21.     At the end of calendar 1981, Pakistan's external public debt
(excluding the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which
US$4.6 billion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium,
US$1.2 billion to OPEC and US$1.9 billion to multilateral agencies and the
balance to other bilateral and private lenders. In 1981, the Bank Group's
share in Pakistan's external public indebtedness was 13.8% and in external
debt service was 13.3%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent
policy improvements are sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt
service divided by exports of goods and factor and non-factor services),
which was about 12% in FY82, should rise slowly during the 1980s, even
assuming substantial commercial borrowing, reaching 15% in FY85 and remain-
ing in the 15-16% range through FY90.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.5 billion. During its
long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost
all sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other
donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the
water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA
commitments to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 30% for
agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and
2% for education. Lending for public utility services has included loans
and credits for railways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways,
telecommunications and water supply.
23.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and
credit; strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting
services; improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling
salinity and waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including



-8-
tubewells, livestock development and dairy processing. An important pur-
pose of this lending is to assist the Government's program to increase the
productivity of available land and water resources in the Indus Basin
through quick-yielding investments, as recommended recently in a
UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven Loans/Credits amounting to US$270
million for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
(PICIC), and two Credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP), totaling US$50 million. Direct lending for industry has also
included assistance to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for
small-scale industry. As of March 31, 1983, IFC had made investments in 16
Pakistan enterprises for a total of US$183.1 million, of which US$176.7
million was by way of loans and US$11.4 million by equity participations
(these are shown in Annex II). About US$58.4 million of these investments
remained outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include 3 in the
field of pulp and paper products, 2 each in textiles, food and food
processing, and petrochemicals, and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers,
plastics and wood processing. IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize
existing capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthen-
ing the institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi
Port Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and
federal and provincial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank
Group has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects
respectively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction under
the Indus Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has financed a petroleum
development project and begun to play an important role in strengthening
the Public Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assist-
ing in the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic
energy resources and in establishing a policy and institutional framework
for increased private investment in the sector. A second water supply
project in Lahore is currently under implementation. Five credits for
education, totaling US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary,
post-secondary and higher technical and agricultural education, mid-
dle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural extension agents.
28.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported Pakistan's
development through program assistance. A first structural adjustment
lending operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors in June



-9-
1982. This SAL program consists of a number of significant reforms in
government development planning and in policies and programs in the
agriculture, energy and industrial sectors.
29.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of lIarch 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some
projects have experienced initial delays due to protracted government
procedures for project approval, which have now been streamlined, and to
slowness in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of
managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle
East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some
projects.
30.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
agricultural credit, power generation, industrial financing, and oil and
gas development. Pakistan continues to have domestic r'esource constraints
for the reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Government to finance
agricultural and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign
exchange component, financing of some local expenditures in specific cases
is justified.
31.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of
Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external
assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE IRRIGATION SECTOR
Background
32.     Agriculture dominates Pakistan's economy; it contributes about 30%
to GDP, provides about two-thirds of total exports and employs some 55% of
the nation's 24.6 million labor force, thus maintaining about 70% of the
population (83.8 million) in rural areas. As discussed in Part I of this
report, agricultural growth increased from 1.7% in FY71-76 to 3.8% in
FY77-82. The doubling of the growth rate in the agricultural sector during
the late 1970s and early 1980s can be attributed partly to favorable
weather. However, major factors were GOP's policy of raising support
prices for agricultural crops; government programs to irmprove extension
services and the reliability of irrigation water supplies; and increased
availability of agricultural credit, fertilizer and other inputs.



-10-
Indus Irrigation System
33.     The Indus Irrigation System is the largest contiguous irrigation
system in the world. It commands about 34.5 million ac and comprises three
major storage reservoirs (Tarbela, Mangla and Chashma), 19 barrages or
headworks, 12 link canals, 43 canal commands and some 89,000 watercourses.
The total length of the canal system is about 35,000 mi, with watercourses,
farm channels and field ditches running another 1.0 million mi in length.
34.     Partition of the Indian sub-continent in 1947 left major headwaters
of some Indus tributaries in India, placing at risk extensive areas of
irrigated land in Pakistan. To resolve this contentious water sharing
problem, the 1960 Indus Water Treaty allocated the waters of the three
eastern rivers of Punjab (Ravi, Beas and Sutlej) to India and those of the
three western rivers (Indus, Jhelum and Chenab) to Pakistan. To serve
areas in Pakistan previously commanded by the eastern rivers, a massive
civil works effort, the Indus Basin Development Project (IBDP), was
launched to transfer water from the western rivers through a network of
large inter-river link canals and to replace lost dry season supplies by
construction of giant storage dams on the Jhelum and Indus. The Indus
Basin Development Fund (IBDF) was established in 1960 with international
donor support to finance these works. The Bank was appointed Administrator
of the IBDF and management and implementation of works were entrusted to
the Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), assisted by
private consultants and contractors. Under this prograri, the following
works were implemented: (a) Mangla Dam on Jhelum; (b) eight link canals;
and (c) six barrages, including Chashma. With minor exceptions, replace-
ment works were completed by 1971 on schedule.
35.     These works were complemented by the construction of the Tarbela
Dam under similar international funding and organizational arrangements as
the earlier IDBP works, and with the Bank as Administrator of the Tarbela
Development Fund. Despite problems during construction, which have now
been substantially resolved, Tarbela Dam became operational in 1975.
36.     Drainage and Associated Problems.  The hydrological balance of the
Indus Basin has been significantly altered during the past century by the
continuous and expanding diversion of riverflows for irrigation. Seepage
from the distribution system of canals, distributaries, minors and water-
courses, and deep percolation of water from irrigated lands, have resulted
in a gradual rising of the groundwater table, which has now reached a high
level over a significant portion of the irrigated area. At the beginning
of this century the watertable was generally over 50 ft below the surface
throughout the Indus Plain. However, the Indus Basin Salinity Survey,
published by WAPDA in 1981, reported that 22% of the Indus Basin has a
watertable within 6 ft of the surface, and an additional 30% of the area
has a water table within 10 ft. Mluch of this survey was completed in 1977
and 1978 and the situation has continued to deteriorate since that time.



-1 1-
37.     In ad(dition to the waterlogging problem, rainstorm flooding occurs
frequently in the upper portions of the Bari, Rechna and Chaj Doabs in
Punjab and in the lower reaches of the Indus Plain near the sea coast in
Sind. Surface drainage problems are also encountered in portions of NWFP
and in cities such as Karachi, Sukkur, Jhang, Lahore and Rawalpindi. Fur-
thermore, surface drainage problems associated with the flat topography of
the Indus Basin have been heightened by the construction of roads, rail-
ways, flood embankment and irrigation distribution networks which obstruct
natural drainage flows.
38.     The responsibility for alleviating the problem of waterlogging and
salinity was assigned to WAPDA in 1958. Based upon various studies, WAPDA
initiated a salinity control and reclamation project (SCARP) concept of
public tubewells (TW) to control waterlogging and salinity and provide for
optimum development of fresh groundwater (FGW) resources for agricultural
production. These TWs (capacity of 2 to 5 cusecs) and required surface
drains have been installed by WAPDA in 30 such SCARP projects in Pakistan
since 1959; when completed, these projects would cover about 15.5 M ac. As
of June 30, 1980, WAPDA had installed about 11,050 public TWs in FGW zones
and about 1,400 public TWs in saline groundwater (SGW) zones at a cost of
about Rs 5,500 M. However, financial constraints have severely limited
progress, with only 50% of the SCARP canal command area (cca), about 7.5 M
ac, covered to date with public TWs. Meanwhile, individual farmers have
installed about 180,000 TWs (capacity of one cusec or less), primarily for
supplementary irrigation. These private TWs have contributed significantly
to the control of waterlogging; it is estimated that the annual private TW
pumpage is about 27 million acre feet (maf), whereas that for public TWs is
about 5.0 maf.
39.     SCARP public TWs have made significant contributions in localized
areas to alleviating the waterlogging and salinity problems. Also,
experience gained from the SCARPs has spurred installation of private TWs
in FGW zones. Nevertheless, WAPDA reported in October 1980 that about 25%
of the SCARP cca had a watertable within 5 ft of the surface and 63% within
10 ft. This continued high watertable in SCARP areas has resulted from a
number of problems, the principal being the high O&M costs and organiza-
tional and technical drawbacks of public TW drainage. In consideration of
these problems, GOP has evolved a policy for subsurface drainage which
emphasizes horizontal pipe drainage in SGW areas and private TWs in FGW
areas. However, TWs may be installed in SGW areas as an interim solution
where urgent need for drainage makes it inappropriate to wait for the
completion of more time-consuming pipe installation.
40.     Recognizing the critical need for control of waterlogging, as well
as the institutional and technical problems facing the SCARP program, WAPDA
recommended in a "Revised Action Programme for Irrigated Agriculture"



-12-
(RAP) 1/ in 1979 that: (a) FGW resources should be exploited by the
private sector; (b) a program should be implemented to transfer O&M of
existing public TWs in FGW zones to the private sector; and (c) control of
waterlogging in SGW zones should have high priority in future investment
programs.
41.     Three IDA-funded drainage projects, Khairpur II (Cr. 684-PAK),
SCARP VI (Cr. 754-PAK), and SCARP Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK) are currently being
implemented in Pakistan. The first horizontal pipe drainage systems to be
installed in Pakistan have been included in the Khairpur II (about 36,000
ac) and SCARP Mardan (about 73,000 ac) projects. About 250 public TWs are
scheduled to be installed in SCARP VI to drain about 300,000 ac in the SGW
zone. Technical difficulties (largely due to extremely difficult soil
conditions) which delayed the implementation of the Khairpur project have
now been substantially overcome. The two SCARP projects were initially
affected by general budgetary problems but are now progressing satisfac-
torily.
42.     A number of other projects are under preparation with Bank assis-
tance to promote improved drainage. These include a proposed "SCARP Tran-
sition" project aimed at phasing out or divesting existing public TWs to
the private sector in FGW zones where this is consistent with drainage
requirements; and a proposed Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) project, which
would provide facilities to export salt effluent that has accumulated in
the lower reaches of the Indus Basin. The LBOD project, which would be
implemented in stages, would be a major national undertaking requiring
multi-donor involvement.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.     The proposed project was appraised in June 1982.  Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. during April 1983; the Pakistan delegation was led
by Mr. Wahab Shaikh, Secretary, M4inistry of Water and Power, Government of
Pakistan. A report entitled "Pakistan: Staff Appraisal Report - Fourth
Drainage Project (Report No. 4380-PAK, dated April 27, 1983) is being
circulated to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet is
attached as Annex III.
1/ Based on a four-year Indus Basin Planning Study funded by UNDP with the
Bank as executing agency.



-13-
Objectives
44.     The project objectives would be to increase agricultural production
and to strengthen the capabilities of WAPDA and Punjab's Departments of
Irrigation (PID) and Agriculture in carrying out similar projects. To
achieve the first objective, the project would reduce waterlogging and
salinity by installing a system of subsurface drains; reduce rain flooding
by rehabilitating and extending the system of surface drains; increase
irrigation water supplies through savings afforded by improved on-farm
water management (OFWM) practices; and strengthen the extension program.
To achieve the institutional objective, the project would provide substan-
tial technical assistance and training.
Project Description
45.     The proposed five-year project (FY84-88) would include subsurface
drainage, surface drainage, on-farm water management and extension in the
Paharang (138,000 ac), Samundri I (43,000 ac), and Samundri II (174,000 ac)
units of Faisalabad Division in Punjab Province. The surface drainage
component would cover the entire project area (295,000 ac). Because of
resource constraints, the other components would be limited to about 75,000
ac with severe subsurface drainage problems.
Subsurface Drainage
46.     Approximately 22,500 ac in Paharang, 24,750 ac in Samundri I, and
27,750 ac in Samundri II would be selected as subproject areas for instal-
lation of a subsurface drainage system. Selection of areas to receive such
treatment would be made by a Project Coordination Committee (paragraph 57)
and concurred by IDA.
47.     The proposed project includes the required civil works for the
estimated 75,000 ac of horizontal pipe subsurface drainage. The project
would provide for installing about 225 mi of collector and 1,380 mi of
field drains with gravel envelope, 250 sumps, 78 mi of linking channels and
facilities, as well as soil amendments. All civil works designs and
specifications would be satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
48.     Office buildings, rest house, storage yards and maintenance build-
ings for the project would be constructed in the Faisalabad area.   Addi-
tional facilities to be constructed would include storage areas in the
immediate project area.



-14-
Surface Drainage
49.     The project would provide an improved surface drainage system for
all three units (295,000 cca). These improvements would include construct-
ing new surface drains; rehabilitating existing drains; and constructing
stream gauging stations on drains. All civil works design and construction
would be consistent with existing specifications of WAPDA and Punjab's PID,
which are satisfactory to IDA.
50.     The project would provide for construction of one new branch drain
(3 mi) in Samundri II and 15 new subdrains (56 mi).  Of these subdrains,
three (19 mi) would be constructed in Paharang, four (15 mi) in Samundri I,
and eight (22 mi) in Samundri II. The project would also provide about 168
structures consisting of 18 inlets, 100 culverts and 50 watercourse
syphons.
On-Farm Water Management and Extension
51.     The OFWM and extension component would be implenented on the same
acreage as the subsurface drainage system. Generally, this component would
replicate the technical, financial and institutional arrangements adopted
for the IDA-supported On-Farm Water Management Project (Cr. 1163) initiated
in August 1981.
52.     The project would provide materials, precast structures and
earthwork required for the civil works. All civil works would be carried
out in accordance with technical criteria established in the "On-Farm Water
Management National Standards for Practices and M4aterials," Ministry of
Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives, Government of Pakistan, June 1980,
which are satisfactory to IDA. Civil works installation would include
watercourse renovation, precision land leveling (PLL) and demonstration
plots.
53.     It is envisaged that the watercourse renovation program would cover
all watercourses (about 190) in the subsurface drainage area. Since the
project is located in a SGW area, about 30% 'of the communal watercourses
would be lined with brick masonry and the remaining 70% would be rebuilt
with clean compacted soil. A formal Water Users Association (WUA) would be
organized on each watercourse prior to installing permanent structures.
Scheduling priority for watercourse renovation would be given to those
watercourses where farmers have indicated a willingness to improve field
ditches and apply OFWM practices on their farms.
Equipment
54.     In addition to the civil works described above, the project would
provide required construction equipment, nine heavy duty trenching
machines, vehicles, workshop equipment and tools, lowlift sump pumps, O&M



-15-
and survey equipment, soil and water laboratory equipment, office equipment
and furniture. The installation of seven automatic gauging stations on the
project area's drainage system would also be included.
Technical Assistance and Training
55.     To strengthen implementation capacity, ensure quality of works and
train local technical staff, the project would provide: (a) about 225
man-months of resident and part-time specialists (at about US$10,350 per
man-month) to assist WAPDA in: (i) preparation of plans and designs for
subsurface drainage schemes; (ii) procuring, modifying and operating spe-
cialized drainage equipment; (iii) inspection, and operation and main-
tenance of installed works; (iv) soil investigations; and (v) monitoring
and evaluation; (b) funding (about US$1.0 M) of a local agency for monitor-
ing and evaluation of the project (see paragraph 70); and (c) about 90
man-months (at about US$1,600 per man-month) of local supervisory consult-
ants to strengthen Punjab's OFWM Directorate and assist in implementing the
OFWII component. GOP would employ suitably qualified consultants for the
above assignments with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section
3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). A full-time drainage
engineer and the supervisory consultants would be employed not later than
two months after credit effectiveness (Section 3.03(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
56.     The project would also provide:  (a) about 30 study tours in tech-
nically advanced countries with comparable irrigation, subsurface and
surface drainage facilities; (b) on-the-job training of about nine equip-
ment operators by experienced drainage contractors located in the arid and
semi-arid irrigated areas of the United States; (c) on-the-job training for
pipe drainage construction inspectors and for planners, designers and
installers of pipe drainage; and (d) in-country workshops and on-the-job
training for project staff within the project and under the Yhairpur Tile
Drainage and SCARP Mardan Projects.
Organization and Implementation
57.     The drainage components would be implemented by WAPDA, while the
OFWI Directorate in Punjab's Department of Agriculture would implement the
OFWM and extension component. A Project Coordination Committee would
coordinate the activities of these two implementing agencies. The committee
would be chaired by the General Manager (Water) Central, WAPDA, and would
include the Chief Engineer, PID (Faisalabad); Chief Engineer, WAPDA
(Faisalabad); Project Director, WAPDA (Faisalabad); and Director General,
OFWM, Punjab Department of Agriculture. The establishment of this project
coordination committee by GOP and GOPunjab would be an additional condition
of effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). A Project Policy Committee would formulate policies, rationalize



-16-
criteria and review fiscal matters to achieve adequate operation and main-
tenance and appropriate cost recovery (Section 3.07 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). This committee would be chaired by the Additional
Chief Secretary, Punjab Department of Planning and Development, and would
include the provincial Secretaries of Irrigation and Power, Agriculture and
Finance, and the General Manager (Water) Central, WAPDA.
58.     WAPDA would be responsible for recommending to the Project Coor-
dination Committee the areas to receive subsurface drainage and OFWM
improvements; preparing plans and detailed designs for construction;
executing required civil works and project facilities; preparing specifica-
tions and related procurement for civil works, equipment and technical
experts; preparing quarterly and annual progress reports for the project
and submitting them to the Project Coordination Committee; and preparing an
annual work plan by March 1 of each year to serve as the basis of funding
in the succeeding year's Federal Annual Development Program (ADP). In
addition, WAPDA would be responsible for preparing a project completion
report by December 31, 1988, with input on the OFWM and extension component
to be supplied by Punjab's OFWM Directorate. WAPDA would establish a
project office near Faisalabad under the direction of the Chief Engineer.
At the same time, a Project Director would be appointed and posting of
sanctioned staff would be initiated. The establishment of the project
office would be an additional condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(e)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
59.     The responsibilities of the OFWM Directorate would include planning
and design of OFWM programs, i.e., watercourse renovation, PLL, and water
management measures on watercourse branches and individual farms; laying
out, constructing and inspecting civil works; supervising installation and
operation of demonstration plots; supervising O&M of renovated watercour-
ses; organizing, registering, assisting and maintaining liaison with WUAs;
procuring required equipment; preparing quarterly and annual progress
reports and submitting them to the Project Coordination Committee; and
preparing an annual work plan as an input into the preparation of the
Provincial ADP and for review by the Project Coordination Committee. The
Directorate would also submit required information on the OFWM and exten-
sion component to WAPDA for timely inclusion in the Project Completion
Report.
60.     Three additional field teams, one in each subproject unit, would be
mobilized to plan, design, lay out, construct and inspect required OFWM
works. These teams would be in the field by September 1, 1983.
61.     The Punjab O&M Section established under the ongoing OFWM project
would be strengthened in the project area to include three additional water
management supervisors (WMS) and 10 field assistants (FA) who would be
responsible to the Assistant Director, Agriculture, in Faisalabad. Each



-17-
WMS would be responsible for a subproject area and each FA would be respon-
sible for about 19 watercourses. This section would be specifically
responsible for organizing formal WUAs; serving as liaison between WUAs and
the OFWM Directorate to encourage effective and continued operation of
WUAs; monitoring watercourse maintenance and taking appropriate action;
assisting farmers and WUAs in planning, implementing and operating simple
irrigation measures; scheduling OFWM field teams to do follow-up work on
renovated watercourses; promoting water management practices within the
watercourse and on individual farms; supervising work and operations on
individual demonstration plots; and supplying assistance and advice on
non-water inputs and services.  All assistance and advice to farmers on
non-water inputs and services would be provided by personnel assigned to
the O&M Section in the OFWl Directorate. Punjab's Department of Agricul-
ture would review this arrangement in the course of project implementation
and determine the appropriateness of reassigning these responsibilities to
the Extension Service. In the meantime, the Area Coordinator at Faisalabad
would take the required action to ensure appropriate coordination with the
Extension Service.
Operation and Maintenance
62.     During construction and for one year following completion of work
in a given area, WAPDA would be responsible for all O&M of the subsurface
and surface drainage components. Thereafter, O&M responsibilities would be
transferred to Punjab's PID; specifically, PID's Drainage Division, under
the Chief Engineer of the Faisalabad Region, would carry out these respon-
sibilities. It is estimated that the O&M base cost would be about Rs 55/ac
for the subsurface and Rs 17/ac for the surface drainage component. This
would require an allocation in PID's non-development budget rising to about
Rs 15.1 M annually in FY89. GOPunjab would provide sufficient funding, in
line with the above estimate but modified with operational experience, to
PID to ensure adequate maintenance of drainage facilities installed under
the project (Section 2.01(d) of the draft Punjab Project Agreement). WUAs
would be responsible for the O&M of renovated watercourses. In case of
non-compliance with the maintenance requirements, such maintenance would be
undertaken by either the WUA and/or OFWl Directorate and the costs assessed
by the Provincial Department of Revenue against the non-complying farmers
in the form of land arrears. Individual farmers would he responsible for
the O&M of field ditches and other improvements such as PLL.  Punjab's OFWM
Directorate would supply the necessary technical assistance to help the
WUAs and farmers in carrying out these O&M responsibilities.
Project Cost
63.     Total project cost is estimated to be US$101.4 nillion, with a
foreign exchange component of US$42.3 million or 42%. Estimates are based
on April 1983 prices and include US$14.1 million in taxes and duties.
Physical contingencies range from 15% for subsurface drainage construction



-18-
to 5% for equipment and none for technical assistance staff, and
administration and engineering. Price contingencies are estimated at about
7.8% in FY84, progressively declining to 6% in FY87 and FY88, for both
domestic and international inflation.
Financing
64.     The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 60.3 million (US$65 million equiv-
alent) would finance about 76% of the foreign exchange costs, and about 56%
of the local costs, or about 75% of the total project costs net of taxes
and duties. It is expected that the United Kingdom and the Netherlands
would provide an additional US$9.8 million and US$3.5 million, respec-
tively, which would cover about 24% of the foreign exchange costs and about
5% of the local costs, or an additional 15% of the total project costs, net
of taxes and duties. The fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the U.K. and Dutch fundings would be additional conditions
of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) and (c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). GOP, GOPunjab and farmers would finance the remaining
US$23.1 million equivalent or about 23% of the total project costs, includ-
ing taxes and duties. Farmers' contribution would amount to about US$0.7
million relating to installation of OFWM works.
65.     Financing for the subsurface and surface drainage components would
be included in the water sector of the Federal ADP. Financing for the OFWI
and extension component would be included in Punjab's Provincial ADP.
Approval of the project's PC-Is 1/ by the Executive Comiiittee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC) would be an additional condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
66.     The project would provide for utilizing the Civil Works Imprest
Account at the federal level and a sub-account in Punjab Province, as
established for the OFWM Project to finance civil works construction relat-
ing to the 0FWMI component.  IDA would make an initial deposit of about Rs
2.75 million in the Imprest Account within the State Bank of Pakistan for
transfer to the Punjab sub-account. Disbursements from the sub-account
would follow existing Punjab provincial procedures and would be under the
control of the Director General of the OFWM Directorate, with delegation of
operating authority to the Deputy Director located in the Faisalabad Divi-
sion. The operation of this system of accounts would be made in accordance
with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
1/ PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma 1) is an internal government project
appraisal document necessary for GOP approval procedures.



-19-
Procurement
67.     Items to be financed under the proposed project include civil
works, equipment, materials and technical assistance and training.
Procurement under the subsurface and surface drainage components would be
carried out by WAPDA, whereas Punjab's OFWM Directorate would be respon-
sible for the OFWM component. Procurement of civil works for the subsur-
face drainage component including supply of pipe (about US$50.6 million net
of taxes and duties) would be by ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Contractors for installing subsurface drainage facilities would utilize
project equipment.  Procurement of soil amendments (gypsum) would follow
WAPDA'S LCB procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Procurement of nine
trenching machines (US$3.5 million) would follow procedures agreeable to
GOP and the Netherlands. All other equipment (US$6.2 million) and civil
works for the surface drainage component (US$3.6 million) would be procured
under procedures acceptable to GOP and the United Kingdom.
68.     Civil works construction for the OFWM1 and extension component
(US$9.1 million) would be in small parcels, seasonal, and involve extensive
farmer donated labor. Such construction would not be practical for ICB.
Therefore, the civil works would be carried out in the following manner:
(a) watercourse renovation would be done by farmer donated labor with
government supplied materials; and (b) precision land leveling would be
done by farmers with rented equipment from Punjab's OFWDI Directorate and/or
private contractors. All civil works materials are available in Pakistan.
Bricks, cement and precast structures would be procured by Punjab's OFWMI
Directorate following provincial procedures satisfactory to IDA. The
material cost would be about US$30,100 per watercourse or about US$5.7
million for the project.'
Disbursements
69.     Disbursements of the IDA Credit would be for:  (a) 85% of the cost
of civil works for the subsurface drainage components; (b) 95% of the cost
of civil works materials for the OFWM and extension component; (c) 100% of
the cost of technical assistance and oversetas training; and (d) 90% of the
cost of local training and of salaries and allowances of WAPDA's field
personnel and Punjab's OFW4M Directorate's field crews and O&M Section
associated with the project. Disbursements under items (a) and (c) would
be made against full documentation. Disbursements under (b) and (d) would
be made against certified statements of expenditures; supporting documents
would be retained by the implementing agencies for review by IDA. Reimbur-
sement applications for (b) would also be accompanied by: (i) a statement
of transactions on the Imprest sub-account since the previous application,
with the balance certified by the State Bank of Pakistan; and (ii) a recon-
ciliation showing that the balance represents the amount deposited in the
account at the beginning of the project, less payments awaiting IDA reim-
bursement. It is anticipated that final disbursement for the project would



-20-
be made by December 31, 1988, about six months after the end of project
implementation.
70.     Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Monitoring and Evaluation Office
(M&E), WAPDA, either directly or through a local consultant, would be
responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the subsurface and surface
drainage components and the evaluation of the OFWM component. Monitoring
of the OFWM and extension component would be the responsibility of Punjab's
OFWM Directorate assisted by the local supervisory consultants. M&E would
prepare work programs for this monitoring and evaluation by October 1, 1983
and submit them through the Project Coordination Committee for review to
IDA by December 1, 1983. M&E would prepare annual reports on its
activities and would submit a final report to the Project Coordination
Committee and IDA by December 31, 1988. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
for this project would be operational by January 1, 1984 (Section 2.07 of
the draft WAPDA Project Agreement).
71.     Evaluation would concentrate on assessing the impact of major
project components especially regarding: (a) the effect on lowering the
groundwater table of the completed subsurface and surface drainage system;
(b) the benefits derived from the improvements, i.e., subsurface drainage
and surface drainage; and (c) the effect on crop production of the
renovated watercourses distributed over the entire subsurface drainage
area. Agricultural production data would be collected before and after the
improvements, and sampling areas would be selected for items (b) and (c).
Analysis of this data/information would be useful to improve the design of
future drainage works in Pakistan.
Cost Recovery
72.     Pakistan's surface irrigation and drainage system has deteriorated
because of inadequate funding for O&M. The Governments of Pakistan and
Punjab agreed under the Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 1239) to increase budgetary allocations for O&M annually in real terms
to reach estimated required levels by FY85. This agreerment was reiterated
under the Structural Adjustment Program (Ln. 2166 and Cr. 1255). To
improve the recovery of O&M expenditures on the irrigation system, Punjab
agreed, first under the SCARP VI Project (Cr. 754) and recently under the
above-mentioned Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project, to raise water
charges or make other appropriate arrangements to achieve full recovery of
O&M costs by July 1, 1990. An agreement on the same lines has been
included under this project (Section 3.03 of the draft Punjab Project
Agreement). The issue of recovery of drainage expenditures is one of
increasing relevance in Pakistan in view of the expected need for major
drainage investments. It is intended that this issue will be addressed as
part of a proposed Second Structural Adjustment Program, tentatively
scheduled for FY84. GOP is currently considering a number of different



-21-
alternatives; among them, a "betterment charge" to be paid by beneficiaries
of irrigation and drainage investments.
Benefits and Risks
73.     The project would raise agricultural production and incomes through
a package of subsurface drainage, surface drainage, improved OFWM practices
and extension on about 75,000 ac, and would reduce crop and property losses
caused by storm flooding through improved surface drainage on the entire
project area. The project would assist in alleviating the growing problem
of waterlogging and salinity in the Indus Basin, and would strengthen the
capability of local institutions to undertake other essential drainage
projects in the future. Considering the problems experienced with public
TWs in Pakistan (see paragraph 39) and in view of the soil conditions in
the project area, it was concluded that the horizontal pipe system proposed
by GOP/WAPDA for the subsurface drainage component would be the appropriate
technology for the project. About 32,000 farm families, or about 215,000
people, whose present per capita incomes of US$90-120 equivalent compare
with an estimated rural poverty income level of US$140 (1981), would
directly benefit from the project. Incremental farm employment would
increase from 660,000 man-days in project year 10 (equivalent to about
2,750 full-time jobs) to 1.32 million man-days in project year 30 (about
5,500 full-time jobs). The project would have a beneficial impact on the
environment by reducing the breeding areas of mosquitoes. The project's
economic rate of return (IRR) is estimated to be about 15%.
74.     With the measures incorporated in the design of the project--selection
criteria, specialized drainage construction equipment, substantial technical
assistance and training, strengthened extension and on-farm water management
program--no unusual risks are foreseen regarding its implementation. However,
its success would depend on the coordinated and timely execution of all
three components, and delays in any one of them would reduce expected
benefits. This risk would be minimized through close supervision of
project implementation by the Project Coordination Committee.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreements between the
Association and the Water and Power Development Authority of Pakistan
(WAPDA) and between the Association and the Province of Punjab and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the lxecutive Directors
separately. The organization of a Project Coordination Committee; the
establishment of a project office under WAPDA's Chief Engineer, Faisalabad;
meeting all conditions precedent to effectiveness of the U.K. and Dutch



-22-
fundings; and the approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 documents for the project
would be additional conditions of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
76.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
77.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 6, 1983



-23-                                              Annex I
Page I
TABLE 3A
PARISTIAN- SCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 1(01)  PAKISTAN  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVIAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RM.)                      P-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)- 
TOTAL            803.9                                MOST RECENT           LOW INCCOE          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     249.9              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA 4 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  70.0       130.0      300.0              261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     132.4       190.6     209.2               448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 45851.0     60449.0   82153.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1        24.9      28.2                17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     134.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       308.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KI.                       57.0        75.2      99.2               158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. IO. AGRICULTURAL LAND    200.4       248.9     316.9               355.9                  1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.8        46.3      46.5                36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                         51.8        50.5      50.7                59.7                    56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.4         3.2       2.8                 3.5                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.3         2.8       3.1                 2.0                     2.3
URBAN                              4.6         4.0       4.3                 3.3                     3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.3         47.4      43.6                29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.3         19.9      16.0                11.0                     9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.7         3.5       3.0                 2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..      1908.1    2085.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..       6.07w             19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0       102.0     101.0              108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   87.8        97.1      98.8/d             97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          58.1        59.8      62.87i             56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       23.3        20.1      19.977             20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     25.4        21.5      17.8               10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.3         46.2      49.8               57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          161.5       143.0     125.5               89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        21.0      29.0               32.9                     32.0
URBAN                               ..        77.0      60.0               70.7                     51.9
RURAL                               ..         4.0      17.0               22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         3.0       6.0               18.1                     37.7
URBAN                               ..        12.0      21.0               72.7                     65.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5396.8      4299.1/f  3775.1/e,f         3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    16961.8    13306.07o 10030.37E,f          4929.3                   4829.4
HOPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1794.5      1860.1    1903.4/e f         1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                            506.8       648.1     712.97             301.3                    651.6
RURAL                               ..    12478.5  11870.17hj            5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                 ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4         5.3
URBAN                              5.6         5.5
RURAL                              5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              3.1         2. 8/S
URBAN                              3.1         2.7
RURAL                              3.1         2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        17.9/       .
URBAN                               ..        54.4/S
RURAL                                -         4.9/S



Annex I
-24-
Page 2
TABLE 3A
PAKISTM1-CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAXISTAN                         REFERENCE GRouPS (WEIGHTED AVAGZ6
-  MOST RECENT ES1M GE)
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME           ItDDLE INCOM
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC         ASrA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0         44.0      56.0                 97.4                 96.2
MALE                  46.0         62.0       81.0               101.0                  99.8
FEMALE                13.0         24.0      31.0                 87.8                 92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         14.0      16.0                 53.0                 37.6
MALE                  18.0         22.0       24.0                63.8                  41.1
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0        8.0                41.3                  34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.5        1.4                 1.7                  20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.6         41.5      40.1                 37.7                  35.5
SECONDARY                           24.0         19.8       18.7                20.2                 25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0/h       20.7/i    24.0                 52.1                  73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.5          2.6       2.8Jc                1.5                  9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         17.1      65.8                 35.4                116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          1.6       9.4                  3.2                 37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   13.2           ..       13.7                16.4                  53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            3.0/i      2.4                 3.6                   2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.7        17364.1   22717.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.6          9.3      10.2                 29.5                 33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0         59.0      57.0                 70.0                 52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0         19.0      20.0                 15.0                 17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7       27.7                40.0                  38.5
MALE                                  55.2       - 50.4       47.2                51.8                  50.5
FEMALE                                 5.7          5.5        5.9                23.8                 26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.8                 1.0                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/k         17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3Tk         41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.47ik         8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.57k         20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 *-         68.0/i   176.0                133.8                194.7
RURAL                                 ..         47.071   122.0                111.5                155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         34.0/i    88.0                   ..                178.2
RURAL                                 ..         22.071    58.0                   ..                164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..         42.0/i    32.0                 43.8                 24.4
RURAL                                 ..         43.0/i    29.0                 51.7                 41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1973;
/h 1962; /i 1972; /j 1968; /k 1964.
May, 1982



-25-                                                      ~~~~~~Annex 1
ittLNttttat  OF stola   OISO?
MCAt.; Although the data are Aros  trtsuce   ooAiy  "                     -Cdtettusortto   n   oihl.s   hudaj  h. 50'5  than they say nt h' toter
Ia.-Iell -oapurble  e  oeo b     ire tat  totagritd dofiotiona ad  -ottept  uOed by ditfonee  lonb.t  o ciotigt   dAna.  The datan.,ae
th. Ist,  _foto  to de..cribe ordos o  santoo,ids-at  troo. ad                                  -J., tre  cras  so  dttf..- ouooo.. toseoostiu..
Th. reefono  rotsar  (1sest   rur   ra   t tbu nsh)otoC C.sryud (01 A  -tsosa  $-oP eth .... ohat high-r avorag  I-at  Chs  tie   atve   ru
aaoinnitCh.  _CoasAie  looeu    a  data fr that itdlouuo.  Since the r                   foag   P  oneit  et  th  Idaic-ot  dep.td. on the aesublihfy at tt.
toAl    crl   usyc   rsoo      -ibt  ad ann  and tAlaud  -Aann; 19(9 dat.oha.    adrrl  d  d,  y  hi   op-te   ,o  of hospital hada
dAgfcoio-a  -Etasl-  of agricait-ro  CAAo aoodI te(op-iiy at poosnsly                         =eatlht  hi pabllt and Pi-eat  geoAta oAd spe.IaLOd baoo,tus anda
toecros   aettostrbot aod 1100000 frdog  an to It. follat; 1979 dona.                 hahtigaion aCnnoto.  gospital  000 -tbsohits         . gsaaly   Ulnf.4
by An leant ou  PhYooSAiA.  tutabtiasheg   P-ordhis  ot AdAlpont-
GNSP P5CPt   (ii-SI   ySp                   aniao   sctotaro   toA. cal-                        dialoat  a   nt gtsnidgd.  Saral ho       6tas   sn .. ilootud  beAlab
citod hy oa   asoeie thad as-uri  gagh Atlas (0909-9(  banns); i960.                        sa  sdis  nattoo  ass Poeea ly suadtd by a pbyelogs  lieg  hr A
1970. aad 19df data.                                                                         tginti aoiet-.   a, AA  -tof,ec) shi.h otfe   W-a--cate  aee
datIve and preibd  A ILAIt.d range of eadlcl faeifLgAW.  I., stati-
SHnE=  =WS9ttION-t3 ygl WTiS     - dAgua  -ousatito of cttalessg  boatI                         00001 Piagoat  sebaahaeal   eld  Ona 1luigalt                 a  he-pitsia.
and  tteto.tetrleS, utuea  to   n  (tydn-  . oscin  us  getnherea  olen-            an t4  o  hoo1 sag.    .1d or rua-1 ut    .d sedLtal "an  antaly
MrtIty) Is kilona-  uf ooi  qlvlrpar ovpits; i9Kt, 1970,. an  i9t't                           ... Cns.  leAngAItAAA h-abtal  to  isolded ugly andt Ctotl
data.                                                            bOehiehiga oar Pasoisal gaglln = B   - Total g,*nr 00   )1eeaAse so or dinbaepn
PtlPMiI.af bND t'ThL t?AyliTICs
T. og4N.KdTaoWhssun    A. h f Jolt I; (96g. 19(0, and 1900                                96n19c
dilt-et  de   .tiaea   es   va    y  tft  Cesparahltly of dat                               sd them  tabi  -ea..  A huardar orlos   an        -nay oat he laItadd L.
asag  -usuriv; 1960. 1970, and 190  date.                                                   Che haaaud  v  statlnc-l turpat..
totalp1 ultisby ago and sos aud shoiv   -          tlly and ftar ltily tang.             doeLItoga  esapootloy.                 .-sl Ig."eoe  o-steatnotsa 
PO-tJurla  paeeAtora tot sornlivy oats,.. PCurIn  of  hthes  love. asunnocpta  rats..
Lit lit. ree--uY a  birth inooaio  eth cstr   -otoveta trfrAy  otanrZtrtsisto-E sto                                                     - nus.arbg          aa
ite..ad f-naleitfo osnt .c tbitroco  at 77.1  et...  Th. pars-                       Utsogoa   aiig   ih oiattttatty So ltivtg  q-oteor  oe peruAtAA
-e C. Et fo -frrility at.C. dine hv- thre  t. L.-I.      lu  doilan to                   of tota.1  orhag, and rogC    atiogatgovis
tertlity   -COntig no Iattea  ire  and pags  oEiidy pl-gi.t pattE-ao._
Uob i.tunty L. th-g oauigod eo  of theos sLoe c-bOrtuag-n  at   -1ttaii              zwtTOSa
.An  fertility troda tEt Pe.Jtineor Po.po-.                                            Adjustd trOian    Atie.
Stajtioey  oslrn  -.1   uttteat   epltt  thAre Le - grayh Cir                                tseysho1    ttl  ae-u   oi   trrat ttal,  O  end f.tia
tte h'tnh rse Is aqoa  to rho d-th eAto  and alus the  g AS.      orttn. C to- .nols .01 allI ags at the prIsety leeoi s  perovetago  At tnet
tlaAA   . tootn.  Thi Is Aohiv-W Oslo ot-tofeaillcy nansa dotIitu  to                       podeoty -hao-,-- Poylsbsa   ntly ts                  Cha obl,te  sAG" K-Il
tht . rop.c-,e leve  Ai ait net roprodaCnio  rate. sbus .-h geonAttin                       yo 4thu  a35te  toe d1ittao-  locha of Otteery  daat .a 
if -ae, rPluon   maltf e-cey.  Th.t stationay  ppoota .so   Ms onre  aihunora  odnessbi  -ngirtsY neeead ItO maAan
eutigatod cv the Susie ef the yre)nct4 ohAro-tola-tr  of the populst-                       .in  tot .puPils aer hu_. nrAZov  the ettiobat ashoo  age.
ha rho yua  29g. and the  on .t:  dola  atIt   E torlliyretanoror-lso                    Soc odare school -  tutal. al  ad  fE.-Ie - Caspaeeg an 500; ntsoedAry
nagslA   l                                                                                  ouain  otlt  as. lon           -ts  Ya..s of appeared pogCe  iotur?s
sie.ll ho  -rnhad.                                                                      aesaIly orI  C i  so    ..rAe  of ago;  -erropeggen   -oasAn eve 6e-sai
ye  q.b. - Kid-yost Popautlos AOt sQ.o.. hilot-to  (11(0  utetatocioalO ul.g V-ron Eto  -evdore   V- caianaIt . tat.gtfs
ttlue;106, 19(0 and 1919 data.                                                     teclud  t_.ttoi.  luuttla, or other progran  abicheoas               g9
Pet s-  ke. acislit   nc  - CotPOrtd aeoha-  fnrgeoutuullod                                 vetY ur ocdearun.tta of aenuasy    atfe.
oeY; 19d. 1677 and 19(9 dat.                                                                          I'll-otbtrou  -. ottus. sod oasondy - Total t.,AdtA  oeol   t
yois1i-tO  AA. inStovte (veroe) '- Citidr.e  10-li (Va-s), nru-ao(15-                         prnr   o   ot.atltl    Ediedd hy  .. ers of grarbop  Is the
-' er)   0   etrod (65 Yveead etoet aP--cntgee of aid-year pry-cceaosogivv
latiou. 190  -17, e  1999 dal..                                                            61 oalsitorany rsC.t   ro. i   LIbttt adults tAb Lot t  rood -ad -it.)
Otnuavie drethtos  (Oeton( -nosa      osui tresh o-t  of nCtpi aid-               aaprtostagr 01 Ctott1dl parsiasn  agod IS yos. -an000
yea  tositts fr  99060  160-7,  d1970- to..
O neU   a .to h IR .Sa   lt -t   let onet1     I  -ba   1-   btfnoot   ata Ch   at o -o 00   o ths op -  lftt.stltPT lts                   W d .                -  -  AA
MRpialt; 196.  W9(. ned(So dan.                                                            elrayvbtt
trae guh ab(pe t,oeadi- Ousne dat.ha P-r thau ad. M 1 fgb-y-a                       nl   eovr  pttosu   aualn    - di  typos of  -aiter  tote radIo
Praosles  Oh,170, ond (Oto data.                                                            boansut  gnrtpbicprtua  of rpo-iseo; esLtAdnA-
Soot. tRaA_O_tlt_ gor  - i-veat sobet c  d-oght-a A   -la  sill b-a  10tIe   eninti   ostseadn yInsIT=ArogaeWi. of 05010
nilivy  -ata" asaily tlr--yus   reae   ndtsL. IIa 96.190   ud1960.                          nes  c--stsouoiea   icri
of bitsb-ootroi d-rtc-  oodv  oeitof sairC    tuirposlgpren                                 geso  pstt  per thousad psal.tton; euci4d.  uionTV It  etives
F-nIly tpiatgto  - trs(uenr 01 -orod usni ornag   ftridt rruetro  s_d It Y-ot  be  regstarIo  o  lTV ses ant offoot.
o sof Obidtatot t4(160lc-    eh   s.hrA-oaOo    00c.  0                               e-sarr(ttolta -tnetiaa-.ceS.lg  -ies  heoaeg  tr
pollobo   tont   p~trtanly so verodlg g      I Ca na.t  EO .-Itd .. A
Fio  MDt aRtTIaN                                                                                to he   aSy, It It apposa  t Leas  rI-  ttti      aup.
p-odntida of nll Iced toonditlrsI Pe-dnen   -ultdo  toa  aud toad sod                       ttchtu s-ld doebug tha Y-sO  in lodg sdt-sge-  re 4fie-Ia CI.-m
Isatrad of asgarl ehihl see  Editl sod  _otos -treats (-S.. cotte  -nd
teaat A  ncodd)   fgg-gtat  Protd_C. of  _ah coutry Is hose.d a                        LAM0 P9ttt
sanous  sarag   pr-daer prIor segh-; 0961-55, (9(. Is  1900 dat.                       Tutal Lao PTte (thosnoede) - E-ardoelly aCtic  p--at,   oldn
Fornarta nery  f cioreo eoC_u etCosetntu   -tapod trot                               ortA  tta E-   And ooaPLoyeA  bog AAsCi.sdu  haCC_e.saeg    r.
usrg   eguialt c  net tfad uspyi   A- aila,ble  sconr E    pee' P., s                   eeoo CAPlel             fL,ags   Dfttotiso-  It -att-.  -trsooo   rCA
pot day.  Am.oolbouyle  csplodtoucpeatd. l,0tt  I...etcaatb    1960. 19(0 anM9'     aa
esrer-t   sodOb Ego   to -so.  get sopylo-  -ncide aessa  f-eed  se.4.                     fal  rrael-rsl   ao  torcnaa pocoag ftta   aortn.
teats eer   setttd byl PAt bu:sed o   hol     -gt     eds tEo  --tt. act-                     P ihbta  ag poer.nso of rctal lab.e fooo  1960. 1970LadtA   aa
aid sAn  ititit  t   Osol    sAMslsdt  10  We_os  fo   sn   t                                 o   tor -by   ar  sod ne   speroetago 01 vtal. lah    f-eso
hoosoheid Ityl; 1961-65, 1970 ad1977  .tot.                                                   1960, 19(0  -o (960 dsva.
Pe cpio ooly of ousois (noons ot ~day  - Proel cot-to  of Per capita                  onncto Kt  rrot   tota.1 nato. sod tni. - Pstlnttiono
ne .sPpl  of tod peday. o oapl   ted Le dotloa   naue    t                                ctrtrnertuud                   atat"al.    .  -sA toaelao   vtea
"Itane  o   l co,otlu  eAbliuha  by hit p-avde f. or  Ici-                         Peenoatoe  -ftoal  sale 00    1eotcrsaiu0   l ae  o                         1oty;
aM_naoo  s  60 orga  ot nsnsl P-otl  per do), o  (0 Arsnu at svtsl an                      1960. 19(0,..aO  l980 dte.,  Thts  see basd .   (lstesrr -lnete
A.,s- praoid. of abjab11 (.0 rw   ah-ld he semi  yoei    Thago utoo-                       ref(vniug ago-se  enntr f shC          WoIattso  sd lost sIA  t-ed.  A.
ata  or  tot na. t Au of 75 oos' of tota  P-esia and i3 gras  of                      tee euvite  an. P- ra  uesi.   snore.,
sotAni prarins  s  trs o  n  t--.P E      d  prouue  W FAO 10 the Third                  toosoic tuD-.i_ tatto  - Kato. od notutin atdet 1$ se  65 sod use
(fond Pnd S.-Y, 91hh   99   u 19         11 d I?I Ata                                      to the Ctota  labor toeC.
Clood fre sainul  sod pulna sot oans pot  ay, lh-u)  09(70 and 19(1 data.  itleet slSlttToYOK
Child (s.1     es  Kat lee thouand) - heoso  deasha P.r th-usod In                         Pooeooo  iiosttt  bt  nts  o    td      eeogb  ahu
ago  toop1-0ygar. toctbdfs  It this age or-se. tot- soar deoebgrs-                   Iptsn.tnet(   o pprret   petet.f ,  d Areergi 40 p..rto
Ctebo  dees br-ned trot ilto tM CAe  1960, 19(0 and 19690 dste..o   onhla
sMtdts                                                                                     PVO M TY TAloaT CgUPS
at birth; 196g. 1070 aud 1900 d-aCgs.                                          sa_-Td, ebeold be isteerCtod  ,ith CroAoudaeblaea-Cson
let ea teralit fae (rr tuannS A- Stns deats o  latest unaro -        tA t        Oettnagrd Absols   Poreety  (sotl          US$00 o   ata~uv0   o   eg 
of  go  os  hoaaudIS-o brth; 160  1910 AMd 1'6o dato.                             Ihnueptet   on              a  Ie that daoa MIon  b_ sht.a   aca
Arcan sa Sfe soep Ivrneetof nosiatoul -tetol urba. an  toesi   v u-          sutfittently adosgt. dSat plus saagiatan-ra  tgirmat        o
b-o ef ptep. t iu.   seaau. sd toraI  60th CoA.oeghi  ne.e  toff- tttble.
nAtors.h so thee lEan pCotnd hoeheC        e  apig. sd .-igt." oellgl us_.ta  entl-tte.  eey lunat  lni.  Itt-he.                             o   trg  eorp
fa t.h or esadpo,at loogsv  tat sar  than M96 Xetar  05 A hous   AY he                   .-,o cith Aglunana  far hiskA,...as  of tletsg1 In oran sto.
-anids..d to helen ritbie regoblv  CAtee  of th.t hoot   E. ture  aaou                   9tiAtt d Pue.sItlsB aea SbIsLst Itees farse ise   ssa) - oba
reAsAsAbisL agte  -ead isPiY ihes ab. h-osoett  ne -aMa-  at s   h-ssabe                   so   uoi- Pn tat  positantainesd   -Me) h  ag  pjbaolee
fas-tly'. saeotod ..dp~ftt   A,a h.d,1    ..J
povAAzgsga  .1 thei,r espst5ve pseLatia.-   C. Katsgagieaeo  mAY ilove
sa -nte--atn   by sat.-b-hg   yet.  or the us  oP pit  Celeta  Sod steA-
p..AAti    -Cph-.,-F PopLti-e dseided byp .b asiaoo  P-astla          phpoi-                                             UtssaLC and doobal gag" Stehehe
cOns qaallf*sd tee. sAdhel soel ustbt                  .-t twe.                                                          tootet  MeireonA sd prajangian  Dep5tt
?oeAlssls  -a 1seaia  Earm    - ePW.sios- dtcid"n by e.bea  at eturtieian                                                                   (hey 19
anla- Adef"a* .g  adst su-s... eAnisLnttWen.pas.obaee   n
sneagealttls



-26-                                   ANNEX  I
Page 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ billion    %                  1969170-1974175  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82
GNP at Market Prices              31.68     100.0                      3.5               6.3            5.0
Gross Domestic Investment          5.14      16.2                     -5.5               5.4           11.9
Gross National Saving              3.70      11.7                     -2.1               8.2            8.0
Current Account Balance           -1.53      -4.8
Resource Gap                      -3.48     -11.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81 /a
Value Added          Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    7    USS million    %    US$ million    %
Agriculture                       7,825      29         13.5       51         580        58
Industry                         6,827       26          5.2      20        1,313      131
Services                         12,053      45          7.9      29        1,526       152
Total/Average                 26,705      100         26.6     100        1,004       100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Coverment                              Central Covernment
(Rs billion)            7 of GCP               (Rs billion)            % of (:DP
1981/82      1981/82   1977/78-1981-82         1981/82       1981/82   1977J7R-1981/82
Current Recepts                    51.2         15.9           15.8               39.0          12.1            12.4
Current Expenditures              44.4          13.8           14.1               34.1          10.6            10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit             6.8          2.1            1.7                4.9           1.5             1.8
Capital Expendtures               27.0           8-.4           9.3               21.2           6.6             7.4
External Assistance (net)           6.3          2.0            2.8                6.3           2.0             2.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82 b/
Money and Quasi Money                        33.1      41.6     51.7      63.7     76.5      90.7    103.5    114.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)           17.5      22.7     29.5      34.3     43.1      48.1     54.1      59.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)        19.7      23.1     30.1      35.7     42.7      50.6     58.7      70.7
Money and Quasi Money as % CDP               29.5      31.5     34.6.    36.7      39.0      38.3     37.0      35.5
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70-100)         211.3    229.4    255.3    271.4    289.7    316.7    358.8    398.6
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                        23.6       8.6     11.3       6.3      6.7       9.3      13.3     11.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)           21.2      29.4     18.8      16.6     25.6      11.6     12.5      10.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)        26.3      17.3     30.3      18.6     19.6      18.5     16.0      20.4
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
/b Provisional
February 1983



-27-
ANNEX I
Page 5
881ANCR OF PAYNE!STS
(0G5 million)                                 MERCWANDISE EXPORTS (AVNRAC1I'( 1978/79-19RI/82)
1976/77  1977/78  197R/79  1979/80  1980/81 /a  1981/82                                      ISS silliont         I
Imports of Coods, NFS              1,804    1,651    2,107    2,955    3,461           2,966        Raw Cotton                      260.5          11.5
Imports of roads, .'tFS           2,877    3,297    4,485    5,709    6,466            6,613        Cotton Yarn                     181.3           E.0
Cotton Cloth                   230.4          10.2
Resource Cap (deficit D _)       -1,473   -1,646   -2.378   -2,754   -3,005           -3,847        Rice                            362.7          17.6
All Other Cnmodities    -   196 9              52.9
Interest Paymnts                   -172      -183      -261      -285      -357         -453          Total                      2,i261.          100.0
Workers  Remittances                 57"    1,166    1,395    1,748    2,097           2,225
Other Factor Payments (net)           IS        62      136       151       276          345                 EXTER%AL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Not Transfers                         ..       _          ..
Biaance on Current Account       -1,052      -601   -1,110   -1,140        -991       -1,530                                                USS million
Public Debt, lncludinx Cuaranteed         8,813.9
Direce Foretgn Investment              .        ..       ..        ..        ..           ..        Non-guaranteed Private Debt le
Set MLT Borrowing
Dtsbursements                     961       861       813    1.13i        956        1,102          Total Outstanding and Disbursed         8,813.9
Amortization                     -175      -122      -235      -310      -516         -492
DEST SERVICE RATIO FOR 1l41/82 /f
Sub-TPotal                        786       719       578       824       440          610                                                 PercentaRe
Transactions with IMFlb               64        *1      -16         78      315          358
Pubilc Debt, Includinr tuarsnteed           12.2
other items n.e.i. /c                 26       163      238       600       527          364        Non-guaranteed Prtivte Debt
Increase tr Reserves (1              198     -322       308      -362      -291          19R          Total                                      12.2
Craos Reserves (year end)/d          372      694       386       748    1,039           8i1        l?tRtl/IDA b?NDING (DECF!IIFR 1981) (tSS nillion)
88RD    IDA
Official Cold (year end;
million ounces)                    1.6      1.7       1.8      I.t       1.8          1.8        Outstanding and Disbursed             310.1   908.8
Umndsbursed                            32.1   505.3
Outstanding, Includint Undisbursed 342.2 1,414.1
Fuel and Related Materials
Petroleum Imports                    613      497       539    1,237    1,602          1,683
Petroleum Exports                     27       63        61       178       160          165
Rte of Exchann,e
Through May 11. 1972    Mty 11, 1972-Feb. 15, 1973    Feb. 15. 1973-Jan. 7. 1982            January 8-Aug. 31, 1982 Average
US$ - Re 6.7619               USS - Re 11.00                    t'Ss - Re 9.90                      US$ - Re 11.46
Ral - USS0.2100               Rol - USS0.0909                   Rol - USS0.1010                     Rs  - 0.087
/a  Government estimte.
7S  Including Trust Fund.
7;7 Including net short-term borrowinz and errors and omissions.
7   Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
7W   Private debt is negligible.
7if Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and worker's remittances;
not includinR short-term or IMF chanzes.
Since January 8, 1982, value of rupee is being managed with reference to a
weighted basket of currencies.
Not aYsailble.



hmtA-     I r
-28-                          Page I
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AN;D IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983)
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                      (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                     Undis-
Number      Year    E                                       Bank TW          IDA    bursed
Eighty-eight loans and credits fully disbursed /a    686.7  32.0    851.3/e
620        1976   Seed Project                              --               23.0    6.2
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply                -                26.6    3.3
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)          --               14.0    6.7                    l
1366T      1977   Punjab Livestock Development              --    10.0                8.1
1372)      1977   Railways                                  35.0             --       0.4
684 )      1977   Railways                                  --               25.0    0.2
678        1977   Third Education                           --               15.0    5.8
751        1977   Hill Farming Tech. Development            --                3.0    1.2
754        1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation            --               70.0   68.4
755        1978   Hazara Forestry                           --                1.7    1.4
813        1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.                 --               12.5    6.9
867        1979   Toot Oil & Gas Development                --               30.0    0.2
877        1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    --                    60.0   57.9
892        1979   Primary Education                         --               10.0    7.6
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension               --                9.0    9.0
957        1979   Agricultural Development (ADBP IV)   --                    30.0    3.7
968        1980   Third WAPDA Power                         --               45.0   30.5
974        1980   Third Highway                             --               50.0   35.8
1019       1980   PICIC Industrial Devel'opment             --               40.0   10.1
1109/d    1981   Vocational Training                                         25.0   24.6
1113/d    1981   Small Industries                           --               30.0   29.2
11571d    1981   Grain Storage                                               32.0   31.7
1158Td    1981   Agricultural Research                      --               24.0   24.0
1163/d    1981   On-Farm Water Management                   --               41.0   36.2
11867-    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)           --               30.0   27.5
2122       1982   Fourth Telecommunication                  40.0                     40.0
2166       1982   Structural Adjustment                     60.0             --       2.1
2172       1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                  -       37.7
1239/b /d 1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                     40.0   40.0
1243T/  /d 1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.           --               14.0   14.0
12567w    1982   Technical Assistance                       --                7.0    6.4
12787     1482   Eleventh Railway Project                   -                50.0   49.9
2218/b    1983   Refinery Engineering Project               12.0             --      12.0
Total                                                      872.2  42.0  1,609.1  638.7
of which has been repaid                                 461.8   0.6       32.8
Total now outstanding                                      410.4  41.4  1,576.3
Amotunt sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                  __                               -
Total now held by Bank and IDA/c                           410.4  41.4  1,576.3
Total undisbursed                                           92.3   8.1      538.3  638.7
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/b  Not yet effective.
T   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/d  IDA Credits under the (th Replenishment denominated in SiDRs.  The
principal is shownl in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation.
Dishursed amounts are computed at the market rate on dates of
disbursements.
/c  By usin6g the market rate on dates of disbursements, the currenlt principal
for Credit 1066-PAI and Credit 1255-PAK (both fully disbtirsed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



-29-                      ANNEX II
Page2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products               0.63     --        0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles               0.75     --        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.        Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                  Development
1969-                           Financing              --      0.52      0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles               1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980     Packages Ltd.          Paper Products       19.58    0.84      20.42
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers            1.00    2,92       3.92
1969     Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.            Pulp and Paper         5.60    0.63       6.23
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.38       2.78
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals        29.00    1.82      30.82
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78      --        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board         2.70     __        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17       3.32
1982     Asbestos               Cement                4.05      --       4.05
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals        88.65    1.55      90.20
Total Gross Commitments                    171.76   11.38    183.14
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               123.72    1.02    124.74
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           48.04   1036      58.40
Undisbursed (including participants)    103.43    0.34    103e77



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ctedit No;. 771        Tarbela Dam-  US$35 Million Credit of March 10;
1978;  Effective Date:  April 4, 1978;         nDate:
June 30, 1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 will
be completed in 1983; construction of a second power plant with four units is
in progress. All Credit proceeds have been disbursed; the Bank continues to
administer the Tarbela Development Fund.
Credit No. 620         Seed Projetti US$23 Million Credit of Match 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Of the four processing plants in the project, one has been completed,
one should be operational within a few months, and the remaining two require
reconstruction of defective portions of buildings before equipment can be
installed. Field activities have been satisfactory in Punjab but slow in
Sind.
Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply; Sewerage and Drainage
Project:  USS266 Million Credit of June 8, 1916,
Effettive Date:  September 21, 1976; Closing Date!
December 3-1, lg
All major works have been contracted but construction hold-ups have
caused delays in project completion. Detailed action plans to improve
operational and financial performance have been agreed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 648         Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming
Development Projectt  US$14 Million Credit of July 22;
1976; Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date:
July 31; 1984
Overall progress is about three years behind schedule due to initial
delays in employing consultants, procurement problems and difficulties in
installing the subsurface collector drains. Canal remodeling, surveys and
extension services are proceeding satisfactorily.  Additional equipment is
being procured to improve the rate of collector and lateral drain
installation.
Loan No. 1366'T        Pinjab Livestock Development:  US$10 Million Third
Window Loan of February 18, 1977; Effective Da-te:
Atigust 3, 1977; Closing Date:  Detember 31, 1983
Following reformulation of the project in June 1982, project progress
is now encouraging. Work on remodeling and expanding the Lahore Milk Plant
is on schedule and the the plant is expected to be commissioned by September
1983. Construction of and equipping the Punjab Livestock Development Board
(PLDB) training center is complete; teaching staff are in place and training
courses for Village Livestock Association members and PLDB extension staff
are scheduled to start soon.
Credit No. 678         Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of Febrtiary 18;
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project is generally making good progress. Curriculum
improvements have been satisfactorily carried out, the revised staff
development and expert services programs are nearly completed and almost all
civil works and equipment procurement have been completed. Construction of
agricultural training institutes at Quetta and Rahim Yar Khan is
progressing. At Sind Agricultural University, construction is behind by
about one year due to initial delays in appointment of project implementation
staff. However, no problems are foreseen in completing all civil works
before the closing date.
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff shortages and the lack of a decision on upgrading field
assistants have caused implementation problems. There has been little
progress with the fodder/forage component, but the vegetable seed, maize
production, service laboratory, training and apple production components are
proceeding satisfactorily.



-32-                           rx 
-32-                 ~~~~~ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 754         SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effettive DateX Detember 28, 1978; Cloifig Date,
November 30, 1986 
Although the project is about three years behind schedule,
significant momentum has now begun in project implementation following the
resolution of budgetary and other initial problems. Contracts have been
awarded for construction of main canals and for supply of electrification
equipment for transmission lines.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry! US$1;7 Million Credit of Janaary 29;
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project activities.
The Guzara socio-economic study, the chir pine forest inventory and the
pulping tests for chir pine have been completed. However, on the basis of a
forest resource assessment study, the immediate development of an
economically sized pulp mill had to be ruled out.
Credit No. 813         Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:
US$ 12.5 Million Credit of Jutne 6; 1978; Effective
Date:  September 12, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
Although the project is behind schedule, progress has recently been
made in staff recruitment, acquisition of building sites and construction
work. Implementation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages
have been strengthened.  The project staff has been given a special
allowance, and steps are being taken to recruit consultants.
Credit No. 877         Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP)
Mardan: US$60 Million Credit of Febriary 7, 1979;
Effective Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
Jute 30, 1986
The project has been reduced in scope and initial budgetary and other
problems have been resolved. CIDA (the project co-financier) is assisting
WAPDA in scheduling implementation activities as well as in preparing
subsurface drainage design and specifications. Although about two years
behind schedule, work is accelerating on the preparation of the final designs
and tender documents for the project.  Some contracts have been awarded.



-33-                          ANNX i
Page 6
Credit No. 892         Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date! October 23, 1979; Closinig Dates
June 30, 1985
The project is progressing steadily. Nearly all of the project
inputs including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training have
been provided. The evaluation program has been redesigned and a comprehensive
proposal for the improvement of primary education is expected to be completed
shortly.
Credit No. 922         Sild Agritultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project:  US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979;
Effective Date:  June 26, 1981; Clsinrg Date:
June 30, 1984
Critical senior staff has been recruited, implementation of the T&V
extension system started, and consultants have been appointed to assist in
qualitative improvement of field extension and adaptive research.
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million
Credit of December 7; 1979; Effective Date:  June 5;
1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Funds for farm mechanization are fully disbursed and for diversified
lending should be fully disbursed by June 30, 1983. Implementation of the
agricultural engineering training component in Punjab and NWFP is about 18
months behind schedule.
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10;
1980; Effective Date:  July 30, 19 8; Closing Date:
Dec~efnber 31, 1984
Due to some initial delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of
the project is one year behind schedule. Procurement and construction
targets for substations and transmission lines are progressing well.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Effective Date:  Atgust 21; 1980; Ciosing Date:
June 30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation contracts, two are nearing completion, one
has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and re-awarded,
and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts. Discussions
are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of technical
assistance to two provincial governments to improve road maintenance.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30; 1980; Effective Date: October 29, 1980;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1984
As of April 1983 US$37 million had been authorized for 29
sub-projects, with US$30 million disbursed. PICIC's portfolio problems
continue although rescheduling efforts are underway and collections during
1982 exceeded anticipated targets.
Credit No. 1109        Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19;7
Million Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April 24,
Ti81; Effective Date, October 27, 1981; Closing Date,
December 31, 1986
The project has made good progress in equipment procurement, final
designs for rehabilitation of existing centers and construction of new
centers, especially in Punjab. A large-scale instructor training program is
underway and skill standards for a number of trades have been approved by the
National Training Board. The National Training Board Fund, the Provincial
Training Boards and the National Training Development Institute have been
established, although staff appointments have been slow.
Credit No. 1113        Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million eqtiivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective Dates
October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1983
To date, some 20% of the Credit has been committed and about 5%
disbursed. Construction of the service centers is nearing completion, with
expected operation in May/June 1983.
Credit No. 1157        Grain Storaget  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Million
equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effective Date:
March 15; 1982; Closing Dates  Decemaber 31, 1985
Construction of the storage facilities is progressing satisfactorily
although there have been delays in hiring consultants and staff, and in
making training arrangements.
Credit No. 1158        Agricultfiral Research:  SDR 19;7 Million Credit
(US$24 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date!  April 29, 1982; Closing Date_,
December 31, 1986
The construction of an office/laboratory block and a hostel at the
National Agricultural Research Centre is scheduled for completion in July
1983. Designs for the provincial headquarters building have been prepared.
The contract for training and technical assistance has been negotiated with
FAO. New research programs have been started.



-35-                          ANNEX II
Page 8
Credit No. 1163        On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(JS$41 Million eqtivalent) of Atgu`t 19; 1981;
Effective Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date:
Dete_ ber 31  1984
The project is basically on schedule, with physical achievements
generally in line with appraisal targets.
Credit No. 1186        Secoond industrial Developmient Batik of Pakistan
(IDBP II):  SDR 26.7 Million-Credit (US$30 Million
eqQi:Valefit) of Fi~brcary 19; 1982; EffecztiVe Date!
June 14, 1982; Closing Date:  June   ,
Utilization of funds is progressing satisfactorily. To date, a total
of 47% of the proceeds has been committed and just under 10% disbursed.
Loan No. 2122          Fourth TeletoiamtlfiiationsA  Us$40 Million Loafi of
April 14, 1982; Effective Date:  June 9   92
Closing Date,  IJne 30, 1987
All cofinancing arrangements have been finalized. The ADB loan was
declared effective in March 1983 and the KfW loan should be signed shortly.
Procurement actions are underway.
Loat No. 2166          Structural Adjsttfientt US$60 Million Loan of
June 23, 1982; Effective Date: September 9, 1982;
ClosiAg Date:  Detember 31, 1983
This Loan is almost fully disbursed.
Loan No. 2172          Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation'  US$38.5 Million
LoanP of June'23, 1982; Effective Date:Ocoe21
19-82;' Closinig Date- Juine 30;, 1986
Progress on most components has been satisfactory. Hiring of
consultants and procurement is generally on schedule. The Multan
rehabilitation component has suffered some delay because of technical
difficulties.
Credit No. 1239        Irrigation Systems Rehabilitationt SDR 33'.5 Million
Credit (US$40 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
TsEffetiVe Datet May 15; 1983; Closinfg Datee
December 31, 
This Credit is not yet effective.



-36-                         ANNEX 11
Page9
Credit No. 1243        Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural
Development Projects SDR 12;5 Million Credit
(US$14 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
Effective Date! January 5, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988
Four minor irrigation schemes have been prepared to detailed
engineering level and actions are being expedited to tender works and
initiate construction activities. The remaining schemes are slightly behind
schedule. After some initial delays, project staff and consultants are being
mobilized. Procurement of vehicles and equipment is also underway.
Credit No. 1256        Technical Assistance:  SDR 6.3 Million Credit (US$7
Mil n ivalent) of Jute 23, 1982; Effective Date:
September 9, 1982; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
Disbursements are proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1278        Railways XI:  SDR 44.3 Million Credit (US$50 Million
equivalent) of July 13; 1982; Effective Date:
September 13, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Physical implementation of the project has started and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2218          Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficietcy Project:
US$12 Million Loan of January 17, 1983; Effective
Date: April 17, 1983; Closing Date: June-30, 1985.
This Loan is not yet effective.



-37-                          ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:
5 months
(b)  Agency which has prepared project:
WAPDA
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA and first IDA mission
to consider the project:
October 1981
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:
June 1982
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:
April 18, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1983
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Organization of the Project Coordination Committee
(paragraph 57);
(b)  Establishment of a project office under WAPDA's Chief
Engineer, Faisalabad (paragraph 58);



-38-                            ANNEX III
(c) Meeting all conditions precedent to effectiveness of
U.K. and Dutch fundings (paragraph 64); and
(d) Approval of the PC-Is by ECNEC (paragraph 65);
Other Conditions
(a) GOP to employ a full-time drainage engineer and the
supervisory consultants not later than two months after
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
(paragraph 55);
(b) Provision of funds from GOPunjab to ensure adequate
maintenance of drainage facilities installed under the
project (paragraph 62); and
(c) Operation of the Civil Works Imprest Account would be
satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 66).



IBRD 16902R
71.30                                   72 00'                                   72M307AY l7TY
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
; _ ] Project Units
Existing:
IrOotion Syste~m
-         Branch Canals                                                                                      0    0100            hoior    6                        ot
Distributary Canals
-31P30'                     Drainage System                                                                                                                                            31°30
-*-  Main Drains
-=-e----  Other Drains                                     %FAISALij/> , 
73i   Rivers
C0~ Pondsanor-a
[3  o  Towns and Villages
Metalled  Roads 
Railways
International Boundaries
0       10      20       30      40                                                    7                                           ;/      1 !,         <  i
KILOM ETERS
71'30'
AFGHANISTAN   y        .Ol|mabo7
(I             Aof ,0 gW|                  t)                       J       9\ \K                                      m      $ 
P AKIS(ANJv-         I                                             
IN  D I A    1>1mi  nthra > hP  e                                                                                                       ;;                tsI;n0
A''a6Larr 5Yea oo~[                                    72~000      Co Khonewa',/                72'30'                                    73°D0t                                    73'30



