Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4380-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
April 27, 1983
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation I Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1   =  Rs 13.0
Rs 1   =  US$0.08
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                      Metric Units
1 foot (ft)              =      30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)              =      0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)              =      1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)              =      0.405 hectare (ha)
I square mile (sq mi)   =       259 ha
1 pound (lb)             =      0.454 kilograms (kg)
i long ton (lg ton)      =      1,016 kg (1.016 kg)
(1.016 metric tons)
Pakistani Units          English Units               Metric Units
1 maund         =  82.3 lbs (0.0367 lg ton)  =  37.32 kg (0.0373 m tons)
26.8 maunds     =  2,205 lbs                   =  1.0 m tons
27.2 maunds     =  1.0 lg ton (2240 lbs)       =  1,016 kg
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ac       -      Acre
ADP      -      Annual Development Program
AO       -      Agricultural Officer
cca      -      Canal Commanded Area
cusecs   -      cubic feet per second
EC       -      Electric Conductivity (of water or other solutions)
ECNEC    -      Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FA       -      Field Assistant
FGW      -      Fresh Groundwater
ga       -      Gross Area
GOP      -      Government of Pakistan
GOPunjab -      Government of Punjab Province
ICB      -      International Competitive Bidding
LCB      -      Local Competitive Bidding
m        -      Meter
M        -      Million
maf      -      Million Acre Feet
M&E      -      Monitoring & Evaluation
mmhos/cm -      millimhos per centimeter (unit of electric conductance)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NDB      .-       Non-Development Budget
OFWM      -       On-Farm Water Management
O&M       -       Operation & Maintenance
PCC       -       Project Coordination Committee
PLA       -       Personal Ledger Account
PLL       -       Precision Land Levelling
PID       -       Punjab Irrigation and Power Department
ppm       -      parts per million
RAP       -       Revised Action Programme for Irrigated Agriculture
RSC       -       Residual Sodium Carbonate
SAR       -      Sodium Adsorption Ratio
SCARP    -        Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SGW       -       Saline Groundwater
t         -      metric ton
TDS       -      Total Dissolved Solids
TW        -      Tubewell
USAID    -        US Agency for International Development
WAPDA    -       Water and Power Development Authority
WMA       -       Water Management Assistant
WMO       -      Water Management Officer
WMS       -      Water Management Supervisor
WUA       -      Water Users' Association
GLOSSARY
chak                 -    lowest order of irrigation command (about 400 ac)
doab                 -    land between rivers
kareze               -    traditional irrigation system with tunnel-like
delivery channel
kharif               -    wet season (mid-April to mid-October)
katcha nucca         -    temporary outlet in earthen ditch bank
mogha                -    uncontrolled outlet from parent canal to chak
pucca nucca          -    permanent (masonry or concrete) outlet
rabi                 -    dry season (mid-October to mid-April)
sarkari khal         -    communal portion of watercourse
warabundi            -    rotational schedule of irrigation deliveries
to farmers
watercourse          -    irrigation distribution system  in a chak
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






-ii-
pAKUSTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  PACKCROUND                     ............................................  1
General .................. 2
Irrigation Distribution Systems.                                       2
Draina83e ......................................                       3
II. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                        7
Phvsical Features.                                                     7
Agriciiltural Production .11
Agricultural Inputs and Services .13
III.  TTIE PROJECT .................                                         13
Objectives .........     .                                            13
Subsurface Drainage .14
Surface Drainage .....  . ...                                         18
On-Farm IJater M-¶anagement and Extension ..............              18
TV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMIENTS .             20
Cost Estimates .20
Financing .21
Procurement .22
Disbursements .23
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                  24
Operation and Maintenance .27
Implementation Schedule.                                              28
Technical Assistance and Training .28
Monitoring and Evaluation.                                            29
VI. PROnUCTITON, lMARKETING AND PRICES, FARM INCOME
AND CnST PErOVTERY .......................................            31
Agricultural Impact .31
14arketinr  and Prices ....................................           32
Farm Income .............                               .             34
Cost Recover .34
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............................              36
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED ....................................                38



-iii-
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1    Cost Tables
Table 1 -   Subsurface Drainage, Civil Works
Table 2 -   Subsurface Drainage, Equipment and Vehicles
Table 3 -   Subsurface Drainage, Equipment and Vehicles (continued)
Table 4 -   Subsurface Drainage, Technical Assistance
Table 5 -   Subsurface Drainage, Training
Table 6 -   Surface Drainage
Table 7 -   On-Farm Water Management and Extension
Table 8 -   Project Expenditure by Time
Table 9 -   Disbursement Schedule for IDA Credit
ANNEX 2    Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 3    Procurement Schedules
Table 1 -   Civil Works for Subsurface and Surface Drainage
Table 2 -   Equipment and Vehicles
Table 3 -   Technical Assistance
ANNEX 4    Procedures for Operation of Civil Works Imprest Account
ANNEX 5    Consultants Terms of Reference
ANNEX 6    Financial and Economic Tables
PLATES
I   Water Balance (Present), Indus Plains and Peshawar Vale
II   Organizational Chart - Drainage
III   Organizational Chart - On-Farm Water Management
MAPS
IBRD Map 16902 : PAKISTAN - Fourth Drainage Project



PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01    Pakistan-s extensive irrigation systems (40 M ac) were largely
developed without provision for subsurface drainage and minimal provision for
surface drainage. As a result, the watertable underlying the Indus Plain has
risen, leading to serious problems of waterlogging 1/ and salinity in many
areas. Recognizing this situation, the "Revised Action Programme for
Irrigated Agriculture" (RAP) 2/ accorded high investment priority to projects
involving subsurface drainage in irrigated areas with a high watertable of
unusable groundwater. In a policy statement in connection with the Struc-
tural Adjustment Program, 3/ the Government of Pakistan's (GOP) Minister of
Finance indicated that critical drainage of waterlogged and saline areas
would be one of five priority program areas in the agricultural and water
sectors to receive emphasis in future public expenditures.
1.02    In line with RAP's recommendations and GOP's policies, the Bank
included an Irrigation/Drainage IV Project in the FY83 IDA Lending Program.
An IDA identification mission visited Pakistan in October 1981 to discuss the
proposed project. The Secretary of the Ministry of Water and Power and the
Secretary of Punjab-s Department of Irrigation and Power determined that the
Lower Rechna Doab would be designated as the site for the proposed drainage
project with subsurface drainage as a main component. An IDA appraisal
mission comprising Messrs. W. D. Fairchild, C. P. Cheng, J. Mohamadi, W.
Peters, P. Streng, U. Qamar and R. Winger, visited Pakistan from June 19 to
July 12, 1982. Two feasibility reports prepared by WAPDA, "Lower Rechna
Remaining Sub-project" (May 1982) covering the Samundri I, Samundri II and
Paharang units, and "Khairwala Unit Lower Rechna Remaining" (June 1982)
served as the principal reference documents for the appraisal mission. The
mission found that most of the project area is in desperate need of drainage.
1/  The term "waterlogging" reflects common usage in Pakistan to denote a
high water table.
2/  Published in May 1979 by Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
and based on a four-year Indus Basin Planning Study, funded by UNDP with
the Bank as executing agency.
3/  Supported by a Bank Group Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (Ln.
2166-PAK and Cr. 1255-PAK).



The severity of the waterlogging problem and its deleterious impact on crop
production are even greater than indicated in these two reports.
General
1.03    Pakistan has a total land area of 196.7 M ac.  Only 40% of this, or
about 78.0 M ac is suitable for crop, range and forest production. About
40.0 M ac of the cultivable land is commanded for irrigation where about 90%
of the nation's total agricultural production is generated. The remaining
14.7 M ac of cultivable land is either dependent on flood moisture (sailaba)
or rainfall (barani).
1.04    Agriculture dominates Pakistan's economy.  It contributes about 30%
to GDP, provides about two-thirds of total exports, and employs some 55% of
the nation's 24.6 million labor force, thus keeping about 70% of the popula-
tion (83.8 million) in rural areas. During the period FY77-81, Pakistan's
annual economic growth rate exceeded 6%, a marked increase over the 3.7% for
the FY71-76 period. At the same time, the agricultural growth rate increased
from 1.7% in FY71-76 to 4.2% in FY77-81. Even so, the per capita annual
income in Pakistan is only about US$300 (Bank's estimate for 1980) with
approximately 30% of the population having income below US$150. The doubling
of the growth rate in the agricultural sector during the late 1970s can be
attributed partly to favorable weather; however, a major factor was farmer
response to GOP's policy of raising support prices for agricultural crops,
programs to improve the reliability of irrigation water supplies, and
increased availability of agricultural credit and fertilizer.  At the same
time GOP has been reducing, with a goal to eliminating, subsidies on
non-water agricultural inputs.
Irrigation Distribution Systems
1.05    Indus Irrigation System.  The first controlled year-round irrigation
in the Indus Basin began in 1859 with the completion of the Upper Bari Doab
Canal from Madhopur headworks on the Ravi River. Today, the Indus Irrigation
System commands about 34.5,M ac and comprises three major storage reservoirs
(Tarbela, Mangla and Chasma), 1/ 19 barrages or headworks, 12 link canals, 43
canal commands and some 89,000 chaks. The total length of the canal system
is about 35,000 mi with watercourses, farm channels and field ditches running
another 1.0 M mi in length. The Indus Irrigation System is the largest
contiguous irrigation system in the world.
1.06    Under the Indus Irrigation System, river water is diverted by bar-
rages and weirs into main canals and subsequently into branch canals, dis-
tributaries and minors. An open, free-flowing outlet (mogha) regulates water
from distributaries and minors into a watercourse by a discharge of one to
three cusecs. Distribution of water to fields is governed by a time rotation
scheme (warabundi) based on size of land holding. Operation and maintenance
1/ About 14.5 maf of live storage.



- 3 -
(O&M) of this system above the miogha is the responsibility of the Provincial
Irrigation Departments (PID), 1/ whereas the farmers maintain the water-
courses. Two recently approved IDA-supported projects, On-Farm Water Manage-
ment Project (Cr. 1163-PAK) and Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 1239-PAK) are designed to assist farmers and PIDs in carrying out their
O&M duties. Under Cr. 1239-PAK, GOP and GOPunjab agreed to increase O&M
allocations in real terms to meet estimated requirements by FY85. This
agreement was reaffirmed under the Structural Adjustment Program (para 1.01).
TInder the SCARP VI Project (Cr. 754-PAK) and recently under the Irrigation
Systems Rehabilitation Project, GOPunjab also agreed to periodically raise
water charges in order to fully recover O&M costs by mid-1990 (see Chapter
VI). Budgetary allocations for O&M of the irrigation system show an upward
trend in FY83, and the Provinces have improved cost recovery. Nevertheless,
there is scope for further improvement, which was recognized in a recent
Federal Cabinet decision that the Provincial Governments should narrow the
gap between O&M costs and recoveries through successive increases in water
charges.
1.07    Irrigation Outside the Indus Basin.  About 5.5 M ac of irrigated land
in Pakistan is located outside the Indus canal command area (cca). It is
scattered in relatively small parcels with water supplies coming from such
sources as open wells, tubewells, lift pumps, karezes, springs and small
diversions. Generally, these irrigation water supplies are uncertain and
vary with the season and location.
Drainage
1.08    Prainage and Associated Problems.  The hydrological balance of the
Indus Basin has been significantly altered during the past century by the
continuous and expanding diversion of riverflows for irrigation. Seepage
from the distribution system of canals, distributaries, minors and
watercourses and deep percolation of irrigation water from irrigated lands
have resulted in a gradual rising of the groundwater table which has now
reached a crisis condition over a significant portion of the irrigated area.
At the beginning of this century the water table was generally over 50 ft
below the surface throughout the Indus Plain. However, the Indus Basin
Salinity Survey 2/ reports that 22% of the Indus Basin has a water table
within 6 ft of the surface, and an additional 30% of the area has a water
table within 10 ft. Much of this survey was completed in 1977 and 1978 and
the situation has deteriorated significantly since that time.  This
deterioration has been accelerated by the improved system of barrages and
1/  Except for major storage reservoirs and limited O&M of drainage schemes
assigned to WAPDA (para 5.10).
2/ "Indus Basin Salinity Survey," WAPDA, 1981 indicates that Punjab Province
has about 36% of its cca with a groundwater table within 10 ft of the
surface and Sind Province has 57% in the same category.



-4-
additional storage (para 1.05), which has made it possible to significantly
increase diversion of irrigation water.
1.09    In addition to the waterlogging problem, rainstorm flooding occurs
frequently in the upper portion of the Bari, Rechna and Chaj Doabs in Punjab
and in the lower reaches of the Indus Plain near the sea coast In Sind.
Surface drainage problems are also encountered in portions of NWFP and in
cities such as Karachi, Sukkur, Jhang, Lahore and Rawalpindi. Furthermore,
surface drainage problems associated with the flat topography of the Indus
Basin have been exacerbated by the construction of roads, railways, flood
embankment and irrigation distribution networks which obstruct natural
drainage flows.
1.10    Surface Drains.  The first reported high water table was in Punjab
Province in Bari Doab in 1880. It was stated in numerous studies and inves-
tigations in the 1930s that waterlogging was caused mair'y by insufficient
surface drainage and differences in permeabilities of the sub-strata. Hence
it was reasoned that the rising groundwater table was caused mainly by mon-
soon rainfall. Consequently, construction of surface drains was proposed for
quick disposal of run-off from monsoon rainfall. By 1947, about 2,200 mi of
storm water/irrigation waste drains were constructed in the Rechna and Chaj
Doabs. Since the major contributor to waterlogging is deep percolation of
irrigation water rather than precipitation, these surFace drains had marginal
effect on waterlogging but they did provide relief from rain flooding. Even
though about 8,700 mi of surface drains have been constructed ir Pakistan
to date, crop losses because of rain flooding remain excessive, especially
in Punjab Province and the Kotri drain area of Sind Province because of
inadequate collector drain capacity and coverage as well as poor maintenance.
1.11    SCARP Program.  The responsibility for alleviating the problem of
waterlogging and salinity was assigned to WAPDA in 1958. Based upon various
studies, WAPDA initiated a salinity control and reclamation project (SCARP)
concept of installing public tubewells (TW) to: (a) control waterlogging and
salinity; and (b) provide for optimum development of fresh groundwater (FGW)
resources for agricultural production. These TWs (capacity of 2 to 5 cusecs)
and required surface drains have been installed by WAPDA with funding from
the Federal Annual Development Program (ADP), whereas PIDs are responsible
for required O&M with funding from the Provincial Non-Developmental Budget
(NDB). SCARP I was launched in Punjab in 1959 and completed in 1963. WAPDA
has since taken up 30 such projects in Pakistan. When completed, these
projects would cover about 15.5 M ac. As of June 30, 1980, WAPDA had
installed about 11,050 public TWs in the FGW zones and about 1,400 public TWs
in saline groundwater (SGW) zones 1/ at a cost of about Rs 5,500 M. However,
financial constraints have severely limited progress with only 50% of the
SCARP cca (about 7.5 M ac) covered to date with public TWs.  Meanwhile,
individual farmers have installed about 180,000 TWs (capacity of one cusec or
1/ FGW generally defined as groundwater with total dissolved solids (TDS)
of less than 1,000 ppm and SGW with more than 1,000 ppm.



- 5 -
less) primarily for supplementary irrigation.  These private TWs have con-
tributed significantly to the control of waterlogging. It is estimated that
the annual private TW pumpage is about 27.0 maf, whereas that for public TWs
is about 5.0 maf.
1.12    SCARP public TWs have made significant contributions in localized
areas to alleviating the waterlogging and salinity problems. Also,
experience gained from the SCARPs has spurred installation of private TWs in
the FGW zones. Nevertheless, WAPDA reported in October 1980 that about 25%
of the SCARP cca had a watertable within 5 ft of the surface and 63% within
10 ft. This continued high watertable in SCARP areas has resulted from
numerous problems -- technical, institutional, financial and economic. Since
FY75, pumping capacity of individual SCARP TWs has been declining at a rate
of about 4.6% annually because of TW failure, reduction in capacity (blockage
of screens and gravel pack), and pump breakdown. Even though Punjab's
Provincial NDB funding for TW O&M has increased over 160% from FY77 to FYS1,
and the Rs 353 M makes up 50% of the PIDs annual O&M budget, this level of
funding permits TW operation at only 30 to 35% of designed capacity. Another
major problem is that a formalized program has not been developed for con-
junctive use of canal and TW water. Operating criteria for public TWs have
not been developed to reflect crop water and/or leaching requirements.
Public TW operators pose a particularly difficult problem, as they are fre-
quently absent from their stations. Initially, TWs are installed with protec-
tive devices to shut off the motor when electrical supply problems are
experienced. Pumps are to be started only by operators, but because
operators are frequently absent, many of these protection devices have been
disabled by disgruntled farmers, which has resulted in a high incidence of
burned out motors. Technical problems have centered around standardized TW
design, which has resulted in the following deficiencies:
(a) design did not adequately reflect site specific material
logs, which frequently resulted in an incorrect location
and design of screen slots and gravel pack;
(b) TWs were located along drains and canals for easy disposal
which resulted in a high level of recirculation of canal
and drainage water from receiving channels;
(c) TWs were located in some areas where hydraulic conductivity,
both vertical and horizontal, is inadequate to provide
required drainage to the crop root zone;
(d) TWs have not been properly spaced to achieve effective drainage
throughout the area to be drained;
(e) deep TW design has resulted in pumping of large quantities
of grotndwater from deeper strata, which invariably is more
saline. This highly saline water must then be disposed into
irrigation channels and/or rivers serving lower lying irri-
gation areas; and



- 6 -
(f) deep TW design also resulted in pumping some aquifers not
directly connected hydraulically to the upper strata to be
drained.
1-13    Recognizing the critical need for control of waterlogging, as well as
the institutional and technical problems facing the SCARP program, WAPDA
recommended in RAP (para 1.01) that:
(a) FGW resources should be exploited by the private sector;
(b) a program should be implemented to transfer O&M of existing
public TWs in FGW zones to the private sector; and
(c) control of waterlogging in SGW zones should have high priority
in future investment programs.
In line with these recommendations, GOP has directed that feasibility reports
be prepared for two projects, a Private Tubewell and Rural Electrification
Project and a SCARP Transition Project, using funds from the UNDP Project,
"Investment Project Preparation in Water, Agriculture and Energy Sectors,
(PAK/81/004), with the Bank as executing agency. Studies for these two
reports were initiated in FY83.
1.14    IDA-F4inanced Drainage Projects.  Three IDA-funded drainage projects,
Khairpur II (Cr. 684-PAK), SCARP VI (Credit 754-PAK), and SCARP Mardan
(Cr. 877-PAK) are under construction in Pakistan. The first horizontal pipe
drainage systems to be installed in Pakistan have been included in the
Khairpur II (about 31,000 ac) and SCARP Mardan (about 73,000 ac) projects.
About 250 public TWs are scheduled to be installed in SCARP VI to drain about
300,000 ac in the SGW zone. In addition, the Bank is executing agency for a
UNDP financed study leading to the preparation of a feasibility report for
the Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) in Sind Province.
1.15    On-Farm Water Management Project.  Several investigations conducted
in the mid-1970s 1/ verified that about 40-50% of the water entering each
chak is lost during conveyance before reaching the crops. Such losses are
particularly critical when coupled with the acute shortage of planned irriga-
tion deliveries (para 2.03). Because of these heavy conveyance losses, GOP,
with USAID support, launched a five-year (FY76-80) Pilot On-Farm Water
Management (OFWMI) project, which was followed by a three-year IDA-financed
(FY81-83) OFWM project (Cr. 1163-PAK). The objective of both projects was to
increase crop production by increasing irrigation water supply through
programs of water management reducing losses within individual chaks. These
two projects provided for: (a) renovation of about 3,600 watercourses with
about 15% pucca lining and structures; (b) heavy cleaning of about 26,500
watercourses; and (c) precision land levelling (PLL) of about 48,000 ac. A
1/ Mona Reclamation Experiment Station (MRES) and Colorado State University
Team, 1973 and 1976; Perspective Planning Division, WAPDA, 1977.



-7 -
successful innovation of these projects was that benefitted farmers would
contribute all required labor. In the case of Cr. 1163-PAK, farmers are
required to organize formal Water Users' Associations to facilitate main-
tenance of watercourse improvements and to repay some of the costs of
materials required for civil works. WAPDA's Survey and Research Organization
has been monitoring and evaluating these projects. They have found that the
improved water management practices have resulted in savings of up to 50% of
preproject water losses. However, WAPDA found also that crop production did
not increase immediately following such improvements because of an inadequate
extension program, and farmers slow initial response to the increased water
supplies.
II.   THE PROJECT AREA
Physical Features
2.01    Location.  The proposed project would cover the Paharang, Samundri I
and Samundri II units in Rechna Doab, Punjab Province (see IBRD Map
16902). 1/ These units have extensive areas of high watertable and
salinity/sodicity (alkali) affected lands. These three units in Faisalabad
Division cover some 355,000 ac, with about 295,000 ac under canal command
(Table 2.1). The Paharang and Samundri I units are contiguous and are
located immediately to the north and northeast of Faisalabad city, whereas
the Samundri II unit is located to the south and southwest of Faisalabad.
Table 2.1: Project Area by Unit (O000 ac)
Unit           Gross Area (ga)          Canal Command Area (cca)
Paharang                  138                          113
Samundri I                 43                           33
Samundri II               174                          149
Total               355                          29S
2.02    Climate.  Rainfall is sparse.  Annual precipitation is only about
10 in, half of which falls in July and August. The maximum 10-day pan
evaporation rate is about 3 in and averages about 80 in annually. Hence,
irrigation is a necessity for agricultural production. Even so, heavy rain-
fall does occur during some monsoon seasons causing substantial flood losses
to property and crops. The average monthly temperature ranges from 56°F in
1/ Khairwala unit has not been included in this project because of financial
constraints. Even though this unit has a drainage problem, it is not as
severe as in the other three units, i.e., Khairwala has about 23% of its
area with a water table of less than 5 ft, whereas the other three units
have about 77% in the same category (see Table 2.4).



- 8 -
January to 93 0F in June. Daily maximum temperatures in summer may reach
about 120 0F.  Occasionally, temperatures may fall below 32 0F in winter,
however, killing frost is rare.
2.03    Irrigation.  The Paharang and Samundri I units receive irrigation
water from the Jhang and Rakh perennial branch canals, which in turn are
supplied by the Lower Chenab Canal Feeder. The Samundri II unit is irrigated
by the Lower Gugera and Burala perennial branches of the Lower Chenab Canal.
Planned surface water deliveries are about 3 cusecs/i,000 ac, which is about
one-half the crop requirements. During hot and dry summer days the water
shortage becomes acute and puts most crops under severe moisture stress.
2.04    Punjab's OFWM Directorate is currently carrying out a substantial
on-farm water management program. To date, 1,100 watercourses have been
renovated, 13,500 watercourses have been heavily cleaned, and 30,000 ac of
land have received PLL in the Province.  Just a small percentage of such
required improvements have been made in the project area. 1/ In addition,
most of the watercourse renovation has been completed under the Pilot OFWM
Project (USAID supported) where only 10% of the communal watercourse was
lined and formalized WUAs were not organized to assume required maintenance.
2.05    Water Suitability.  RAP established broad water quality criteria
(Table 2.2) for basin planning in Pakistan that can serve as a general
guideline in determining suitability of water for irrigation purposes.
However, such criteria must be adjusted to the different environmental condi-
tions, i.e., soils, climate, cropping patterns, water management practices,
drainage, and economics of amendments.
Table 2.2: Criteria for Water Suitability (through 1990)
EC       TDS            RSC
Suitability of Water      mmhos/cm    ppm    SAR    meg/l
Useable directly              2.3       1500    12      5.0
Useable with mixing /a        4.4      3000    20    10.0
/a  Mixing of ground and surface water at ratio of 1:1.
2.06    Canal water from the Indus Irrigation System is low in salt and
alkali with total dissolved solids (TDS) averaging between 80-160 mg/l, and
sodium adsorption ratio (SAR) of less than 0.5. This bigh quality water is
highly suitable for irrigating the diversified cropping system of the project
area.
2.07    Groundwater sampled by the mission from numerous shallow wells in the
project area indicates a TDS of less than 3,000 mg/I.  The sodium bicarbonate
1/ Less than 5% of watercourses have been renovated and less than 1% of the
irrigated land has received PLL.



- 9 -
content and the SAR values are quite high with over 50% of the samples having
an SAR value above 18. Hence, most groundwater is presently unsuitable for
irrigation by direct application. However, with improved drainage and water
management, it would appear that some of the groundwater could be used for
irrigation purposes if properly mixed with the higher quality surface sup-
plies. Such mixing is already taking place as evidenced by about 500 private
TWs that have been installed in the project area. Most of these are shallow,
low capacity TWs (one cusec or less) located adjacent to canals, branches,
distributaries and minors, where groundwater quality is enhanced by seepage
from these channels.
2.08    Surface Drainage.   The flat topography 1/ and absence of a well
defined natural drainage system in the project area has created a severe
surface drainage problem. This has been-compounded by construction of roads,
railroads and irrigation works that obstruct surface runoff. To alleviate
this problem a system of surface drains has been constructed. However, this
system is inadequate because of poor design and maintenance as evidenced by
clogged channels and insufficient capacities. 2/ Also, the present system
does not provide a direct outlet to all project lands. Surface drainage for
the Paharang unit is mainly provided by the Paharang main drain which out-
falls into the Chenab River through the Chakbandi system. Surface drainage
for the Samundri I and Samundri II units is provided by the Samundri drainage
system which discharges into the Ravi River. This system consists of four
drains: the Maduana drain, which drains the Samundri I area and the northern
part of Samundri II; the Awagat drain which drains the central part of
Samundri II; and the Samundri main and branch drains which drain the southern
part of the Samundri II area. Table 2.3 gives the main features of the
project area's surface drainage system.
Table 2.3: Main Features of the Project Surface Drainage System
Catchment       Design
Area        Discharge        Length
Name of Drain          (sq mi)        (cusecs)         (mi)
Paharang Main Drain         222            589            38
Samundri Main Drain         385            771           41
Samundri Branch Drain        49             98           21
Awagat Branch Drain          78            156            31
Maduana Branch Drain        268            536            48
1/  Average gradient of one foot per mile.
2/  The Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1239-PAK) provides
funds for rehabilitating certain surface drains in Punjab Province, as
well as sets a target for NDB funding to ensure maintenance of
rehabilitated schemes.



- 10 -
2.09    Water Table.   The project area is in desperate need of subsurface
drainage. WAPDA's May 1982 report on the "Lower Rechna Remaining Subproject"
indicates that about 77% (about 270,000 ac) of the gross project area has an
extremely high groundwater table (less than 5 ft), while some 21% (about
74,000 ac) is moderately well drained with a groundwater table between 5 and
10 ft (Table 2.4). Field inspections by the mission indicated that the high
water table problem may be more severe than stated in the report. Other data
provided by WAPDA i/ indicated that from 1955 to 1982, the percentage of well
drained land 2/ in the project area has decreased from 79% to 6%, an alarming
rate of 2.7% annually.
Table 2.4: Groundwater Table Depth (October 1982) Ia
Oto 5 ft         5 to 10 ft        10 ft plus
( 000 ac)    (M)  ('000 ac)   {%)   (000 ac)   (%)
Paharang         84.1       60.9    45.1       32.7    8.8        6.4
Samundri I       38.8      90.3      4.2        9.7      -         -
Samundri II    149.6       86.0    24.4        14.0     -          -
Total        272.5      77.0    73.7        20.6    8.8        2.4
/a gross area.
2.10    Soils.   The project area consists of soils derived from alluvial
deposits of the Ravi and Chenab rivers. These soils are generally deep and
calcareous, ranging in texture from coarse to moderately fine with a
predominance of medium-textured materials. Based upon the one soil
profile/sq mi chemical analysis made by WAPDA in 1978 (Table 2.5), about 67%
of the project lands at the time of analysis was salt free, whereas about 8%
was saline-non/sodic, 20% saline/sodic, and 5% non-saline/sodic. The
salinity/sodicity of the project lands is somewhat higher than that for the
remainder of the Lower Rechna Doab. Some of the salt-affected soils, though
sodic by definition, can be reclaimed through drainage and leaching. In some
of the area, inadequate drainage and increases in salinity have brought about
the development of problematic soil sodicity. Reclamation and amelioration
of these problematic sodic and nongypsiferous soils would be more difficu'lt,
requiring application of gypsum in addition to drainage and leaching.
Reclamation would therefore be less economically feasible where such amend-
ments are needed. With this exception, project area lands have favorable
characteristics of soil permeability and available moisture relationships for
irrigated agriculture. It is estimated that about 12,500 ac of land in the
project area that are scheduled to receive subsurface drainage have sodic
1/ Land Classification Report on Samundri II area prepared by Soil Salinity
and Water Table Survey Directorate, Planning Division, WAPDA, August
1982.
2/ Land area with watertable depth of over 10 ft.



- 11 -
problem soils, requiring amelioration through reclamation with gypsum. In
general, the alkali problem is limited to the top 12 in of the soil profile.
Table 2.5: Chemical Analysis of Soil Profiles
Gross    Non-  Non-            Non-                    Non-
Unit          Area    Saline/Sodic   Saline/Sodic  Saline/Sodic  Saline/Sodic
(O000 ac) ( 000 ac) (%) (000 ac) (%) ('000 ac) (X) ( 000 ac) (%)
Paharang       138.0   109.0    79       5.5    4       18.0   13      5.5    4
Samundri I     43.0    28.0    65        6.0   14        7.3   17      1.7    4
Samundri II   174.0   101.0    58       15.5    9       47.0   27    10.5    6
Total   355.0   238.0    67       27.0    8       72.3   20    17.7    5
Lower Rechna  240.0    58.0    74    179.0    8        336.0   15    67.0    3
Source:  "1979 Soil Salinity Atlas," WAPDA.
Agricultural Production
2.11    Farm Size and Tenure.  Of the 32,070 farms in the project area, 76%
are less than 12.5 ac, 19% are between 12.5 ac to 25 ac, and 5% are over 25
ac. The average size farm is about 9.25 ac as compared to a national average
of about 12.5 ac. Also, over 80% of the farms are either owner operated or
owner-cum-tenant operated.   Table 2.6 shows the land tenural pattern for the
project area.
Table 2.6: Land Tenure Pattern (cca)
% of Farms                      % of Area
No. of   Owner       Owner-               Owner      Owner-
Unit     Farms   Operated  Cum-Tenant  Tenant  Operated  Cum-Tenant Tenant
(cca ac)
Paharang    12,663      52          33         15       42          42         16
113,079
Samundri I   3,750      52          33        15        42          42         16
33,486
Samundri II  15,657    48           31        21        38          41        21
149,369
Total     32,070    50           32        18        40          41.5      18.5
Source:  Pakistan Census of Agriculture, 1972.
2.12    Impact of High Water Table on Agricultural Production.   With its
generally fertile soils and well developed irrigation system, Faisalabad



- 12 -
Division was once one of the most agriculturally productive areas in
Pakistan. Because of the rising groundwater table, at least 25%
of the arable area in the Division has become increasingly waterlogged, and
salinity/sodicity (alkali) has accumulated in the surface soils. As a
result, agricultural productivity has declined considerably. During the
1945-81 period, the non-producing cropland area has increased by about 50%,
and the total salinity/sodicity affected area by more than 100%. During the
same period, cotton acreage (a crop intolerant of a high water table) has
decreased by about 43%.
2.13    Yields, Cropping Intensity and Production.  Wheat, sugarcane and
fodder are now the main crops in the project area. Next in importance are
maize, cotton and rice. However, because of waterlogging and soil salinity/
sodicity, yields are poor. Except for rice,-crop yields in the project area
are lower than the average yields in Faisalabad Division. Since at least 25%
of the 1.8 M ac of arable land in the Division is waterlogged, the difference
between the yields in the project area and the non-waterlogged areas of the
Division would be even more. Because of the waterlogged condition of the
land and the small holdings, low income and desire to minimize risks, farmers
tend to apply available irrigation water to most of their land. Conse-
quently, in spite of the water shortage (para 2.03) cropping intensities in
the project area are relatively high (153% in Paharang, 134% in Samundri I,
and 132% in Samundri II). The present cropping intensities and estimated
production are given Table 2.7.
Table 2.7: Present Yield, Cropping Intensity
and Production of Major Crops
Cropping
Crop             Intensity      Acreage      Yield       Production
(% of cca)   (-000 ac)   (kg/ac)            (t)
Klarif
Cotton                8            24           135          3,240
Rice                  4            12           554          6,648
Maize                13            38           344         13,072
Fodder               10            29         7,890        228,810
Sugarcane            20            59        10,550        622,450
Rabi
Wheat                41           121           613         74,173
Oilseeds              6            18           190          3,420
Fodder               12            36        12,468        448,848
Sugarcane            20            59           -             -
Source: Report on Lower Rechna Remaining Subproject, WAPDA,
May 1982.



- 13 -
Agricultural Inputs and Services
2.14    Inputs Supply.  The government-owned, tehsil-based bulk depots and
village based sub-depots supply most fertilizers, pesticides and seeds.
Beginning in FY80, the private sector also has been selling fertilizers and
pesticides. The annual fertilizer consumption, in terms of nutrient per
cropped acre, is estimated at around 30 kg. Pesticide usage is sparse. The
use of certified seed in the project area is also very limited; only 3.5% of
the required wheat seed was certified during the FY81 crop season. This
situation is expected to improve through the implementation of the
IDA-financed Seed Industry Development Project (Cr. 620-PAK).
2.15    Extension Service.   The Faisalabad Division Agriculture Extension
Office is headed by a Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA). Under him are
three Extra Assistant Directors of Agriculture (EADA)--one each at
Faisalabad, Toba Tek Singh and Jhang, one Assistant Plant Protection Officer,
one Assistant Horticulture Officer, 20 Agricultural Officers (AO), and 247
Field Assistants (FA). Although Punjab-s extension program has been improv-
ing recently, the service in Faisalabad Division still encounters the follow-
ing difficulties: (a) inadequate number of operating staff, especially of
FAs; each FA covers an average of about 1,500 farm families in this Division;
(b) lack of staff mobility; (c) inadequate training of staff; and (d) poor
linkage and coordination with research, even though both the Agricultural
University and the Ayub Agricultural Research Institute are located in
Faisalabad. All these shortcomings were verified through farmers interviews
by the mission. The Division's extension service is not covered by the
IDA-financed Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development Project
(Cr. 813-PAK), which only covers five districts in the Province (Rahimyar
Khan, Vehari, Sheikhupura, Sarghoda and Jhehlum).
III. THE PROJECT
3.01    The proposed five-year project (FY84-88) would be located in the
Paharang (113,000 ac cca), Samundri I (33,000 ac cca) and Samundri II
(149,000 ac cca) units of Faisalabad Division in Punjab Province (see IBRD
Map 16902). It would consist of the following components: subsurface
drainage, surface drainage, and on-farm water management and extension. The
surface drainage component would serve the entire project area (295,000 ac
cca), however, because of financial constraints the other components would be
limited to about 75,000 ac with severe subsurface drainage problems.
Objectives
3.02    The project's two objectives would be to increase agricultural
production and to strengthen the capability of WAPDA and Punjab's Departments
of Irrigation (PID), and Agriculture in carrying out similar projects. In
order to achieve the agricultural objective, the project would:



- 14 -
(a)  reduce water3loggging and salinity by installing a system
of subsurface PVC drains;
(b) reduce rain flooding by rehabilitating and extending the
area's surface drainage system;
(c) increase irrigation water supplies through savings resulting
from improved OFIWM practices; and
(d) strengthen the extension program.
In order to achieve the institutional objective, the project would provide
substantial technical assistance and training, the size of which has been
determined by the fact that Pakistan is just at the beginning of what may
become a vast program of subsurface drainage installation (paras 5.14 to
5.17).
Subsurface Drainage (Base Cost US$61.6 M) 1/
3.03    For the subsurface drainage component, the project would provide
required civil works (US$39.3 M), equipment (US$12.9 M), technical assistance
and training (US$4.2 M), administration and engineering (US$3.9 M) and recur-
rent cost (US$1.3 M) for treatment of about 22,500 ac in Paharang, 24,750 ac
in Samundri I, and 27,750 in Samundri II (see Annex 1, Tables 1-5 for
detailed cost estimates). Selection of areas to receive such treatment would
be made by the Project Coordination Committee (para. 5.02) and concurred in
by IDA. The major basis for selecting these areas would be an irrigation
suitability land classification, 2/ with consideration given to the following
points:
(a) existing outlet is available for outfall;
(b) watertable depth of 5 ft or less throughout the year over
most of the area; and
(c) size of farm units, ownership, and tenancy arrangements
comparable to the norm for the three units (para 2.11).
In preparing the land classification, maximum use would be made of existing
data.
3.04    Civil Works.  Because of the problems experienced in Pakistan with TW
drainage of SGW areas (para 1.12), GOP has evolved a policy for subsurface
drainage which emphasizes horizontal pipe drainage in SGW areas and private
1/ All cost estimates in Chapter III are base costs.
2/ Patterned after the concepts and principles of the US Bureau of Reclama-
tion system, but adapted and structured to be site-specific.



- 15 -
TWs in FGW areas. However, TWs may be installed in SGW areas as an interim
solution, where urgent need for drainage makes it inappropriate to wait for
the completion of more time-consuming pipe installation. In line with this
GOP position, and recognizing that horizontal pipe is the internationally
accepted technology for such drainage, it was determined that such technology
would be employed in this project.
3.05    The project would provide for installing about 225 mi of collector
and 1,380 mi of field drains with gravel envelope, 250 sumps, 78 mi of link-
ing channels, and facilities, as well as soil amendments. These requirements
were extrapolated from data for a sample area of about 5,000 ac supplied by
WAPDA. For the project area, an average lateral spacing of 450 ft, or about
100 ft/ac of such pipe was determined appropriate. All subsurface drain
facilities were located on a four-inch to the mile map with one-foot con-
tours.
3.06    Over 40% of the test holes in the WAPDA sample indicated problems of
sodicity (alkali), low infiltration, and upward groundwater pressures.
Estimated quantities and costs for the project have been based on these data
with the assumption that they are representative of the project area.
However, it appears that there are extensive and contiguous lands with a
critical groundwater table within the project area that are relatively free
of such problems. Identification and selection of such areas by GOP, using
the land classification mentioned in para 3.03 would reduce significantly the
subsurface drainage cost per ac (about US$815) envisioned for the project.
This could thereby increase the acreage under the project to receive such
treatment. Generally, GOP should limit areas receiving subsurface drainage
to those lands that can be drained within this cost estimate.
3.07    Collector drains would be installed 8.5 to 11 ft deep so that lateral
drains can be installed in the most permeable stratum between 6.5 and 8 ft.
The transient flow method, which considers all the parameters related to soil
condition, rate of drainage required, and irrigation practice, would be used
for determining final drain spacing and selecting the pipe diameters required
for the lateral and collector drains. All sumps, pumps and power units would
be designed for maximum inflow into the sump; the most economical storage
size and capacity; the required pumping rate; and the most suitable cycling
schedule for operation of the power and pump units. Effluent from the sub-
surface drains would be disposed through the surface drainage system. Col-
lection of design data and preparation of detailed construction designs,
drawings, specifications, and cost estimates would be initiated by WAPDA in
the second semester of FY83 to enable initiation of subsurface drain instal-
lation beginning early in FY85. (See para 5.04 and Implementation Schedule
-- Annex 2, and Annex 3, Table 1 for Procurement Schedule for Civil Works).
Designs and specifications for the subsurface drainage system would be con-
sistent with the US Bureau of Reclamation "Standard Specifications for



- 16 -
Drainage Systems." 1/ Assurances have been obtained from. GOP that all civil
works designs and specifications would be satisfactory to IDA.
3.08    It is estimated that there would be about 12,500 ac in the area
receiving subsurface drains that have sodic soil problems. These soils are
characterized by infiltration rates so low that sufficient irrigation water
cannot enter the soil profile to sustain optimum plant growth. About 2 t/ac
of pulverized gypsum 2/ along with additional irrigation water for leaching
would be applied to these lands to improve water infiltration, soil structure
and tilth and reduce sodicity and salinity.
3.09    No land, easements, or right-of-way would be purchased for installa-
tion of collector or lateral drains. However, compensat'on would be paid to
farmers for crop loss during construction. Private lands, would be purchased
as required for sumps and linking channels.
3.10    Office buildings, rest house, storage yards, and maintenance build-
ings for the project would be constructed in the Faisalabad area. Additional
facilities to be constructed would include storage areas in the immediate
project area.
3.11    Equipment.  The project would provide the required construction
equipment, vehicles, lowlift. sump pumps, survey equipment, soil and water
laboratory equipment as well as office equipment and furniture.
3.12    To complete the 75,000 ac subsurface system within the five-year
project period, nine heavy duty trenching machines and related equipment
would be procured. Three of these machines would be modified for greater
strength and equipped with 20-in shields and larger gravel hoppers to permit
installation of up to 12-in collector drains. The lateral drains would be
installed using the other six standard trenchers. Each trencher would have
laser controls to maintain accurate grade for installing the drainage pipe.
Other construction equipment to be procured include: crawler tractors, motor
graders, backhoes, lowbed trailers, front-end loaders, tractors and trailers
with elevators, trucks, etc. (see Annex 3, Table 2 for complete listing of
equipment and procurement schedule).
3.13    Besides the normal project requirements for transport, office and
survey equipment, the project would provide: (a) about 250 lowlift pumps for
pumping drain water from collector drains to linking channels and secondary
pumping to branch drains; and (b) water and soil laboratory equipment
required to aid in designing of subsurface system, and determining soil
amendments and drain water suitability for irrigation.
1/ "Standard Specifications for Drain Systems," July 1982, Columbia Basin
Project, United States Department of Interior, Bureau of Reclamation.
2/ It is recommended that 100% of the gypsum should pass through a 1/4-inch
mesh sieve.



- 17 -
3.14    Technical Assistance and Training.  The project would provide the
following technical assistance:
(a) about 225 man-months of resident and part-time specialists
(estimated cost -- US$10,350 per m/m) would be appointed to
assist in: (i) preparation of plans, designs and tender
documents for subsurface drainage schemes; (ii) preparing
tender documents, procuring, modifying and operating drainage
equipment; (iii) inspection and operation and maintenance of
installed works; (iv) soils and land classification investi-
gations; and (v) monitoring and evaluation; (para 5.14) and
(b) funding (about US$1.0 M) of a local research organization or
governmental agency for monitoring and evaluation of the project
(paras 5.18-5.20).
3.15    The project would provide the following training to WAPDA and PID
staff:
(a) about 30 study tours in technically advanced foreign countries
with comparable irrigation, subsurface and surface drainage
facilities;
(b) on-the-job training of about nine equipment operators by
experienced drainage contractors located in the arid and
semi-arid irrigated areas of the United States;
(c) on-the-job training for pipe drainage construction inspectors;
(d)  on-the-job training for planners, designers and installers
of pipe drainage; and
(e) in-country workshops and on-the-job training within the
project and under the Khairpur Tile Drainage (Cr. 684-PAK) and
SCARP Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK) Projects.
The technical experts identified in para 5.14 would provide guidance in
developing and carrying out the above training program.
3.16   Administration and Engineering.  The project would provide the
implementation agency with the required staff, and related funding for manag-
ing the project as well as for planning, design, and implementation of
required works. This cost has been estimated at 10% of the civil works
category.



- 18 -
Surface Drainage (US$5.0 M)
3.17    The project would provide required civil works (US$2.8 M), equipment
(US$0.9 M), administration and engineering (US$0.3 M) and recurrent costs
(US$1.0 M) fot the surface drainage component covering the entire 295,000 cca
of the project area (see Annex 1, Table 6 for detailed cost estimates).
3.18    Civil Works.  These improvements would include: (a) constructing new
surface drains; (b) rehabilitating existing drains; and (c) constructing
stream gauging stations on drains. All civil works design and construction
would be consistent with existing specifications of WAPDA and Punjab's PID,
which are satisfactory to IDA.
3.19    The project would construct one new branch drain (3 mi) in Samundri
II and 15 new subdrains (56 mi). Of these subdrains, three (19 mi) would be
located in Paharang, four (15 mi) in Samundri I, and eight (22 mi) in
Samundri II. The project would also provide about 168 structures: 18
inlets, 100 culverts and 50 watercourse syphons.
3.20    The project would also rehabilitate 100 mi of the Samundri Drainage
System, covering the following drains: Samundri Branch (21 mi), Awagat
Branch (31 mi), and Maduana Branch (48 mi).
3.21    Equipment.  The project would provide seven automatic gauging sta-
tions. Five stations would be built on the Samundri Drainage System; one on
each of the branch drains and two on the main drain. Two stations would be
built on the Paharang-Chakbandi drainage system. Data obtained from these
automatic gauging stations would enable the project engineers to establish
the relationship between rainfall and run-off which would be used for pos-
sible modification of the design of the project surface drainage system.
3.22    The project would also provide vehicles and O&M, survey and other
equipment required for this component (see Annex 3, Table 2 for complete
listing of equipment and procurement schedule).
3.23    Administration and Engineering.  The project would provide required
staff for management, as well as planning, design, construction and inspec-
tion of the surface drainage civil works. These costs are estimated at 10%
of the cost of the civil works.
On-Farm Water Management and Extension (US$7.6 M)
3.24    The project would provide the required civil works (US$6.7 M), equip-
ment (US$0.2 M), technical assistance and training (US$0.1 M), administration
and engineering (US$0.4 M), and recurrent cost (US$0.2 M) for the on-farm
water management and extension component that would be implemented in the
subsurface drainage area (see Annex 1, Table 7 for detailed cost estimates).
Generally, this component would replicate the technical, financial and
institutional arrangements in the On-Farm Water Management Project
(Cr. 1163-PAK).



- 19 -
3.25    Civil Works.  The project would provide required materials, precast
structures, and earthwork. All civil works would be carried out in accord-
ance with technical criteria established in the "On-Farm Water Management
National Standards for Practices and Materials," Ministry of Food, Agricul-
ture and Cooperatives, GOP, June 1980, which are satisfactory to IDA. Civil
works installation would include: watercourse renovation, precision land
leveling (PLL), and demonstration plots. All labor required for civil works
construction would be contributed by the farmers.
3.26    It is envisioned that the watercourse renovation program would cover
all watercourses (about 190) in the subsurface drainage area. Since the
project is located in a SGW area, about 30% of the communal watercourse
(sarkari khal) would be lined with brick masonry, and the remaining 70% would
be rebuilt with clean compacted soil. A few watercourses in the area have
been renovated under the Pilot OFWM project, where masonry lining was limited
to about 10% of the communal watercourse. Lining of these watercourses would
be extended to about 30% under this project. About 28 permanent structures
(pucca nuccas) would be installed on each watercourse at major junctions and
authorized outlets. In addition, three culverts would be installed along
each watercourse, and a buffalo bath on every second watercourse. Water
saving from watercourse renovation is estimated at about 25% of the supply
delivered at the inlet. 1/ Even though every watercourse in the area would
be renovated, the schedule for implementing these improvements would be
coordinated with the subsurface pipe installation to:
(a) minimize damage to OFWM works resulting from installation
of pipe; and
(b) facilitate operation of pipe through timely introduction of
OFWM practices to minimize deep percolation resulting from
excessive watercourse conveyance losses.
In addition, a formal Water Users' Association (WUA) would be organized on
each chak prior to installing masonry and concrete structures. Scheduling
priority for watercourse renovation would be given to those chaks where
farmers have indicated a willingness to improve field ditches and apply OFWM
practices on their farms.
3.27    OFWM practices on individual farms, including simple irrigation
structures, and improvements in field ditches would be encouraged. The
project would supply technical assistance for laying out these works. Land
leveling equipment, currently owned and operated by the Punjab OFWM Direc-
torate, would be made available on a rental basis to the farmers. It is
estimated that about 19,000 ac or 25% of the subproject area will receive PLL
during the project period.
1/ Based on monitoring and evaluation by WAPDA of similar improvements in
the USAID financed Pilot OFWM Project.



- 20 -
3.28    A one-acre demonstration plot would be installed in each renovated
chak. The purpose of these plots is to demonstrate the effective utilization
of the additional water supply resulting from OFWM improvements. Demonstra-
tions would include PLL, proper field layout, land preparation and irrigation
scheduling, improved cultural practices, and use of non-water i puts. The
project would provide technical assistance and Punjab OFWM Directorate would
supply equipment without charge for the PLL on this plot. The plots shall
have good accessibility and be located on typical farms with average crop
yields. In selecting the location, it is important that the farmer
associated with the plot has the enthusiasm and resources to carry out the
required activities and is willing to cooperate with other farmers in the
chak.
3.29    Equipment.  The project would provide the vehicles, survey and office
equipment required for the additional three field teams and personnel
assigned to the O&M section (see Annex 3, Table 2 for complete listing of
equipment and procurement schedule).
3.30    Technical Assistance and Training.  Technical assistance would be
provided in the form of local supervisory consultants (about 90 man-months at
about US$1,600 per m/m) to assist Punjab's OFWM Directorate in supervising
and monitoring progress and quality of work, preparing reports, processing
reimbursement applications, and general budget and fiscal control. Required
training would be provided under other projects such as the OFWM Project
(Cr. 1163-PAK).
3.31    Administration and Engineering.  The project would provide three
additional field teams (one for each unit), three water management
specialists and 10 field assistants to lay out OFWM works, supervise con-
struction, maintain required liaison with the WUAs and conduct the
strengthened extension program (paras 5.07 and 5.08). In addition, the
project would cover required overhead expenses at the Faisalabad Division and
Lahore headquarters of the Punjab OFWM Directorate.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost Estimates
4.01    Total project cost is estimated to be US$101.4 M, with a foreign
exchange component of US$42.3 M or 42%. Estimates are based on April 1983
prices and include US$14.1 M in taxes and duties. The cost of civil works is
based on (a) recent estimates for installing pipe drains in SCARP Mardan
(Cr. 877-PAK) as well as actual costs for installing pipe in the United
States; (b) prevailing rates in Punjab for earthwork, masonry structures and
items related to constructing and rehabilitating surface drains; and
(c) recent actual costs in Pakistan for installing OFWM works. Physical
contingencies range from 15% for subsurface drainage construction to 5% for
equipment and none for technical assistance staff, and administration and



- 21 -
engineering. Price contingencies are estimated as follows: FY84, 7.8%; FY85,
7%; FY86, 6.5%; and FY87 and FY88, 6% for domestic, and FY84, 7.75%; FY85,
7.25%; FY86, 6.5%; FY87 and 88, 6% for international inflation. Estimates
are detailed in Annex 1 and summarized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1:   Cost Summary by Components
Rs M                         US$ M
Component          Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total
1.. Subsurface Drainage  427.9    372.8    800.7         32.9      28.7     61.6
2.  Surface Drainage       48.9      16.1     65.0        3.8      1.2       5.0
3. OFWM & Extension        81.9      16.5     98.4        6.3      1.3       7.6
Base Cost     558.7    405.4    964.1        43.0      31.2     74.2
Phys. Contingencies   60.0       42.3    102.3        4.6      3.3       7.9
Price Contingencies  149.2    101.6    250.8         11.5      7.8      19.3
Total Project Cost   767.9    549.3  1,317.2         59.1     42.3    101.4
Financing
4.02    The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 60.3 M (US$65.0 M) would finance about
75% of total project cost net of taxes and duties. It is expected that the
United Kingdom and the Netherlands would cofinance the equivalent of US$9.8 M
and US$3.5 M, respectively, which together would cover an additional 15% of
total project cost, net of taxes and duties. GOP, GOPunjab and farmers would
finance the remaining US$23.1 M equivalent, or about 23% of total project
cost, including taxes and duties. Farmers' contribution would amount to
about US$0.7 M relating to the installation of OFWM works (para 4.07).
4.03    Financing for the subsurface and surface drainage components (about
US$91.2 M) would be included in the water sector of the Federal Annual
Development Program (ADP). Financing for the OFWM and extension component
(about US$10.2 M) would be included in Punjab's Provincial ADP. Approval of
the project's PC-ls by the Executive Committee of the National Economic
Council (ECNEC) and meeting all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the United Kingdom's and the Dutch funding would be conditions of credit
effectiveness. The proposed financing plan by expenditure category is in
Table 4.2.



- 22 -
Table 4.2:   Proposed Project Financing (US$M)
Domestic               External
Total              GOP &
Expenditure Category      Cost      Farmers  GOPunjab      IDA    UK    Dutch
1.  Civil Works               70.2       0.7       11.6        54.3   3.6     -
2.  Equipment                 16.2        -         6.5          -    6.2    3.5
3.  TA & Training               5.5       -          -          5.5    -      -
4.  Adm. & Engineering         5.7        -         0.5         5.2    -       -
5.  Recurrent Costs             3.8       -         3.8         -      -      -
Total      101.4       0.7       22.4       65.0   9.8    3.5
4.04    As GOP and the Provinces experienced difficulties in prefinancing
certain expenditures for project development, a Civil Works Imprest Account
at the Federal level (within the State Bank of Pakistan) and subaccounts at
the Provincial level were established under the OFWM Project (Cr. 1163-PAK).
This system has worked satisfactorily. The proposed project would use the
Imprest Account and a subaccount in Punjab Province to finance construction
of OFWM works. Promptly after Credit effectiveness, an advance of about
Rs 2.75 M from the IDA Credit would be deposited in the Imprest Account for
transfer to the Punjab subaccount. Disbursements from the subaccount would
follow existing Provincial procedures and would be under the control of the
Director General of Punjab's OFWM Directorate, with delegation of operating
authority to the Deputy Director located in the Faisalabad Division. Annex 4
gives a detailed description of operating procedures. Assurances have been
obtained from GOP and GOPunjab that the operation of the two accounts would
be satisfactory to IDA.
Procurement
4.05    Items to be financed by the project include civil works, equipment,
materials and technical assistance and training. Procurement under the
subsurface and surface drainage components would be carried out by WAPDA,
whereas GOPunjab-s OFWM Directorate would be responsible for the OFWM com-
ponent (see Annex 3 for Procurement Schedules).
4.06    Procurement of civil works for the subsurface drainage component,
including pipe (about US$50.6 M net of taxes and duties), would be by inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Con-
tractors for installing subsurface drainage facilities would utilize project
equipment (see para 5.12 on O&M of such equipment). Procurement of soil
amendments (gypsum) would follow WAPDA's local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA.
4.07    Civil works construction for the OFWM and extension component would
be in small parcels, seasonal, and involve extensive farmer donated labor.
Such construction would not be practical for ICB. Hence, the civil works
would be carried out in the following manner: (a) watercourse renovation
would be done by government supplied materials and farmer donated labor; and



- 23 -
(b) precision land levelling would be done by farmers with equipment rented
from Punjab's OFWM Directorate and/or private contractors. Materials for
watercourse renovation consist of sand, bricks, cement, and precast struc-
tures that are readily available in Pakistan. These materials would be
procured by Punjab's OFWM Directorate following provincial procedures that
are satisfactory to IDA. The material cost would run about US$30,100 per
watercourse or about US$5.7 M for the project.
4.08    Appointment of suitably qualified consultants (US$5.1 M) would be in
accordance with principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency," as published by the Bank in August 1981.
4.09    Procurement of the nine trenchers (para 3.12; US$3.5 M) would follow
procedures agreeable to GOP and the Netherlands. All other equipment
(US$6.2 M) and civil works for the surface drainage component (US$3.6 M)
would be procured under procedures acceptable to the United Kingdom and GOP.
As the equipment is essential for project implementation, the effectiveness
of both cofinanciers' funding agreements would be a condition of IDA credit
effectiveness (para 4.03).
Disbursements
4.10    Disbursement of the IDA Credit would be for identified items to be so
financed, as contrasted to items to be financed by other co-financing
organizations, and would amount to:
(a) 85% of the cost of civil works for the subsurface
drainage component;
(b) 95% of the cost of civil works materials for the OFWM and
extension component;
(c) 100% of the cost of technical assistance and overseas
training; and
(d) 90% of the cost of local training and of the salaries and
allowances of WAPDA's field personnel and Punjab's OFWM
Directorate's field crews and O&M Section associated with
the project.
Disbursements under (a) and (c) would be made against full documentation.
Disbursements under (b) and (d) would be made against certified statements of
expenditures; supporting documents would be retained by the implementing
agencies for review by IDA. Reimbursement applications for (b) would also be
accompanied by: (i) a statement of transactions on the Imprest subaccount
since the previous application, with the balance certified by the State Bank
of Pakistan; and (ii) a reconciliation showing that the balance represents
the amount deposited in the account at the beginning of the project, less
payments awaiting IDA reimbursement.



- 24 -
4.11    It is anticipated that the final IDA disbursement for the project
would be made by December 31, 1988, about six months after project comple-
tion. Estimated IDA disbursements are shown in Annex I, Table 9 and reflect
the implementation schedule (see Annex 2 for Implementation Schedule)
achieved in comparable international drainage projects as well as that for
the OFWM Project (Cr. 1163-PAK).
4.12    The implementing agencies would be subject to normal GOP and GOPunjab
expenditure control and auditing procedures. Project accounts would be
maintained separately and in a readily identifiable form by these agencies.
Accounts would be audited separately from overall accounts by an independent
auditor. Assurances have been obtained from GOP and GOPunjab that: (a) all
project accounts would be kept separately and audited annually by an inde-
pendent auditor satisfactory to IDA; (b) copies of unaudited annual project
accounts would be sent to IDA for review not later than six months after the
end of each fiscal year, followed by certified copies of the audited accounts
and auditor's report within nine months of the end of the fiscal year; and
(c) the auditor's report would include a statement that funds disbursed
against statements of expenditures had been used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
5.01    Institutional Arrangements.  The project would be implemented by
WAPDA in the Federal Ministry of Water and Power and the OFWM Directorate in
Punjab's Department of Agriculture. A Project Coordination Committee would
be established to coordinate the activities of these two implementing
agencies.
5.02    Project Coordination Committee and Project Policy Committee.  The
project coordination committee would be established to: (a) coordinate the
scheduling of the implementing agencies to maximize complementary aspects of
the drainage and OFWM components; (b) prepare work plans and proposals for
budgetary allocations; (c) select areas to receive subsurface drainage and
OFWM improvements; (d) review quarterly and annual progress reports, work
plans and programs and make appropriate recommendations to WAPDA, GOPunjab
and GOP; and (e) send the documents listed in (d) together with its comments
to IDA within 60 days of the close of reporting periods. It is envisioned
that this committee would meet at least quarterly. The committee would be
chaired by the General Manager (Water) Central, WAPDA, and would include the
following members: Chief Engineer, Faisalabad, Punjab Department of Irriga-
tion and Power; Chief Engineer, WAPDA (Faisalabad); Project Director, WAPDA;
and Director General, OFWM, Punjab Department of Agriculture. A condition of
credit effectiveness would be the organization of this project coordination
committee by GOP and GOPunjab. GOP and GOPunjab have also given assurance
that a Project Policy Committee would be constituted when the first subunit
of the project becomes operational. The functions of this committee would
include: (a) formulating policies aimed at full participation of project
beneficiaries and optimization of O&M activities in the completed project



- 25 -
units to realize the planned project benefits within the shortest possible
time; (b) rationalizing and standardizing O&M criteria and practices, and
reviewing the yardsticks for staff and annual O&M budget allocations for
efficient management of the project; and (c) reviewing policies governing the
levy of water charges and other appropriate financial arrangements peri-
odically to reach levels sufficient to cover increasing portions of an agreed
stepped-up O&M program. This committee would be chaired by the Additional
Chief Secretary, Punjab Department of Planning and Development, and would
include the Secretaries of Punjab's Departments of Irrigation and Power,
Agriculture, and Finance, and the General Manager (Water) Central, WAPDA as
its members.
5.03    WAPDA.  Responsibility for implementing the subsurface and surface
drainage components would be with WAPDA and more specifically with the
General Manager Central WAPDA (see Organizational Chart-Drainage, Plate II).
Relating to these two components, WAPDA would be responsible for:
(a) recommending to the project committee the areas to receive subsurface
drainage and OFWM improvements; (b) preparing plans and detailed designs for
construction; (c) executing required civil works and project facilities;
(d) preparing specifications and related procurement for civil works, equip-
ment, and technical experts; (e) operating and maintaining civil works for
the first year following installation; (f) operation and maintenance of
equipment; (g) monitoring of project progress and works of improvement to
determine their effect in alleviating subsurface and surface drainage
problems; (h) maintaining separate accounts for the project; (i) certifying
quantity and quality of project works completed; (j) preparing IDA reimburse-
ment applications; (k) preparing quarterly and annual progress reports for
the project and submitting them to the project coordination committee within
30 days of the close of each reporting period; and (1) preparing an annual
work plan by March 1 of each year to serve as the basis of funding in the
succeeding year's Federal ADP. In addition, WAPDA would be responsible for
preparing a project completion report by December 31, 1988 with input on the
OFWM component to be supplied by Punjab's OFWM Directorate (para 5.06).
5.04    WAPDA would establish a project office near Faisalabad under the
direction of the Chief Engineer. At the same time a Project Director would
be appointed and posting of sanctioned staff would be initiated. Plans and
designs would be prepared that would enable the scheduled construction of
surface drains for the Samundri II unit in FY84, which would allow installa-
tion of the subsurface pipe drains in this unit beginning in FY85. The
establishment of the project office would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
5.05    Punjab's Department of Irrigation and Power.  During construction,
WAPDA would be responsible for O&M of civil works installed as part of the
subsurface and surface drainage components. However, it is envisioned that
WAPDA, about one year after completing construction of a subunit, would turn
over such units for O&M purposes to Punjab's PID. Specifically, PID's
Drainage Division, under the Chief Engineer of the Faisalabad Region, would
carry out this responsibility.



- 26 -
5.06    Punjab's On-Farm Water Management Directorate.  Responsibility for
implementing the 0FWMI and extension component would be assigned to Puijab's
OFWM Directorate. These responsibilities would include: (a) planning and
design of OFWM program, i.e., watercourse renovation, PLL, and water manage-
ment measures on watercourse branches and individual farms; (b) laying out,
constructing, and inspecting civil works; (c) supervising installation and
operation of demonstration plots; (d) supervising O&M of renovated watercour-
ses; (e) organizing, registering, assisting and maintaining liaison with
formalized Water Users' Associations; (f) procuring required equipment;
(g) preparing quarterly and annual progress reports and submitting them to
the Project Coordination Committee within 30 days of the close of the report-
ing period; (h) preparing by March 1 of each year during the project period
an annual work plan as an input into the preparation of the Provincial ADP
and for review by the Project Coordination Committee; (i) maintaining
separate project accounts; (j) preparing and submitting IDA reimbursement
applications, including the verification and certification of completed civil
works; (k) submitting required information on the OFWcI and extension com-
ponent to WAPDA for timely inclusion in the Project Completion Report;
(1) organizing and supervising the application of soil reclamation amendments
by the WUAs as specified by WAPDA; and (m) providing assistance to WTJAs and
individual farmers on non-water inputs and services, with a view to increas-
ing agricultural production.
5.07    Three additional field teams, one in each subproject unit, would be
mobilized to plan, design, lay out, construct, and inspect required OFWM
works. The three teams would be in the field by September 1, 1983 and would
be directly responsible to the Assistant Director, Engineer at Faisalabad
(see Organization Chart-OFWM, Plate III). Each field team would consist of
eight members, i.e., leader, three water manageme-at officers, and four sub-
engineers, plus required support staff.
5.08    The Punjab O&M Section established in the OFWM project (Crn 1163-PAK)
would be strengthened in the project area to include three additional water
management supervisors (WMS) and 10 field assistants (FA) who would be
responsible to the Assistant Director, Agriculture, in Faisalabad. Each WMS
would be responsible for a subproject unit and each FA would be responsible
for about 19 watercourses. This section would be specifically responlsible
for: (a) organizing formal WUAs; (b) serving as liaison between WIJAs and OFW'M
Directorate to encourage effective and continued operation of WUAs;
(c) monitoring watercourse maintenance and taking appropriate action;
(d) assisting farmers and WUAs in planning, implementing and operating simple
irrigation measures; (e) scheduling OFWNf field teams to do follow-up work on
renovated watercourses, i.e., additional lining, PLL, etc.; (f) promoting
water management practices within the chak and on individual farms;
(g) supervising work and operations on individual demonstration plots; and
(h) supplying assistance and advice on non-water inlputs and services includ-
ing application of soil reclamation amendments.  The Deputy Director  LArea
Coordinator) at Faisalabad would be responsible for organizing a discipline
approach for carrying out all of the responsibilities outlined above    It is
envisioned that in the subproject area during the project period all aSiS-
tance and advice to farmers on non-water inputs and services vould be by



- 27 -
personnel assigned to the O&M Section in the OFWM Directorate. However, it
is further envisioned that Punjab's Secretary of Agriculture would review
this program and determine the appropriateness of reassigning these respon-
sibilities to the Extension Service. In the meantime, the Area Coordinator
would take the required action to ensure appropriate coordination with the
Extension Service.
5.09    Water Users' Associations.  Formalized Water Users' Associations
would be organized on all chaks with watercourses to be renovated prior to
installing masonry lining and structures. These WUAs would be organized
under authority of Punjab Ordinance No. V of 1981, dated April 22, 1981.
Each WUA would be registered in the Office of the Director General of Pun-
jab's OFWM Directorate. The Ordinance provides for: (a) organizational
procedures; (b) membership; (c) general assembly of users; (d) voting
requirements; (e) resolution of disputes; (f) powers of the association; and
(g) election of a board of directors, along with powers and duties of the
board. Among other things, WUA's are authorized to install, operate and
maintain watercourse improvements, TWs and drainage facilities. Provisions
are also made for the WUAs to organize into a Federation of Associations
along a distributary or canal.
Operation and Maintenance
5.10    Subsurface and Surface Drainage Components (Civil Works).  During
construction and for one year following completion of a subunit, WAPDA would
be responsible for all O&M of the subsurface and surface drainage components.
Thereafter, O&M responsibilities would be transferred to Punjab's PID. It is
estimated that the O&M cost would run about Rs 55/ac 1/ for the subsurface
and Rs 17/ac 1/ for the surface drainage component. 2/ This would require an
allocation in PID's non-development budget rising to about Rs 15.1 M annually
in FY89. 3/ Assurance has been obtained from GOPunjab that sufficient fund-
ing, in line with the above estimate but modified with operational
experience, would be provided to Punjab's PID to ensure adequate maintenance
of drainage facilities installed under the project (see paras 6.10, 6.13,
6.14). It is important that the surface drains be well maintained to reduce
losses from rain flooding and provide outlets for the pipe drains. In addi-
tion, it is imperative that the pipe drains and related pumps be properly
operated and maintained to meet drainage requirements and to guard against
costly replacement and/or repairs resulting from poor O&M.
1/ FY83 base cost figures.
2/ Surface drainage O&M cost based on WAPDA's estimate of desilting project
area drains: Silt volume 10.8 M cft per year, cost of removal Rs 460 per
1,000 cft, total annual cost Rs 4.96 M.
3/ In FY88 prices, including contingencies.



- 28 -
5,11    OFWM Component (Civil Works).  WUAs would be responsible for the O&M
of renovated watercourses. Sanctions are provided in Punjab-s Ordinance
No. V of 1981 to ensure maintenance of these facilities. In case of
non-compliance with the maintenance requirements, such maintenance can be
undertaken by either the WUA and/or OFWM Directorate and the costs assessed
by the Provincial Department of Revenue against the non-complying farmer(s)
in the form of land arrears. Individual farmers would be responsible for the
O&M of field ditches and other improvements such as PLL. Punjab-s OFWM
Directorate would supply the necessary technical assistance through the OFWM
O&M Section to assist the WUAs and farmers in carrying out these O&M respon-
sibilities.
5.12    Vehicle and Equipment Repairs and Service.  O&M of transport and
construction equipment for the subsurface drainage component utilized by the
civil works contractor would be provided by the contractor. All other
project procured equipment would be operated and maintained by the agency
procuring such equipment.
Implementation Schedule
5.13    Project implementation is planned for five years, FY1984-88 (Annex 2,
Implementation Schedule). Major equipment for drainage construction and
vehicles would be procured in the first year (see Annex 3, Table 2,
Procurement Schedule). Installation of subsurface drainage pipes on about
75,000 ac and construction of related works would be spread out from the
second to the fifth year. Improvement of the surface drainage system would
be carried out in the first and second years in the Samundri II unit, and
during the second to the fourth years in the Samundri I and Paharang units.
The Drainage Engineer and supervisory consultants (Annex 1, Tables 4 and 7)
would be appointed within two months of Credit effectiveness and all other
full-time experts would begin their service within six months of the start of
the project, except for the O&M expert who would be appointed by July 1,
1985.
Technical Assistance and Training
5.14    Since installation of pipe subsurface drainage systems is just in its
initial stage in Pakistan, this project would provide about 17 man-years of
full-time and about 20 man-months of part-time consulting services to
strengthen WAPDA's implementation capacity and ensure the quality of works
installed as well as to train local technical staff. These consultants would
be appointed by WAPDA and would be responsible to the Project Director in
Faisalabad (see Terms of Reference for Technical Experts, Annex 5). The
professions and length of service for the full-time experts are estimated as
follows:



- 29 -
Profession                                     Man-years
Drainage Engineer, 1                               5.0
Drainage Design Engineer, 1                        3.0
Drainage Construction Engineer 1                   4.5
Drainage System O&M Engineer, 1                    2.5
Soil Specialist, Drainage Investigation, 1         2.0
Total                                       17.0
5.15    The project provides about 90 man-months of local supervisory con-
sultants to further strengthen Punjab's OFWM Directorate and assist in
implementing the OFWM component.  Appointment would be by Punjab's Secretary
of Agriculture with the consultants directly responsible to the Director
General OFWM Directorate. Responsibility of the supervisory consultants
would be comparable to that assigned to a similar group in the OFWM Project,
Cr. 1163-PAK (see Terms of Reference for Supervisory Consultants, Annex 5).
5.16    Assurances have been obtained from GOP that it would employ qualified
consultants (Annex 1, Tables 4 and 7) for the assignments described in paras
5.14 and 5.15 in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
The principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" (August 1981) would be followed. In addition, assurances have been
obtained that GOP would employ the full-time Drainage Engineer and super-
visory consultants within two months of Credit effectiveness.
5.17    The project would also provide both overseas and in-country training
for WAPDA and PID staff (para 3.15). A total of 30 overseas tours (about 6
tours per year) and in-country training for about 200 technical staff has
been provided (Annex 1, Table 5). GOP would consult with IDA by December 31,
1983 on training programs and selection of officials for the overseas
training.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.18    The Monitoring and Evaluation Office (M&E), WAPDA -- either directly
or through a local consultant -- would be responsible for monitoring and
evaluation of the subsurface and surface drainage components and the evalua-
tion of the OFWM component. Monitoring of the OFWM component would be the
responsibility of Punjab's OFWM Directorate assisted by the local supervisory
consultants. M&E would prepare a work program for this monitoring and
evaluation by October 1, 1983 and submit it through the Project Coordination
Committee to IDA for review by December 1, 1983. M&E would prepare annual
reports on its activities and would submit a final report to the Project
Coordination Committee and IDA by December 31, 1988. Assurance has been
obtained from GOP, that M&E's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit for this project
would be operational by January 1, 1984.



- 30 -
5.19    Monitoring.  In addition to the general physical and financial
aspects of project progress, monitoring should -- selectively -- include the
following:
(a) Subsurface Drainage Component. Reasonably accurate measurements
of the irrigation delivery to the farm units; continuously
measure the subsurface drainage effluent from both individual
drains and complete sump systems; measurement of drawdown
between drains to determine if the drains are functioning as
designed; collection of drain effluent for chemical analyses
and evidence of any iron bacteria buildup; and a scheduled
reading of the permanent observation wells and piezometric
cluster installations to monitor the general watertable fluctua-
tions and piezometric head dissipation resulting from the sub-
surface drain operation. The observation wells will be pumped
dry every six months for the first two years and samples taken
of the fresh water flowing back into the well for laboratory
sampling to monitor the effect of the subsurface drains on the
groundwater quality. After two years, the sampling schedule
will be changed to once a year, except in areas of high salt
concentrations. Soil samples will be taken throughout the
project once a year to check the physical changes in the soil.
(b) Surface Drainage Component. Continuously measure the flow in
the drainage system to check whether the new and rehabilitated
drains are operating as planned, and collect data from the
seven automatic gauging stations to establish the relationship
between rainfall and run-off which may be used for subsequent
modification in drain design.
(c) On-Farm Management Component. Assess the reduction in water
losses in a certain number of renovated watercourses and
examine the impact on crop production from the combined effect
of lowered groundwater table, improved water management and
strengthened extension services.
5.20    Evaluation.  Evaluation would concentrate on assessing the impact
of the project, especially regarding: (a) the effect on lowering the
groundwater table of the completed subsurface and surface drainage system;
(b) the benefits derived from the improvements, i.e., subsurface and surface
drainage; and (c) the effect on crop production of the renovated watercourses
distributed over the entire subsurface drainage area. Agricultural produc-
tion data would be collected before and after the improvements, and sampling
areas would be selected for items (b) and (c). Analysis of this
data/information would be useful in improving the design of future drainage
projects in Pakistan.



- 31 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, FARM INCOME AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Impact
6.01    Wheat, sugarcane, Kharif fodder (green maize) and Rabi fodder (ber-
seem) are used as proxies for the more diversified cropping pattern 1/ found
in the project area. In the surface drainage area (220,000 ac), the project
would have only a relatively modest impact on agricultural production through
the reduction of losses due to rain flooding in the Kharif season (sugarcane
and fodder). In the subsurface drainage area (75,000 ac), it would sig-
nificantly increase crop production by eliminating waterlogging and soil
degradation, improving water management and strengthening extension. Yields
of wheat, sugarcane, maize fodder and berseem are estimated to rise from 0.6,
10.6, 7.9 and 12.5 tons per acre at present to 1.2, 21.1, 15.8 and 24.9 tons
per acre at full development (project year 10 and later). 2/ "Without the
project," production of all four proxy crops is assumed to decline to about
half their present level by project year 30 as a result of a 20% reduction in
farm area and yield decreases of about one-third. 3/ This decline in produc-
tion is projected on the basis of a further rise in the water table and an
increase in soil salinity and sodicity. In some areas, this situation would
lead to a deterioration of the soils due to problematic sodicity (paras 2.10,
3.06). Reclamation of such soils may not be economically feasible. Total
incremental production would increase as shown in Table 6.1 below.
1/ See Table 2.7.
2/ For comparison, RAP's Leading Farmer Survey (1975) showed yields of wheat
and sugarcane of 1.3 and 32.5 tons per acre, respectively.
3/ See Annex 6, Tables 2 and 3.



- 32 -
Table 6.1: Incremental Crop Production
(In '000 metric tons)
PY 10                    PY 30
Present    With   Without  Incr.    With   Without   Incr.
Wheat /a              25.6      53.1     20.7    32.4    53.1    12.9         40.2
Sugarcane /b         855.9    982.7    697.8   284.9   772.0   428.8        343.2
Kharif Fodder /b    302.6    350.8    251.6    99.2   272.6   151.7          120.9
Rabi Fodder /a       149.6    299.3    123.6   175.7   299.3    75.3        224.0
/a  Subsurface drainage area only.
7T Subsurface and surface drainage area..
Source: Annex 6, Table 1.
Marketing and Prices
6.02    Marketing and processing facilities in the project area are adequate
to handle the project-s incremental inputs and outputs. The area is well
served by local roads and-linked with Faisalabad -- one of the major agricul-
tural commodity markets in Punjab -- and the wholesale markets of Samundri,
Gojra and Jaranwala. Faisalabad is connected with Lahore, Karachi and other
principal cities by railway and fairly good roads. Under the Government's
expansion program, the existing wheat storage capacity in Faisalabad Division
would increase from 182,000 tons to 204,000 tons by FY83. For rice an addi-
tional capacity of 10,000 tons would be provided.
6.03    Following two good harvests in FY81 and FY82, Pakistan has, at least
for the time being, achieved self-sufficiency in wheat, and for the first
time a token 50,000 tons were exported. 1/  Based on the Five Year Plan
target of a daily per capita availability of 340 g of wheat and the estimated
population growth rate, 2/ wheat consumption requirements would increase from
10.8 million tons in FY82 to about 12.7 million tons by FY88.  Currently, the
project area is a net importer of foodgrains and most wheat produced is
consumed on the farm. Farmers with medium and large holdings, however, sell
their surplus wheat (directly or through middlemen) to Government procurement
centers and private wholesalers/millers. Government procured wheat is sold
at the official price to authorized mills to produce flour for sale through
the subsidized ration system. To stabilize market prices between harvests,
the Government also sells wheat to private mills at lower than free market
prices with the condition that they sell flour at an agreed price.
1/ See Chapter VII, para 7.02, for assumptions regarding the future.
2/ Assuming 3% in FY82, 2.9% in FY83 and 2.7% thereafter.



- 33 -
6.04    Depending on the ratio of the price of unrefined brown sugar and the
official procurement price of sugarcane, 25-40% of the total cane production
is sold to sugar mills, while the balance, net of seed and chewing require-
ments, is absorbed by cottage industries. Farmers within authorized mill
zones are obliged by law to sell 85% of their cane to sugar mills. While the
production of refined sugar is purchased by the Provincial Food Department at
the official price for sale through the ration system, there is no price
support for unrefined brown sugar.
6.05    Following a nearly 30% increase in procurement prices in FY81 (from
Rs 7 to Rs 9 per maund in Punjab), cane production increased by 18% in FY81
and 13% in FY82, and a much higher percentage than in earlier years was sold
to mills, resulting in a record sugar production -- about 1.3 million tons --
in FY82. Export prospects are not bright because of low international prices
and the high cost of production in Pakistan due to poor cane yields and a low
sugar content in the cane. Incremental production would be absorbed by
increased domestic demand, however. Based on GOP's target of a per capita
availability of 21 kg of unrefined and 11.5 kg of refined sugar per year,
cane production requirements would rise from 36.6 million tons in FY82 to
about 38 million tons in FY88.
6.06    Currently, the area produces less fodder than is required to properly
feed its livestock population; incremental fodder production should therefore
be absorbed without difficulty. Other project outputs -- rice, cotton, oil
seeds -- would also find a ready market.
6.07    Prices of all major agricultural inputs and outputs are influenced by
Government intervention -- import/export controls, taxes, producer/consumer
subsidies, support/procurement measures. Past pricing policies emphasized
consumer subsidies through fixing procurement prices at levels below interna-
tional prices, while attempting to compensate producers by subsidizing fer-
tilizer and other agricultural inputs. However, with the National Agricul-
tural Policy announced in February 1980, a new pattern has emerged. Prices
of key agricultural outputs and inputs are periodically adjusted in the light
of prevailing circumstances (world market prices, domestic needs) to provide
appropriate incentives to producers while reducing input subsidies. GOP is
committed to align the prices of tradable agricultural inputs and outputs
with international prices in a carefully phased manner. Measures taken so
far include: (a) a 50% increase in fertilizer retail prices in February
1980, followed by further increases of about 10% in March 1982 and 15% in
October 1982 as part of an effort to eliminate the fertilizer subsidy by the
end of FY85; (b) privatization of pesticide imports and distribution, and
elimination of pesticide subsidies in Punjab and Sind from FY81 and in NWFP
and Baluchistan by 1983; (c) increases in procurement prices of all major
crops in FY81, and further increases in cotton, rice and wheat prices in
FY82; and (d) establishment of an Agricultural Prices Commission in March
1981 to advise on price and subsidy policies. Despite its still incomplete
staffing, the Commission has played a valuable role in strengthening decision
making in this area.



- 34 -
Farm Income
6.08    While farmers in the surface drainage area would see their Kharif
crop losses from rain flooding halved with the project, it is not assumed
that there would be any changes in farming practices. In contrast, the
improvements in the subsurface drainage area would lead benefiting farmers
to increase input use and better maintain their farms, resulting in a doub-
ling of the present very low yields and a corresponding increase in incomes.
On an average size farm of about 9 ac, net crop production value (in constant
FY83 prices) is estimated to rise from Rs 6,840 at present to Rs 18,890
(+ 175%) at full development, whereas without the project there would be a
decline to Rs 4,860 by project year 10 and to Rs 2,690 by year 30. Net
production value per man-day would rise from Rs 30 to Rs 90 with the project,
and net production value per capita from Rs 1,020 at present to Rs 2,820 at
full development. Again, a substantial decline is projected without the
project. Details are given in Table 6.2.
6.09    The "with project" estimates would enable benefiting farmers in the
subsurface drainage area to properly remunerate family labor as well as
contribute to project cost recovery through increased water charges or other
charges the Government plans to introduce (see below). An annual drainage
charge of Rs 720 per farm (in FY83 prices) would cover the full O&M require-
ments in this area.
Cost Recovery
6.10    Pakistan-s surface irrigation and drainage system has been
deteriorating due essentially to inadequate funding for operation and main-
tenance (O&M), and Punjab is no exception. Under the Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1239-PAK), GOP and GOPunjab agreed to increase
annual budgetary allocations for O&M in real terms over the coming years in
order to meet estimated requirements (or appropriately revised figures) by
FY85. For Punjab, these requirements were projected to be Rs 535 million
(in constant 1981 prices). Estimated O&M funding for the surface and subsur-
face components of this project (about Rs 15.1 million annually from FY89 --
see para 5.10) would be part of these requirements.
6.11    The agreement to substantially increase allocations for O&M of the
surface irrigation and drainage system was reaffirmed under the Structural
Adjustment Program (Ln. 2166-PAk and Cr. 1255-PAK). In addition, GOP agreed
to improve the performance of public tubewells. In the short term, alloca-
tions would be increased to meet their full O&M requirements. In the longer
term, the Government intends to reduce the budgetary burden of tubewell O&MT
by promoting private tubewell development in all usable groundwater areas
where this is compatible with drainage requirements, and by phasing out or
divesting public tubewells, based on the results of a SCARP Transition
project preparation study under way with the help of the UNDP and the Bank
(para 1.13).



- 35 -
Table 6.2: Summary Farm Budgets, Subsurface Drainage Area
(Average Size Farm of 9 ac; Constant FY83 Prices)
PYlO                 PY30
Present      With      Without    With      Without
Cropped Area (ac)               10.1         10.3        9.4      10.3        8.0
Gross Production Value (Rs)  13,620        27,590    11,130    27,590       6,830
Input Costs (Rs)               6,780        8,700     6,270      8,700      4,140
Of which:  Water Charges       ( 300)      ( 310)   (  280)   (  310)   ( 230)
Net Production Value (Rs)      6,840       18,890     4,860    18,890       2,690
Of which:  Wheat              (2,120)    ( 6,260)  ( 1,440)  ( 6,260)   ( 850)
Sugarcane          (2,300)    ( 7,310)  ( 1,530)  ( 7,3iO)   (  790)
Maize Fodder       (1,010)    ( 2,170)  (   790)  ( 2,170)   (  430)
Berseem            (1,410)    ( 3,150)  ( 1,100)  ( 3,150)   (  620)
Net Production Value (Rs)
-  per Cropped Acre              680        1,830        520     1,830        340
-  per Man-day /a                 30           90         25        90         15
-  per Capita /b               1,020        2,820        725     2,820        400
/a Including family labor.
lb Average family size is 6.7 persons.
Source: Annex 6, Tables 2 and 3.
6.12    To improve the recovery of O&M expenditures on the irrigation system,
GOPunjab agreed, first under the SCARP VI Project (Cr. 754-PAK) and recently
under the Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project, to raise water charges
periodically (subject to the necessary legislative approval) or make other
appropriate arrangements to achieve full cost recovery by mid-1990.
6.13    No new conditionality on cost recovery is included in this project.
However, the issue of recovery of drainage expenditures is one of increasing
relevance in Pakistan in view of expected needs for major drainage invest-
ment. This issue will be addressed as part of a proposed second Structural
Adjustment Program tentatively scheduled for FY84. GOP is currently con-
sidering a number of alternatives, among them a betterment charge to be paid
by beneficiaries of irrigation and drainage investments. Reassurance has been
obtained from GOP and GOPunjab that water charges and/or other appropriate
arrangements would be periodically reviewed to reach levels sufficient to
cover increasing portions of an agreed stepped-up O&M program in line with
existing covenants in IDA financed projects (SCARP VI Project - Cr. 754-PAK;
Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project - Cr. 1239-PAK; and Structural
Adjustment Program - Ln. 2166-PAK and Cr. 1255-PAK).



- 36 -
6.14    Punjab's Non-Development Budget (NDB) allocations for O&M of the
surface irrigation and drainage system (including establishment) have been
increased by two-thirds since FY81, to reach Rs 554.3 million in FY83. This
figure exceeds the target set under the Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation
Project for this year. 1/ The NDB allocation for tubewell O&M increased
about 12% between FY81 and FY83, to reach Rs 396.4 million. Irtigation water
charges in Punjab have been raised 75% since mid-1978. No increase is
included in the FY83 budget. Nevertheless, estimated revenue from water
charges would again cover about 70% of O&M expenditures 2/ in FY83. Details
are shown in Table 6.3.
Table 6.3: GOPunjab NDB Irrigation O&M Expenditure and Water Charges
(Rs million)
Estab-                                     Water
Year     lishment    Canals /a       TWs     Total   Charges      %
1979-80    208.2         85.6        304.0    597.8    417.7       70
1980-81    239.7         90.6       352.9    683.2    473.0        69
1981-82    305.8        125.9 /b    394.6    826.3 /b 593.1        72
1982-83    346.4        207.9       396.4    951.1    660.8 /c   69
/a  Includes allocations for canals, surface drains and flood
protection works.
lb  Excludes exceptional GOP grant of Rs 100 M.
/c Budget; all other data are revised budget figures.
Source: GOPunjab, Department of Irrigation.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01    The project would raise agricultural production and incomes through a
package of subsurface drainage, surface drainage, improved OFWM practices
and extension on about 75,000 ac, and would reduce crop and property losses
caused by storm flooding through improved surface drainage in the entire
project area (295,000 ac). About 32,070 farm families, or about 215,000
people, would directly benefit from the project. Their present per capita
incomes of US$90-120 equivalent compare with an estimated rural poverty
income level of US$140 (1981). Incremental farm employment would increase
from 660,000 man-days in project year 10 (equivalent to about 2,750 full-time
jobs) to 1.32 million man-days in project year 30 (about 5,500 full-time
1/ Rs 415 million in 1981 prices, or about Rs 492 million in 1983 prices.
2/ Including tubewell O&M.



- 37 -
jobs). The project would also have a beneficial impact on the environment by
reducing the breeding areas of mosquitoes.
7.02    The project's economic rate of return (IRR) is estimated to be about
15%. At a discount rate of 10%, the assumed opportunity cost of capital in
Pakistan, the project-s economic net present value is Rs 314.7 million
(US$24.2 million). Economic costs and benefits have been valued in constant
spring 1983 terms. The main assumptions underlying the rate of return
calculations are as follows:
(a) Project Life: Thirty years, with full development in the 75,000
ac subsurface drainage area reached in project year 10.
(b) Prices: Farm gate prices for internationally traded goods are
based on the latest (December 1982) IBRD commodity price forecasts, 1/
while those for non-traded goods are based on domestic financial
prices. Pakistan is expected to become self-sufficient in wheat
by the mid-1980's, and a net exporter by the end of the decade.
Therefore, an import parity price for wheat is used through 1989,
and an export parity price for 1990 and later years. Local prices
and local price components have been translated into border Rupees
using a standard conversion factor of 0.9.
(c) Project Costs: Estimates are incremental, net of duties and
taxes, and allowances for inflation, but include physical contin-
gencies (para 4.01). The full cost of all project components
has been taken into account. The residual value (25%) of equip-
ment having a longer useful life than the project implementation
period has been deducted from the cost stream in project year 6.
Crop production costs have been adjusted to reflect realistically
the staggered occurrence of costs and resulting benefits. Local
cost components have been expressed in border Rupees using the
standard conversion factor of 0.9.
(d) Project Benefits: Benefits consist of incremental crop produc-
tion and avoided non-agricultural losses from storm flooding.
Wheat, sugarcane, Kharif and Rabi fodder (green maize and berseem,
respectively) are used as proxies for the more diversified
cropping pattern found in the project area. "Without project"
production is assumed to fall as a result of waterlogging and
soil degradation to about 50% of present levels by project
year 30. "With the project", production in the subsurface
drainage area is estimated to reach about double the present
level at full development. The yield build-up in this area
would take about five years on each parcel of improved land.
1/ See Annex 6, Tables 5-7.



- 38 -
Benefits in the surface drainage area "with the project" are
estimated to be about 5% of "without project" crop production
in the Kharif season, plus half of the average non-agricultural
losses from flooding.
7.03    With the measures incorporated in the design of the project --
selection criteria, specialized drainage construction equipment, substantial
technical assistance and training, strengthened extension and on-farm water
management program -- no unusual risks are foreseen regarding its implementa-
tion. However, its success would depend on the coordinated and timely execu-
tion of all three components, and delays in any one of them would reduce
expected benefits. The sensitivity of the project to changes in benefits and
costs has been tested using switching values as a measure. 1/ The results
show that total costs could rise by about 34% or total benefits fall by about
25% without making the project unacceptable, i.e., reducing the rate of
return below 10%. Further tests show that with benefits down 20% and costs
up 10%, the IRR would drop to 9.6%. With benefits lagged one year, the rate
of return would still be 12.5%, while a two-year lag would reduce it to about
11%. Although some changes in costs and benefits from the assumed values
cannot be excluded (with downward changes in benefits having a greater prob-
ability than upward changes in costs), it is not expected that they would be
large enough to make the project economically unacceptable. A table showing
economic benefits and costs is in Annex 6. 2/
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
8.01    Assurances have been obtained from GOP and/or GOPunjab that:
(a) designs and specifications for all civil works would be satis-
factory to IDA (para 3.07; Sec. 3.04 DCA);
(b) operation of the civil works imprest account and subaccount
would be satisfactory to IDA (para 4.04; Sec. 2.02(b) DCA);
1/  The switching value is the value of the variable tested for which the
projects net present value is zero, or for which the project-s economic
rate of return (IRR) is equal to the opportunity cost of capital (the
discount rate).
2/  A sizeable part of the project area is expected to be free of the upward
groundwater pressures found in the sample area (para 3.06) on which
project calculations have been based. In this case, it would be possible
to provide subsurface drainage to a larger area than the 75,000 acres now
foreseen, and project benefits would increase correspondingly.



- 39 -
(c) suitably qualified consultants would be appointed in accordance
with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.08 and
5.16; Sec. 3.03 DCA);
(d) all project accounts would be kept separately and audited
annually by an independent auditor satisfactory to IDA; copies
of unaudited annual project accounts would be sent to IDA for
review not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year, followed by certified copies of the audited accounts and
auditor's report within nine months of the end of the fiscal
year (para 4.12; Sec. 4.01 DCA);
(e) sufficient funding based upon estimated and agreed targets
would be provided to Punjab's PID to ensure the adequate main-
tenance of installed drainage facilities (para 5.10; Sec. 2.01(d)
Punj. Ag.);
(f) the full-time Drainage Engineer and supervisory consultants
would be employed within two months of Credit effectiveness
(para 5.16; Sec. 3.03(b) DCA);
(g) a monitoring and evaluation unit for this project would be
operational by January 1, 1984 (para 5.18; Sec. 2.07(b)
WAPDA Ag.); and
(h) water charges and/or other appropriate financial arrangements
would be periodically reviewed to reach levels sufficient to
cover increasing portions of an agreed stepped-up O&M
program so as to achieve full recovery of such costs in line
with existing covenants in IDA-financed projects (SCARP VI -
Cr. 754-PAK; Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project -
Cr. 1239-PAK; and Structural Adjustment Program - Ln. 2166
and Cr. 1255-PAK) (para 6.13; Sec. 3.03 Punj. Ag.).
8.02    Conditions of credit effectiveness (Sec. 6.01 DCA) would be:
(a) approval of the PC-Is for the project by the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (para 4.03); (b) meeting all conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the United Kingdom's and the Dutch funding (para
4.03); (c) organization of the project coordination committee (para 5.02);
and (d) establishment of the project office (para 5.04).
8.03    With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 60.3 M (US$65.0 M) on standard terms. The borrower would be
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.



PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Table 1. SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE, CIVIL WORKS
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
Duantita                                                             Base Costs                                Phg.
-----------------------------------------                    -------------- ------------------------------------------------ Cont. For.   Gross   Sumsarv
Unit  1     2        3        4        5     Total    Unit Cost    1            2           3           4           5         Total    Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS CONSTRUCTION
Collector Drains (225 mi)             ac    -  15,000  20,000  20,000  20000    75,000          1.595         -   23,931,5   31,908,6   31,908.6   31,908.6  119,657.3  0.15  0.43            0.19       CU
Lateral Drains (1,383 mi)             ar    -  15,000  20,000  20,000  20,000    75,000          3.415         -   51,225.4   68,300.5   68,300.5   68,300.5  256,126.8  0.15  0.43            0.15       CU
Manholes (2,640)                      ac    -  15,000  20,000  20,000  20,000    75,000          0.322         -    4,829.9    6,439.9    6,439.9    6,439.9   24,149.5  0.15  0.43               0       CU
Subdrains (78 mi)                     ac    -  15,000  20,000  20,000  20,000    75,000           0.29         -    4,355.8    5,807.8    5,807.8    5,807.8   21,779.1  0.15  0.43               0       Cl
Sumps, Outtall (251 sumPs)            ac    -  15,000  209000  20,000  20,000    75,000         0.486          -    7,293.5    9,724.6    9,724.6    9,724.6   36,467.4  0.15  0.43               0       CJ
Electrification                       ac    -  15,000  20,000  20,000  20,000    75,000          0.233         -    3,500.9    4,667.8    4,667.8    4,667.8   17,504.3  0.15  0.43               0       CW
Casp Facilities /a                    LS    -        -        -       -        -          -            14,046.7            -           -           -           -   14,046.7  0.15  0.43           0       Ci
Roads and Infrastructure              ac    -  25,000  25,000  25,000          -    75,000       0.184         -    4,592.2    4,592.2    4,592.2              -   13,776.6  0.15  0.43           0       CU
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS CONSTRUCTION                                                                         14,046.7   99,729.1  131,441.4  131,441.4  126,849.2  503,507.7                                                    °
B. ADMINISTRATION AND ENGINEERING              -        -        -       -        -          -              1,404.7    9,972.9   13,144.1   13,144.1   12,684.9   50,350.8           0   0.2         0    ADME
C. CROP COMPENSATION                     ac    -  15,000  20,000  20,000  20,000    75,000          0.032         -       477.0       636.0       636.0       636.0    2,385.0   0.1        0         0      CH
D. SOIL AMENDMENTS (GupsuO)             ton    -   5,000   6,667   6,667   6,666    25,000          0.192         -       960.4    1,280.7    1,280.7    1,280.5    4,802.2   0.1  0.15              0       CU
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                        15,451.4  111,139.4  146,502.2  146,502.2  141,450.6  5614045.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS OIM                      ac    -        -  15,000  35,000  55,000   105,000          0.06         -           -      898.4    2,096.3    3,294.2    6,288.9   0.1   0.2              0      CUO
B. EQUIPMENT REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE  LS    -           -        -       -        -          -               885.4    1,328.1    29213.5    399Y.O   3194l,7   11b067,7   0.1   0,5               0.44      EN
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                            885.4    19328.1    3P112.0    5,195.3    6,835.9   17,356.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                           16,336.8  112,467.5  149,614.1  151,697.4  148,286.4  578,402.3
la Office buildings, maintenance buildings, storase yards.
April 25, 1983 17'05



- 41 -
PAKISTAN                                                                          ANNEX
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Table 2. SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE, ESUIPMENT AND VEHICLES
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
guantita                                            Base Costs                         Phy,
-------------------------             ----------------------------------------------------- Cont. For,   Gross   Summiary
Unit  1   2   3   4   5  Total Unit Cost        1         2        3       4        5      Total    Rate  Exch, Tax Rate Account
1. iNVESTMENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
Modified Trencher, Crawler, 325 hp,
12 ft Depth Laser Control Assembly, with
20 in Shield and Gravel HoPper               No,    3   -    -    -   -     3      5,676   l7?027.7        -       -        -       -   17,027.7  0.05  0.67       0.33      CEO
Trencher, Crawler, 325 hp,
12 ft Depth Laser Control Assembly, with
16 in Shield and Gravel Hopper               No,    6   -    -    -   -     6     5,177   31,064.6         -       -        -       -   31,064.6  0,05  0.67       0.33      CEO
Gravel Trailer and Elevator                     No.   20   -    -    -    -    20       436    8,728.7        -        -       -        -    8,728.7  0.05   0.6       0,4      CEO
Tractor, Crauler, 105 hp                        No,         -    -             9      1,072    9,650.4        -        -       -        -    9,650.4  0.05   0.6       0.4      CEO
Backhoe/Loader, Crawler, 1.5 cu gd              No.    4   -    -    -   -     4        912    3,646.6        -        -       -        -    3,646.6  0.05   0.6       0.4      CEO
Motor Grader, 125 hp                            No.    3   -    -    -    -    3      1,646    4,938.2        -        -       -        -    4,938.2  0.05   0.6       0.4      CEO
Loader, Crawler, Front End or Side              No,    3   -    -    -    -    3      1,396    4,187.1        -        -       -       -    4,187.1  0.05   0.6        0.4      CEO
Tractor, Crawler, 105 hp, with Blade            No.    3   -    -    -   -     3      1,108    3,323.1        -        -       -        -    3,323.1  0.05   0.6       0.4      CEO
Portable Concrete Mixer, 10 cu ft               No.    6   -    -    -    -    6        222    1,329.3        -        -       -        -    1,329.3  0.05   0.6       0.4      CEO
Dewaterins Pump                                 No.    8   -   -   -    -      8         30      239,3        -        -       -        -      239.3  0.05   0.6       0.4      CEO
Wheel Twpe Front End Loader                     No,    3   -   -   -   -       3      1,052    3,157.0        -        -       -        -    3,157.0  0.05   0.6       0.4      CEO
Drain Tube Cleaning Hiachine                    No,    3   -   -    -    -     3        279      837.4        -        -       -        -      837.4  0.05   0.6       0.4      CEO
Portable Air Compressor with Pneumatic Tools  No.    2   -                     2         23        46.5       -        -       -        -       46.5  0.05   0.6       0,4      CEO
Sheepfoot Roller (10 T), with Vibrator          No.    3   -                   3        507    1,522,0        -       -        -        -    1,522.0  0.05   0.6       0.4      CEO
Spare Parts                                      LS    -    -    -    -    -   -               8,969.8 3,363.7 3,363.7 3,363.7 3,363.7   22,424.4  0.05   0.6           0.4     CEO
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION EGUIPMENT                                                                  98,667.6 3,363.7 3i363.7 3,363.7 3,363.7  112,122.2
D. PUMP SETS
Sump Pumps and Power Units (incl. controls)   No.    -  45  60  60  60   225             11           -   479.8   639.7   639.7   639.7    2,398.9  0.05  0.75            0     PMP
PumP Sets (incl. controls) for Secondary
Stations on Subdrains                        No,    -   5   7   7   7    26           24          -   110.3   165.7   165.7   165.7         615.4  0.05  0.75         0      PMP
Spare Parts                                      LS    -    -    -    -    -   -                      -   301.4   150.7   150.7   150.7        753.6  0.05  0,75          0     PHP
Sub-Total PUMP SETS                                                                                      -   899,6   956.1   956.1   956.1    3.767.9
C. TRANSPORT VEHICLES
Duap Truck, 6 cu yd                             No.    9        - -   -        9        558    59024.6        -        -       -        -    5,024.6  0.05  0.46      0.54      VEH
4x4 King Cab Pick-up, 3/4 T                     No.    9   -    -    -    -    9        434    3,908.0        -        -       -        -    3,908.0  0.05  0.46      0,54      VEH
Low Bed Tractor Trailer, 30 T                   No,    3   -    -    -    -    3      2,348    7,045.0        -        -       -        -    7,045.0  0.05  0.6R      0.32      VEH
Truck with Weldins Accessories                  No,    3   -    -    -    -    3      1,473    4,419.8        -        -       -        -    4,419.8  0.05  0.46      0.54      VEH
Water Tan$k Truck, 1200 sal                     No.    3   -    -    -    -    3        698    2,093.6        -        -       -        -    2,093.6  0.05  0.46      0.54      VEH
4x4 4-Passenser Field Car /a                    No.   10   -    -    -    -    10       244    2,437.0        -        -       -        -    2,437.0  0.05  0.46      0.54      VEH
4x4 6-12 Passenser Carrgall /b                  No,    7   -    -    -   -     7        377    2,636.3        -        -       -        -    2,636.3  0.05  0.46      0.54      VEH
Fuel Tank Truck, 1000 sal                       No.    3   -    -    -    -    3      1,340    4,021.0        -        -       -        -    4,021.0  0.05  0.46      0.54      VEH
Truck for PVC Pipe Transport                     No,    3   -    -    -    -   3        426    1,279.4        -        -       -        -    1,279.4  0.05  0.68      0.32      VEH
Maintenance Truck                                No.    3   -   -    -    -    3        724    2,173.3        -        -       -        -    2,173.3  0.05  0.46      0.54      VEH
4x4 Crane Truck for PumP Maintenance            No.    3   -   -   -   -       3        579    1,738.0        -        -       -        -    1,738.0  0.05  0.46      0.54      VEH
4x4 Station Wason                               No.    2   -    -    -   -     2        348      695.6        -        -       -        -      695.6  0,05  0.46      0.54      VEH
Spare Parts                                      LS    -               3,747.2 1,405.2 1,405.2 1,405.2 21405.2    9,367.9  0.05  0.46                            0.54      VEH
Sub-Total TRANSPORT VEHICLES                                                                      41,218.7 1,405.2 1,405.2 1,405.2 1,405.2   46,839.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                              139,886.3 5,668.4 50725.0 5,725.0 50725.0  162,729.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                 139,886.3 5,668.4 5,725.0 5,725.0 5,725.0  162,729.6
/a Eight cars for part-time and full-tise technical experts.
/b Three each for survew and drainage investigation teams, one standby.
April 25, 1983 17105



I  0  c-                                                                                                                                    0-                                                             I -04~--    --    --    --   
I  Co    -04  0 10                                                                                                        -      -   I C-I         C--In -    S-  -n---  - ---  C--c-In-I-n-
I  0  -C   -      C--  --c--cc-c--I--n In--mac-n   c-n-- --                                       - I   I    4- -  -  l--    -  -0 I-   --          ~-      CC                 C-        -414I                         
I  Co    CC     14      InCOCIW   I   .CC .4                                                               .- O C   .OCC    I.O -CC .0     . I .  C..cC.. .CC C. 0.CCO.C  .3C                               I      I.
Co  0-    In.  ..-.   ..                        .   .     .   .0 .-.0 .I I.CI  o.In  .O      .  .       .  nfI    I        0   nI 0.                  nC- .S14              CInC                     n
I  Co  Co   Co      Ccc,m              c-In  C-            -  -In-----                               In-O 0C- -   -   -,  In-  --Ic-n-l                       -  -I f   c- - --   04  C--  -0 -10
01  Co    Co    Co  C~In04A            44--tIn              ZC6~ l mIn-                -   -0   4-104-111-CC-   Inc-    -i-                      C        C     1             0       -     I                -1C
I  Co  I      -      A     In         In    ~~-     --Co      --c            - Inc  -  404       WIn       Cc ;-     Ill a-  I-4CIC--                                               n          ~1
0  Inn    Co            U       Ic~ ~-       ----o                  -c-we-  -         A         -    -t 0-     Ic-I              oo       C       4-1
I             0     Cl    0-4  -           --   -  -00           In     -               --- -           -  - 0 40 0   In 0-410-In -                                              -0-  -o-c-c-In
I  Co    -,  CO            C      c-c-C         In      OC-          In         C--no t   <     c-I zt             Inc-I                                              - In  004-I-
I             Co    c-         ,     ~     ~ T 0.-0-<T  - -o0  C-                                      In-In   -                                               - 1--00-- C--o                                    I Co



PArlSTAN
FDIJFTH IRAINAGE PROJECT
Table 4. SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE- TEBHNICAt ASSISTANCE
Detalled Cost TagL
(Ru TO
guartitr                                                       Base Costs
---------            --------        ----_-. -                 --   -----             ------------------------  ont. Fir.    Gross   Summar
Unit           1      2      3      4      9    Tstal Unit Cost                   2          7                    5      Total    rate   E :ch. Tao. Rate Account
I. INvESTMENT COSTS
A. FULL-TlME TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Salaries and Benefits ta
Drazinae Engineer Eooeraenced in
Drainage of Irriated Land;                                      Staf  Year            !      I      I      I      1         51997.t72   1.897.6   l.A'.            9 l.e97.6  1.897.6  l,892.6   0,488.2    0   0.A           C      rTA
Construction Engarieer E:perienced in
Drainage of Irrigated Lands                                     St;ff Tear         °.5       1      I                  4.5   1.581.36       '90."  1.581,4   1.581.4  1.581.4 1.581.4   7,111.1             0   TA8           0      FTA
Design Ensineer E::eersenced in lPsion
of Drainage Sustems for Irrigated Lands                         Stoft Year            I      I      I      -      -      0  1.552.3   1.5S1.4   1.581.4  l.581.4                -         -  4.744.1        0   0.8           0      FTA
Engineer Eroerienced in OtM of Drainage Destees                     Staff Year           -      -       I      1   0.5    2'5  1,991,36             -          -  1.581.4 TAS.4    '90.'  3.°55.4              n   0.8           I       FTA
Soil Scientist Trained  in Drainage Investidations                  St2ff Year           I      I                            2  1r581.36   1,581.4  1.581,4               -        -         -  3.162.7        0    0.0                  FTA
Sub-Total Salaries and Benefits la                                                                                                             . 585.1.0  6-641.7  6.641.7 5,060.4  4,269.7 28.464.5
2. Other Exrenses
Air Travel (iecl. home leave) lb                                    Round Trir           8     14       4      8     10     44     39.S79       909.0     5iG.3      159,5    319.0    398,8   1,754.t   0.1           1          0      FTA
Hous"nA ic                                                         Annual Rent         8.5      4       4      3   2.5      1'    128.345      449.2      513.4      510.4   385.0    320.0  2,181.9   0.1    0.?                 0      FTA
In-country Travel /d                                            Annual Allowance    0.5         4       4      7   2.5      1'     20,102       80.9       92.4       92,4      69.3     57,8      392.'   0.1    8.2            D       FTR
Miscellaneous                                                   Annual Allowance    3.5         4       4      3   2.5      17     23.102        90.9      92.4       92.4      69.0      57,8     392.7    0.1    0.2           0       FTA
Vehicle Repaor and Maintenance /e                                                        -      -       -      -      -      -                   47.0       47.6       47.t     4.6       47.6     238.0    0.1  0.46             0      FTA
Fuel and Oil /f                                                 Oreratiun   fnonth      10             10 In tO      10     50       0.507       65.0            65.0  -        650       65.0      325.2    0.1    0.5           0      FTA
Sub-Total Other E:ePenses                                                                                                                       1042.9  i.36U.1         0- o7   95.3   Q47.8  5.285.1
Sub-Total FULL-TIME TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                                            ^,893,6  P.010,S  7.62,1 6.015.7 5-21'.5 33,749.6
B. PART-TSIE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Salaries and Benefits                                               Staff D2Y           100     100    100   100    100   500         3.69      36A.0      368.A      369,0    36°.0    369.0   1944.9          0   08            0      FTA
2. Other Expenses
Air Travel /4                                                       Round Trri           5              5             5     25     3-.87B       100.4    !99.4       199.4    199.4    199,4       996,9    0.1        1          0      FTA
Housing                                                                las              75     '5      '5    '5      7       5       1.091       91.8      91.8       01,9      81.8      81.8      409.1   0.1    0.2            0      FTA
In-cosntro Travel                                                      Dan              '5     '5     79     '       '5  5   3'5    0.481       DAl              36.1  3.1   36.          16.1     180.5   0,1   0.2             0       FTA
Miscellaneous                                                           D3a             '5     '5      'S     75    '      3'5       0.481       30.1     376.1       iA.1      36.1      36.1      180.5   0.1    0.2            0      Fn
Vehicle Repair and Maintenance  h                                                        -      -       -      -      -      -                   97.6       47,r      41,L      4'S6      47,1      239.0    0.1  0.46            0      FTA
Fuel and Oil /i                                                 Oseratin  fornth        10     I0      10     10     lD     50       6.503       65.0      65.0       oS.0      6S.0      65.0      325.2    0.1    0.5           0      6TA
Sub-Total Gther E:penses                                                                                                                           466.0      46d.0      4r6.0    46d.0    466.0  2.730.2
Sub-Total PART-TIME TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                                               975.0      835.3     035.0   83Sf         3S3.0  4,17S.1
C. MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                                    LA              --566.9  2-566.0  2.16.0  2-56t.9  2.566.9 12,834.5                                                                    0   0.2           0      LTA
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                                 =2.205,9  11.412,8 11014,0 Q.417.6 8,n10.4 50,'59.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                                                    10,295.5 11.412.8 11.014.0 9.41'.6 98019.4  50,'59,2
/a  Assuming recruitment through a firm.
lb  US$3000 Per round triF (appraisal estimate); home loave euer  two uears, for staff Pols thoee deoendentr.
/c  Incl, utilities.
/d US$150 or Rs 1800 Per morth tarpraisal enAimatei.
/e  5Z of cost of four 4x4 4-prssenser field cors each sean.
If  For four 4::4 4-passenger field cars,
/§   Trips of 20 dass each, of which fiove are tra-el timp.
/h  59  of cost of foua  4:4 4-Passe-Oer field  oars each seia.
/i  For four 4.4 4-rassenger fieI' -s.
March 2. 1980  OS:00



PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Table 5. SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE, TRAINING
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
Ouantitv                                      Base Costs                  Phy.
-------------------------            ------------------------------------------ Cont. For.          Gross   Sumaars
Unit     1   2   3   4   5  Total Unit Cost   1        2       3      4      5    Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. INTERNATIONAL TRAINING
Travel                   Studs Tour   6   6   6   6   6    30       53.17  319.0  319.0  319.0  319.0  319.0 1,595.1   0.1        1         0     TRO
Per Diem                    Dav      90  90  90  90  90   450       1.994  179.4  179.4  179.4  179.4  179.4   897.2   0.1        1         0     TRG
Training /a                 Dau      9O  90  90  90  90   450       1.329  119.6  119.6  119.6  119.6  119.6   598.2   0.1        1        0      TRG
Sub-Total INTERNATIONAL TRAINING                                              618.1  618.1  618.1  618.1  618.1 3,090.5
B. IN-COUNTRY TRAINING
Travel Allowance           Person    75  50  25  25  25   200        1.07   80.2   53.5   26.7   26.7   26.7   213.9   0.1   0.2            0     TRG
Materials                  Person    75  50  25  25  25   200       0.695   52.1   34.8   17.4   17.4   17.4   139.0   0.1   0.2            0     TRG
Miscellaneous              Person    75  50  25  25  25   200       0,535   40.1   26.7   13.4   13.4   13.4   107.0   0.1   0.2            0     TRG
Audio-Visual Eauipsent       LS       -    -    -    -    -  -              48.7   20.9       -      -       -    69.5   0.1   0.2          0     TRG
Sub-Total IN-COUNTRY TRAINING                                                 221.1  135.8   57.5   57.5       ,)5 529.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                           839.2  753.9  675.6  675.6  675.6 3,619.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                              839.2  753.9  675.6  675.6  675.6 3Y619.9
/a  Mas or saa  not be reouired.
March 2, 1983 08'00



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Table 6. SURFACE DRAINAGE
Detailed CDst Table
(Rs '000)
Osantita                                                   Base Costs                           Phb.
------------------------------                 ------------------------------------------------ Cont. For.   Gross   Suemors
Unit         1   2    3       4      5   Total Unit Cost    1             2         3          4         5      Total   Fate  E:ch. ra: Rate Account
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WARKS
1. Sasundri 11
Samundri tirs Drais  Extension                   Mile          2 2.4       -      -      -   4.4   266,789       533.6    640,3           -          -        -  1173.9   0.1  0.15             0       CA
Sasundri Br. Dr. Rehabilitation                  Mile          if10        -      -      -    21      65.097     716.1    651.0           -         -         -  1-3U7.0   0.1  0.15            0       CU
Sasundri-Br. Dr. Ex:tension                      mile        1.3   2       -      -      -   3.3   266.789       346.B    533.6           -          -        -    880.4   0 1  0.15            0       Cr
Awaaat Br. Dr. Rehabilitation                    Mile          16  15      -      -      -    31    65,097  1,041.5    976.4              -          -        -  2018.0   0.1  0.15             0       CW
Awagat Br. Dr. Extension                         Mile           4 6.1      -      -      -  10.1   266.789  1,067.2  1,;27.4                -        -        -  2,694.6   0.1  0.15            0       CW
Maduana Br. Dr. Rehabilitation                   Mile          24  24      -      -      -    48   129.126. 3,0R9.0  3,099.0              -          -        -  6,198.0   0.1  0.15            0       CW
Maduana Br, Dr. Ex:tension                       Nile           3 4.'      -      -      -   7.7   266.789       800.4  1,253.9           -          -        -  2,054.3   0.1  0.15            0       CA
Sub-Total Sasundri II                                                                                             ',604.U  8,781.6            -         -        - 16,386.2
2. Sasundri I
Maduana Or. Dr. Extension                        Mile                     15      -      -    IS   266.709            -         -  4,001.9           -        -  4,01.8   0.1  0.15             0       CA
3. Paharang
Marh Chiniot Extension                           Mile           -   -      -      4      -      4   266.789           -                   -  1,067.2             1,067.2   0.1  0.15            0       CA
Chak Bandi Extension                             Mile           -   -      0    10       -    19   266.789           -          -    401.1   2!667.9          -  5S069.0   0.1  0.15            0       CW
Sangawalla Br. Dr. Rehabilitatiorc               Nile           -   -      -    14       -    14    42.606            -         -         -    597.6          -    597.6   0.1  0.15            0       CW
Sub-Total Paharang                                                                                                       -         -  2,401.1  4,332.7           -  68?33.D
4. Structures
Inlets                                            No.           4   5      5      4      -    IS    22.03'        91.3    114.2    114.2         91.3        -    411.1   0.1  0.15             0       CW
Culverts                                          No.         20  30    30    20         -   100    S0.037  1,600.?  2,401.1  2'401.1  1,600.7                -  S,003.7   0.1  0.15            0       Cw
Watercourse Syphons                               No.          10  IS    15    10        -    50    10.672       106.7    160.1       160.1    106.7          -    533.6   0,1  0.15            0       CW
Automatic Gaugina Stations                        LS            -                                                224.1          -         -         -         -    224.1   0.1  0.15            0       CA
Other                                             LS                                                               4.3       4.3        4,3       4.3      4.3      21.3   0.1  0.15            0       CW
Sub-Total Structsres                                                                                              2,027.2  2,679.6  2,679.6  1.803.1           4.3  9,193.0
5. Administration and Enaineering /a                                                                                963.2  1,146.1    908.3    613.6           0.4  35631.6       0   0.2          0    ASME
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                                                10,594.9 12,607.4  9,990.8  6.749.3           4,7 39,947.1
B. VEHICLES AND OEQUIPMENT
1. Vehicles
4Yx4 Field Car                                    No,           3    -      -     -      -       -243,696        731,1          -         -                   -    731,1  0.05  0.46        0.54       HEH
4x4 Liaht Pick-up                                 No.           2                               2   243,696    487.4            -         -         -         -    487.4  0.05  0.46         0.54      JEH
Spare Parts                                       LS            -                 -                              121.8      45.7       45.7      45.7    45.7       304.6  0.05  0.46        0.54      VEH
Sub-Total Vehicles                                                                                                1,340.3       45.7      45.7       45.7     45.7  1.523.1
2. Survey Eauipment, Office
Supplies, Tols                                    LS                                                      310.2       44.3      44.3      44.3         -    443,1  0.05   0.5          0.5 O    OE
3. Automatic Gauoes                                  LS             -       -      -       -       -           -    542.8          -          -         -        -    542.8  0.05   0.5          0.5      0OE
4. OWM Eusiptent lb
Dragline, I cu ad                                 No.           I       - -    -2       20 8022502  2,802.5                     -         -          -        -  2,802.5  0,05   0.6          0.4      CEO
Open Drain Cleanina Machine                       No.           2          -      -      -      2 2,246.433  4.492.9            -         -          -        -  4,492.9  0.05   0.6          0.4      CEO
Spare Parts                                       LS            -                 -                              729,5    273,6    273.6   2'3.6   273.6  1,823.8  0.05   0.6                 0.4      CEO
Sub-Total OGM Eoulpeent lb                                                                                       80024.9    273.6    273.6    2'3.6   273.6  9,119.2
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EGUIPNENT                                                                                     10,218.2    363.6    363.6    363.6   319.3 11,623.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                  20.813.1 12,971.0 10,354.4  7,112.9   324.0 51,575.3
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS GUM                                    1000 ac         -  70   149 182.5   295 696.5    18.182              -  1,272.8  2,709,1  37318,3 5,363.8 12,663.9   0.1   0.2                  0      CWO
B. VEHICLE DIM /c                                Operatina Nonth  10  10    10    00    10    50             8.129      81.3      81.3       81.3      81.3    81.3    406.4   0.1   0.5              0    WEHO
C. EQUIPMENT REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE                     LS           -   -       -      -      -      -                           43,8       73.0    102.3   116.9    365.2   0.1   0.5            0.49      ERM
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                       110.5  1,397,9  20863.5  3,501.0 5,561.9 13,435.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                     20,923.6 14,368.8 13,217.9 10,614.7 5,885.9 65,010.9
a IOZ c items I to 4 above.
Nb Initialls to be used for rehabilitation.
/c For five 4x4 vehocles.
April 25, 19S3  17:05



- 46 -
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT                                                                                    ANNEX  1
Table 7. ON-FARM MATER MANAGEMENT AND EXTENSION
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '500)
Guantits                                                            uFse Costs                             Phs,
------------------------------------------------                    ----------------------------------------------------- Cont. For    Gross   S:jumurv
Unit       1        2        3         4        5      Total    Unit Cost    1             2         3          4         5       Total   Rate  E:ch. Ts: Rate Accourt
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL AORKS
1. Watercourse Renovation la
Linins                               H/C          38       30       38        3B       30         190   267.867 10,17B.9 10,178.9 10,178.9 10,17B.9 10.178.9 50,894.7   0.1  0.15                     0       CL
Nakkas /b                             No.      1,064   1,064    1,064    1,064    1,064        5,320       0.353     375.8    375.8    375.8    375.0          3'5.8  1,879.2   0.1  0.15             0       CV
Culverts /c                          No.         114      114      114       114      114        570       2.089     238.2    238.2       238.2    238.2    238.2  1,191.0   0.1  0.15                Q       CV
Buffalo Wallows /d                   No.          19       19        19       19       19          95      7.947     151.0    151.0    151.0    151.0    151.0    755.0   0,1  0.15                   0       CA
Earthen Improvement                  H/C          38       38       38        38       38        190    35.558  1,351.2  1,351.2  1,351.2  1,35l.2  1,351.2  6,756.0   0.1  0.25                      0    WCI
Sub-Total Watercourse Renovation la                                                                                  12,295.2 12,295.2 l2,295.2 1,2295.2 12,295.2 61,475.8
2. Precision Land Levelling /e           uc       3,800   3,800   3,800   3,800   3.800          19,000       1.306  4.963.6  4,963.6  4,963.6  4,963,6  4,963.6 24,817.8   0.1  0.15                    0       cA
3. Demonstration Plots (1 ac)            No.         38        38       38       38       38         190      2.241      85.2       05.2      85.2       85.2      85.2    425.8   0.1  0.15             0       CA
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                                                   17,343.9 17,343.9 17,343.9 17,343.9 17,343.9 86,719.4
B. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
1. Vehicles
4.4 Field Car                        No.           3        -        -         -        -          3   213.696       731,1          -         -          -         -    731.1  0.05  0.46         0.54       VEH
4x4 Pick-up                          No.           3        -        -         -        -          3   213.696       731.1          -         -          -         -    731.1  0.05  0.46         0.54       VEH
Motorcacle                           No.          12        -         -        -        -         12    13.293       159.5          -         -          -         -    159.5  0.05  0.46         0.54       VEH
pic9cle                              No.          22        -         -        -        -         22      1.329       29.2                                                29.2  0.05  0.46        0.54       VEH
Spare Parts                          LS            -        -         -        -        -          -                 165.1      61.9       61.9      6119       61.9    412,7  0.05  0.46         0.54       VEH
Sub-Total Vehicles                                                                                                    1O816.0       61.9      61.9      61.9       61.9  2,063.7
2. Enuipment
Survesina Eauipment                  LS            -        -        -         -        -          -                  99.7          -         -          -         -      99,7  0.05  0.51        0.49       OE9
Office Eauipment                     LS            -        -         -        -        -          -                  66.5          -         -          -         -      66.5  0.05   0.5         0.5       0E0
Miscellaneous                        LS            -        -        -                             -                  277                                                 27.7  0.05  0.51        0.49       0E0
Sub-Total Eauiement                                                                                                     193.0                                               193,.
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                                                                                         2,009.9       61.9       61.9      61.9       61.9  2,257.5
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Supervisora Consultants              Man-Month       IS        10       18       18       18          90    20.535      369.6    369,6       369.6    369.6    369.6  1,S48.2   0.1   0.2                0      LTR
D. ADMINISTRATION AND ENGINEERING
Field Teats (31 /f                       LS            -        -        -        -        -           -                S02.2    802.2    802.2    002.2    802.2  4,010.8              0   0.2          0    ADhE
Extension /a                             LS            -        -        -        -        -           -                 44.9       44.9      44.9       44.9      44.9    224.6        0   0.2          0    ADHE
Overhead /h                              LS            -        -        -        -        -           -                 44.9       44,9      44.9       44,9      44.9    224.6        0   0.2          0    ADHE
Sub-Total ADMINISTRATION AND ENGINEERING                                                                                    092.0    892.0    092.0    092.0    092.0  4,460,0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                      20,615.4 10,667.4 18,667.4 1S,667.4 18,667,4 95,285.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. WATERCOURSE OVM                         ac            -  15,200  30,400  45,600  60,000   152,000             0.02          -    309.9    619.7    929.6  1,239.4  3,09B.6   0.1   0.2                   0     HCO
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                               -    309,9    619.7    929,6  1,239.4  3,090.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                         '0,615.4 10,977.3 19.2'7.1 19.597.0 19,906.9 98,383.7
la Average lenoth of watercourse is 5,000 m (serving 400 ac), of which 30% would be lined (appraisal cost estimate Rs 167.34/r) and 70X would receive earthen improvement (cost Rs 9.521m).
/b  Permanent structures (28 Per watercourse).
/c  Three Per watercourse.
/d  One for two watercourses.
/e  Assusing 25% of each watercourse will be levelled (about 200 m3/sc, appraisal cost estimate Rs 6.12/mO).
/f  Each consisting of 1 leader, 2 water manaaement officers, I water management specialist, 4 subenvineers and suFport staff (drivers and clerks). Cost estimate includes
salaries and benefits (60% of total) and other expenses (40%).
/a  Staff consists of 3 water manaaement specialists and 10 field assistants.  Cost estimate includes salaries and benefits (60% of totol) and other expenses (40%).
/h  At Faisalabad Division and Lahore headauarters.
March 2, 1903 00:00



- 47 -
PAKISTAN                                                 ANNEX  1
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Table 8. PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY TIME
(Rs '000)
Base Costs                                 Foreigr; Exchange
1          2           3           4           5        Total          1     Anournt
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
CIVIL WORKS                                        39,671.1  128,620.5  158,433.3  155,486.4  144,762.6   626,973.9   38.3  240,198.7
WATERCOURSE EARTHEN IMPROVEMENT                     1s351.2    1,351.2    1,351.2    1,351.2    1,351.2         6,756.0   15.6    1,051,9
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                 41,022.3  129,971.7  159,784.5  156,837.6  146,113.8   633,729.8    38.1  241,250.6
Physical Contingencies                              4,804.6   17,983,6   226550.5   22,255.8   20,953.8    88,548.4   39.7   35,192.4
Price Contingencies                                 3s628.0   23,361.6   42FB20.3   55,672.8   65,079.9   190,562.5   39.4   74,993.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                     49,454.8  171,316.9  2259155.3  234,766.2  232,147.5   9129840.7   38.5  351,436.1
Taxes                                                     -   16,289.4   23,162.7   24,587.2   26,062.4    90,101.8    0.0              0.0
Foreign Exchange                                   12,676.2   64,351.2   88,029.9   92,756.1   93Y622.7   351,436.1    0.0              0.0
B. EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT                            106,692.5    3,637.2    3,637.2    3,637.2    3,637.2   121,241.4   62.8   76,111,3
PUMP SETS                                                 -       899.6       956.1      956.1       956.1      3,767.9    75.7    2,850.5
VEHICLES                                           44,375.1    1,512.8    1,512.8    1,512.8    1,512.8    50s426.2   49.6   25,027.4
OTHER EQUIPMENT AND TOOLS                           5,675.9       324.6       305.5        44.3           -     60350.3   49.4    3,139.5
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES                     156,743.4    6,374.2    6,411.6    6P150.5    6,106.1   181,785.9   58.9  107,128.8
Phyisical Contingencies                             7,837.2       318.7       320.6      307.5       305.3      9,089.3   58.9    5,356.4
Price Contingencies                                13,108.7    1,064.8    1,591.6    2,015.6    2,505.9    20,286.6   58.9   11,950.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    177r689.3    7,757.7   8S323.8    8,473.6    S,917.3   211,161.8   58.9  124,436.1
Taxes                                              72,714.5    2,947.8    39144.5    3,160.7    3,317.9    859285.4    0.0              0.0
Foreign Exchange                                  104,782.2    4,521.8    4,878,2    4,993.3    5,260.5   124,436.1          0.0        0.0
C. ADMINISTRATION AND ENGINEERING                      3,259.8   12,011.0   14,944.4   14,649.7   13,577.3    58f442.3   20.1   11 720.3
Price Contingencies                                   258.0    1,890.5    3,498.6    4,545.0    5,279.7    15Y471.8   20.2    3125 I
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                      3,517.8   13,901.5   18,443.0   19,194.7   1B,857.0    73,914.1    20.1   14,845.4
Foreisri Exchange                                     710.8    2,792.0    3,703.7    3,853.1    3,785.9    14,845.4          0.0        0.0
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
FOREIGN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                        7,728.6    8,845.9    8,447.1    6,850.7   6,052.5    37,924.7   75.3   28n540.4
LOCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                          2,936.5    2,936.5    2Y936.5    2,936.5    2,936.5    14,682.7   20.7    3,041,3
TRAINING                                              839.2       753.9       675.6       675.6      675.6      3,619.9    88.4    3i200.2
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING           11,504.4   12,536.3   12,059.2   10,462.8    9,664.6    56,227.3   61.9   340781.9
Physical Contingencies                                271.7       295.9       248.2       246.7      245.9      1,308.3    58.6       766.5
Price Coritingencies                                  935.0    2,032.1    2,897.0    3,333.4    3,864.2    13,061.6    61.7   8060.5
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                     12,711.2   14,864.3   15,204.3   14,042.8   13,774.7    70,597.3    61.8   439608.9
Foreign Exchange                                    7,808.5    9,428.9    9.493.5    8,578.2    8,299.8    43*608.9          0.0        0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                  212,530.0  160,893.2  193,199.7  188,100.6  175.461.9   930,185.4   42.5  394,881.6
Physical Contingencies                                12,913.5   18,598.2   23,119,3   22,810.0   21,505-1    98,946.0   41.8   41,315.3
Frice Contingencies                                   17,929.7   28,349.0   50,807.4   65,566.8   76,729.6   239,382.6    41.0   98,129.5
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                           243,373.1  207,840.5  267,126.4  276,477.4  273,696.5 1,268,513.9   42.1  534,326.4
Taxes                                                 72,714.5   19,237.2   26,307.2   27,747.8   29,380.4   175,38'.1          0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                     125,977.7   81,093.8  106,105.3  110,180.7  110,968.9   534,326,4          0.0         0.0
April 25, 1983 17:05



- 48 -
PAKISTAN                                               ANNEX 1
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Table 8. PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY TIME (Cont'd.)
(Rs '000)
Base Costs                                Foreign Exchange
1          2           3          4           5        Total          I     Amount
_n                                       ss8233 22==  UUUUSZZ   21z28353w= ianUzzw.zzu z .zssazs    ssx w=sZ==Z===
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS ODff                                        -    1.272.8    3.607.6    5.414.6    8,657.9    18,952.8    20,7    3.925.8
Physical Contingencies                                  -      127.3       360.8      541.5       865.8     1,895.3    20.7        392.6
Price Contingencies                                     -      220.4       929.1    1,847.9    3,703.6      6,701.0    20.8    1.397.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                          -    1.620.4    4,897.4    7,803.9   13.227.3    27.549.1    20.7    5,715.4
Foreign Exchange                                        -      336.2    1,016.4    1.618.9    2,743.9       5.715.4      0.0         0.0
B. WATERCOURSE OlM                                         -      309.9       619.7       929.6    1,239.4     3,098.6    20.7        641.8
Physical Contingencies                                  -       31.0        62.0       93.0       123.9       309.9    20.7         64.2
Price Contingencies                                     -       53.7       159.6      317.3       530.2     1,O60.7     20.9       221.2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                          -      394.5       841.3    1,339.8    1,893.6      4.469.1      20.7      927.2
Foreian ExchsnGe                                 -      -       81.8       174.6      277.9       392.8       927.2       0.0        0.0
C. EOUIPMENT REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE                    914.6    1,372.0    2.286.6    3,201,2    3,658.5    11,433.0        50.0    5,721.3
Physical Contingencies                               91.5      137.2       228.7      320.1       365.9     1,143.3     50.0       572.1
Price Contingencies                                  80.1      240.2       594.8    1.099.2    1,573.1      3,587.4    50.1    1.795.5
---------           
Sub-Total INCLUIIING CONTINGENCIES                   1,086.2    1,749.3    3,110.0    4,620.6    5.597.5    16.163.7        50.0    8,089,0
Taxes                                               532.2      857.2    1,523.9    2,264.1    2,742.8       7,920.2      0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                    543.6      875.4    1,556.4    2,312.3    2,801.2       8,089.0       0.0        0.0
D. VEHICLE O&M                                          81.3       81.3        81.3        B1.3       81.3       406.4      51.1      207.7
Physical Contingencies                                8.1        8.1         8.1        8.1         8.1        40.6    51.1         20.8
Price Contingencies                                   7.1       14.1        21.0       27.8        34.8       104.9      51.3       53.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                       96.5      103.6       110.4       117,2      124.3       552.0      51.1      282.3
Foreign Exchange                                     49.3       53.0        56.5       60.0        63.6       282.3       0.0        0.0
--------  _         
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                      995.9    3,035.9    6.595,2    9.626.7   13,637.2    334890.8        31.0   10,496.7
Physical Contingencies                                   99.6      303.6       659.5      962.7    1,363.7      3,389.1      31.0    1,049.7
Price Contingencies                                      87.2      528.3    1,704.5    3,292.2    5,841.7    11,454.0        30.3    3,467.5
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                            1,182.7    3,867.8    8,959.2   13,881.5   20,842.7    48,733.9        30.8   15,013.8
Taxes                                                   532.2      857.2    1.523.9    2.264.1    2,742.8       7,920.2       0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                        592.9    1,346.4    2,803.9    4,269.1    6.001.5    15,013.8         0.0         0.0
---------                                                                         _
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    213,525.9  163,929.1  199,794.9  197,727.2  189,099.1   964,076.2        42.0  405,378.3
Physical Contingencies                                13,013.1   18,901.8   23,778.8   23,772.7   22,868.8   102,335.1        41.4   42,365.0
Price Contingencies                                   18,016.9   28,877.3   52,511.9   68.859.0   82,571.3   250,836.5        40.5  101,597,0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     244,555.9  211,708.2  276.085.5  290,358.9  294,539.2 1,317,247.8        41.7  549,340.3
Taxes                                                 73,246.7   20,094.4   279831.1   30.011.9   32,123.1   183.307.3         0.0         0,0
Foreign Exchange                                     126,570.6   92,440.2  108,909.2  114,449.8  116,970.5   549,340.3         0.0         0.0
-----------
April 25, 1983 17.05



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit
Fiscal Year                     Bi-annual                        Cumulative
and Semester                   Disbursement                     Disbursement
FY84/85
I /1                             0.8                              0.8
II                                 2.2                             3.0
FY85/86
I                                7.5 /2                          10.5
II                                 6.0                            16.5
FY86/87
I                                 6.5                            23.0
II                                 7.0                            30.0
FY87 /88
I                                7.2                             37.2
II                                 7.5                            44.7
FY88 /89
I                                 7.5                            52.2
II                                77.3                            59.5
FY89 /90
I                                5.5                             65.0
/1   I:  1st half-year.
II: 2nd half-year.
/2 Includes about US$3.5 for contractor mobilization advance.



PAKISTAN
FOURTIH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Implementation Scheduile
CY                                1983                1984               1985               1986                1987               1968
Ouarter                      _   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1 .2   3   4    I   2_  3   4    112    3   4
1. Subsurface dIraJnage
75,000 ac                            -                                                                I ac _          G     ac  _  a --  i   ac  -2   oo  c
2. Surface drainage, 177.5 mi.
Samuuiidri I. 15,0 mi
Sainundri II, 125.5 mi
61 3 a       6.m
Paharaig, 37.0 mi
3. OFWM                                                                     ~z
Watercourse Renovation
190 w/c                                                    38 l/c             38  /c             38  /c         38  /c                  38  k/c
Precisior. Land Levelling                          -   -    8  O          3. 0 a                     0  a           3 800 a          3
1 9,0OOO a                       cl  3, 8)0 a                            3,8)0a    , 800 ac                       3 1   80 ac      3, 8 O af
Demonstration Plots                                                          - -  -  -             - -   -                                -
190 Plots                                                   38 plo a          38  lot         38lot{           38lo s              38 plo s
_ . _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FORM NO. 1934
(1 -83)
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR CIVIL WORKS
COANTRO            AfT                                                                                                                                                  FROJECT  S"ut   eang
Subsurface  D9ains  251,160SeS                83                              Tq84                              h9 85                                86                               187                                1 88
Subsurface  Drains               ~251,1 60 OSL-                                  -       2
Schedule 3
Subsrface  Drains                     ICB~             TKIS               
PRCSUSL,KICA rISN ACTIONS                                                      FROCAREMKNR ACTIONS                                                                                               RET,,OO OF PSOOLRKEKENT
A_INITIATE EREFARATION OF CRKOUALIFICOTION SOLUKMNCS                           I N11 IATE FRKFARATION OF RRKCITII AT IONS ,aNO RID OCCOIUMIN rs          9 NSCOARUCTON SN%CORFP EK               ICR 8SIESNAT 0DNA
-TANSMIA UT SONCORENTSNRITKIOIA                                               2 ISAN CLAOC O SFECIF CA tARION AND SIC OOCUMKER 5                       1I Cr1N TR J T ON 159 000RCTC E           CR  CAL IORFETIRIAC
C-IDO CLEARANCE SF DOCUMENTS AND CRITERIA                                      4 ISSLE INVITATION TO Rl(I                                               12 COSN9TRACTICTN D001CORELCR                S1OC,NC                                                              7 
K- RECEIFRTOUFLCONTROCTNDT CREOICTOSAAS TPRANSIT ECALOAR ION =EFORC1 0ND OAWAR TCOTCDYNI1AT CNS 1 C LA                                                                                            F   OC  'CUTC 
F_TRANSM,T EVALOATION REFDRT AND RECOMMRENOA1 NS TO I00                        7 ISA CLEARANICCF OKLOCMKEKNOATIONO
0-ISA CLEARANCE OF RECOMME NDATIONN                                            8 AOASI2LOCDTRAO r                                                                                                                                                                         H LA



FORIM NO. 1933
(1-83)
cRNy   PAK1i1TAN                                                      PROCUREMFENT SCHEDULE FOR EQIJIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                                ,             Fourth  Dratnage
r9E TIO       TE            IADTD    77                               CT  '83                                ~ 84 _     _-9 85                                                     'C  86 "87                                          -                     88
! __ DJKAETICI, 0  _TW                          @                          83                                  84                                                                     86 w  _
L1i,l m('- "rt   n iTfeslodifyS d 'NethIx  > 33PAISA -- : :14  :F.:   -t * SOniUt; t   =-tr   T7 4=isi t  -r =t1  I      
I                                                                            <iT4frIir__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_
11           :119~-T ti                      :{0 rflIyAi,1t'i''                                                                                ~f~4A '4                                                               w F~
-1111FIF C7.T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      fFF{ I4) 
T E  , oli ..' ',, '-=.     ... , 0 -er  125 U it;10 ,* lW
I>RSOUALIrICATIE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ICIN                                                                                                                                     Ir;lhte Al.' ON                           'FFD FF=ounMN
I                                                                                                   F
J,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~''                                                            1'
2I8A
Mfx oto -lO0 u ft16)ATA                                                       F '                                                                                                                                                              ;II1
Three-Front End Loaders K2 OATT9t tFrIIL                                                                    4 Pi P                                   t$1                        lt$ 4                                                                             4y
Wlbeeltype                                                                                                                                                                 4=919
A-INITIATE -EAPATA.TIONAFT E-EAJRLIPICRTION ORCUMENTs                             11 TTA   nEPAC9AT-O O 9 F IATIOAC 991 ) RA- - CIC909SI9               C9IC[IIAI l   9C99AT                       C  CNTAT9NAT 109
AND EVALUATfON CEITERIA                                                      . ln9N9T 099:F ICII99C  AN' . -1 -C-0MNT T'.D                          10IICC''  CTI9 9CE                              COM9T'CI- A  e DAITNG                                                rd 1TE
-TRAEA.IT D-RISENOS AND ClITERlA TO IDA                                         C IDA C 999990 or STECIF CATION ON-) 111L OuMeNTL  -1--I 9991999  AC 0109                                        .C6    99LO1CC     VE
C-ISA CLEAP.ACE OF A    AIMANTSAND CRICEEIA                                    9    II9911 19,9 1A90991 TOIO                                                                                            O OINGa,
A- -UFE PROUAIFICATION -ATICE                                                  S       TICS                                                                                                        PN E9A9TNT9O.EI  I
E-E AIPTOF COET-ACTR fflEOUALIPICATION DATA                                     9         I99991999) -Al ION REPORT AND 9WA09 O900MDTNAT .'199 TO 1110                                           '991 NlTl   ON A 
9-TAlANSIT EVALUATION REPORT AND RAECDMUENDATIONR TO IDA .                        ICACC.ATNCC DOFReCOM     A  0|9
G-IDD CLEARANCE RE SE9DESSAENDATIONS             E                                 9wAwl'   9
1/   CUF/Ex-factory  price  (wvithout spares).



FORM NO. 1933
(1-13)
COU.T.Y.   PAKISTAN                                                     PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                                Fwsca   _         ourth  Drainage
AREouALlMlcA 7OfUE ACTIONS                                                                          9 8486                                                                                                                                             t D8.N
Three-Drain  Tube                                 570                           INITIITA  t        O                  d
Cleaning Machines                 U.K.                                                                                                                                                            L
Two-Open Drain                                 30a~~o
Cleaning Machines                 U.K.
*-TRANSSITOOCUSMENVSNCRITESO TolOU                                            3 IDA C0EAA--CE OF SPECI-ICU-ION AND dID DOCUMENTS                   I                          FINAL                      --LIUD-        - AT SITE  LCd LocAL CONETITIVE                   
C-IDA CIMURMECE OF DOMOCUSEFYS ANE CRITERIA                                  *aISOCINVITATION TO RIO                                                                                              RIDDING                                                              MS  . 13
D-ET UE PRROu*CIFICATION NOTICE                                               T OPEN RIDS                                                                                                     PE-PEUDENT SOOPPINO                                                      P I.E p^
E-RECSIPTOF CONTRACTOR RREEOA*LIPICATION DATA                                 S TOUNSCIlT EVALIIARION  EREFORT AND AWARD TECOROFNOVTTSON TO 111                                              NEG_NEGOTIATION                                                           I  RS)
P-RRANS4IT EVALUATIONJ REPoRT ANDO MECOWMENOATIONS TO IOA                     0 IOU CLE ARANCE OF RECDMMENDATIONS                                                                                                                                                         PA IA
G-IDA CLEARANCE OF RECOEINOATIONS                                             S VANAO CY.TO ACT
1/ CIF/EAx-factory price (without aparese).



FORM NO. 1933
(1183)
COUsTRo   PAJISTAN                                                     PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                                         Fourth                          _
M""o OFT                   MTOF                                   CY 8TIMAT 4D  -8
WANTr'                  ..T                                                                                     1f            
Two-p'ortable Aixr Coms- 
pressors, w/Pne.umatic   U.K.                       ISD
Tools
Thlree-Sheepfoot Rollers                    1,040    -Ao.A
wf'Vibrator, 10 T               U.K.                               -       -I.E
2-SepPumps  & Power                 2i,420               --          --
Units inel. Controls    U.K.                        DIE
2-Pump  Sets,   ci-e.                        620          .
Controls                        UK
Seveli-Automatic Water                        310   I.u
Level Recording                 U.K.              IOII
Gauges
INine-Dump Trucks, 6 cu                     2,620  A-                                                                                   --- A--                          -
yda
Three-Lowbed Tractor
Trailers, 30 T                    U.K.              ATA
Three-Trucks w.Welding2,0                             PRIA
Accessories                     -..               SVND        -
Three-Water Tank Trucks                     100 OFOA
1,200  gal.                     UK
Three-Fuel Tank Trucks    U.K.   210 NRIA 
1,000 gal.
*EOOAUF,C-IOS ED-bOs                                                        POOC-SDEWN ATOS                                                                                              .DIoDrAUEET
A-INrTIATerREPAR*5boOppsFEO*L,p,fCAr,DOsoCU,e,r,                              INITIASE PS EPATATIONOS SWECIFICATIONSAND SIDDOCUDEUSS            S INIDlAL DELIVRSc AT SITe               Icr-INSESNATIANA.
ANOED-AcD*V5SR,TE                                                         A ATANSMlt sFeclFICATINS ANO S.D DocuMeNTS TD In                    0 INSTEIM DfT  S lveles AT SITE              COMPFSIT,ICE SIDDINO
*-ThAn DDCUIAZGITO TMOD AITER%I TO ID.                                      A IDA-CCEDANCeOF S.ECID ICASE AN- GID.D-CUNENT7                    1I FINAL0DELIVDDTATSIDS                   CG-IOCAC CAUPESIT IV                                                     OH 0.
C-ISA CLI*550RAI  OF 000551 *NM    CRITERIA                                 S ISSue INVIDArAN TO 1                                                                                           31DI NG                                                             00
I-RMOTOs CD0TR*CrOePREOU*UPIC*TION DATA                                       T TRAN-SSIT evATlASIAN SF-0-T AND AWARD                                                                   N-C _MNDNAAIONS TGIIAA  PN-PAUEND SHOPPING                              ON S-
P-WA5AIT EVOL.-TION RPORT AND RECOMMEN*ATIONS00TD*                          7 IDA0 CLA ANC- OF SDCoMUeNDAD IONS N.A-NATIANIOD  
G-I0O CIJARARcE OF REEMENO*TIANS                                            S AhAD- L-T-ICT                                                                                                                                                                         S |w
1/   CIF/Ex-factory  prices  (without spares).



FORM NO. 1933
(1-83)
COtINTPY   PAKISTANx                                 PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EOUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                           1.0JrCT       Fourth Drainage
RECIERoPra ATM           r     RWMATe.
DUSA ITO              PRsR .X
A.1-R1" oz                                                                                R .. .     . .__  .
Three-Trucks for PVC PipB                      990-
Transport                         UK
Three-Maintenance  Truckf                    1,130APAIA
U.K.              FE
Thr e-4x4  Crane Trucks             UK                      
f or Pump Maintenance                                T.A
2,040  APPRAISL                                   Li -     
Nine-4x4 King Cab Pc-               UK                EIE                                              
Upe, 3/4T
Five-Pick-Ups                                  60APASL            ----:
4.4                               U.K.             RVSO-- j- ~                              
Sixteen-4x4 - 4 Pasen-                      2,30.K.AA
ger Field  Cares-A
1,370APAIA --
Se:ven-4x4 - 6-12 Passer    U.K.                    OCOT -- 
ger Carryalls--------
Two-4x4 Station  Wagons             U.K.1   30  APP.AISA
0z?  S~~~~~~~8
Twelve-Motorcycles                  U .K.           PVS.j-                                                                                                                  -    -     -    -
2-0  APPRAISAL 
22-Bicycles                        UK                EE
PR3UA*LIPICATOIO AGTI0NS                                                  PROCURfMAA I ACTIONS                                                                                       REP-OD EO PROC-REMENT
A-P.ITIATEPREPARATION.OP PROUALIEI.T.ION DOcCUMNTS                          INITIATE -FR[ARATl( OP DTACOICAT -IONS ANDO  IOTEMENTS           9 INITIALLIERy AT 5,,                   ICR-INTERNATION.AL
A*0EOALOAONARITENIA                                                     Z NCSSIITSFECIF CA710NSAND 6O OOCUMENFS 70I                         IN7tRIM OE.IC0TIER A7T 7E                  CO-R"-T-ET -TERTINC .-                                                ,
S-TTIANSIT OOCULENTS ANM CRITERFIA TO lEA                                 S IAO CLEARANCE CF ECIRICATION ARlS AACCRENNS                     I  FINAL DELIVETY AT SITE                *C -LOCAL C-MF1-T1VE                                                  a a1 
C-..ACLEARA.CEROF OCMENTS.ANOCRITERIA                                      I SOAR IE, ITATIDN TO .1R BISING  cr tC
G-ISUE PREGOALIFICATIOA NOTICE                                            S OFPN TIES                                                                                                 PR tRAFENT ROPTINS                                                    Gl I-F
E-REaElT O EONTR*C-OEfN(ERALIEICATIRN RATS                                ETANSMIT EVAClATIO REPORT ANE A000D  F...TE          . -ATIONS TO IICA                                     NEGONESOT,AT,N 
F-T N*IIT ETA, OSTIRR REPORT APD RECOMM-NRATIONS TO IRA                   I 0A CLEARANCE OF FECOR-FNOATIONS                                                                                                                                                    NJ L
A-IDA CLEARANCE OF RECOEMNRATION-R                                         AW0PD C I R ITACT
1/   ClF/Ex-factory  price  (without spares).



FORM NO. 1933
( 1-83)
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT ANO MATERIALS
SUANTIAT  RENT   K         _     ._9T ___Fourth Drainage
0OlT-              10                                Cy I1                                  84                =C                                          !"T250   AP RISA L                 7 4 X 4
Survey Equipment                  U.K.    T
Drainage InVeStigation                       130   APPRAIAL
Equipment   3 Sets              U.K.                ASO
12,410   - APPAIAL    -
Soil Lab Equipmnent &
Supplies                        UK                  TA
Office Furniture                  U.K.       120  arAsA.
250   APRASA      -
Office Equipment                  U.K.
270   APPRA-SA 
Mfiscellaneous                    U.K.              F--AC
PRE U*IPCATON ALION   -TR CIISC C' I    IICSRETIC    C - TCUEOTE
S-FGALRP-TENALPDT...  OTC.NOENTC
-NI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NC-EOITC                                                                                                                                  C
P--5RITD      ENATSIANDERR  AN- EC- UEOATO.T I DA                       I CA CIECTANE OP TLAMATNC-IO-C 
A- IRACLEAAA.CE O  EOMMCV..TD..CITP .                                    C  ACIS T7'ACS RT-
I/ CIF/Ex-factory Price (without spares).



PROCUREMENT SCHEDUL' fOR TECHNI.^AL ASSISTANCE
Drainage Engineer                                              7
(Technical Advisor)       NE             --      = - 
Drainage Design           NC--           
Engineer
Drainage Construction      NEC                   ------   -
Engineer                                CSA 
Drainage Systems           NEC
O&N Engineer                            C-
Soil Scientist             NEC         SCE                         ----   
1.  Develop key objectives and general scope of assignmzent                5.  Negotiate contract
2.  Clear key objectives and general scope with IDA                        6.  Clear negotiated contract with IDA                                                                        l
3.  a.  Determine short list                                               7.  Award contract                                                                                          Xi
b.  Prepare TOR                                                                                                                                                                       .4
c.  Prepare conditions of employment                                   8.  Commence service
4.  IDA clearance of 3 above                                               9.  Complete service



- 58 -
Annex 4
Page 1
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Procedures for Operation of Civil Works Imprest Account
For On-Farm Water Management Component
1.       A "Civil Works Imprest Account" (Imprest Account) has been opened
in the State Bank of Pakistan by the Director General, Federal Water
Management Cell (Federal Cell), Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Coopera-
tives.
2.      The Federal Cell, through the Finance Division, has authorized the
Province of Punjab to open a sub-account (Personal Ledger Account - PLA)
in the Treasury for purposes of receiving funds from the Imprest Account
and making payments for civil works items eligible for financing from the
proceeds of the IDA Credit. The sub-account (PLA) is administered by the
Director General of Punjab's Provincial On-Farm Water Management (OFWM)
Directorate.
3.      Promptly after the Effective Date of the Credit, IDA would
withdraw Rupees 2.75 million equivalent from the Credit Account for
deposit in the Imprest Account. The Federal Cell would transfer the
amount to the sub-account (PLA) under advice to the Provincial Planning
and Development and Finance Departments.
4.      Payments from the sub-account (PLA) would be exclusively for civil
works. All withdrawals from the sub-account (PLA) by the OFWM Director
General would be in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the
Punjab Provincial Government for operation of PLAs. Copies of these
procedures would be forwarded to IDA. Checks to withdraw funds from the
sub-account would be signed by the OFWM Director General and co-signed
by an appropriate officer designated by the Provincial Government,
preferably outside the OF!JM Directorate. All documents substantiating any
payment made from the sub-account would be retained by the OFW4M Direc-
torate.
5.     The OFIWM Director General would submit to the Federal Cell monthly
statements of expenditures verified by the leader of the supervisory
consulting team.
6.      On the basis of the monthly statements of expenditures, certified
by the supervisory consulting team leader, the OFWM Directorate would
prepare reimbursement applications for signature by the authorized Punjab
Government official and submit them to IDA (through the Resident Mission,



- 59 -
Annex 4
Page 2
Islamabad, with copy to the Federal Cell). The payment instructions in
the applications should clearly state the name and number of the
sub-account to ensure proper transfer of funds. IDA would withdraw from
the Credit Account the reimbursable amounts and remit them to the
sub-account as indicated in the payment instructions.
7.      A monthly statement of the sub-account would be prepared by the
OFVWY Directorate reflecting all transactions during the month. It would be
forwarded by the Directorate to IDA through the Resident Mission.
8.      If for any reason IDA should disallow or reduce a claim submitted
by the OFWTM Directorate, the Government of Punjab would be required to
make up the amount in the sub-account.
9.      The sub-account would be audited in accordance with para 4.12 of
the Staff Appraisal Report (Sec. 4.01 DCA).
10.     No further deposit in the Imprest Account/PLA would be made when
the total amount withdrawn under this civil works component has reached
the equivalent of SDR 4.3 M (US$4.6 M).
11.     GOP would obtain from the State Bank of Pakistan and furnish to
IDA any information relating to the Imprest Account and sub-account (PLA)
as IDA may reasonably request.



- 60 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Technical Experts (Subsurface Drainage)
Description of Work
1.      The Technical Experts shall assist IWAPDA's Project Director,
located at Faisalabad, in the planning, designing and implementing of the
subsurface drainage component of the project (para 5.14). In addition,
the Operation and Maintenance Expert(s) shall assist the Punjab Department
of Irrigation in developing its O&M program for this component and in
efficiently carrying out this responsibility.
2.      It is envisioned that these experts shall be appointed as
individuals by WIAPDA. They shall be individually responsible for the
technical phase of their responsibilities. However, the Drainage
Engineer--Technical Advisor to the Project Director--would have overall
management supervision of these experts including evaluation of their work
performance, and the scheduling of part-time consultants. He would repre-
sent these experts in all broad administrative discussions with WAPDA.
His administrative duties would include, but not be limited to: (a) assis-
tance in preparing IDA reimbursement applications; (b) certifying IDA
reimbursement applications; (c) assistance in preparing progress reports
and project completion report; and (d) facilitating training programs. He
could assign other experts to assist or act on his behalf in these
activities. Contracts of all technical experts would reflect this
administrative arrangement.
Duties and Qualifications of Full-Time Technical Experts
3.      Drainage Engineer - Technical Advisor To Project Manager:  In
addition to the management responsibilities enumerated in para 2 above,
this expert would have the following duties:
(a) to provide full-time technical guidance for the investiga-
tion, location, design, construction and operation of the
surface and subsurface drainage systems;
(b) to advise and assist in the preparation and organization of
training at all levels;
(c) to serve as instructor on technical drainage subjects during
the training sessions;



- 61 -
Annex 5
Page 2
(d) to recommend criteria and procedures for technical works and
construction specifications;
(e) to assist in the preparation of tender documents for civil
works and the evaluation of bids;
(f) to provide spot checks as often as necessary at the gravel
processing plant to ensure the operations are being performed
according to the written specifications;
(g) to provide expert technical -assistance to the Project Manager
at all staff meetings and meetings with WAPDA and Pakistan
officials;
(b) to prepare all technical reports and correspondence related
drainage matters for the approval and signature of the
Project Manager.
Qualifications: A degree in Civil or Agricultural Engineering with
academic training in irrigation, agricultural soils, and drainage. A
minimum of 15 years of increasing responsibility in the investigation,
location, design, construction, inspection, operation and maintenance and
administration of surface and subsurface drainage systems for irrigated
lands in arid regions.
4.      Drainage Construction Engineer:  Duties would include:
(a) technical assistance to the construction divisions in the
construction of subsurface drainage systems in all types of
soil conditions;
(b) technical advice on the repair, minor modification, and
operation and maintenance of drainage construction equipment;
(c) assistance in the evaluation of bids;
(d) assistance to contractors in the understanding of the con-
struction specifications, inspection requirements, progress
reports, settlement of grievances and solution of construc-
tion problems;
(e) advice and assistance in the development and organization of
the construction training program for staff at all levels;
(f) serving as instructor on construction and safety procedures
at all training sessions;



- 62 -
Annex 5
Page 3
(g)  on-the-job training and guidance in the inspection of the
quality of the drain material and the installation techniques
being used for the construction of the subsurface drainage
system;
(h) assistance in the preparation and organization of the train-
ing program for drain inspection and serving as an instruc-
tor;
(i) acting as chief inspector and liaison official between the
drainage engineer and the drain contractor;
(j)  reviewing all daily inspection reports and preparing monthly
summaries of drain inspection problems and how corrected; and
(k) preparing guidelines or manuals on all phases of drain
inspection.
Qualifications: A degree in engineering with academic training in con-
struction techniques, administration and equipment. A minimum of ten years
of increasing responsibility in construction and inspection of surface and
subsurface drainage systems in irrigated lands as a government construc-
tion engineer or as an owner or superintendent of a drainage construction
company working in an irrigated area.
5.      Drainage Design Engineer:  Duties would include:
(a) full time technical assistance to the planning/design unit
for the design, preparation of specification drawings and
engineer's cost estimate and monitoring of completed subsur-
face drains for possible improvement in design techniques;
(b) advice and assistance in the preparation and organization of
a training program for design personnel;
(c) instruction in the training program not only for design
personnel but for staff at all levels;
(d) assistance in the preparation of tender documents;
(e) checking all completed designs and specification drawings
and when technically satisfactory, initialing to indicate
they are technically acceptable;
(f) suggesting modifications of design techniques and require-
ments when existing techniques and requirements are unsatis-
factory;
(g) providing technical liaison between the drainage engineer and
the planning/design unit.



- 63 -
Annex 5
Page 4
Qualifications: A degree in civil engineering with academic training in
irrigation and drainage design theories and techniques. A minimum of 15
years of increasing responsibility in the design of irrigation and
drainage systems, with at least five years as a drainage engineer in
charge of obtaining data, designing drainage systems and evaluating the
functioning of completed drains.
6.       Drainage System Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Engineer:  Duties
would include:
(a) full time advice and guidance to the operation Division and
Punjab's PID on proven operation and maintenance techniques;
(b) advice and assistance in the preparation and organization
of the operation and maintenance training program;
(c) service as an instructor in the O&N training;
(d) preparation of an O&M procedure manual, to be approved by
GOP, and leadership in the enforcement of the manual
guidelines;
(e) daily evaluation of the adequacy of the operation and main-
tenance program and recommendation of changes required in
scheduling or equipment;
(f) serving as liaison between the drainage engineer, the O&M
organization and the planning/design unit and construction
divisions;
(g) providing technical assistance in the preparation of the
monthly and annual O&M progress and implementation reports.
Qualifications: A graduate civil or agricultural engineer with at least
15 years of increasing responsibility as an operation and maintenance
engineer on an irrigation and drainage project with one or two years as
the O&M supervisor.
7.      Soil Scientist (Drainage Investigation):  Duties would include:
(a) assistance to the planning/design unit in drainage investiga-
tion, and assistance to M&E in the monitoring and evaluation
of programs;
(b) assistance in the setting up and efficient operation of the
project's soil and water laboratory;
(c) instruction to staff at all levels on agricultural soil
characteristics as related to drainage;



- 64 -
Annex 5
Page 5
(d)  on-the-job training for drainage personnel in the recogni-
tion, evaluation and interpretation of soil data as they
relate to drainage design, construction and (&M;
(e)  serving as liaison between the soil science personnel in the
planning/design unit and the drainage engineer and construc-
tion divisions;
(f)  assistance and advice on the reuse and mixing of drain
effluent for irrigation;
(g)  technical advice on the solution of drainage problems caused
by soil related discrepancies.
Qualifications: A degree in Soil Science with academic classes on irriga-
tion and drainage subjects. A minimum of 10 years experience as a land
classifier and at least 2 years working as a member of a drainage inves-
tigation team on irrigated lands.
Consultancy Services
8.      The full-time consultants would be stationed in Faisalabad in
office space provided by WAPDA for the Project Director. The following
are the envisioned man/months and approximate periods of assignment for
these experts:
Profession                        Man/Months            Period
Drainage Engineer (Technical Adv.)              60         10/1/83 to  9/30/88
Drainage Design Engineer                        36         10/1/83 to  9/30/86
Drainage Construction Engineer                  54           1/1/84 to  6/30/88
Drainage System O&M Engineer                    30           7/1/85 to 12/31/87
Soil Scientist                                  24         10/1/83 to  9/30/85
Total                      204
9.      In addition to the full-time experts, the project provides for
about 500 man/days of part-time experts. Professions represented would
include those envisioned for full-time experts, as well as part-time
assistance in such areas as: (a) inspection; (b) monitoring and evalua-
tion; (c) irrigation agronomy; and (d) water management.
10.     All technical experts would be appointed by WAPDA in accordance
with terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The principles and proce-
dures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981) would
be followed. In addition, assurance has been obtained that WAPDA would
employ the Drainage Engineer (Technical Advisor) within two months of
Credit effectiveness.



- 65 -                            Annex 5
Page 6
Terms of Reference
Supervisory Consultants - On Farm Water Management (OFWM) Component
Description of Work
1.      For the purposes of this agreement, the team of supervisory con-
sultants, locally engaged and supplied by a consulting firm, shall provide
certain professional and technical services to the Punjab Provincial
On-Farm Water Management (OFWMI) Directorate to assist in the overall
coordination and management of this project. 1/ The team shall report to
the Director General, Punjab's OFWM Directorate, and shall be under his
general supervision.
2.      All project records shall be made available to the team of con-
sultants.
Scope of Work
3.      The services to be performed by the supervisory consultant team
shall include:
(a) review of plans and designs for civil works to assure com-
pliance with agreed criteria and standards;
(b) review of technical adequacy of revised standards proposed
by the Directorate;
(c) verification of statements of expenditures for procured
materials;
(d) check of pucca structures during installation and check of
all completed civil works to assure that such works meet the
agreed criteria and standards of eligibility for IDA financ-
ing;
(e) notification of Director General, OFWM, in Punjab, of com-
pliance or non-compliance of completed civil works with
agreed criteria and standards;
(f) preparation of IDA reimbursement applications for the Direc-
torate, and verification of quantities and acceptable
quality;
1/ Terms and conditions of agreement and experience and qualifications of
consulting firm shall be satisfactory to IDA.



- 66 -
Annex 5
Page 7'
(h) assistance to the Directorate in preparation of annual work
plans and progress and completion reports, as well as updat-
ing project work plan; and
(i) monitoring, reviewing, and assisting in procurement
activities.
4.      Following certified completion of civil works by the Punjab OFWM
Directorate, the team shall check all renovated watercourses to verify
quantity and quality of pucca facilities and quality of the katcha sec-
tions. In addition, the team shall check all PLL of the demonstration
plot to determine quantity and quality of completed works. Deficiencies
noted in the quality or quantity of work shall be reported to the Director
General of the Provincial OFWM Directorate within 45 days of certification
of completion by the Directorate.
5.      Consultant team's assistance in preparing progress and completion
reports, annual and updated project work plans, and budget control shall
be in accordance with directives from the Director General and consistent
with time schedule required for such activities as included in the project
implementation schedule.
Consultancy Services
6.      The consultant team shall be stationed in Lahore in office space
to be provided by the firm and to be located in close proximity to the
Punjab On-Farm Water Management Directorate. The agreement for consult-
ancy services between GOPunjab and the consulting firm would be signed
within two months of Credit effectiveness. The team would consist of the
following members:
Profession                          No.        Man/Months
Team Leader, Engineer (Full Time)            1             60
Accountant (Part Time)                       1             15
Sub-engineer (Part-Time)                     1             15
Total                                            90
7.      The consulting firm's fee would include all personnel costs
(salaries, related expenses and allowances); firm's overhead; transport,
office and survey equipment, transportation costs; rent of office
facilities and utilities; as well as clerical support and drivers. In
addition, the firm would supply limited back-up staff support, services,
and technical assistance from its headquarters staff as required.



PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
INCREMENTAL CROP PRO8UCTION
(in Thousand Hetric Tons)
1            2             3            4             5             6            7             8            9            10            11            12            13           14            15            16
WHEAT SETH PROJ.                    25.2          24.7         25,4          27.6          31.5         38.0          43.6         48,2          51.4          53,1         53.1          53.1          53.1          53.1          53.1          53,1
SUGARCANE WITH PROJ.               840.5        833.0         837,8         850.4        877.1         921,4         955.2        979.7        992.2         902.7         972.8         956.9         947.2         937.6        928.1         918.6
K. FODDER WITH PROJ.               296.4        294.9         292,6         297.3        306.9         322,7         332,4        341.0         345.5         350.8        347.2         341.3         337.8         334.2        328.5         325,1
R. FODDER WITH PRDJ.               146.6        144.2         147.4         161.3        184.0         222.0         252.3        276.3         291.9        299.3         299.3         299.3         299.3         299.3        299,3         299.3
WHEAT S-OUT PROJ.                   25.2         24.7          24.3          23.7         23.3          22,9          22.5         22.1          21.4          20.7         20.3          19.9          19.5          19.2          18,6         18,2
SUGHARCANE A-OUT PROJ.             840.5        826.5         812.6         790.9        777,0         763.6         750.2        736.9         723.8        697.8         685.1         664.9         652.5         640.2        620,0         616.0
K. FODDER S-OUT PROJ.              296.4        291.4         283.6        278.0         271.1         266,4         258.8        254.2         249.6        251.6         246.9         239.4         234.9        230.4         223,1         218.7
R. FODDER W-OUT PROJ.              146.6        144.2         140.3      - 137.9         134.1         131.8         129.5        125.8         123.5         123.6        121.3         119.0         115.4         113.2         111.0        107.4
INCR, WHEAT PROD.                      -             -          1.1           3.9          8.2          15.1          21.2         26.2          30.0          32.4         32.8          33.2          33.5          33.9         34.5          34.0
IOCR. SUGARCANE PROD.                  -          7,3          25.2          51.6        100.1         157.9        205.0         242.0         268.5        284.9         287.6         292.0         294.7         297.4        300.0         302.6
INCR. K. FODDER PROD.                  -          2.6           9.0          18.5         35.7          96.3          73.5         86.8          95,9          99.3        100.3         101.9         102.9         103.9         105,4        106.4
INCR. R. FODDER PROD.                  -             -          7.1          23.4         49.9          90.2         122.9        150.5         168.5         175,7        178.0         180.3         183.9         186.2        188,4         191.9
17           18            19           20            21            22           23            24           25            26            27            28            29           30
SHEAF WITH PROJ.                    53.1         53.1          53.1          53,1          53.1         53.1          53.1         53.1          53.1          53.1          53.1         53.1          53.1          53.1
SUGARCANE WITH PROJ.               909.2        900.0        085.1          867.9        859.1         850.3         841.7        833.1         824.7         811.0        802.7         794.6         786.5         772.0
K. FODDER WITH PROJ.               319.5        316.1         310.6         307,3        304.1         298.8         295.6        290.4         292.2         289.0        283.0         280.,         275.6         272.6
R. FODDER WITH PROJ.               299.3        299.3         299.3        299.3         299.3         299,3         299.3        299.3         299.3         299.3        299.3         299.3         299.3         299.3
WHEAT W-OUT PROJ.                   17.9          17.5         17.2          16.6          16.3         15.9          15.6         15.3          14.4          14.1          13.8          13.5         13.2          12.9
SUGARCANE S-OUT PROJ.              604.0        592.2         573.2         551.2        539.9         528.8         517.8        506.8         496.0         478.6        468.0         457.6         447.3         428.8
K. FODDER S-OUT PROJ.              211.5        207.2         200.2         196.0        191.9         185.1         181.0        174.4         176.7         172.7         166.0        162.0         155.5         151.7
R. FODDER S-OUT PROJ.              105.3        101.8          99.7          97.6         94.2          92,2         08.9          86.9          87.6          84.3          82.3         79.1          77.2          75.3
INCR. WHEAT PROD,                   35.2         35.6          35.9          36.5         36.0          37.1          37.5         37,8          38.6          38.9          39.2         39,6          39.9          40.2
INCR. SUGARCANE PROD.              305.2        307,8         311.9        316.7         319.1         321.5         323.,        326.3         328.7         332.4        334.7         337.0         339.2         343.2
INCR. K. FODDER PROD.              107.9        108.9         110,4         111.3        102.2         112,7         114.6        116.0         115,5         116.4         117.8        118.'         120.1         120.9                     ' 
INCR. R. FODDER PROD.              194.1        197.5         199.6        201.7         205.1         207,1        210.4         212.4         211.8        215.1         217.0         220.3         222.2         224,1
March 3, 1983



-68-
PAKISTAN                                                       ANNEX 6
Table 2
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
IUustrative Farm Budgets
Subsurface Drainage Area, With Project
(Average Size Farm of 9 ac; Constant FY83 Prices)
-------------Present--------------         -------Project Year 10-30---------
Unit Price    Area   -----Quantity----    Value           Area   -----Quantity-----    Value
Unit      (Rs)        (ac)   (kg/ac)l/    (kg)        (Rs)        (ac)   (kg/ac)l/    (kg)        (Rs)
A. OUTPUTS
Wheat                     100 kg   154.60 2/    5.04        610        3,074    4,753        5.22    1,220        6,368    9,846
Sugarcane               Maund 3/      7.92 2/    2.48   10,550        26,164   - 5,552       2.48   21,100       52,328   11,104
Kharif Fodder (maize)       t       144           1.17    7,890        9,231    1,329        1.17   15,780       18,462    2,658
Rabi Fodder (berseem)       t       111          1.44   12,470        17,957    1,993       .1.44   24,940       35,914    3,986
10.13                         13,627      T103                            27,594
B. INPUTS
Wheat                                             5.04                                       5.22
Seed                     kg         1.92                   37       186.5       358                   37        193.1       371
Manure                 Cart        20                       5         25.2      504                     5        26.1       522
Urea                     kg         2.40 4/                32.6      164.3      395                   54.4      284.0       682
TSP                      kg         2.06 4/                17.4       87.7      181                    32.5     169.7       350
Labor (hired)       Man-day        18                       3.6       18.1      327                     8.1      42.3       761
Bullock             Bu.-day       25                        6         30.2      755                     6        31.3       783
Water Charge             ac       22                                            111                                         115
2,631                                      3,584
Sugarcane                                        2.48                                        2.48
Cuttings                 kg          .3                 1,400     3,472       1,042                1,400      3,472       1,042
Manure                 Cart        20                      10         24.8      496                    10        24.8       496
Urea                     kg         2.40 4/                43.5      107.9      259                    65.3     161.9       389
TSP                      kg         2.06 4/                21.7       53.8      111                    32.6      80.8       167
Labor (hired)      Man-day         18                      10         24.8      446                    18        44.6       803
Bullock             Bu.-day        25                      12         29.8      745                    12        29.8       745
Water Charge             ac        62                                           154                                         154
3 ,2_53 T§96
Kharif Fodder (maize)                             1.17                                       1.17
Seed                     kg         1.5                    15         17.6       26                    15        17.6        26
Manure.                Cart        20                       6          7.0      140                     6         7.0       140
Urea                     kg         2.40 4/                 4.4        5.1       12                    17.4      20.4        49
TSP                      kg         2.06 4/                 0          0          0                     8.7      10.2        21
Labor (hired)       Man-day        18                       2          2.3       42                     7         8.2       147
Bullock             Bu.-day        25                       3          3.5       88                     3         3.5        88
Water Charge             ac        14                                            16                                          16
72T                                       '48
Rabi Fodder (berseem)                              1.44                                       1.44
Seed                     kg         6                       8         11.5       69                     8        11.5        69
Manure                 Cart        20                       5          7.2      144                     5         7.2       144
Urea                     kg         2.40 4/                10.9       15.7       38                    21.7      31.2        75
TSP                      kg         2.06 4/                 0          0          0                    10.9      15.7        32
Labor (hired)       Man-day        18                       5          7.2      130                    12        17.3       311
Bullock             Bu.-day        25                       5          7.2      180                     5         7.2       180
Water Charge             ac        14                                            20                                          20
3m 
All Crops                                       10.13                                       10.31
Seed 5/                  kg                                                   1,495                                       1,508
Manure                 Cart        20                                 64.2    1,284                              65.1    1,302
Urea                     kg         2.40 4/                          293.0      704                             497.5    1,195
TSP                      kg         2.06 T/                          141.5      292                             276.4       570
Labor (hired)       Man-day        18                                 52.4      945                             112.4    2,022
Bullock             Bu.-day        25                                 70.7    1,768                              71.8    1,796
Water Charge            ac         14                                           301                                         305
6,789                                      8,698
C. NET PRODUCTION VALUE
Wheat                                                                           2,122                                       6,262
Sugarcane                                                                       2,299                                       7,308
Kharif Fodder (maize)                                                            1,005                                      2,171
Rabi Fodder (berseem)                                                           1 412                                       3 155
Ts- M---                                  18:896
1/  Except.for manure, labor and bullock.
2/ Net of transportation costs from farm to market or mill.
37.324 kg.
Z/ Including transportation costs from sales point to farm.
5/  Including cuttings.



-69-
ANNEX 6
Table 3
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINACE PROJECT
Illustrative Farm Budgets
Subsurface Drainage Area, Without Project
(Average Size Farm of 9 ac, Constant FY83 Prices)
Present                         Project Year 10                       Project Year 30
Unit Price  Area       Quantity       Value     Area 2/      Quantity       Value      Area 3/    Quantity       Value
Unit         (Rs)     (ac)   (kE/ac)(s) (ac)    (k)       (ac) - (kBac) 1/ (kg)   (Rs)           (ac) -  (kg/ac)l/ (kg)    (Rs)
A. OUTPUTS
Wheat                    100 kg    154.60 4/   5.04       610    3,074   4,753       4.62        540    2,495   3,857      3.89      400    1,556    2,406
Sugarcane                Naund 5/    7.92 4/   2.48  10,550   26,164   5,552         2.27     9,360   21,247   4,509       1.87   6,970   13,034    2,766
Kharif Fodder (maize)      t   -   144           1.17   7,890    9,231   1,329       1.13     6,780    7,661   1,103       1.01   4,580    4,626        666
Rabi Fodder (berseem)      t        111          1.44  12,470   17,957   1,993       1.39    10,760   14,956   1,660       1.22   7,340    8,955        994
10.13                    13,627    -9.41                        11,129     19                         6,832
B. INPUTS
Wheat                                            5.04                                4.62                                  3.89
Seed                    kg          1.92                 37     186.5    358                   37      170.9    328                 37      143.9    276
Manure                 Cart        20                     5       25.2    504                    5      23.1    462                  5       19.5    390
Urea                    kg          2.40 6/              32.6   164.3    395                   32.6   150.6    362                  16.3     63.4    152
TSP                     kg          2.06 6               17.4    87.7    1b1                   17.4    80.4    166                   8.7     33.8      70
Labor (hired)          Man-day    18                      3.6    18.1    327                     3.6    16.6    299                  0        0         0
Bullock                Bu.-day    25                      6       30.2    755                    6      27.7    693                  6       23.3    583
Water Charge            ac         22                                     111                                    102                                   86
2,631                                 2,412                                1,557
Sugarcane                                        2.48                                2.27                                  1.87
Cuttings   -            kg           .3               1,400   3,472    1,042                1,400   3,178        953            1,400    2,618        785
Manure                 Cart        20                    10       24.8    496                   10      22.7    454                 10       18.7    374
Ulrea                   kg          2.40                 43.5   107.9    259                    43.5    98.7    237                 21.8     40.8      98
TSP                     kg          2.06                 21.7    53.8    111                   21.7    49.3    102                  10.9     20.4      42
Labor (hired)          Man-day    1R                     10       24.8    446                   10      22.7    409                  0        0         0
Bullock                Bu.-day    25                     12       29.8    745                  12       27.2    680                 12       22.4    560
Water Charge            at         62                                     154                                    141                                  116
3,253                                 2,976                                1,975
Kharif Fodder (maize)                            1.17                                1.13                                  1.01
Seed                    kg          1.5                  15       17.6     26                  15       17.0      26                15       15.2      23
Manure                 Cart        20                     6        7.0    140                    6       6.8    136                  6        6.1    122
Urea                    kg          2.40                  4.4      5.1     12                    4.4     5.0      12                 2.2      2.2       5
TSP                     kg          2.06                  0        0        0                    0       0         0                 0        0         0
Labor (hired)          Man-day    18                      2        2.3     42                    2       2.3      41                 0        0         0
Bullock                Bu.-ay      25                     3        3.5     88                    3       3.4      85                 3        3.0      75
Water Charge            ac         14                                      16                                     16                                   14
324                                   316                                  239
Kharif Fodder (berseen)                          1.44                                1.39                                  1.22
Seed                    kg          6                     8       11.5     69                   8       11.1      67                 8        9.8      59
Manure                 Cart        20                     5        7.2    144                    5       7.0    140                  5        6.1    122
Urea                    kg          2.40                 10.9    15.7      38                   10.9    15.2      37                 5.5      6.7      16
TSP                     kg          2.06                  0        0        0                    0       0         0                 0        0         0
Labor (hired)          Man-day    18                      5        7.2    130                    5       7.0    126                  0        0         0
Bullock                Bu.-day    25                      5        7.2    180                    5       7.0    175                  5        6.1    153
Water Charge            ac         14                                      20                                     19                                   17
581                                   564                                  3 67
All Crops                                       10.13                                9.41                                  7.99
Seed 7/                 kg                                              1,495                                 1,374                                 1,143
Manure                 Cart                                       64.2  1,284                           59.6  1,192                          50.4  1,008
Ures                    kg                                       293.0    704                          269.5    648                         113.1    271
TSP                     kg                                       141.5    292                          129.7    268                          54.2    112
Labor (bired)          Man-day                                    52.4    945                           48.6    875                           0         0
Bullock                Bu.-day                                    70.7  1,768                           65.3  1,633                          54.8  1,371
Water Cbarge            ac-301                                                                                   278                                  233
C. NET PRODUCTION VALUE
Wheat                                                                     2,122                                  1,445                                  849
Sugarcane                                                                 2,299                                 1,533                                   791
Kharif Fodder (maize)                                                     1,005                                    787                                  427
Rabi Fo4der (beraeem)                                                     1,412                                  1,096                                  627
6,838                                 4,861                                2,694
1/ Except for manure, labor and bullock.
Farm area reduced to 8.4 ac.
Farm area reduced to 7.2 ac.
4/ Net of transportation costs from farm to market or mill.
5/ 37.324 Kg.
6/ Including transportation costs from sales point to farm.
7/ Including cuttings.



PAKISTAN
FOURTH 10A1060E PROJECT
ECONONIC BENEF ITS AND COSTS
(RS MILLION)
1           2            3           4            5            6            7           0            9           10          11           12           13           14           15           IA
--  - - -  - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - -  - - - -  - -
PRD, OENEF. WITH PROJ.          227,4        291,6        402,        417,6        442.8        406.0       523.2        527,6        542.0       544.4        540.6        534.4        530.7        526.9       523.0        519.3
PRD. BEREF, A-ROUT PROJ.        227.4        209,7        309,9       304.0        377,3        373.0        360.6       352.2        345,3        334.0       320.7        319.7        313.6        307 6       300.0        294.9
1NCR. PROD. BENEF.               -          1.9        13.3         32.7         66,5       113.5        154,7        175,4        196.7       209.6        211.9        214.0        217.1       219.3        222.1        224.4
PRD. COSTS AlTO PROJ.           192.0        210.5        232.4       234,6        237,9        235.8        239,0       242.3        243.4        241.5       231.0        231.1        230,4        229.6        220.7       227.9
PROS COSTS A-ROtT PRO.J         192.0        203,1        221,2       220.9        220,6        220.3       220,1        210,0        217.5       213.3        195,8        194.5        193.3        191.9       190.4        139.0
I0CR. PROD. CISTS                -          7.5        11,2         13.6         17,3        15.5         19,          23.5        25.9         20.2         35.9         36.6         37,1        37.7         30,3         38.6
ND-AORIC. BEHEF.                    -         1.0          2.1         2.5          4.1          4.1          4.1         4.1          4.1          4.1         4.1          4.1          4.1          4.1          4.1         4.1
INVESIMENO COSIS                151,         149.6        177         175.0        162.2        -16.7            -           -            -            -         5.9          6,0          6.0          6.0         6.0          0.0
UIN COSTS                         0.6          2.5          5,6         0.3         12,2         11.6         11,6        11.6         11.6         11.6        11.6         11.6         11.6         11.6         11.6        11.6
IRV, AND 010 COSTS           152.5        152.1       105.4        103.3        174.3        -5.1         11.6         11.6         11.6        11.6         17.5         17.5         17.6        17.6         17.6         12.0
TOTAL PROJECT BENEFITS               -         2.0         15.4        35.3         70.6        117.6       150.0        179.5        200.0        213.7       216.0        210.9        221.2        223.4       226.2        226.15
TRIAL PROJECT COSTS             152.5        159,5        196.5       096.9        190.6          9.6        31.3         35.1         37.6         39.9        53.4         54.1         54.7         55.3        55.0         51.5
NET PROJECT BENEFITS        -052.5       -156.       -101.2       -060.7       -121,0        100.0       127.4        044.4        063.2       173.9        062.6        064.0        066.5       060.1        070.4        077.2
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
17          10           19          20           21           22           23          24           25           26        I27            20           29           30
PROD. BENEF. WITH PROJ.         515.4        511.0        506.0       499.7        496.3        492.7       409,3        405.7        403.1        470.0       474.5        471.4        460.0        462.6
PMD. BENEF. 0-BIT PROJ.         200.0        202.9        274.5       264.0        259,2        251.5       240,0        242.4        237.0        229.5       224,0        210.9        203.         205.8
10CR, PROD. DENEP.           226.6        228.9       230.6        214,9        237.0       239.2        240.1        243.3       246.0        240.6        250.5        252.5        254.4       256.9
PROD. COSTS AlTO PROJ.          227.0        226.1        225.3       222.6        213.4        212.6       200.8        201.0        210.6       2.09.0       209.         200.2        207.5        205.1
PROD. COSTS N-ROUT PROJ.        107.6        106.2        104.0       100.9        164.6        163.4        162,1       160.0        159.7        150.4       157.1        155.9        154.6        151.2
10CR. PRD. COSTS              39.4         39,9        40.5         41.7         40.7         49,2        49,7         50.2         50.         51.4         51.9         52.4         52.9        53.9
ONOIAGRIC. BENEF.                  4.1         4.1          4.1         4.1          4.1          4.1          4,1         4.1          4.1          4.1         4.1          4.1          4.1           ,11
INVESTMENT COSTS                    -            -            -           -          5,9          6.0         6.0          6,0          6,0         0.9            -            -            -            -
008 COSTS                         01.6        00.6         10.6        11.6         10.6         016   1.6  111 006                    11.6         00.6        00.6         10.6         10.6         11.6
1RV. AND DIM COSTS            01.6         10.6        01.6         01.6         07.5        17.5         17.6         07.6         07.6        12.5         11.6         01.6         01.6         10.6
TOTAL PRJECT BENEFITS           230.7        233.0        235.7       239.0        241,2        243.3       245.4        247.4        250.1       252.6        254.6        256.6        205          261.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              51.0         51.5         52.1        53.3         66.2         66.7         67,3        67.8         68.5         63.9        62.5         64.0         64.5         65.5 
NET PROJECT BENEFITS         179.7        101.4       183.6        105.7        175.0        176.5       170,1        179.6        101,7       100.0        191.1        192.6        194.0        195.4bX
ALpr11 25, 1903



PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Economic Price of Wheat
1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989        1990            1995
1981-82   1982-83   1983-84   1984-85   1985-86   1986-87   1987-88   1988-89   1989-90   1990-91                   1995-96
Canadian, in Store Thunderbay
Current US$/t 1/                       196         167        171        184        197        217        239        263        290         319             427
Constant 1983 US$/t                                           171        171        171        178        185        192         200        207             207
Index                                                         100        107.5      115        121.9      129.2      137        145.2       153.9           206
x Exchange Rate (Rs 13/US$)
Constant 1983 Rs/t                                          2,223      2,223      2,223      2,314      2,405      2,496      2,600       2,691          2,691
x Adjustment Factor (1.062 2/)
CIF Karachi                                                2,361       2,361      2,361      2,457      2,554      2,651      2,761       2,858          2,858
Plus: Port Charges                          8.6        9.3       10.0
Bagging                             10.0       10.8       11.6
Loading/Unloading                    6.0         6.5        7.0
Rail Transport to Faisalabad    207.5         224.1      241.5
Transport Station to Market         25.0       27.0       29.1
Total Additions                    257.1      277.7      299.2
x SCF 3/ of 0.9 (rounded)                                269        269         269        269        269        269        269         269            269
Less: Transport Farm to Market 4/          50.0       54.0       58.2
x SCF of 0.9 (rounded)                                    52          52         52         52         52         52         52          52             52
Farm Gate Price (import parity) 5/                            2,578      2,578      2,578      2,674      2,771      2,868       2.978      3,075           3,075
Farm Gate Price (export parity) 5/                               -          -          -          -          -           -          -       2,537           2,537
1/ World Bank, EPDCE, December 1982.
2/ Based on FY77-81 relationship between import unit values and prices of reference quality (Canadian No. 1 Western Redspring, in store, Thunderbay).
3/ Standard conversion factor.
4/ Average distance 4-6 miles (6-10 km).
5/ Pakistan is expected to become self-sufficient in wheat by the mid-1980's, and a net exporter by the end of the decade.
31x



PAKISTAN
- FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Economic Price of Sugarcane
1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989       1990           1995
1981-82   1982-83   1983-84   1984-85   1985-86   1986-87   1987-88   1988-89   1989-90   1990-91                 1995-96
ISA Daily Sugar Price,
FOB Greater Caribbean Ports
Current US$/t 1/                      374        190        210         313        467        495        524        556        589        624            835
Constant 1983 US$/t                                         210         291       406         406        406        406        406        406            406
Index                                                       100        107.5      115         121.9      129.2      137        145.2      153.9          206
x Exchange Rate (Rs 13/US$)
Constant 1983 Rs/t 2/                                     2,730      3,783      5,278       5,278      5,278      5,278      5,278      5,278          5,278
Plus:  Port Charges                                             10
Loading/Unloading                                        7
Rail Transport to Faisalabad                           241.5
Transport Station to Market                             29.1
Total Additions                                        287.6
x SCF 3/ of 0.9 (rounded)                              259        259        259        259        259        259         259        259           259
Less:  Transport Mill to Market           12.0       12.9       14
Processing                     1,041      1,124.3   1,212
1,226
x SCF of 0.9 (rounded)                               1,103      1,103      1,103      1,103      1,103      1,103      1,103       1,103         1,103
Price ex-Mill of Sugar                                       1,886      2,939      4,434      4,434      4,434      4,434      4,434      4,434          4,434
Sugarcane Equivalent 4/                                        155        242        365        365        365        365        365        365            365
Less:  Transport Farm to Mill 5/          26.8       28.9       31.2
x SCF of 0.9 (rounded)                                  28         28         28         28         28         28          28         28             28
Farm Gate Price of Sugarcane                                              214                                         337          37                       t
(import parity)
1/  World Bank, EPDCE, December 1982.
2/ CIF Karachi.
3/  Standard conversion factor.
4/  Based on an extraction rate of 8.23%.                                                                                                                 >
5/  Rs 1 per maund (37.324 kg) for distances up to ten miles from mill.
(D



PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Economic Price of Fertilizers
1981      1982        1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989       1990           1995
1981--82   1982-83   1983-84   1984-85   1985-86   1986-87   1987-88   1988-89   1989-90   1990-91                 _9_'-96
Urea, Bagged, FOB NW Europe
Current US$/t 1/                      216        160         200        231        267        296        328        363        402        445           t018
Constant 1983 US$/t                                          200        215        232        243        254        265        277         289           300
TSP, Bulk, FOB Florida
Current US$/t 1/                      161         140        172        194        218        236        256        278        302         327           439
Constant 1983 UhS$/t                                         172        180        190        194        198        203        208        212            213
Index                                                          100        107.5      115        121.9      129.2      137         145.2      153.9         206
Constant 1983 Rs/t (Rs 13/US$)
Urea                                                      2,600       2,795      3,016      3,159      3,302      3,445      3,601      3,757          3,900
TSP                                                       2,230       2,340      2,470      2,522      2,574      2,639      2,704      2,756          2,769
x Adjustment Factor (1.2 2/),CIF Karachi
Urea                                                      3,120       3,354      3,619      3,791      3,962      4,134      4,321      4,508          4,680
TSP                                                       2,683       2,808      2,964      3,026      3,089      3,167      3,245       3,307         3,323
Plus:  Port Charges                        8.6                                                                                                                     W
Loading/Unloading                  6
Rail Transport to Faisalabad  221.3
Transport Station to
Bulk Depot                      15
Storage and Handling              33
Transport to Sales Point          15
Transport to Farm Gate            40
Total Additions                  338.9      366        394.6
x SCF 3/ of 0.9 (rounded)                              355        355        355        355         355        355        3-5        355            355
Farm Gate Price 4/ - Rs/t
Urea                                                       3,475      3,709      3,974      4,146      4,317      4,489      4,676       4,863         5,035
TSP                                                        3,038      3,163      3,319      3,381      3,444      3,522       3,600      3,662         3,678
Farm Gate Price 4/ - Rs per 50 kg Bag
Urea                                                         174        186        199        207        216        225         234        243            252
TSP                                                          152        158        166        169        172         176        180        183            184
1/ World Bank, EPDCE, December 1982.
2/  Based on past relationship of fertilizer import unit values and prices of reference quality (average of urea, DAP and TSP).                           H .
3/  Standard conversion factor.
4/  Import parity.  -                                                                                                                                       X



-74-
PLATE I
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Water Balance (Present)
Indus Plains and Peshawar Vale
RIVER INPUT
152 million acre
feet            Evaporation
101                     Canass
V  <                                              9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 33   '
6
Percolation    3                           4
Municipal 1Eaoain_   
and ndustrial                  Eva39ratn                                                                           o
Source:  Planning Division
Water and Power Development Authority                                                               World Bank-24494



PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Organizational Chart (Drainage Components)
General Manager
(Central-Water)
WAPDA
Chief Engineer
(Faisalabad)
WAPDA
Technical Experfs              Project Director             Deputy Proj. Dir.
(Dreinage) p                  (Faisalabad)               Planning Design
WAPDA                 (Superintending Engr.)
Senior Engineer            Senior Engineer             Senior Engineer   1Senior Enginee                      Senio Enginee               Senior Engineer
Const. Division I          Const. Division 11          Const Division III          Survey Dieis on               Workshop                Opera ion Division
(Pipe Drainage)            (Pipe Drainage)            (Suiface Drainage) J             rW s-i
[L<.Il JE-2  JE-3  IT 4     JE-1              JE4       J 15  JE-2  JE-3  J       Ei LEJ 2                          [     f JE-j[4
Junior Engineers
World Bank- 24492
til



- 76 -
PLATE III
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Organizational Chart (On-Farm Water Management Component)
Secretary
Punjab's Dept. of Agr.
Director General
OFWM Directorate
Director Field
Deputy Director
Area Coordinator
(Faisalabad Division)
Assistant Director                 Assistant Director
Agriculture                         Engineer
I                                  I
Water Management Supr.                    Field Team
(3 Number)                         (3 Number)
Field Assistants
(10 Number)
Water Users'
Association
Individual
Farmers
World Bank-24493



- _.______________________________________________________________-            ____________________________           ,       _____ _            ..IBRD 16902R
71°30'                                  72°00                                   72°30'                                   7300'           PI
PA K I STA N                                                                      AJ   / P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~indi Bhattian Oo/
PAKISTAN
FOURTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Proiect Units
Existing:
Irrigation System
Branch Canalshcko
Distributary Canals
-3130'                     Drainage System                                                                                                                       Ku in~
4--    Main Drains
-      Other Drains                                                                                        F    L  A
oZ2Rivers
O   Pands                                                                                            }
0  Towns and Villages
Metalled  Roads                                     n
Railways
International Boundaries
01     10       20       30      40
KILOMETERS
3P00,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~101
71°30'
i  AFGHANISTAN    >Jk-on 1bd|
j   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n~~~~dhibacnwali
INDIA
Aathian Sea 7      _             I 1                  7200'        To Khernewa/                72°30'                                    73'00'                                   73°30'



