OFFIL- C     IT NUMBER 1375 PAK
DOCU MENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Drainage Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1375 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                a 30        , 1983, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (cting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower's Water
and Power Development Authority (hereinafter called WAPDA) and
the Province of Punjab (hereinafter called the Provincial Govern-
ment) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assis-
tance, the Borrower will make available to WAPDA and the Provin-
cial Government the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter pro-
vided;
(C) the United Kingdom inte-ids to make funds available
(hereinafter called the UK Funding) to the Borrower in an
aggregate amount equivalent to about nine million eight hundred
thousand dollars ($9,800,000) to assist in financing the Project
on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered
into between the United Kingdom and the Borrower (hereinafter
called UK Agreement);
(D) the Kingdom of the Netherlands intends to make funds
available (hereinafter called the Dutch Funds) to the Borrower in
an aggregate principal amount equivalent to about three million
five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000) to assist in financing
the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to
be entered into with the Borrower (hereinafter called the Dutch
Aid Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in Project Agree-
ments of even date herewith between the Association and the Pro-
vincial Government and WAPDA, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿- 2 -
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional ter- have the following meanings:
(a) "Punjab Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and the Provincial Government of even date here-
with, as the same may be amended from time to time, and all
agreements supplemental to the Punjab Project Agreement;
(b) "WAPDA Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and WAPDA of even date herewith, as the same may
'be amended from time to time, and all agreements supplemental to
the WAPDA Project Agreement; and
(c)  "Project  Area" means   the areas   of   the  Paharang,
Samundri I and Samundri II units of Faisalabad Division in Punjab
Province covering about 295,000 acres canal commanded area.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 60,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying out
Part C of the Project, maintain the Civil Works Imprest Account
established under the On-Farm Water Management Project (Credit
1163-PAK) and shall cause the Provincial Government to open and


﻿- 3 -
maintain a Sub-Account all on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Disbursements for Part C of the Project from
such Sub-Account shall be made exclusively to finance the reason-
able costs of civil works required to carry out such Part.
(c)  With respect to civil works required for Part C of
the Project, the Association shall, promptly after the Effec-
tive Date, charge to the Borrower the SDR equivalent of
Rupees 2,750,000 and shall withdraw such amount from the Credit
Account and deposit it in the Civil Works Imprest Account for
transfer to the Sub-Account. Thereafter (i) the Association, at
the request of the Borrower, shall further withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in said Imprest Account such amounts
as shall be required to reimburse the Borrower for payments made
out of the Sub-Account for expendiuures for civil works required
for Part C of the Project, and (ii) the Association may deposit
such additional amounts into such Imprest Account as the Associa-
tion estimates may be required to cover eligible expenditures
over any consecutive four month period.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in res-
pect of each payment out of the Imprest Account and the Sub-
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that the payment was made on
account of the reasonable cost of civil works required for Part C
of the Project.
(e) If the Association shall have determined that any pay-
ment out of the Sub-Account: (A) was made for any expenditure not
eligible for financing the works referred to in Section 2.02 (b)
above; or (B) was not justified by the evidence furnished pur-
suant to Section 2.02 (d) above, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association and prior to any further deposit
in the Imprest Account by the Association, deposit in the Imprest
Account, or cause to be deposited in the Sub-Account, an amount
equal to the amount of such payment.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.02 (c)
above, no further deposit in the Imprest Account shall be made
when the Association shall have determined that all further with-
drawals from the Credit Account can be made directly by the Bor-
rower from the Credit Account under Section 2.02 (a) or when the
total amount withdrawn from Category (1) (b) of the Credit
Account shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 4,300,000,
whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining amount of the Credit from Category (1) (b) shall


﻿follow such procedures as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association and shall be made only to the extent that the
Association shall be satisfied by the evidence submitted in sup-
port of the applications for such withdrawal that all payments by
the Borrower out of the Imprest Account were made on account of
the reasonable cost of civil works required for Part C of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) Ln the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15


﻿- 5 -
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1993, and ending May 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Chairman of WAPDA and the Additional Chief
Secretary, Planning and Development of the Provincial Government
are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the pur-
poses of taking any action in respect of the proceeds of the Cre-
dit made available to WAPDA and the Provincial Government, ues-
pectively, required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
or cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, agri-
cultural, administrative and financial practices, and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the Provincial Government and WAPDA to per-
form in accordance with the provisions of the Punjab Project
Agreement and the WAPDA Project Agreement all the respective
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
the Provincial Government and WAPDA to perform such respective
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available to the Pro-
vincial Government and the WAPDA the proceeds of the Credit under
procedures, and terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed,
engineers and consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association, such engineers and consultants to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) Without limitation on the above, the Borrower shall,
not later than two months after the date of effectiveness of this
Agreement, employ a full-time drainage engineer and supervisory
consultants.
Section 3.04. With regard to the civil works to be carried
out under the Project, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used
designs and specifications which shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, training programs, contract
documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and
hny material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)  The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association at regular
intervals all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-7-
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare or cause to be
prepared and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall reasona'ly request,
on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the perform-
ance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause to be established ana
maintained a Project Cocrdination Committee with functions, res-
ponsiblities, membership and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association, for coordinating the functions of the agencies
responsible for the implementation of the Project and consisting
of, but not limited to, representatives of such agencies.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause to be established and
maintained a Project Policy Committee with functions and member-
ship satisfactory to the Association, for formulaing policies,
rationalizing criteria, and reviewing fiscal matters to achieve
adequate operation and maintenance and appropriate cost recovery.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower and the Provincial
Government responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of


﻿- 8 -
expenditure; (ii) retain or cause to be retained, until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and (iii)
enable the Association's accredited representatives to examine
such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Cre-
dit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; (iii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning said accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request; and (iv) without limitation on
the above, furnish or cause to be furnished unaudited accounts of
the nature referred to in (ii) above to the Association not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause WAPDA:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice;
(b) to carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, agricultural and
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
(c) at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,


﻿- 9 -
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
agricultural practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Provincial Government or WAPDA shall have failed
to perform any of their respective obligations under the Punjab
Project Agreement or the WAPDA Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Provincial Government or WAPDA will be able to perform their res-
pective obligations under the Punjab Project Agreement or the
WAPDA Project Agreement.
(c) The Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority Act,
1958 as amended to the date of this Agreement shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of WAPDA to perform any of
its obligations under the WAPDA Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of WAPDA or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the UK Funding or the Dutch Funds
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the UK Agreement or the Dutch
Aid Agreement, respectively; or
(B) the UK Funding or the Dutch Funds shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.


﻿- 10 -
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and (B) ade-
quate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specitied in paragraph (a) or (e) (i) (B) of
P,ction 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VT
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Executive Committee of the National Economic Coun-
cil shall have approved the PC-l documents with respect to the
Project;
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the UK
Agreement, except the effectiveness of this Credit, if applic-
able, shall have been met;
(c) all conditions precedent to the etfectiveness of the
Dutch Aid Agreement, except the effectiveness of this Credit, if
applicable, shall have been met;
(d) the Project Coordination Committee referred to in Sec-
tion 3.06 of this Agreement has been established; and
(e) the project office under the direction of the Chief
Engineer, Faisalabad of WAPDA shall have been established.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, that the Punjab Project Agreement and
the WAPDA Project Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified
by the Provincial Government and WAPDA respectively, and are
legally binding upon the Provincial Government and WAPDA, res-
pectively, in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date               -93 7 8 3    is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date thirty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of
Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECONOMIC                           ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad


﻿- 12 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By (SI/                    71l
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By (     t '                 A
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) under Part          41,800,000         85%
A of the
Project
(b) materials                              95%
under Part C
of the Project
(i) initial           200,000
deposit
in Civil
Works
Imprest
Account
(ii) Other           4,500,000
(2) Consultants'              4,700,000        100%
services and over-
seas training
(3) Salaries and              4,500,000        90%
allowances of
WAPDA field
staff for
Parts A and B
of the Project,
field and
operation and
maintenance
staff for
Part C of the
Project and
local training


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Unallocated              4,600,000
TOTAL         60,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or sup-
ply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet


﻿- 15 -
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Subsurface Drainage Development
Provision of a horizontal pipe subsurface drainage system
for about 75,000 acres through the installation of collector and
field drains with gravel envelope, sumps, linking channels and
facilities as well as the carrying out of soil improvements.
Part B:   Surface Drainage Improvement
Improvement of the surface drainage system in the Project
Area through the construction and rehabilitation of surface
drains as well as the installation of stream gauging stations on
drains.
Part C:   On-Farm Water Management and Extension
Renovation of about 190 watercourses as well as the provi-
sion of precision land leveling, demonstration plots and improved
agricultural extension services, in the area covered by Part A
above,
Part D:   Manpower Development
Provision of technical assistance as well as overseas and
local training for the technical staffs of the project imple-
menting/operating agencies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (July 1980 edition) (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public. of the first tender, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3,   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
Did the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods or
off-the-shelf price of other goods, offered in such bid; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with
the importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in con-
nection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the
goods shall not be taken into account in the evaluation of the
bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of the goods to the place of their use
or installation shall be included.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preference ft 'r Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured    in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Pakistan equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 19 -
would have to pay for the Unportation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; If not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works construction under Part C of the Project shall
be carried out by farmer donated labor.
2.   Materials to be used for Part C of the Project (bricks,
sand, cement and precast structures) may be procured by the On-
Farm Water Management Directorate of the Provincial Government in
accordance with Provincial procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more and goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association


﻿- 20 -
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of.the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prompt-
ly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  6o        day of
1983.
FOR ECRETARY


