OFFICIAL     CREDIT NUMBER 1375 PAK
DOCU M-..NTS
Punjab Project Agreement
(Fourth Drainage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
Dated                   O, 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1375 PAK
PUNJAB PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       , v;    30            , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter called the
Association) and PROVINCE  F PUNJAB (hereinafter called the Pro-
vincial Government).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixty million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 60,300,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that the Provincial Government agree to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Asso-
ciation and Water and Power Development Authority of Pakistan
(hereinafter called WAPDA), WAPDA has agreed to undertake certain
obligations in respect of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Provincial Agreement, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Provincial Government shall carry out
Part C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development


﻿- 2 -
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and agricultural practices.
(b) With respect to that part of the Project for which the
Provincial Government is financially responsible, the Provincial
Government shall: (i) make adequate and timely budgetary provi-
sions for the implementation of such part; and (ii) take appro-
priate steps for the operation and maintenance of the facilities
and equipment provided under the Project.
(c) Without limitation on the above, the Provincial Govern-
ment shall: (i) cause its Provincial On-Farm Water Management
Directorate to be responsible for implementing Part C of the Pro-
ject; and (ii) designate: (A) the Director General, On-Farm Water
Management Directorate, Department of Agriculture and Chief
Engineer, Faisalabad, Department of Irrigation and Power as
members of the Project Coordination Committee referred to in
Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement; and (B) the
Additional  Chief  Secretary,   Planning  and  Development  and
Secretaries  of   the  Departments  of  Irrigation  and  Power,
Agriculture and Finance, as members of the Project Policy
Committee referred to in Section 3.07 of said Agreement.
(d) Without limitation on the above, the Provincial Govern-
ment shall, on satisfactory completion and transfer to the
Department of Irrigation and Power of the Provincial Government,
provide sufficient funding for adequate operation and maintenance
of surface and subsurface drainage facilities under the Project.
The levels of funding proposed by the Provincial Irrigation
Department for opeiation and maintenance shall be reviewed
annually and shall be furnished to the Association for review and
comment by March 1 of each year.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Provincial Government undertakes to
insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place


﻿- 3 -
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by Provincial
Government to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Provincial Government shall cause all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made avail-
able to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the pur-
poses of the Project.
Section 2.04. With respect to that part of the Project for
which the Provincial Government shall be responsible: (a) The
Provincial Government shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Pro-
ject, and any material modifications thereof or additions there-
to, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Provincial Government shall: (i) maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Provincial Government of any con-
tract for goods, works or services to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, the Association may publish a description
thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the con-
tract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) The Provincial Government shall enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to examine all plants, instal-
lations, sites, works, buildings, property, equipment, records
and documents relevant to the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Provincial Government shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association


﻿with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Provincial Government shall promptly inform the
Association of aty condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Provincial
Government of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. In respect of activities related to Part C of
the Project:
(a) the Provincial Government shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, including, without limitation to the foregoing, sepa-
rate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the be is of
statements of expenditure; and
(b) the Provincial Government shall retain, until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to examine
such records.
Section 3.02. In respect of activities related to Part C of
the Project, the Provincial Government shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than nine months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such


﻿-5-
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it and withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided;
(c) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request; and
(d) without limitation on the above, furnish unaudited
accounts of the nature referred to in (b) above to the Associa-
tion not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Section 3.03. The Provincial Government shall increase water
charges periodically, or make other appropriate financial ar-
rangements, to cover an increasing percentage of the cost of
operation and maintenance of irrigation facilities located in
Punjab, so that by July 1, 1990, the full cost of such operation
and maintenance is recovered.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Provincial Government thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date thirty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.


﻿-6-
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Provincial Government of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Province of Punjab:
Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of Punjab
Lahore, Pakistan


﻿-7-
Cable address:                   Telex:
DEVELOPMENT                     82-04-4868
Lahore                         Punjab Secretariat
Pakistan                       Lahore, Pakistan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Provincial Government may be taken or
executed by its Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Develop-
ment Department or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and he shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                 /j
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
By (H/
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the 20         day of T3AML.,
19 8   .
FOR SECRETARY


