Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15358-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SECOND BEHAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
MAY 1, 1996
Infrastructure Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1, 1996)
Currency Name     =    Renminbi
Currency Unit           Yuan (Y)
I Yuan            =    100 fen
$1.00             =    Y 8.30
Y  .00            =    $0.12
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
7FYP      -    Seventh Five-Year Plan
8FYP      -    Eighth Five-Year Plan
9FYP      -    Ninth Five-Year Plan
AXE       -    Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway
BOT       -    Build-operate-transfer
E&M       -    Electrical, electronic and mechanical
EA        -    Environmental Assessment
EAP       -    Environmental Action Plan
EIA       -    Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR      -    Economic Internal Rate of Return
GNP       -    Gross national product
GOVAI   -    Gross output value of agriculture and industry
HPCD      -    Henan Provincial Communications Department
HPHAB   -    fIenan Provincial Highway Administration Bureau
HPHGHCA-    Henan Provincial I-ligh-Grade Highway Construction Authority
HPHSRI  -    Henan Provincial Highway Scientific Research Institute
HPPSDI   -    Henan Provincial Planning, Survey and Design Institute
HPTC      -    Henan Provincial Transport College
HPTVS    -    Henan Provincial Transport Vocational School
HRI       -    Highway Research Institute
HSDI      -    Highway Survey and Design Institute
ICB       -    International competitive bidding
[iS       -    Intensive Institutional Strengthening



IST       -    Institutional Strengthening and Training
ITC       -    International Tendering Company
JST       -    Joint Supervision Team
LA&R    -    Land Acquisition and Resettlement
LAB       -    Levying Administration Bureau
LGTPA    -    Leading Group for Transportation for Poverty Alleviation
LSE       -    Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway
MAAP    -    Microcomputer Accident Analysis Package
MOC       -    Ministry of Communications
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
mte       -    Medium truck equivalent
mvpd      -    Motor vehicles per day
NTHS      -    National Trunk Highway System
O-D       -    Origin-Destination
pcu       -    Passenger car unit
PSB       -    Public Security Bureau
PTS       -    Provincial Traffic School
PTTS      -    Provincial Traffic Technical School
RAP       -    Resettlement Action Plan
RIPA      -    Roads Improvement for Poverty Alleviation
RMF       -    Road maintenance fee
SAA       -    State Audit Administration
SOE       -    Statement of Expenditures
SPC       -    State Planning Commission
STC       -    Staff Training Center
TCU       -    Technical Coordination Unit
ton-km    -    Ton-kilometer
TRL       -    Transport Research Laboratory
VS        -    Vocational School
WBFPO   -    World Bank-Financed Projects Office
ZLE       -    Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway






CHINA
SECOND HENAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency:     Henan Provincial Communications Department
Beneficiaries:           Henan Provincial Government
Poverty:                 Not a poverty-focused operation, but one project component
provides rural roads for poor counties.
Amount:                  $210 million
Terms:                   20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:          See para. 3.52.
Economic Rate of Return:  19.2 percent for the project overall
19.0 percent for the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway
13.4 percent for the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection
19.6 percent for the first package of the Road Improvements
Program for Poverty Alleviation (RIPA)
Project ID Number:       CN-PE-405 13



I



CONTENTS
1. TRANSPORT BOTTLENECKS AND REFORMS ............................................. .                                          1
A. Background ................................................1
B. Traffic .................................................
C. Transport Reforms ................................................2
D. The Highway Subsector ................................................2
E. Bank Group Participation ................................................5
F. Lessons From  Previous Bank Operations ................................................6
2. HENAN PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT SECTOR ...............................................8
A. Economic Background ................................................8
B. The Transport System  ................................................8
C. Traffic ...............................................                                                        10
D. The Trucking Industry ................................................                                          11
E. Highway Safety ...............................................                                                 12
F. Highway Administration ...............................................                                         13
G. Planning, Budgeting and Financing ...............................................                              14
H. Engineering, Construction and Maintenance ................................................    15
I. Staff Training ...............................................                                                 17
J. Highway Development ...............................................                                            17
3. THE PROJECT ...............................................                                                              19
A. Project Formulation and Preparation ................................................                           19
B. Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement .................................. 20
C. Project Scope ...............................................                                                 21
D. Environmental Assessment ...............................................                                      32
E. Land Acquisition and Resettlement Issues ...............................................                        33
F. Cost Estimates ................................................                                               35
G. Financing ...............................................                                                     36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited China during
November 1995, comprising Messrs./Mmes. Hatim Hajj (Task Manager); Robin Carruthers
(Economist); Claude Salem (Institutional Strengthening and Training); Katsunori Suzuki
(Environment); Maninder Gill (Resettlement); and Setty V. Pendakur (Consultant, Rural
Transport). Messrs. Richard Muskaug and Adriaan Schelling (Consultants, Road Safety
Specialists) helped prepare the safety component of the project. Ms. Xin Chen and Ying
Du of the Bank's Resident Mission in China also contributed to the preparation of the
project.   Messrs./Ms. C. Hoban (Sector and Engineering); S. Thomas (Transport
Economics) E. Schaengold (Poverty and Resettlement); M. Cohen (Institutional
Strengthening and Training); and S. Lundebye (Highway Safety) were the peer reviewers.
Mr. Richard Scurfield is the Division Chief and Mr. Nicholas C. Hope is the Department
Director.



- ii-
H. Implementation ...............................................                   38
I. Procurement ...............................................                      40
J. Disbursements ...............................................                    44
K. Auditing ...............................................                         46
L. Project Supervision, Reporting and Monitoring ............................................... 46
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...............................................                      48
A. Main Benefits And Beneficiaries ...............................................  48
B. Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway ...............................................     49
C. Guanyintang Interchange And Linking Road ...............................................  55
D. Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection (YBC) ...............................................  55
E. Evaluation of RIPA Component ...............................................     56
F. Evaluation of Risks ...............................................              57
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................................... 61
TABLES
Table 1.1: Traffic Turnover by Mode, 1980-93 .64
Table 1.2:   Road Accident Risks in Various Countries, 1993 .65
Table 1.3:  China: Bank Group-Financed Transport Projects .66
Table 2.1: Henan Road Network, 1994 .68
Table 2.2: Henan: Vehicle Fleet, 1980, 1985-94 .69
Table 2.3a: Henan: Freight Traffic, 1980-94 .70
Table 2.3b: Henan: Passenger Traffic, 1980-94 .70
Table 2.4: Freight Transported by Road (1985-94) .71
Table 2.5:   Traffic Accidents in Henan Province(1988-94) .71
Table 2.6:   Henan: Highway Revenues and Expenditures (1991-2000) .72
Table 2.7: Henan: Fuel Prices .73
Table 2.8:   High-Grade Highways to be Constructed During 1995-2000 .74
Table 3.1:   Proposed Improvements to Linking Roads to Luoyang-Sanmenxia
Expressway .75
Table 3.2:   Institutional Strengthening And Training Component .76
Table 3.3: Summary of Training Program .77
Table 3.4: Project Cost Summary .79
Table 3.5: Estimated Disbursement Schedule .81
Table 4.1:   Growth of Traffic on Existing Luoyang-Sanmenxia Highway .82
Table 4.2: Low Traffic Projection .82
Table 4.3: Financial and Economic Unit Costs .83
Table 4.4:   Economic Evaluation-Base Case and Sensitivity Test Evaluation Results83
Table 4.5:   Sensitivity of Evaluation Results (EIRR %) to Cost and Benefit Variation.84
Table 4.6: Financial Evaluation .84
Table 4.7:  Economic Evaluation of the First Package of RIPA .85



- iii -
ANNEXES
Annex 1:  Roads Improvement for Poverty Alleviation (RIPA) ..................................... 87
Annex 2:  Terms of Reference for Study of Organization, Management and
Maintenance of Toll Highways ................................................  95
Annex 3:  Road Safety Improvement ................................................  107
Annex 4:  Terms of Reference for Study of Factors Contributing to Highway
Traffic Accidents ................................................     116
Annex 5:  Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary ............................... 123
Annex 6:  Land Acquisition and Resettlement Issues ................................................ 152
Annex 7:  Implementation Program ................................................  159
Annex 8:  Supervision Mission Plan ................................................  164
Annex 9:  Proposed Monitoring Indicators ................................................  168
Annex 10: Selected Documents in the Project File .175
CHARTS
Chart 1: Organization of Henan Province Communication Department .179
'Chart 2: Organization of Henan Highway Administration Bureau .180
Chart 3: Organization of Henan High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau .181
Chart 4: Project Execution Management Structure .182
Chart 5: Organization of Henan Scientific Research Institute .183
Chart 6: Organizational Structure of Henan Transport Polytechnic .184
Chart 7: Organization of Henan Provincial Transport Vocation School .185
MAPS
1. China: Major Highway Development Program-National Trunk Highway System
(NTHS), IBRD 27488
2. Transport System in Henan Province, IBRD 27489
3. Second Henan Provincial Highway Project, Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway, IBRD
27490






1. TRANSPORT BOTTLENECKS AND REFORMS'
A. BACKGROUND
1.1   The transport system in China has grown considerably over the last four decades.
Since 1952, the length of the highway system increased by a factor of nine and the length
of the railway network more than doubled. Despite this development, the transport
network is one of the sparsest in the world compared with the area and population it
serves. There is now a gap between transport supply and demand that is manifested by
the existence of transport bottlenecks, the administrative rationing of limited transport
capacity, the poor quality of services and losses to the economy.
B. TRAFFC
1.2   China had experienced rapid growth of traffic during 1980-89 when the economy
grew at an average annual rate of 9.5 percent. Traffic growth declined when the
economic growth slowed down during 1989-90, as the supply constraints becarne more
conspicuous. However, resumption of high economic growth since 1991 has brought
about a corresponding surge in transport demand.
1.3   Traffic Growth.  Despite the capacity constraints and related bottlenecks,
between 1980 and 1993 the ton-km of freight have grown at 7.4 percent per year and the
passenger-kilometers at 11.8 percent per year. Highway freight traffic grew at the highest
annual rate of 13.7 percent, compared with 5.8 percent for railway traffic and 8.1 percent
for coastal and inland waterway traffic. Despite its rapid growth, intercity passenger
travel per capita in China remains very low, at about two thirds of the level for India.
This is due primarily to the severe capacity constraints. Civil aviation traffic is rapidly
expanding and has grown 20.9 percent per year since 1980, but still represents a small
share of total traffic with most long-distance journeys made by rail (Table 1.1).
1.4   Transport Demand and Modal Split Trends. Although the railway's share of
traffic has declined over the last decade as the share of road traffic has grown, rail tranwsport
still dominates freight and passenger traffic in China. In 1993, 39.2 percent of freight and
44.3 percent of passenger traffic turnover were attributable to rail, with the remainder
moved by road, inland waterway, coastal shipping, pipeline, and civil aviation. The
movement toward a market economy will increase demand for market-responsive twansport
services, favoring a shift to road transport but still leaving a growing market for the
relatively low-cost rail transport system.
This chapter is an abstract of the Bank sector report (No. 11819-CHA) China Highway Development
and Management Issues, Options and Strategies, February 1994.



-2 -
C. TRANSPORT REFORMS
1.5  In the past decade, China's economic reforms have aimed to increase economic
efficiency through measures designed to reduce national government intervention in the
production and distribution process, reduce the Government's deficits and subsidies to
state-owned enterprises, and open the economy by expanding trade and allowing further
participation of private and collective enterprises. In the transport sector, several reforms
have been undertaken in line with these objectives-many with Bank assistance.
1.6   These initiatives are helping to spur the growth and modernization of the transport
system. However, much more needs to be done to bring about the changes required to
deal effectively with the emerging issues. To alleviate the transport bottlenecks and
rationalize the transport system, the Government will need to take the following measures
by the year 2000:
(a)   increase the total level of transport investment in relation to GNP, to expand
capacity to meet the new traffic demands and to clear up the backlogs
caused by past underinvestment;
'b)   aim for balanced investments among the major freight transport modes of
railways, highways, and waterways in terms of optimal economic cost of
transport;
(c)   realign further the prices of freight transport services and those of the major
commodities, especially coal, to bring them closer to their real costs;
(d)   increase further the productivity of existing transport assets through
technological modernization and management reforms; and
(e)   improve and expand the multimodal transport system, both across and
within modes, with particular emphasis on more extensive use of containers.
D. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
The National Highway Network and its Utilization
1.7   China's road network consists mainly of aging roads with neither the capacity nor
strength to carry current and projected future traffic. Many of the roads need upgrading
in addition to normal maintenance and rehabilitation. A Bank policy study on road
deterioration in developing countries classified China among the countries with an
extensive and obsolete road network in need of modernization to meet the rapid growth in
road transport demand.  Although China has not neglected road maintenance, its
outmoded maintenance technology would not be sufficient to arrest the accelerated
deterioration of the aging road system network. China needs to mobilize domestic and
external resources for modernizing its road system with special emphasis placed on
technology transfer, institutional improvement, and development of skills.



-3 -
1.8   The rapid growth of highway traffic stems not only from the country's rapid
economic growth but also from other factors such as the national policy of shifting short-
haul transport from rail to road as well as the expansion of the service sector and rural
industries. Furthermore, with the increase in foreign trade, growth in transport demand
will be concentrated in transport corridors serving the main ports and their hinterlands
and, with containerization of higher-value commodities, most domestic movements of
this foreign trade are expected to go by road.
1.9    Growth in the truck and bus fleet has been fairly steady at an average annual rate of
12.3 percent over the last 12 years, with particularly strong growth in small passenger
vehicles.  Growth in the tractor and motorcycle fleets has increased sharply, with
motorcycles showing the strongest growth of all vehicle types. The composition of vehicles
using China's roads is diverse, including a variety of motorized and a large number of other
(nonmotor) vehicles. The tractor and motorcycle fleets, for example, at 5.4 million and 6.5
million respectively, well exceed the size of the truck and bus fleet.  Tractors and
motorcycles offer a relatively cheap and basic form of transport, but contribute significantly
to traffic congestion and are among the major causes of road accidents.
1.10  The trucking industry consists of publicly-owned trucks operated by trucking
companies affiliated with local (provincial or district) highway authorities, and other trucks
operated by factories, cooperative organizations and, recently, private individuals. The
relaxation of trucking regulations in the early 1980s allowed own-account trucks to haul
cargo for other factories and cooperatives and thus promoted competition between public
and own-account trucks. While market forces are expected to play a more important role in
shaping the industry in the future, it is necessary to understand the current constraints to
such development and to identify the measures needed to allow the reshaping of the
industry to take place. In order to explore these issues more fully, a Provincial Trucking
Study was included as a component of the Bank-assisted Henan Provincial Highway Project
and was completed in 1994, and a separate study of the trucking industry was completed by
the Bank in 1995.
1.11   Road safety is an important issue in the development of China's road sector, as
traffic continues to grow rapidly on all roads and a high-speed, national highway network
is developed. The frequency and numbers of people involved in traffic accidents have
reached serious proportions in China. The annual fatality rate per 10,000 vehicles in
China is 46, as compared with rates of 33 in India, 12 in Indonesia, 5 in Mexico, 9 in
Thailand, 18 in Hungary, and 2 in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom
(Table 1.2). However, the annual fatality rate per 100,000 population in China is the
same or less than that for developed countries. This reflects the low motorization rates
(vehicles per 1,000 population) in China.. The social and economic costs of these
accidents to the Chinese economy reached almost $1 billion annually.2
2 The costs analyzed in this case included loss of life, injury, property damage, reduced productivity, and
medical, funeral, and legal costs.



-4-
1.12 Responsibility for highway safety matters was transferred from MOC and the
provincial Communications Departments to the Ministry of Public Security and its
provincial units in 1988. This decision created transitional administrative problems.
Cooperation between the provincial highway administration bureaus and the concerned
public security units is still weak. Under the Bank-financed Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway
Project (Loan 3929), a road safety manual and a safety audit system will be developed. The
Bank-financed Xinjiang Highway Project (Loan 3787) and the Guangdong Provincial
Highway Project (Loan 3530) contain pilot programs that address the traffic accident black
spot problem. The Second Conference on Asian Road Safety is scheduled to be held in
Beijing October 28-31, 1996. The Bank is discussing with GOC the possibility of holding a
National Road Safety Seminar in 1997, to be followed by a similar Provincial Road
Seminar in 1998.
Highway Administration, Planning and Finance
1.13 Administration of the highway network is the responsibility of the provincial
govermnents, through the Highways Bureaus of the Provincial Communications
Departments. The central government's MOC provides general policy guidance and
support to the provinces through its nationwide policies and regulations, specifying
design and construction standards.   However, the Provincial Communications
Departments are financially independent of MOC and carry out all road planning,
construction, maintenance, and operation of roads and waterways in the provinces.
1.14  While the provinces manage the country's highway network, MOC is responsible
for planning and investment strategies for the development of the National Highway
System. MOC has been evolving a long-term strategy for the systematic upgrading of the
national system in key corridors over a 30-year planning horizon. Known as the National
Trunk Highway System (NTHS), the system, comprising 12 major roads for the exclusive
use of motor vehicles (Map IBRD 27488) would connect all the provincial capitals and
cities with populations exceeding 500,000. Development of the NTHS has been accorded
highest priority in investment planning for the highway sector. Priority for early
construction is being given to two north-south corridors (Beijing-Zhuhai and Tonjiang-
Harbin-Shenyang-Qingdao-Shanghai-Fuzhou-Guangzhou-Sanya); two east-west corridors
(Lianyungang-Zhengzhou-Xian-Lanzhou-Urumqi-Huoergousi and Shanghai-Nanjing-
Jiujiang-Wuhan-Chengdu) and the three corridors of Beijing-Shanghai, Beijing-Shenyang
and Chongqing-Beihai, and to those routes already identified as congested and hindering
economic activity.
1.15 A system for finding highway construction and maintenance is well established,
although there are differences between provinces according to local needs and
circumstances. The main revenues are generated by the Road Maintenance Fee (RMF),
typically levied on the revenue of freight and passenger transport companies and on the
capacity of own-account vehicles. The RMF is levied by the provinces who retain the
majority of the monies after remitting a portion to Central Government agencies. MOC
also directly receives revenues from the Added Vehicle Purchase Fee, a supplementary



-5 -
earnarked tax on vehicle imports and sales, and uses these funds, which currently reach
about Y 2 billion/year, to contribute financing for: (a) the roads included in the national
highway network, providing a higher share of financing for the poorer, inland provinces and
a lower share for the richer, coastal provinces, and (b) construction or rehabilitation of rural
roads located in economically less-developed areas.
E. BANK GROUP PARTICIPATION
1.16 The Bank Group has supported initiatives by the Govermment in the transport
sector through loans and credits totaling $5.8 billion for 34 projects (Table 1.3). The
dialogue between the Government and the Bank Group on transport sector operations and
strategy has been strengthened through long-term strategy studies for railways, highways
and ports development, and through project preparation activities and project-financed
studies as well as sector studies carried out in collaboration with Chinese authorities. The
various studies have, inter alia, emphasized the areas of multimodal transport investrnent
and the setting of sectoral priorities based on systemwide economic evaluation
techniques.3
Transport Sector Work
1.17   Recent Bank Group reports on the transport sector include China's Railway
Strategy (No. 10592-CHA, February 1993), Highway Development and Management:
Issues, Options and Strategies (No. 11819-CHA, February 1994), and Strategies for Road
Freight Development (No. 12600-CHA, January 1995). In addition, studies on the
trucking industry and highway financing have been completed under ongoing projects, a
study of the provincial road construction industry is being undertaken under the Fujian
Provincial Highway Project, a study of interprovincial traffic facilitation and a highway
capacity study are being undertaken under the National Highway Project (Hebei/Henan),
a study of intercity passenger transport is being carried out under the Xinjiang Highway
Project, and a study of highway maintenance is being included in the Second Shaanxi
Provincial Highway Project. In addition, a study for improved prioritization of highway
investments and improved highway feasibility study methodology was completed in
March 1996. A program for institutional strengthening of MOC is being prepared and will
be supported under a technical assistance credit (China Reforn, Institutional Support and
Preinvestment Project-CRISPP, Credit 2447-CHA). The Bank Group also conducted a
survey of the national water transport system in the mid-1980s, which has reaffirmed the
need to further exploit the large potential of the Chinese waterways.
3 Six of the studies have explored multimodal pricing and investment issues in a more comprehensive
and more economically oriented analytical framework than was formerly available to China's
decisionmakers: the Guangdong Comprehensive Transport Planning Study (GCTPS); the Yangtze
Economic Zone Transport Study (YEZTS); the Coal Transport Study (CTS); the Railway Investment
Study (RIS); the Southeast Coastal Region Strategic Issues in Ports and Shipping Development Study
(SIPS); and the Price Reform Study.



-6 -
1.18  On the basis of its project and sector work, the Bank has an opportunity to deepen
its involvement and assist the Government in the design and implementation of institutional
and sectoral reforms in areas such as strategy formulation, investment planning, pricing,
financing, deregulation of transport services, operational efficiency, and transfer of
advanced transport-related technology through training and provision of up-to-date
equipment.  Chinese authorities and the Bank Group are currently preparing a
comprehensive transport sector strategy paper that is expected to help guide sector
development in a consistent, cohesive policy framnework.
The Bank's Experience and Strategy in Highways
1.19  Of the 15 Bank-assisted highway projects in China, two have so far been
completed (the First Highway Project and the Shaanxi Highway Project). The former
project achieved its original objectives and demonstrated the benefits of improved
accessibility to economically less-developed regions. Economic activity in the area of
influence of most project roads surged and income levels increased noticeably.
Furthermore, the Bank's involvement facilitated the acceptance of competition in the
contracting for road works in preference to force account operations even for smaller civil
works contracts, as well as the merits of supervision of construction by specially assigned
units.
1.20 The Bank strategy for highway lending in the medium term is detailed in Highway
Development and Management. Issues, Options and Strategies. The strategy is to continue
supporting institutional development and sectoral reforms aimed at modernizing the
highway system and its management, and supporting investments focused on high-priority
links of the NTHS and the provincial road networks that feed into it.
1.21  While some institutional development and sectoral reform  components will
normally be included in every project, specific issues identified during the Bank's dialogue
with the government, will be addressed selectively in individual provincial projects. During
the next few years, the projects' investment components will continue to focus on high-
priority links of the national highway system, to support the development of the provincial
road networks, and to provide all-weather access to the poor areas to help alleviate poverty.
F. LESSONS FROM PREvious BANK OPERATIONS
1.22  Previous highway projects in China emphasize the importance of rigorous, early
preparation for major civil and traffic engineering works and for procurement processes,
where tendering often takes longer than expected. Advance preparation of bidding
documentation and independent design reviews have also fostered smooth
implementation and have helped reduce variations during the implementation period.
The design of traffic engineering facilities (traffic monitoring, telecommunications,
tolling and lighting) must be advanced so that these works would be finished shortly after
completion of the civil works for high-grade highways.



-7 -
1.23  Land acquisition and resettlement of affected people have also led to
implementation difficulties, including delays, in Chinese highway projects. A large
number of people are typically affected by resettlement in China, particularly along
important economic corridors where highways are being upgraded and constructed. The
institutional requirements for resettlement of these numbers of people are significant;
under the proposed project, resettlement has received considerable attention to ensure
institutional capability to provide adequate compensation and to implement Resettlement
Action Plans.
1.24  Experience in the environmental area in China has generally been favorable.
However, more attention should be paid to environmental supervision during
construction, training of environmental personnel, and environmental monitoring during
both the construction and operation phases.
1.25  Bank experience emphasizes the importance of adequate construction quality of
roads. Poorly constructed roads lower economic benefits and vehicle operating cost
savings, and may reduce reliability and/or accessibility of the road. Higher costs also
result from premature deterioration, where corrective actions in the form of increased
maintenance and/or rehabilitation are required.  Construction quality has also been
highlighted as a sector issue for Bank highway projects. Effective remedial actions
include careful formulation of supervision arrangements, including engagement of
foreign experts, training of local supervision staff and equipping the supervision teams
with the necessary laboratory equipment, surveying instruments, transportation and
telecommunications facilities.
1.26  There is a growing concern that adequate funding for highway maintenance is not
now being generated to cover an expanding and more expensive highway system.
Previously, this was not an issue-adequate funds were being set aside for this purpose.
1.27 Experience with rural highways in Africa and South Asia and with the Bank's
Shaanxi Highway Project in China has shown that provision of basic access through all-
weather roads and provision of nonmotorized transport are effective means of reducing
poverty in rural areas, especially when combined with programs for socioeconomic
development.
1.28  Based on the Bank's experience with institutional and policy aspects of highway
projects, the phasing of studies and technical assistance and the intensity of Bank
supervision are important for positive, sustainable outcomes. Institutional components
that are implemented early in the project period tend to have a greater impact, as
compared with free-standing studies carried out in the advanced stages of a project.
Systematic supervision and follow-up of the findings of studies and technical assistance
components by Bank missions also enhance project outcomes. Ultimately, the success of
the road safety component of the project depends upon the Borrower's commitment to the
objectives of the component and its ability to ensure effective coordination between the
Traffic Police and the Highway Department-the main two agencies involved in the
implementation of this component.



-8 -
2. HENAN PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
2.1   Henan, with about 90 million people, is the country's second most populous
province. Landlocked in China's central plain, the Yellow River divides the province in
two, the larger part to the south. The total area is about 167,000 kM2, representing
1.7 percent of the country; of which about 56 percent is flat areas and 44 percent is rolling
and mountainous areas. In addition to the Yellow River, the province has three other main
river basins: the Weihe, Hanshui and Hauihe Rivers. Availability of water, a good amount
of annual rainfall (785 mm), and a moderate climate, make agriculture the province's main
economic sector. Wheat, com, tobacco, and animal husbandry are the main agricultural
outputs. The Bank is assisting the development of agriculture through a project that aims to
increase crop, livestock and fish production and productivity in Northem and Eastem Henan
(Credit 2242-CHA) and is preparing a multipurpose dam project at Xiaolangdi that will
further enhance the province's agricultural production. The Yanshi Thermal Power Project
(Loan 3433-CHA) will help alleviate acute power shortages in all sectors, including
agriculture.
2.2   The province also has a well-developed industrial base, with machinery, textiles and
foodstuffs having the highest output values. In 1994, the gross output value of agriculture
and industry (GOVAI) reached about $27 billion. Since the start in 1986 of the 7th FYP,
the provincial economy has been growing at an average annual rate of 9.7 percent, despite
the recession in 1989/90. Between 1991 and 1994, the annual growth rate was even higher
(12.5 percent). This is an impressive economic performance, particularly since Henan, as
other inland provinces, has not benefited from the "special economic zone" incentives that
have propelled growth in several coastal provinces. Despite Henan's high economic
growth, its income per capita is still about 36 percent below China's average, and the
province has important pockets of poverty areas. In 1993, the Government had classified
34 counties as poor. Nearly 10 percent of China's poor in 1993, 7.6 million, lived in
Henan. Lack of transport infrastructure is one of the key factors behind the depressed
economic conditions in these areas.
B. THE TRANSPORT SYSTEM
2.3   Henan's strategic location as a crossroads of major north-south (N-S) and east-west
(E-W) rail and road corridors attracts large amounts of transit traffic to use such facilities,
particularly the railways. The predominant transit cargo is coal, which originates in the
neighboring provinces of Shanxi and Shaanxi.  Transport demands have increased
substantially over the last five years, due to fast economic growth of the province and of the



- 9 -
rest of the country, whose output traverses Henan to and from ports and major population
centers.
2.4   Zhengzhou, the province's capital, is at the center of the key land transport facilities.
These are the N-S Beijing-Guangzhou railway and national road 107, and the E-W
Lanzhou-Lianyungang railway and national road 310. A number of other major railways,
as well as local railways and roads, cross the province (Map IBRD 27489). In 1994, the
total length of the state-run rail network in the province was 2,086 km, and that of the local
rail network was 1,264 km. Due to its important transit function, Henan's transport system
density is larger than China's average. However, as in the case of the country as a whole,
the provincial land transport system is small in relation to the province's area and
population, many important rail lines operate at capacity and the key roads have low
standards, carry significant amounts of slow-moving traffic, and are congested. River
navigation is not a major transport mode because the Yellow River is affected by serious
sand deposits in its riverbed. Other rivers also provide limited services. The total length of
navigable rivers is about 1,104 km, but most sections allow small boats or ferries only, even
under the best seasonal conditions.
2.5    With its high proportion of hilly and mountainous areas, and the several water
streams, topography and hydrography pose difficult barriers to the development of land
transport infrastructure. The provincial government has made a special effort to integrate
the province's areas across the Yellow River; over the last 20 years, it has built four
highway bridges at Sanmenxia, Luoyang, Zhengzhou and Kaifeng.
2.6   Henan's highway system  extends about 47,704 km, of which about 81 km
(0.2 percent) are expressways, 78 km (0.1 percent) are Class 1, 192 km (0.4 percent) are
Class II auto only, 4,866 km (10.2 percent) are ordinary Class II, 39,265 km (82.3 percent)
are Class III and IV, and the remainder (3,222 km or 6.8 percent) are unclassified (Table
2.1). The administrative classification of the road system in 1994 was as follows:
km                         %
National                             3,526                       7.4
Provincial                           7,948                       16.7
County                              11,740                      23.6
Village/Township                    23,860                      50.0
Other                                1,130                       2.3
Total                            47,704                      100.0
2.7    As in the rest of the country, most of Henan's highways were built in the 1960s,
and their design standards were suitable for the light vehicles and low traffic levels



- 10-
prevailing in China at the time. About 59 percent of the roads have cement or asphalt
pavement, but the pavements are of low bearing capacity for the vehicles that circulate on
them. Due to the substantial growth in traffic levels and steady rise in the use of heavy
vehicles, these roads increasingly are becoming inadequate to meet the needs. The
provincial government is giving high priority to repairing and strengthening these roads.
2.8   In addition to inadequate standards, Henan's road network is small and significant
segments of the population cannot reach it. About 8 percent of the administrative villages
have no access to roads of any kind, and 7 percent of the counties do not have all-weather
roads available to them. During the 7th FYP. the provincial governnent invested Y 40
million in poverty areas for 362 rural road projects. During the 8th FYP, the province
allocated Y 420 million for poverty alleviation.
2.9    Henan's vehicle fleet has expanded rapidly (11.7 percent for passenger cars and
vans, buses, and trucks) during 1985-94 (Table 2.2). During this period, passenger
vehicles (small cars, vans and buses) grew by 18.1 percent per year and trucks by
4.0 percent per year, rellecting the growing prosperity in Henan and the light-vehicle
needs of the growing number of enterprises in the economy. Tractors and motorcycles
registered extremely high growth rates (29.2 and 22.2 percent, respectively) during 1990-
94. While tractors are mainly used for agricultural purposes, often they travel on the
roads, posing significant safety hazard and, due to their low speeds, severely reducing
road capacity. This rapid growth poses particular problems to transport planners, in and
around the larger cities, especially Zhengzhou and Luoyang.
C. TRAFFIC
2.10   Over the last decade, traffic has been rising strongly in all modes, with annual
average growth rates for land transport of 7.1 percent for freight and 9.3 percent for
passengers. However, highways and railways are the principal modes. Growth rates on
highways are significantly higher than on railways. Highway passenger traffic rose at
19.6 percent annually and freight traffic at 14.1 percent annually during the period
1991-94, and is taking an increasing share of total traffic (Table 2.3).
2.11   The increase in road freight and passenger transport is reflected in the traffic growth
on individual roads. On main trunk roads, such as Luoyang-Sanmenxia, the annual rate of
traffic growth over the 1991-94 period has ranged between 14 percent and 23 percent,
depending on the section.
2.12   Highway traffic includes a high proportion of slow-moving vehicles, mainly tractors
of various sizes. Traffic includes also substantial bicycles and other nonmotorized vehicles.
In 1994, slow traffic accounted for some 10 to 15 percent of all traffic on the Luoyang-
Sanmenxia route. While on the main roads, slow-moving traffic is growing at lower rates
than overall traffic, it still is a major factor in road congestion and traffic accidents. To
tackle this problem, Henan has started development of access-controlled highways where
traffic volumes are sufficiently high to justify them.



- 11 -
2.13 The high growth of road traffic and its increasing share of total transport stem from
the development of the road system, and from increasing volumes of industrial output for
which roads are a convenient mode of transport. The steep growth in road traffic shows the
strong demand for highway service, since the surge in traffic took place despite severe
constraints posed by inadequate road standards, small coverage of the system, high
congestion, and poorly developed trucking services. Over the next 5 to 10 years, highway
traffic is likely to continue to grow at a high pace, in response to the growth of the national
and provincial economies, to changes in economic structure favoring faster door-to-door
road services, and to improvements in the national highways in Henan as in the neighboring
provinces. Such road improvements will allow more long-distance, interprovincial trade
and people to travel by road.
2.14   The surge in highway traffic is also due to the differentials in road-rail tariffs (in
favor of rail) and the Railways decision not to accept short-distance freight hauls of less
than 200 km. However, the transport price differential diminishes when transshipment
costs and travel times are considered. For passengers, the tariffs are much closer between
the two modes (Y 0.055/pass-km on road transport, compared to Y 0.038 for railways, for
distances of about 100 km). The tariff differential should gradually decrease as the railways
continues to adjust its tariffs upwards, and as improvements to the roads and in the
efficiency of the trucking industry reduce the costs of road transport.
D. THE TRUCKING INDUSTRY
2.15   As elsewhere in China, public trucking operations in Henan are characterized by
low load factors, high operating costs and rates, and poor quality of services. Such
services are provided by three categories of transport companies: state-owned, collective
and private. Due to the weaknesses of public trucking, most large industrial and
commercial companies have bought their own vehicles, making own-account trucking the
major road freight carrier. Such companies are estimated to own about 60 percent of the
road freight fleet and to do about 40 percent of the ton-km. While own-account trucking
is even less efficient than public carrier services, most enterprises have found this
approach convenient, and the proportion of own-account trucking has been increasing in
the last years (Table 2.4).
2.16   As noted in para. 2.14, road freight tariffs are higher than the railway's. The
differential is large, even taking into account that in China (a) road costs are high due to
poor road condition, (b) railway operating costs are low due to high traffic densities and
efficient operations and (c) many railway tariffs are below cost. Despite the high tariffs for
road transport, most of the large trucking companies owned by the cities or prefectures lose
money. Collective and private trucking companies appear to do well financially, in part due
to better utilization of their equipment and in part due to fewer social obligations than the
governnent companies. Government-operated freight information offices throughout the
province provide, for a fee, freight information/brokerage services to shippers and truckers.



- 12 -
2.17  Henan authorities are concerned about the low efficiency and poor quality of
trucking services and the proliferation of own-account trucking. Recently, restrictions have
been placed for enterprises to purchase and operate their own vehicles, and other measures
have been taken to improve control of trucking operations. While such measures are
expected to generate some improvements, they are not likely to induce the gains in
efficiency and quality of services that are required. Under the Henan Provincial Highway
Project (Loan 353 1-CHA), a detailed study of trucking in the province (completed in 1994)
made a diagnosis of the present situation and recommendations for improvements. Some of
these recommendations are already being implemented.
2.18  The ongoing liberalization of the trucking regulations may not be sufficient to
address all the existing problems encountered in the trucking market, but some measures
have been taken to restructure the market and to promote free flow of traffic and trade
between provinces. For example, participation of private operators is permitted and
encouraged, the protection of state-owned and collectively-owned trucking or bus
companies has been abolished, and one transport permit to move around the country has
been introduced. The Bank-financed National Highway Project (Loan 3748-CHA)
includes a traffic facilitation study, which aims to identify the bottlenecks to be removed
and to recommend measures to ensure freer movements of traffic and trade between
provinces. This study is presently being undertaken and is expected to be completed in
the first quarter of 1996.
E. HIGHWAY SAFETY
2.19  Road safety is a serious problem in Henan, as elsewhere in China. In 1994 alone,
3,648 people were killed and 10,162 were injured in the 14,147 accidents reported to the
police in that year (Table 2.5). International comparisons of the number killed in traffic
accidents per 10,000 vehicles show that the rate in Henan is about 40 times higher than
that for Western Europe and North America. However, the accident rates, when
expressed in fatalities per 100,000 population, are lower than those in the developed
countries. It should be recognized that China and Henan are in the early stages of
motorization (when traditionally traffic fatalities and injuries are high), traffic is mixed
(with a high proportion of slow-moving vehicles, bicycles, animal-drawn carts) and
increasing at a fast pace, and the number of pedestrians is high.
2.20  While there is increasing concern about road safety, the Henan Provincial
Communications Department (HPCD) has had less scope for action following the
reorganization of responsibility for road safety matters in China in 1988.  Most
responsibility for matters affecting road safety, including that for vehicle testing and
inspection, driver training and licensing, propaganda on safety, enforcement of traffic
laws (including imposition of fines), operation of traffic signals, highway patrols, and all
aspects of accident, reporting, investigation and research, now lies with the Traffic Police
of the Public Security Bureau (PSB). However, HPCD retains responsibility for all
matters concerning safe highway design and traffic signs and markings. HPCD and the



- 13 -
Traffic Police worked together under the project to develop a modest program to address
the road safety problem in Henan (para. 3.37).
F. HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
2.21  HPCD  controls highway and inland river navigation and local railways
undertakings in the province, as well as the Zhongyuan Civil Aviation Company (Chart
1). HPCD reports directly to the provincial government and acts as its administrative arm
for planning, budgeting and financing of transport in the province. However, HPCD
conforns to the general transport policy and technical guidelines issued by MOC. Key
agencies under its administration for the management of Henan's highway system are the
World Bank-Financed Projects Office (WBFPO); Henan Provincial Planning, Survey and
Design Institute (HPPSDI); Henan Provincial Highway Scientific Research Institute
(HPHSRI); Henan Provincial Transport College (HPTC); Henan Provincial Transport
Vocational School (HPTVS); Henan Provincial Highway Administration Bureau
(HPHAB); and Henan Provincial High-Grade Highway Construction Authority
(HPHGHCA). Their respective duties are to raise funds internationally; to plan, survey
and design roads; conduct highway research; train and replenish technical and
management personnel; and construct and manage high-grade highways. Based on the
similar arrangements made under the previous two ongoing highway projects financed by
the Bank in the province, the proposed project will also help strengthen six of the above
institutions (paras. 3.31-3.34).
2.22  HPHAB  is responsible  for construction, renovation, maintenance  and
management of the provincial highway network. It receives professional and technical
guidance from MOC. With a headquarters staff of about 101, HPHAB executes its
responsibilities through the local administrations set up in the various municipalities and
prefectures (total number, 17) and counties (193 county-level and district) and 1,353
maintenance gangs of the province (Chart 2). The 17 highway prefectures are in charge
of local construction, maintenance and management of the national and provincial
highway network in their jurisdiction. Each of the counties has responsibility under the
prefecture to construct and maintain the county and rural roads under its jurisdiction. The
total staff of HPHAB and the highway departments of the cities, prefectures and counties
amounted to 45,278 in 1994, of which about 3,613 are engineering and technical
personnel and about 1,077 are finance, economics, and management personnel. The three
construction divisions of the Highway Engineering Bureau are responsible for
construction of large- and medium-size highway projects. HPHGHCA is in charge of
construction and management of high-grade highways, such as expressways.
2.23  HPHGHCA is a department-level institution that reports directly to HPCD.
Established in 1990, HPHGHCA's first task, currently underway, is the construction and
management of the Kaifeng-Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway and the Anyang-Xinxiang
Expressway.  Also, HPHGHCA would be responsible for the construction and
management of the proposed Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway. As the network of high-
grade highu-ays is expanded and put into operation, HPHGHCA is expected to develop



- 14-
into the High-Grade Highway Administration, responsible for the maintenance and
operation, in addition to the development of that network. The organizational structure of
HPHGHCA is shown in Chart 3. The executive officer of HPHGHCA is the deputy
director of HPCD, and he is assisted by seven division chiefs representing all agencies
that have a bearing on the work of HPHGHCA. The approved number of staff for
HPHGHCA is 50, including 32 professional and technical personnel.  At present,
HPHGHCA's source of finance is the income it derives from managing high-grade
highway projects.
2.24  HPCD has established a special office-the World Bank-Financed Projects
Office-to be in charge of preparation work, coordination and supervision of all the
aspects related to the highway projects financed by the Bank in the province (Chart 4),
including the proposed LSE.
G. PLANNING, BUDGETING AND FINANCING
2.25  Planning.   HPCD  has overall responsibility for planning, funding and
maintaining the provincial highway network. However, the highway administration units
at the prefecture, county and village levels have considerable autonomy in planning
smaller road investments. These smaller investments are subject to the approval of
HPCD, largely as a formality. Each administrative group prepares investment plans for
the highway network under its jurisdiction and submits them to the planning division of
HPCD by September of each year for the next year's plan starting January 1. HPCD
approves the next year's plan for each county or local authority concerned. Similarly,
using inputs from lower administrative groups, HPCD prepares the five-year road
development plan reflecting national or provincial development policy guidelines and
objectives for the plan period.
2.26  Budgeting. As is done in all provincial communications departments in China,
HPCD follows a balanced budget policy. The proposed highway investment is always
balanced against the revenue earmarked for highway development, the funds for
investments and maintenance approved for each year are closely related to the amount of
funds expected to be available to HPCD for the same year. In October of each year and
before HPCD approves the following year's projects, the current year's planned
investments are reviewed against actual investments and revenue receipts and
adjustments are made where needed.
2.27  Financing. Funding for highway construction and maintenance comes from
several sources, but by far the largest source is the road maintenance fee (RMF).
Revenue from RMF increased from about Y 754 million in 1991 to about Y 1.36 billion
in 1995. Highway revenues and expenditures are summarized in Table 2.6. The RMF is
determined and collected by HPCD from all motor vehicles in the province. The
province retains about 81.6 percent for its own use. Since 1992, the balance of the
revenues from RMF has been generally allocated as follows: 10.4 percent to MOC's
Energy and Communications Fund, 5.4 percent to the SPC-controlled Budget Adjustment



- 15 -
Fund, and about 2 percent (or an agreed amount) to the Public Security Bureau for their
highway patrol and administrative operations.
2.28  The fee rates vaiy depending on the type and size of vehicles, as follows:
(a) vehicles owned by state transport companies and by collective carriers are charged
15 percent of their gross revenues; (b) vehicles owned by collective and private operators
are charged Y 160 per month per payload ton for trucks and Y 160 per month per
10-passenger seat buses; and (c) passenger cars are charged Y 85 per month.
2.29  Other sources of revenue for highways include: (a) allocations from MOC for
construction and reconstruction of national and major provincial roads on a selective
basis; (b) local funds raised from tolls; and (c) loans from banks, including the World
Bank. Revenues from the MOC allocations rose from Y 84 million in 1991 to Y 750
million in 1995, or a 73 percent annual increase. Toll revenue rose steadily in the
province, from Y 42 million in 1991 to Y 970 million in 1995 (Table 2.6).
2.30  Currently, fuel taxes are charged on road users, but they are kept by MOF and are
not allocated back to road works. Fuel taxes at present amount to 43 percent of the base
price of gasoline and 13 percent of the base price of diesel fuels. Total fuel prices,
including taxes, are higher than international market prices and are increasing at a rate
higher than the consumer price index (Table 2.7).
H. ENGINEERING, CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
2.31  Engineering. Road and bridge projects are designed by the planning and design
institutes at the provincial, prefectural and county levels. The Henan Provincial Highway
Survey and Design Institute (HPHSDI) is one of the Class I-level design and survey units
for highway, bridge and engineering supervision accredited by MOC. It is qualified for
Class I roads and expressways and is responsible for all major road, bridge and tunnel
projects. HPHSDI is competent and has qualified and experienced personnel, as well as
equipment. It has carried out the design and bid documents for LSE, as well as those for
the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway-ZLE (Loan 3531-CHA) and the Anyang-
Xinxiang Expressway-AXE (Loan 3748-CHA). The design institutes at the municipal
and county levels are responsible for lower-grade county and township road design
works, including the linking roads to LSE and the roads in the Road Improvements for
Poverty Alleviation (RIPA) included under the proposed project. These design institutes
are, in general, competent and have experienced personnel for carrying out their
respective highway design tasks.
2.32  Construction.  Small-scale roads and bridges in the province used to be
constructed by the construction units of the highway departments of each city or county,
but competition has been introduced under the strong and effective promotion of the
Bank. Such competition is gradually being accepted by the localities. The Highways
Administration Bureau of HPCD is responsible for the construction of large- and
medium-size highways and bridges. HPHGHCA and WBFPO are responsible for the
launching, implementation and management of high-standard roads in the province.



- 16-
Since SPC has directed that all major civil works have to be awarded through competitive
bidding, many of the large construction units or engineering bureaus under MOC, MOF
or under HPCD were transformed into financial independent contracting firms or
companies and have entered into contracts either individually or as partners in joint
ventures on previous Bank-financed highway projects. These construction units can take
part in bidding within and outside the province. Contractors for the civil works of ZLE
and AXE were selected through prequalification and international competitive bidding
(ICB), and contractors for the proposed LSE will also be selected through the same
process.
2.33  Maintenance. Highway maintenance is carried out by highway bureaus of the
counties and cities. Maintenance is well organized and executed. HPCD estimates that in
1995, about 92 percent of the national and provincial roads were in good condition. The
corresponding figure for county and village roads was 80 percent. The main problem has
been the poor riding quality of road surfaces stemming from labor-intensive and low-
technology methods. Many of the pavements have exceeded their design life and need
major overhaul. Also, overloading of trucks and tractors is becoming a problem, which
accelerates deterioration of the pavement.
2.34  Expenditures for periodic and routine maintenance increased and between 1991
and 1994 averaged about Y 10,000 to Y 15,000 per km for Class I roads, Y 8,000 to
Y 10,000 per km for Class II roads, Y 3,000 to Y 5,000 per km for Class III roads, and
about Y 3,000 per km for Class IV roads. The expenditures for maintenance (routine and
periodic) as a percentage of total expenditures amounted to about 14 percent over the
same period.  However, the investments in rehabilitation, reconstruction and new
construction increased from 63.3 percent to 80.6 percent. During this period, traffic has
increased rapidly and the number and size of trucks has also increased.
2.35  While increased expenditures for road maintenance and new construction have
offset some of the immediate need for heavy maintenance, HPCD is aware that
continuation of this practice would lead to deterioration of the existing network. HPCD
intends to increase the percentage of roads in good and excellent condition. To this effect,
assurances were obtained at negotiations from HPCD that it would, by April 30 of each
year commencing in 1997 and ending in 2003, furnish an annual highway maintenance
report for the Bank's review and comments, which would: (a) indicate the length of each
class of road by condition (excellent, good, fair and bad); (b) establish targets for the
following year, including an estimate of the required physical works (routine
maintenance, periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading) and the costs thereof;
and (c) measure the results and the actual expenditures against the targets and the
budgetedfunds thereof Under the proposed project, the planning and execution of these
physical works would be monitored to ensure that the targets are realized and that the
required funds are being allocated. Also, in addition to the maintenance equipment and
training provided under the two Bank-financed highway projects in Henan Province, the
proposed project provides additional maintenance equipment and training to further
improve the planning, management and execution of highway maintenance activities.



- 17-
I. STAFF TRAINING
2.36  The staff of HPCD and the prefectural, city and county highway departments are,
in general, experienced, but many have not been exposed to new technology and therefore
often use outmoded work methods and equipment. HPCD's staff have benefited from the
training provided by MOC and its own provincial training institutes, as well as from the
training provided under the two ongoing Bank-financed highway projects. The proposed
project would support further training efforts of HPCD by: (a) providing training to
personnel of the relevant institutes and schools and HPCD in areas of highway planning,
design, construction, maintenance, operation, and highway scientific research; and
(b) strengthening the entities in charge of implementation of the proposed project through
training of their staff and provision of modem equipment.
J. HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT
2.37  The highway development plans of Henan set goals for three different time
horizons: the long term up to the year 2020, the medium term up to 2010 and short term
up to the year 2000. The short-term plans for highway development are embodied in the
9FYP (1996-2000) for Henan. This plan will give priority to the road projects falling in
the following categories:
(a)   construction of the north-south Beijing-to-Zhuhai and the east-west
Lianyungang-Huoergousi highways, within the province, to expressway
standard;
(b)   upgrading and improvement of the existing national and provincial roads
that are congested, in order to increase their capacity and safety;
(c)   construction of missing links, improvement of interprovincial roads, and
upgrading and improvement of roads that serve as entrances and exits to
urban areas;
(d)   improvement and construction of roads serving poverty areas;
(e)   improvement and construction of county and village roads to increase the
density and coverage of the road network; and
(f)   repair and reconstruction of roads destroyed or severely damaged by
floods.
2.38 The Plan (as of the end of April 1996, the plan was not yet officially confirmed by
the provincial government) targets some Y 19.49 billion for new road construction and
rehabilitation during the 9FYP, or about Y 2.92 billion annually (Table 2.7). This
amount, which is 11I percent larger than the allocated investment during the 8FYP,
would be applied to carry out the following program:



- 18-
(a)   new construction of Expressway and Class I roads       600 km
(b)   new construction and improvement of Class II roads    1,900 km
(c)   upgrading of Class III roads                          2,000 km
(d)   upgrading/reconstruction of Class IV and substandard roads   3,000 km
Most of the above funds would be used for construction of new roads, especially high-
grade highways. Table 2.8 lists the major new high-grade highways to be constructed
during 1995-2000, as well as their estimated costs.
2.39  The 9FYP foresees an increase of 135 percent in the amount allocated to
maintenance relative to the allocation under the 8FYP.  All road construction,
rehabilitation and improvement included under the proposed project are part of the
province's 9FYP.
2.40  The Province's Master Plan for Poor Areas (8-7 Year Plan for Poverty Alleviation
1994-2000) has set as its goal to provide year-round access to every poor township and
90 percent of the villages in Henan. The transport component of this plan calls for
improvement of 40 road systems consisting of 99 road segments (totaling 2,291 km), of
which 714 km are Class IV roads (rehabilitation and new construction), 1,404 km to be
upgraded from unclassified status to all-weather roads, and 173 km to be upgraded from
Class IV to Class III. The total cost of these improvements is about Y 839 million ($101
million) or about 4 percent of the Province's 9FYP highway sector investment.
2.41  The most serious problem for realizing the planned developments by the year
2000 would be availability of the required financial resources. In addition to loans from
the Bank and other similar foreign organizations, HPCD plans to borrow heavily from the
local/national banks. Generally, these loans are of a short-term nature, with no grace
period. Experience to date in Henan has been that construction costs are well controlled
and higher-than-normal (as expressed in contingency allowances) cost overruns are not
likely. Also, experience in China has shown that availability of counterpart local funds is
not a problem on the Bank-financed highway projects and is not expected to adversely
affect the proposed project. But, it could affect the remainder of the investment program.
However, the revenue projections are predicated on an increase in the size of the vehicle
fleet and gross revenues of transport operators, and both sources are likely to grow more
slowly than highway use as competition leads to increased vehicle use and more
competitive tariffs.  Consequently, the proposed highway developments must be
considered as ambitious, and probably their implementation would extend beyond the
currently planned completion dates.  However, there is a danger under these
circumstances that maintenance could be sacrificed for new construction. HPCD is aware
of this problem and, as discussed in para. 2.35, is considering ways to improve highway
investment planning and prioritization and allocating a greater share of financial
resources to maintenance.



- 19-
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT FORMULATION AND PREPARATION
3.1   The proposed project is part of an increasing effort by the World Bank, in agreement
with the Governnent, to provide assistance to inland, lesser developed, provinces.
Highway projects, with their institutional and province-wide physical coverage, are
particularly apt to contribute to provincial economic and social development including
poverty alleviation, and to the strengthening of the administrative, planning and
management structures of the sector.
3.2   The support of highway development in Henan is particularly important in light of
the province's national strategic transport location, in addition to its own infrastructure
development requirements. One of its key transport corridors is the east-west Kaifeng-
Zhengzhou-Luoyang-Shaanxi border route. This route is a part of one of the two east-
west high-priority corridors in the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS). As
discussed in para. 1. 14, the Government of China accords the NTHS the highest priority
in investment planning for the highway sector. The Bank's strategy for highway lending
has supported the development of this NTHS. The main infrastructure component of the
proposed project (the construction of the 136 km four-lane expressway between Luoyang
and Sanmenxia) constitutes an important link of the above-mentioned east-west corridor
of the NTHS. The Bank is already heavily involved in the construction of substantial
sections of this corridor. Under the Henan Provincial Highway Project (Loan 3531-
CHA), the section from Zhengzhou to Luoyang (120 km) was completed and open to
traffic on December 28, 1995. Under the Xinjiang Highway Project (Loan 3787-CHA),
construction of the section between Turpan and Urumnqi (176 km) commenced in March
1995 and is scheduled for completion by the end of 1998. Under the proposed Second
Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project, which was negotiated in February 1996, the 78 km
section between Weinan and Tongguan (border with Henan) would be undertaken. Under
the proposed Second Xinjiang Highway Project, which is now being prepared, the
262 km section between Urumqi and Kuitun would be constructed.
3.3  It was agreed at the identification stage of the project, that in addition to the
expressway component, the proposed project would include a rural road highway
program that focuses on poverty alleviation in the poorest counties in Henan (where
10 percent of China's poor live).
3.4   The proposed project was prepared under the directives of HPCD, with the
guidance of SPC, MOF, MOC and the People's Bank of China. The feasibility study for
the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway (LSE) and the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection,
contained in the project was prepared by HPPSDI. Following the identification mission



- 20 -
in March 1995 and the preparation mission in July 1995, the project was appraised in
November 1995.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
3.5   The proposed project has the following objectives:
(a)   support continuing development of road infrastructure to relieve
congestion, facilitate mobility and increase the efficiency of road transport
in the interest of stimulating economic activity by supporting a key
highway link in a high-priority east-west corridor and a slice of the Henan
highway investment program in county and village roads during the 9FYP;
(b)   assist in the implementation of policies to alleviate poverty in the poor
areas of the province;
(c)   promote development of institutional capabilities of HPCD, through
training and other means, in planning, design, operations and maintenance
of Henan's highway network; and
(d)   increase the safety of road transport.
3.6   Project Performance Monitoring. The performance of the project in achieving
the previously-mentioned objectives (para. 3.5) will be monitored by the Henan
Provincial Government and the Henan Provincial Communications Department
throughout the life of the project. In addition to progress in the regular aspects of project
imnplementation, such as percent complete, procurement and disbursement, project
performance for each key objective will be monitored with the use of specific indicators
agreed with HPCD and presented in Annex 9. The project's objective related to
reduction in congestion and stimulating economic activity in the Luoyang-Sanmenxia
Corridor will be monitored using such indicators as average daily traffic, and average
vehicle speed along LSE and roads parallel to it as well as the gross output value of
agriculture and industry (GOVAI) for the counties along the Luoyang-Sanmenxia
Corridor. The project's objective pertaining to helping alleviate poverty in the poor
counties of the province will be monitored using such indicators as GOVAI; average
daily traffic volumes; and number of days rural roads are closed to traffic. The objective
concerning strengthening institutional capabilities will be monitored qualitatively based
on such indicators as sharing of new knowledge and exercising new skills by staff trained
under the project as well as improvement of performance in specific functions and
activities. The traffic safety objective will be monitored through the number of fatalities
and injuries on LSE and parallel roads as well as on the whole highway network.
Specific criteria for assessing progress in environmental and resettlement aspects will be
regularly monitored.
3.7   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for China, presented to the Board in June 1995 and reaffirmed in the March 1996



- 21 -
progress report, supports China's strategy to reduce poverty and to relieve infrastructure
bottlenecks by, inter alia, rapidly modernizing and expanding its highway system. The
proposed project furthers both of these goals by helping reduce poverty in Henan through
a program of rural highway improvements targeted at the poor counties and implementing
the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway segment of the NTHS.  Furthermore, Bank
assistance to NTHS construction should facilitate interprovincial trade and promote long-
distance and transit road traffic, which in turn would help arrest a growing regionalism
while furthering the liberalization, facilitation and cost reduction of transport, key
requirements for market-oriented reforms to succeed. Bank support is also justified by
project assistance to institutional development, through training of staff, strengthening of
key agencies of HPCD, and providing equipment for maintenance of the highway
network and operation of the LSE. The Bank's assistance is important in improving
supervision of construction of highways by facilitating the introduction of joint ventures
between foreign and local consulting firms. Bank involvement is also expected to benefit
the design and the quality of construction of the roads to be undertaken (this has been
problematic in some other projects) as well as the traffic safety on roads. The project
would also foster improved practices in the areas of environment and land acquisition and
resettlement of affected people.
C. PROJECT SCOPE
3.8   The scope of the project includes:
(a)   Construction of the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway, a 136 km, four-lane
divided access-controlled highway (74.7 percent of base cost), including
supply and installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical equipment
for toll collection, telecommunications and lighting facilities, as well as
construction of service areas and management and maintenance buildings.
(b)   Construction of the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection (YBC) (1.2 percent), a
6 km, two-lane expressway to link the Weinan-Tongguan Expressway
(WTE) in Shaanxi Province with the existing Highway 310 in Henan
Province.
(c)   Construction, rehabilitation and upgrading of four linking roads with a
total length of about 17 km that would interconnect and feed traffic to the
LSE at interchanges (1.2 percent);
(d)   Improvement and new construction of about 1,700 km of rural roads in a
program to help alleviate poverty (RIPA) in poor counties in Henan
(15.9 percent);
(e)   Construction supervision of the LSE, the linking roads, and RIPA
(3.5 percent);
(f)   Provision of equipment (2.4 percent) for:



- 22 -
(i)   control of construction quality and for monitoring of the
environment during the construction of the LSE and linking roads;
(ii)   operation and maintenance of the LSE;
(iii)    maintenance of the provincial highway network (other than the
high-grade highways); and
(iv)   support of the institutional strengthening of HPCD and related
institutions and the road safety component;
(g)   Institutional strengthening and training (IST), including strengthening of
HPCD and its related agencies and institutions; training of staff in high-
grade highway construction supervision and operations, highway
investment planning, maintenance of high-grade highways and other
roads, construction and equipping a Science Technology Center for
research in the highway areas; and a study of organization, management
and maintenance of expressway (0.8 percent); and
(h)   A highway safety component to help reduce accidents on Henan's
highways (0.3 percent).
3.9   Construction of the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway.  The existing road
(Highway 310) between Luoyang, the capital of seven ancient dynasties in Chinese
history, with a population of about 6 million, and Sanmenxia in the western part of Henan
Province, with a population of about 2.5 million, is about 137 km long. It is the only
east-west trunk road through the middle part of Henan, and traverses Xinan, Yima,
Sanmenxia and Shanxiang urban areas as well as many industrial and mining areas along
the route. The existing road is Class II, with a 9 to 15 m wide pavement, which does not
allow for separation of the motorized and slow-moving traffic along a significant length
of the road. Some of the bridges are narrow (7.0 m) and the alignment has many sharp
horizontal curves and steep longitudinal slopes, which result in poor sight distance and
limited passing opportunities. Moreover, the pavement structure is generally weak.
Consequently, travel speeds are generally low. The existing road carries about 7,000-
9,000 medium truck equivalent (mte) per day (or about 14,000-18,000 passenger car
units-pcu-per day). The recent high increases in traffic and the expected future growth
cannot be accommodated by the existing road beyond 1998 at an acceptable level of
service. The widening of the existing road would not be feasible along most of its length
because of the extensive side development, the consequent high numbers of people to be
resettled and the related high construction costs.
3.10  For reasons outlined above, the feasibility of the construction of the LSE was
investigated along a new alignment as a part of the road between Luoyang and the Henan/
Shaanxi border. A feasibility study for the highway was carried out by HPPSDI and
covered the investigation of several alternative routings for a new highway.  The
recommended alignment is located to the south of the Yellow River and generally parallel



- 23 -
with the Lianyungang-Urumqi Railway (Map IBRD 27490). Also, it is generally about 3 to
7 km away from the main cities along the existing road, thus reducing the number of people
to be resettled and providing space for these cities to expand in the future, and reducing the
length of linking roads (to LSE) to be improved or newly constructed..
3.11  The proposed expressway would be about 136 km long, consisting of four paved
lanes, each 3.75 m wide, and two paved shoulders each 3.25 m wide, and a 2 to 3 m wide
median, in accordance with the national geometric standards for highways. In addition to
minimizing the acquisition of land and resettlement of people, the alignment was selected
to avoid archeological areas and the coal mining areas. Detailed studies of such areas
were conducted as a part of the environmental assessment of the expressway.
3.12  Animals, pedestrians and slow-moving traffic such as tractors and bicycles will
not be allowed access to the LSE. Access to the LSE would be provided at seven
interchanges located at Luoyang, Xinan, Yima, Mianchi. Guanyintang, Sanmenxia,
Dongjiaokou and Sanmenxiaxi (Map IBRD 27490). Special attention was paid to the
location and spacing of interchanges (especially in the Luoyang and Sanmenxia areas), as
well as to the type and layout of these interchanges, keeping in mind that the LSE would
be operated as a toll road and that cities grow in the future. The LSE also includes about
7 very large bridges, 37 large bridges, 3 medium- and small-size bridges, 74 grade
separations, 146 underpasses to provide access to adjacent property, and about 148
culverts. Because of the rugged terrain the expressway passes through, and the often
narrow areas suitable to locate an expressway, and the restrictions imposed by the
existing highway (310) and railway, great efforts were exercised in the design of the LSE,
especially the bridges. The pavement structure consists of 16 centimeters (cm) of asphalt
concrete wearing course, 20 cm of lime-soil flyash-stabilized macadam base course, and
34 to 40 cm of lime-soil flyash-stabilized soil subbase course. The total pavement
thickness is 70 to 76 cm.
3.13  In addition to roadway construction, the LSE includes: (a) construction of one
service area that provides facilities for fuel pumping, vehicle repair, restaurants, parking
and rest areas, and commercial centers; (b) three facilities for administration and
maintenance of the expressway; and (c) electrical, electronic and mechanical installation
required for toll collection, traffic monitoring, telecommunications, and lighting of major
bridges and interchanges.
3.14  The project proposal was formally approved by SPC in September 1995. The
preliminary engineering design of LSE was prepared by HPPSDI for civil works and by
the Xian Highway Research Institute for the traffic engineering component (tolling,
monitoring, telecommunications and lighting). The preliminary engineering design and
bid documents were reviewed in April 1995 by Italian experts under the Italian Trust
Fund, and found to be generally satisfactory. The draft detailed engineering designs and
bid documents were completed in March 1996 and reviewed in the same month by the
same Italian experts who reviewed the preliminary designs and documents.



- 24 -
3.15  Construction of the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection. Shaanxi Province will
construct the Weinan-Tongguan Expressway (WTE) under the proposed Second Shaanxi
Provincial Highway Project. The WTE is a part of the east-west high-priority NTHS
corridor extending from Lianyungang to Huoergousi (Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous
Region). It terminates at the Shaanxi/Henan border. The section from Sanmenxia to the
border, with a length of about 98 km, was upgraded to Class II standard under the Bank-
financed Henan Provincial Highway Project (Loan 353 1-CHA) and was open to traffic by
the end of October 1995. HPCD does not plan to construct the expressway from the west
end of the LSE to the border until after the year 2000, when funds are available.
Consequently, the last 20 km of the WTE (in Shaanxi) would be underutilized and would
not achieve their full socioeconomic benefits if the WTE is not connected to the Class II
Sanmenxia-Border Road. This connection (Yangjia-Baijiazhai) lies in Henan Province.
HPCD and the Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department (SPTD), with the approval of
MOC, SPC and MOF, signed an agreement whereby HPCD would build this connection.
The decision to add this connection to the proposed project was made in August 1995.
3.16  The feasibility study of the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection was completed at the
end of September 1995, discussed during appraisal and revised in December 1995. This
Connection is a 6 km long two-lane expressway with provisions for future expansion to a
four-lane expressway. It will be operated as a toll road with a toll station at the border
with Shaanxi Province. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that HPCD would
coordinate closely with the Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department regarding:
(a) completion of construction of this Connection by December 31, 1999, simultaneously
with the completion of the construction of the WTE in Shaanxi; (b) the location, design
and construction of the toll station at the border between Henan and Shaanxi; and (c) the
transition from a four-lane cross-section for WTE to a two-lane cross-section for YBC.
3.17  Linking Roads. The opening of the LSE would bring a significant increase in
traffic to the roads connecting it to the cities along the existing road and to other
transversal provincial roads. Without the proper linking to the cities and towns from
interchanges, the LSE would not be effectively used. Based on a comprehensive review
of the linking roads at the seven interchanges along the LSE, HPCD selected four roads
with a total length of about 17 km for new construction and improvement (Table 3.1).
Supervision of Construction of the LSE and Linking Roads and YBC
3.18  In the last four years, supervision of construction of high-grade highways in
Bank-financed highway projects in China was undertaken by a joint international/local
teams composed mostly of local staff and few international experts. Generally, the
international experts trained the local staff through formal training and on-the-job training
and established procedures at all levels of the supervision work, including on-site
inspections and laboratory testing. This arrangement represented a big improvement over
previous conditions when supervision was practically nonexistent. However, since most
of the local staff came from the Employer and its institutes, the independence of the
supervision team was limited. Under the proposed project, supervision of the LSE and its



- 25 -
linking roads as well as the YBC will be carried out through a joint venture of local and
international firms, to be selected according to the Bank's guidelines for the use of
consultants. This would be the first time in the highway sector that such an approach
would be tried. It ensures a much higher degree of independence of supervision and
should lead to a higher quality of construction. If successful, it would be adopted in other
Bank-financed highway projects. HPCD is committed to making it succeed. The terms
of reference, provision of housing, offices, equipment, laboratories, transport and
telecommunications, and surveying instruments as well as the likely number of personnel
and person-months and budget estimates were agreed during appraisal of the project. A
copy of the terms of reference is available in the Project Files.
Roads Improvement for Poverty Alleviation (RIPA)
3.19  Poverty in China and Henan Province. China has an estimated population of
80 million at or below the poverty line (less than Y 300 per year/person in 1993). Nearly
all of them are rural poor, concentrated in resource-deficient areas, and comprising entire
communities located mostly in the upland sections of the interior provinces of northern
(including Henan), northwestern and southwestern China. The eighth seven-year plan for
poverty alleviation (1994-2000) has the following priorities: (a) integration of production,
education, health, family planning and transport programs into comprehensive local
intervention packages; (b) expansion of the Food for Work Program to cover the
construction of terraced agricultural lands; and (c) increased support for agricultural
extension and training and farmers' marketing systems. Lack of road access to an area
raises transport costs so substantially that only high value-to-weight products will be
profitable to market. Overall, 16.1 percent of poor county administrative villages and
3 percent of townships lack all-weather road access, and the rural road network is very
much in need of rehabilitation and upgrading.
3.20  Henan Province has a total population of 90 million people with 17 prefectures
and 152 counties. Most of the population, nearly 76 million (85 percent of total), is still
agriculture dependent. The remaining 14 million people (15 percent of total) are involved
in nonagricultural activities. Only 42 percent of Henan's GNP in 1993 was attributed to
agriculture. Twenty-eight of the counties in the Province have been identified as poor by
SPC, and an additional six counties, with a poverty line at <Y 450 per capita per year,
have been identified by Henan Province   Of a total poor population of nearly 7.6
million, 68 percent (approximately 5.2 million) live in these 34 counties and their 279
townships. The remaining 2.4 million poor people (32 percent of the total) live in another
195 townships (in 16 counties) outside of the designated poor counties. The 34 poor
counties were selected for consideration of RIPA components.
3.21   Road Transport in Poverty Areas. The poor counties in Henan have 21,800 km
of roads. Of these, only 40 percent (or 8,720 km) are all-weather roads. Currently, six of
the Province's townships and some 11,000 administrative villages do not have all-
weather access to highways. Due to financial shortfalls, there is also a shortage of needed
bridges and culverts and this contributes to a further deterioration in the existing road



- 26 -
network from poor drainage and water erosion. HPCD, in cooperation with the Henan
Planning Commission (HPC), Henan Poverty Alleviation Office (HPAO) and the
Leading Group for Transportation for Poverty Alleviation (LGTPA), developed a
program of Roads Improvement for Poverty Alleviation (RIPA) to rehabilitate, upgrade
and construct road systems in the province's 50 poor counties in order to provide better
access for the rural poor to the main provincial highways.
3.22 RIPA Component. The component will finance some of the road improvement
projects that meet agreed economic and social criteria, under procedures similar to the
Roads Improvement Program (RIP) components in other provincial projects in China
(Henan, Zhejiang and Guangdong). Priority will be given to rural road segments that,
through related road systems, are clearly linked to: (a) current (or planned) productive
and economically viable development projects; and (b) investments enabling landlocked
populations to have easier access to education, health and other social services.
3.23  Selection of RIPA Packages. The criteria, screening and selection process used
were agreed with HPCD, and are detailed in Annex 1. As a result, a RIPA program
consisting of 30 highway systems in 29 poor counties and with a total length of about
1,667 km was agreed with HPCD. The road segments to be included in each system were
considered in the following order of priorities:
(a)   upgrade seasonal roads to all-weather unclassified roads, including
rehabilitation and upgrading of culverts and bridges as necessary;
(b)   built new all-weather roads to those townships that do not have any road
connections at present;
(c)   upgrade unclassified roads to Class IV roads;
(d)   build new Class IV roads; and
(e)   rehabilitate and/or build short critical sections of Class III roads.
3.24  First Package of RIPA Systems. On the basis of an initial analysis of aggregate
data for poor counties and road systems, and of the cost effectiveness of road systems
under the RIPA program, HPCD selected a first package of RIPA systems for further
technical, economic and social feasibility analyses. This package covers eight systems
with a total length of about 662 km in eight different counties. The planned civil works
cover (a) 24 km of new roads construction, and (b) 638 km of rehabilitation. These
works also include minor drainage works and bridges, and are estimated at a total cost of
about Y 224 million. (see Annex 1).
3.25  Processing of RIPA Packages. The road systems to be financed under this
component will be drawn from the pool of RIPA systems mentioned above (para. 3.23)
and their submission for approval to the Bank will be effected in manageable packages of
projects. The documentation developed as part of the Bank approval process will



- 27 -
constitute a Project File including: (a) an Economic and Social Benefit Analysis (as
detailed in Annex1) including evidence that each of the proposed systems meets the
agreed EIRR criteria; (b) a Technical Analysis, including proposed works, alternative
engineering designs, and estimated costs; (c) an Environmental Action Plan for each
system and an Environmental Impact Assessment for subprojects that involve new road
construction or substantial widening/land acquisition (para. 3.39 and Ann=x.5); and (d) a
Resettlement Action Plan for each system (where at least 200 people are affected by land
acquisition and/or resettlement). For systems affecting less than 200 persons, specific
information related to impacts, cost estimates and the implementation schedule should be
provided (para. 3.43 and Annex 6). Each package submitted for approval will also
include an Implementation Plan, covering the responsible agencies for design,
supervision and physical execution as well as the time schedule for design, preparation of
bid documents, bidding and method of procurement, bid evaluation and selection of
successful contractors and implementation of works. Also, a plan for monitoring of
RIPA would be developed (Annex.9). HPCD would submit a Maintenance Plan
describing who (township, county, prefecture) will maintain the system after completion,
the organizational structure for maintenance of the RIPA system, the equipment and
personnel needed to implement each maintenance plan and the training needs anticipated
under this plan over the implementation period, as well as the associated estimated costs
and the sources of funds to meet them. Submission of the above-mentioned documents
for each RIPA package and their approval by the Bank shall be a condition of
disbursement for the RIPA subprojects.
3.26 Supervision of RIPA. The RIPA component will be managed by HPCD's
Highway Administration Bureau (HPHAB), which is already working in close
coordination with the County and Township road construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance agencies. A supervision group will be set up in Zhengzhou to be in charge
of the supervision of the whole RIPA system, and branch offices will be set up in the
areas of the RIPA subsystems. A separate supervision team would be set up for each
system to be improved in each of the poor counties, to have overall responsibility for
supervision of construction of roads under the subsystems. An adequate number of
qualified personnel would be assigned for the site supervision of the items of works under
each subsystem. The supervision groups will be composed of local personnel and are
capable of supervising the works. The same arrangement was used in the supervision of
the Road Improvement Program contained in the Henan Provincial Highway Project
(Loan 353 1-CHA) and was proven to be satisfactory.
Equipment
3.27 The equipment to be provided under the project has been identified by HPCD and
reviewed by the Bank. The agreed lists of equipment, together with their estimated costs,
would be available in the project files. These lists took into consideration the equipment
that was procured or provided under the ongoing two Bank-financed highway projects in
Henan. These lists include equipment required for operation and maintenance of the
LSE, strengthening the central laboratory, environmental monitoring, maintenance of the



- 28 -
existing highway network with emphasis on the RIPA roads, institutional strengthening
of selected institutions, and equipment for highway safety. The preliminary total
equipment cost is estimated at about Y 90 million ($10.8 million), of which $6.2 million
would be in foreign currencies. The Bank and HPCD agreed that the equipment lists
should be looked at as subject to reasonable change with regard to type and number, and
consequently, some flexibility should be exercised during project implementation to
properly allow for changing circumstances and needs.
3.28 Equipment for the LSE. Although the Central Laboratory was provided with
equipment under the Henan Provincial Highway Project, there is still need for additional
equipment and instruments, particularly for soils and asphalt concrete testing, to support
the construction supervision activities of the LSE. In the course of drawing up the
Environmental Action Plans (EAPs), the equipment and instruments required to
implement the environmental protection measures have been identified.  For the
operation and maintenance of the high-grade highways, equipment requirements have
also been identified. This equipment is in addition to the site laboratory equipment and
surveying instruments to be provided by the contractors for the civil works and the toll
collection, traffic monitoring and communication equipment to be provided by the
contractors for the electrical and mechanical (E&M) works for the LSE.
3.29 Equipment for Maintenance of Roads. This equipment consists of urgently
required equipment for routine, periodic maintenance and heavy repair of roads to
replenish the equipment fleet of the county maintenance units. This equipment would be
used for maintenance of the existing highway network including RIPA roads.
3.30 Equipment for Institutional Strengthening. These consist of specialized
equipment for support of the HPHSRI, HPTC, HPTVS, HPHAB, HPCD Head Office,
HPHGHCA and WBFPO, as well as equipment for the RIPA and Road Safety
components.  The latter consist of equipment required for enforcement of speed
regulations, as well as a computer and related software for treatment of accident data and
monitoring of the roads improvement program in poor counties of the province.
Institutional Strengthening and Training
3.31  The purpose of the Institutional Strengthening and Training (IST) component is to
strengthen HPCD capabilities in the following priority areas: (a) high-grade highway
construction supervision and operations; (b) project implementation management;
(c) highway planning; and (d) maintenance of high-grade highways and other roads. It is
also intended to strengthen HPCD's capabilities in the new areas of investment,
specifically in (e) roads improvement for poverty alleviation and (f) road traffic safety.
The IST component builds on what was provided in this area under the two previous
Bank-financed highway projects in Henan. It includes: (i) organizational strengthening
of HPCD and some of its related institutes; (ii) training of HPCD personnel in China and
abroad in high-priority areas; and (iii) strengthening new functional areas such as



- 29 -
management of high-grade highways, planning and implementation of RIPA and
highway traffic safety (Table 3.2).
3.32 Organizational Strengthening. This element will strengthen provincial highway
management, research and training organizations through (a) the development of training
staff capabilities to deliver training in new areas; (b) bolstering of their hardware and
equipment in the performance of new functional capacities; and (c) expansion of the
provincial and national functions of the Henan Scientific Research Institute (HSRI). This
element covers professional and specialized training for 294 persons (or 309 person-
months). Table 3.3 contains a summary of all the training to be provided under the
project. Moreover, the project will enable the construction of a Science and Technology
Center at the Henan Scientific Research Institute.
3.33  The following HPCD organizations, institutes and centers will be strengthened:
(a)   The Henan Scientific Research Institute (Chart 5) is the only
comprehensive research organization in the Province, and is a center for
testing civil engineering designs, materials and equipment. The Institute
has a current capacity for research, development, testing, manufacture and
technology consulting. However, to meet the future needs of Henan
Province (as well as of other provinces that may require such support),
HPCD has decided to establish a Scientific Technology Center within the
Institute. The Center will be an advanced and permanent base for testing
the main scientific and technological aspects of large highway engineering
projects, particularly in the area of highway construction quality control.
It will also address vehicle inspection and testing, and the training of
HPCD management staff. As a result of a feasibility study on the location,
functions and size of the Center, HPCD has decided to house both the
Center and the Institute on the site of the new facility. This will improve
communications between the Center and the Institute, as well as between
both of them and HPCD and provide more effective management of joint
resources.
(b)   The Henan Provincial Transport Polytechnic (HTP) (Chart 6) and the
Henan Provincial Transport Vocational School (HTVS) (Chart 7) are
the two main training institutions affiliated with HPCD. They provide
academic training for future HPCD technicians and skilled workers and
operators, as well as short-term professional training courses for current
staff. The Polytechnic also provides continuing education training for
road transport personnel at prefecture and county levels. Both of these
entities received institutional strengthening under the Henan Provincial
Highway Project and what is provided under this project strengthens them
further.



- 30 -
(c)   The Henan Provincial High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau
(HPHGHAB) (Chart 3) will be in charge of implementation of new high-
grade highways including financing, land acquisition and resettlement,
construction management, maintenance, operations and management of
completed high-grade highways. When fully operational, HPHGHAB
would have a staff of 115 at headquarters and 260 at all levels. This
number does not include the toll collectors.
(d)   The World Bank-Financed Projects Office (WBFPO) (Chart 4), which
is responsible for comprehensive management and implementation of
construction projects, as well as coordination and monitoring of
implementation of all components. WBFPO organizes tenders and
evaluation of bids for all components financed by the project and is
responsible for procurement of equipment under the proposed project.
3.34 Staff Development. Staff development and awareness training (both within
China and abroad) is intended for middle-level and specialized staff in HPCD
organizations and other project personnel. Short-term training will be conducted in the
areas of Highway Design, High-Grade Highway Operations and Management,
Construction Supervision, Project Implementation Management, Traffic Engineering and
Traffic Safety, Highway Planning and Analysis, Highway Maintenance, and Financial
Management. Overall, this element will involve training for 121 persons for a total of
112.5 person-months (Table 3.3).
3.35 Study of Organization, Management and Maintenance of High-Grade
Highways. This study would: (a) identify, analyze and recommend ways to improve the
organization, operations and management of expressways; (b) develop the best
organizational setup to manage and operate high-grade highway entities in Henan;
(c) assess the requirements for an expressway organization to comply with international
standards of operational, maintenance and financial management, to ensure that the
highway is well operated and maintained and that toll revenues are properly collected and
managed and that expenditures (both for investment and for adequate maintenance) are
well-planned. Annex 2 presents the outline terms of reference for this study. The study
will be conducted by a team of local experts supported by international experts.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that HPCD shall: (i) by November 30, 1996,
establish a Leading Group comprising representatives of the concerned provincial
agencies and the central government to guide the study on the organization, management
and maintenance of high-grade highways and provide comments on the results and
recommendations thereof; (i) by September 30, 1998, complete the said study in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and furnish the study,
together with the comments of the Leading Group, to the Bank for review; and (iii) take
appropriate steps to implement the recommendations of the said study, taking into
consideration the comments thereon of the said Leading Group and the Bank. The
results of this study will be beneficial not only to Henan Province but also to the rest of
China.



- 31 -
Road Safety Program
3.36  Over the 1990-94 period, on the average 16,700 traffic accidents per year occurred
on Henan's highways, resulting in 3,500 fatalities and 11,300 injuries. As traffic volumes
are expected to increase at a fast rate in the future, the number of accidents is expected to
follow  suit unless tremendous efforts are exerted to reduce accidents.  Anne.3
summarizes the existing road safety situation in Henan and related problems and presents
an implementable road safety program, which was discussed and agreed with HPCD and
the Traffic Police.
3.37  The design of the LSE included in the project as well as its linking roads was
reviewed from a safety point of view by the Italian design review consultants and Danish
and Norwegian safety experts. Consequently, those designs have been prepared to a high
standard and reflect safety considerations adequately. The road safety program included
under the proposed project comprises:
(a)   Establishing a Leading Group for Road Safety Coordination to coordinate
between HPCD and the Traffic Police (the main agencies involved in
highway safety) as well as a Traffic Safety Secretariat to prepare the work
for the Leading Group. The Leading Group and the Traffic Safety
Secretariat were established in March 1996;
(b)   Improving traffic accident reporting forms, reviewing the geographic
location (of accidents) coding system, providing improved software for
accident data analyses and related training of staff;
(c)   Establishing a Road Safety Unit in HPCD to undertake accident black spot
identification, design and carry out a pilot program of black spot
improvement, and establish safety audit procedures and checks; training of
three staff to be assigned to the Unit by a foreign expert for one month and
provision of 1.5 person-months of foreign experts for general support of
the Unit, review of results of studies and guidance on new activities to be
undertaken. HPCD agreed to allocate Y 10 million ($1.2 million) to the
Road Safety Unit during 1997-2000 to undertake safety studies/research
and to implement on a pilot basis physical improvements to accident black
spots. This sum is reflected in the project cost summary (Table 3.4);
(d)   A study on accident contributing factors (AnnexA4 contains the terms of
reference);
(e)   Training in first aid will be introduced in the curricula for police training
and driver training and training in child psychology of police officers
responsible for training of school children in traffic safety;



- 32 -
(f)   Provision of equipment to support the above-mentioned activities, which
includes: two computers, two printers, one plotter, a still camera, a video
camera and monitor, and a speed radar; and
(g)   Evaluation of the implementation of the Henan Road Safety Program by
an independent local expert (1 person-month).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Henan would establish and maintain:
(a) a Leading Group for traffic safety coordination, policy-making and planning, with
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; (b) a Traffic Safety Secretariat to
prepare work for the Leading Group; and (c) a Road Safety Unit within HPCD, with
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank to carry out a pilot black spot
improvement program and establish safety audit procedures and checks under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank Also, agreement was reached during negotiations that
HPCD would, pursuant to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank: (i) by December 31,
1998, complete a study of the factors contributing to traffic accidents;(ii) by December
31, 2000, complete a black spot identification and improvement program; and (iii) by
December 31, 2001, have an expert acceptable to the Bank prepare an evaluation of its
Road Safety Program according to indicators acceptable to the Bank.
D. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
3.38  Environmental impact assessments (EIAs) have been carried out for LSE and the
link roads, Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection and the first package of RIPA. Enviromnental
Action Plans (EAPs) have been prepared, incorporating Bank comments on earlier drafts,
and found satisfactory to the Bank, as were the EIAs. The environmental summary was
distributed to the Board on October 12, 1995.
3.39  For the RIPA component of the proposed project, it was agreed that a Sectoral
Environmental Assessment approach would be applied. All RIPA subprojects will be
classified into two categories. Category I subprojects are those with no new road
construction nor substantial widening/land acquisition, etc. Since no major adverse
impacts are anticipated, only EAPs will be prepared for this category of subprojects.
Category II subprojects are those with new road construction or substantial widening/land
acquisition, etc. For these, both EIAs and EAPs will be prepared. EIA reports and EAPs
for the first-year package of subprojects were prepared and submitted to the Bank in
October 1995. Only three of these systems were classified as Category II subprojects.
All project EAPs and ElAs are satisfactory to the Bank.
3.40 Major environmental impacts include noise and air pollution during the
construction and operation phases, alteration of hydrological regimes, soil erosion and
impacts on local ecology during the construction, impacts on cultural relics, and
transportation of construction materials.
3.41  The EAPs specified the appropriate mitigation measures, environmental
monitoring plans, institutional arrangements to implement the EAPs, training and



- 33 -
equipment requirements, and the budget needed for environmental protection. Major
mitigation measures include adequate selection of alignment, appropriate design of
culverts and overpasses/underpasses to minimize social disruption, reconstruction of
irrigation channels where appropriate, water sprinkling to prevent dust during the
construction, construction of noise barriers and forest belts, installation of double-glass
windows, etc., to minimize noise and air pollution during the operation phase. The
engineering design and technical specifications for the highways will incorporate
appropriate measures required to be taken for environmental protection.  It was
ascertained that the proposed highways would not affect ecologically sensitive areas and
that their construction and operation should have no adverse impact on the environment
through the implementation of EAPs. The summary of the EIAs and EAPs is presented
in Annex 5 and copies of the EIAs and EAPs are available in the Project File and the
Public Information Center. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from HPCD that:
(a) the environmental protection measures stipulated in the EAPs and preparation of
EAPs for RIPA systems for subsequent years would be carried out in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, and (b) HPCD would furnish to the Bank an annual
environmental monitoring report for LSE and its linking roads during the construction
phase andfor each of the first three years following completion of construction..
E. LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT ISSUES
3.42  Land Acquisition and Project Impacts. Construction of the LSE and its linking
roads, the YBC and the RIPA component roads (first year's program) will require
permanent acquisition of about 1,060 hectares (ha) of land and will affect 11,567 persons.
Out of these, 3,548 will need to be relocated. Another 235 ha of land would be required
to be leased temporarily during construction, affecting 1,903 persons. The project will
also affect two enterprises employing 32 people. Project impacts were identified with the
help of a detailed census survey of affected persons and properties carried out by the
Henan Communications Planning, Survey and Design Institute (HCPSDI). A baseline
socioeconomic survey of the affected persons will be carried out before the initiation of
resettlement implementation to determine their existing income levels and standards of
living. The total cost of land acquisition and resettlement for the entire project is about
Y 207 million ($25 million).
3.43  Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). In order to ensure mitigation of adverse
impacts of land acquisition and plan resettlement/rehabilitation activities as a
development program for the affected persons, detailed strategies and a framework for
implementation of land acquisition and resettlement (LAR) activities has been established
by HPHGHCA. The implementation framework is described in the RAPs prepared for
the LSE, linking roads, the YBC and the first-year package of RIPA. A summary of
these RAPs is presented in Annex 6. A copy of the RAPs will be deposited in the Public
Information Center. A separate RAP will be prepared for each system under the RIPA
component where 200 or more persons are affected by land acquisition and/or
resettlement. For systems affecting less than 200 persons, although there would be no



- 34 -
need to prepare detailed RAPs, specific information related to project impacts, cost
estimates and the implementation schedule will be prepared.
3.44  Resettlement Strategies. The affected persons currently engaged in agriculture
and whose lands are acquired due to the project will be provided with alternative
agricultural lands through land redistribution within the same production teams, or
village. If some of the affected persons cannot be provided agricultural land (due to
reduction in per capita landholding below the minimum limit fixed for the affected
village), the affected persons will be provided jobs in nonagricultural enterprises.
However, no job creation would be necessary under the current project since the residual
per capita landholding of all affected persons are substantially above the minimum limit
of 0.1O mu for Henan Province. Affected enterprises will be relocated to new sites
provided by the villages and paid for by the project. The elderly persons affected by the
project will be provided pensions.
3.45  Information Dissemination, Participation and Consultations. The affected
people will be informed through newspaper, radio, television, etc. about the project and
the proposed land acquisition and resettlement program. The Land Acquisition and
Resettlement (LAR) institutions will also disseminate information through meetings,
documents and notices. The affected persons will be informed about the compensation
standards, the LAR institutions at the various levels, the arrangements for provision of
nonagricultural jobs, the provisions for redressal of grievances and the proposed
arrangements for internal and external monitoring of the LAR program. This will be
done by distributing a Resettlement Information Booklet (RIB) to each affected
household. The RIB will be distributed to the affected households two months after the
RAP has been approved by the Bank.
3.46  Implementation.  Implementation of the RAP will be carried out in a
participatory manner, with the involvement of affected people and their representatives.
Avenues will be available to the affected persons for redressal of grievances connected to
any aspect of land acquisition and resettlement. Implementation of the resettlement and
the construction program for LSE, the YBC, linking roads, and first-year package of
RIPA will be linked to ensure that all LAR activities are completed before the initiation
of construction activities in any section. It is expected that LAR activities for the LSE
will be completed in February 1997, whereas LSE construction activities are expected to
start in March 1997. A special unit has been created in the Coordination Division of
HPHGHCA to coordinate the implementation of the LAR program.  The actual
implementation will be carried out by the local governments of Luoyang and Sanmenxia
prefectures and the respective county, township and village authorities. Funds for RAP
implementation will be paid by HPHGHCA. A Resettlement Coordination Group headed
by the Deputy Provincial Governor has also been formed at the provincial level for
interagency coordination of RAP implementation.  Assurances were obtained at
negotiations from Henan Provincial Government that all LAR activities with respect to
LSE, linking roads, YBC and RIPA subprojects would be completed according to the
RAPs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.



- 35 -
3.47  Grievance Redressal and Appeals Process. If any affected person is dissatisfied
with any aspect of land acquisition and/or resettlement, he/she can first appeal to the
resettlement office/local government office at the township/county level. If the decision
of this office is not considered satisfactory, the person can lodge an appeal with the
project office or the government office at the city level. Another appeal, if necessary, can
be made to the provincial coordination group. In case the affected person is still not
satisfied, he/she can also approach the people's court. The decision of this court will be
final and binding. These arrangements are considered satisfactory.
3.48 Monitoring and Evaluation. Both internal and external monitoring of RAP
implementation will be carried out to ensure implementation in accordance with
provisions of the RAP. Internal monitoring will be carried out by the Administrative
office of HPHGHCA. An external, independent agency has been engaged to conduct
external monitoring and evaluation of RAP implementation. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that HPCD would submit to the Bank. (a) internal monitoring reports
every six months, with the first due on September 30, 1996, (b) external monitoring
reports every six months, with the first due on December 31, 1996; and (c) a final
monitoring and evaluation report after project completion by December 31, 2001. Also,
assurances were obtained at negotiations from HPG that the monitoring of the
socioeconomic impact of the resettlement activities with respect to the LSE, YBC, linking
roads, and RIPA roads would be carried out according to the RAPs in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank. Implementation of the RAPs would also be monitored through
routine project supervision and project quarterly progress reports.
F. COST ESTIMATES
3.49  The total project is estimated to cost about Y 5.03 billion or about $606 million
equivalent, including land acquisition and physical and price contingencies as
summarized in the following table and as detailed in the Project Cost Summary (Table
3.4). This estimate does not include taxes (estimated at about Y 134 million). The
foreign exchange cost is estimated at about $211 million, or about 35 percent of the total.
Base costs are estimated in December 1995 prices. Physical contingencies are calculated
at 10 percent of the base cost of civil works and construction supervision.  Price
contingencies have been calculated for foreign costs, using international annual escalation
factors of 3.3 percent in 1996, 2.3 percent in 1997, and 2.5 percent in each of 1998, 1999,
2000 and 2001. Price contingencies for local costs are based on local annual escalation
factors of 10.5 percent in 1996, 8.5 percent in 1997, 7.0 percent in 1998, 6.5 percent in
1999, and 6.2 percent in 2000 and 2001.
3.50  The costs of civil works are based on work quantities calculated from preliminary
or final engineering designs. The costs were computed on the basis of MOC's standard
manuals for labor and equipment productivity, the related annually updated costs and the
current market costs of materials. The unit rates were checked against the unit prices
provided in recent bids for similar highway works executed under Bank financing.



- 36 -
3.51   The estimated cost of equipment is based on prevailing prices and those quoted by
manufacturers and suppliers and includes the cost of equipment delivered in Zhengzhou,
taxes, spare parts, and related training if needed to operate and maintain the equipment.
The estimated cost of consulting services are based on recent contracts for similar
services under ongoing highway projects.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY La
(December 1995 prices: $1.00 = Y 8.3)
Y million           |           $ million            Foreign cost
Local     Foreign    Total      Local      Foreign   Total      of total (/.)
Works
LSE-Civil works                          1,553.4    1,035.6    2,589.0   187.1      124.8      311.9       40
LSE-Electrical and mechanical works        35.7      143.0      178.7      4.3       17.2       21.5       80
Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection              25.7       17.2       42.9      3.1        2.1        5.2       40
Linking roads                              26.2       17.4       43.6      3.2        2.1        5.3       40
RIPA                                      437.2      145.8      583.0    52.7        17.6       70.3       25
Black spots                                10.0        0.0       10.0      1.2        0.0         1.2        0
Research center                            13.5        7.5       21.0      1.6        0.9        2.5       36
Subtotal                                2,101.7    1,366.5    3,468.2   253.2       164.7      417.9       39
Supervision of construction                   84.2       45.4      129.6    10.1         5.5       15.6       35
Equipment                                     37.9       52.0       89.9      4.6        6.2       10.8       58
Institutional strengthening and training       2.0        6.9        8.9      0.3        0.8        1.1       77
Studies                                        3.7        4.9        8.6      0.4        0.6        1.0       58
Total Base Cost                         2,229.5    1,475.7    3,705.2   268.6       177.8      446.4       40
Physical contingency &t                      218.6      141.2      359.8    26.3        17.0       43.3       39
Price contingency                            623.6      132.3      755.9    75.1        15.9       91.0       18
Base Cost with Contingencies            3,071.7    1,749.2    4,820.9   370.0       210.7      580.7       36
Land acquisition and resettlement            206.7        0.0      206.7    24.9         0.0       24.9        0
Total Project Cost                      3,278.4    1,749.2   5,027.6   394.9        210.7      605.6       35
/A Excludes taxes of Y 134 million ($16.1 million) as well as commitment fees and interest on Bank loan during construction.
& Ten percent of cost of civil works and supervision of construction.
G. FINANCING
3.52 The Bank loan of $210 million would finance about 35 percent of the total project
cost or 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost. The Central Government (MOC) would
provide the equivalent of about $105 million, while Henan Province would provide the
equivalent of about $291 million to meet the remaining costs of the project, including
contingencies. MOC's funding would be restricted to the construction of the LSE and
RIPA. The Bank loan of $210 million would be at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-
based US dollar single currency loans. It would be lent to the Ministry of Finance for a
maturity of 20 years, including 5 years of grace. The proceeds of the Bank loan would be
onlent to Henan Province at the same rate payable to the Bank by the Borrower with
0.75 percent per year commitment fee on the outstanding balance, beginning 60 days



- 37 -
after loan signing, less any waiver. Agreement was reached with the Borrower at
negotiations that it would onlend the proceeds of the loan to HPG on these terms. HPG
would bear the foreign exchange risks. The Government of China and Henan Province
have selected LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loan terms for the project in order
to facilitate management of the foreign exchange risk of their borrowings by more closely
matching the currency of their liabilities with that of their net trade flows, about
75 percent of which are US dollar denominated. They selected the LIBOR-based product
in order to preserve the full maturity of the loan, compared to the fixed-rate option that
would have resulted in a 15-year loan. The Borrower judges that it can manage any
interest rate risk. China is eligible for single currency loans under the expanded program.
This loan represents 8.5 percent of the fiscal year 1996 IBRD lending program to China,
well within the 50 percent volume guideline approved by the Bank The details of project
financing are shown in the following table.
FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Henan     Central    World
Province  Government   Bank   Total
Works
Civil works of LSE                   102.8      84.3      124.8   311.9
Electrical and mechanical works of LSE  4.3      0.0       17.2    21.5
Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection          3.1       0.0        2.1      5.2
Link roads                             3.2       0.0        2.1      5.3
RIPA                                  29.6      20.5       20.2    70.3
Black spots                            1.2       0.0        0.0      1.2
Research center                         1.6      0.0        0.9      2.5
Subtotal                             145.8    104.8       167.3   417.9
Construction supervision                 10.1       -          5.5    15.6
Equipment                                 4.6      0.0         6.2    10.8
Institutional strengthening and training  0.3      0.0         0.8     1.1
Studies                                   0.4      0.0         0.6     1.0
Contingencies                           104.7      0.0        29.6   134.3
Land acquisition and resettlement        24.9      0.0         0.0    24.9
Project Total                        290.8    104.8       210.0   605.6
Percent of total                         48.0     17.3        34.7   100.0



- 38 -
H. IMPLEMENTATION
3.53  Implementing Agencies.  The implementation of the project would be the
responsibility of HPCD. The Henan High-Grade Highway Construction Authority
(HPHGHCA) would be the executing agency for the implementation of the Yangjia-
Baijiazhai Connection and the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway, including their
construction supervision and equipment to operate and maintain LSE, and for
environmental monitoring as well as for the study of organization, management and
maintenance of high-grade highways. HPHAB would be the executing agency for the
RIPA (construction and supervision), the pilot program for identification and treatment of
accident black spots, as well as for the equipment for maintenance of the highway
network (other than for the high-grade highways). WBFPO in HPCD would be the
coordinating agency for the whole project and for grouping of trainees for overseas
training and study tours, and procurement of equipment. WBFPO and the Education
Division of HPCD would be responsible for training. Training programs would be
coordinated with those in other ongoing Bank-financed highway projects by MOC.
Implementation of the road safety component will be the responsibility of HPCD and the
Traffic Police in PSB, with the Leading Group for Traffic Safety Coordination providing
coordination between them. The CMC International Tendering Company has been
retained by HPCD as the procurement agency for all aspects of civil works of the project
requiring ICB and for equipment to be procured from abroad. The supervision of
construction of the LSE and its link roads and YBC would be carried out by a joint
venture of foreign and local firms. Upon completion, it is expected that the LSE and
YBC would be operated and maintained by the Henan High-Grade Highway
Administration Bureau and the linking roads by HPHAB. Since the LSE is a segment of
the NTHS, MOC would also provide general supervision and guidance for execution of
the project.
3.54  LSE and YBC. The implementation program for the project as a whole including
the LSE and YBC is shown in Annex 7. All civil works for the LSE would be tendered at
the same time. The traffic engineering works would be tendered as one contract about the
middle of the period for construction of the civil works for the LSE. The invitation for
prequalification of contractors for civil works for the LSE was issued in January 1996 and
the whole prequalification process would be finished by May 1996.
3.55  The detailed designs and bidding documents for the LSE (eight contract sections)
would be completed by May 1996 and for the YBC (one contract section) by February
1997. Acquisition of land and the resettlement process for LSE started in October 1995
and is expected to be completed by the end of February 1997. The installation of
electrical and mechanical (E&M) systems for the operation of the LSE would be
scheduled to commence around June 1999 and be completed by June 2001. The
construction of service facilities along the LSE is expected to start in 1998 and be
completed by November 2000. The LSE is expected to be completed by June 2001.
Construction of YBC is expected to commence around October 1997 and be completed
by November 1999, at or before the completion time for the Weinan-Tongguan
Expressway in Shaanxi Province.



- 39 -
3.56  Supervision of Construction of the LSE and the YBC. The supervision of the
LSE, the YBC and the link roads would be carried out by a joint venture between foreign
consultants and local consultants headed by a chief engineer with headquarters in
Luoyang. There would be a resident engineer on-site for each of the nine civil works
contract sections.  About 4,500 person-months of consulting services are needed.
Invitations to international short-listed firms will be issued in April 1996, and the
selection of the joint venture is expected to be completed by November 1996. The joint
venture is expected to mobilize in January/February 1997 and its staff is expected to be
engaged in supervision activities in early March 1997.
3.57  Linking Roads.  The preliminary designs for all the linking roads were
completed and the final engineering designs and the bid documents are under way and are
expected to be completed by May 1996. Construction of the linking roads is expected to
start in May 1999 and be completed in September 2000. Supervision of the construction
of the linking roads will be the responsibility of the joint venture as mentioned above.
3.58 Road Improvements for Poverty Alleviation Program (RIPA). The relevant
highway departments at city or prefecture levels are responsible for the preparation of
designs and bid documents for the subsystems included in RIPA and these documents
would be reviewed and approved by HPHAB. The construction of the subsystems
included in the first package is expected to start in March 1997 and to be completed by
the end of 1998. The construction of the subsystems to be included in the second and
third packages is expected to start in 1998 and 1999, respectively, and to be completed by
the end of 1999 and 2000, respectively. For procurement purposes, RIPA subsystems
will be divided into several manageable contract (bid) sections. Construction of the
RIPA roads will be supervised in accordance with the arrangements summarized in para.
3.26.
3.59  Training. Formal selection procedures for candidates to be trained would be
developed by WBFPO, according to the training needs identified and agreed with the
Bank. Those to be trained abroad would be given intensive English training, and each
trainee would be required to submit a report on training received to his/her parent
department or agency. The comprehensive training program would be open to all
highway staff and would be administered by HPCD. Moreover, HPCD has indicated that
training to be provided under the project would be related to career development and the
professional growth of the selected staff. At negotiations, agreement was reached that
HPCD shall, by June 30 of each year commencing in 1997, furnish a rolling two-year
training implementation schedule to the Bank and shall carry out the training under a
program acceptable to the Bank.
3.60 Equipment. The responsibility for procurement of equipment would be divided
between HPHGHCA  and HPHAB.  HPHGHCA  would be responsible for the
procurement of equipment related to the LSE.  HPHAB  would administer the
procurement of equipment for the maintenance of the highway network (other than the
LSE).  WBFPO would coordinate the preparation of specifications and their bid
documents for equipment as well as bid evaluation and acceptance of their delivery. The



- 40 -
equipment required for laboratories, environmental monitoring, strengthening of highway
network maintenance and institutional strengthening would be procured at an early stage
of project implementation (1997/98), while that for the operation and maintenance of the
LSE is scheduled to be procured toward the end of construction of the LSE (2000).
3.61  The project as a whole is scheduled to be completed by June 30, 2002, with the
loan closing date stipulated as December 31, 2002. The implementation schedule for the
project is presented in Annex 7.
3.62  Operations of the LSE and YBC. Henan Province intends to operate the LSE
and YBC as toll roads consistent with their design.  The High-Grade Highway
Administration Bureau will be responsible for operating and maintaining the LSE and
YBC following their completion. Tolls would be collected at about eight points (Map
IBRD 27490). To ensure that the toll rates would be appropriately structured and that toll
levels would not lead to a substantial reduction in the benefits of highway investment, the
rationale for setting the level of tolling would be determined based on the findings of a
study to be undertaken by the Province, which takes into consideration latest experience
with operation of toll roads in Henan Province and the rest of China as well as similar
studies done under Bank-financed highway projects in China. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations from HPG that HPCD shall undertake, and by March 31, 2000, furnish to
the Bankfor its review and comments, an analysis and recommendation for the structure
of toll rates on the LSE, taking into consideration the results of the recent studies on toll
rates conducted under other Bank-financed highway projects in China and the recent
experience with toll rates on major roads in Henan Province and other parts of China.
I. PROCUREMENT
3.63  Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in the following
table. The procurement arrangements for the project have taken into account the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995," and
revised in January 1996, as well as the experience gained from previous Bank-financed
highway  projects.   The documentation, for procurement, which  covers the
prequalification of contractors, ICB and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for civil
works, ICB for goods, and consultant services contracts has been standardized for
Chinese conditions in cooperation between the Chinese government and the Bank.
Standard documents would be used for all relevant procurement processes under the
project.



- 41 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Procurement method          Total
Project element                    ICB    NCB   OtherLa  NBFIL    cost
Works
Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway
Civil works                    388.0   20.0    3.7       -      411.7
(134.7)   (7.0)   (1.2)          (142.9)
E&M supply & installation       26.4     -       -       -       26.4
(21.1)                           (21.1)
Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection      6.4     -      0.2      -        6.6
(2.5)          (0.1)             (2.6)
Link roads                         -      6.7     -        -        6.7
(2.7)                    (2.7)
RIPA                               -     45.0   45.0       -       90.0
(12.3)  (12.2)           (24.5)
Traffic accident black spots       -       -      -        1.2      1.2
Research center                    -      3.1     -        -        3.1
(1.1)                    (1.1)
Equipment                           4.7     -       2.2     5.5     12.4
(4.7)          (2.2)             (6.9
Consultancies and Training l
Supervision of construction        -       -     20.3      -       20.3
(6.7)            (6.7)
Studies                            -       -      1.2      -        1.2
(0.7)            (0.7)
Training                           -       -      1.1      -        1.1
(0.8)            (0.8)
Land Acquisition and Resettlement   -       -       -      24.9     24.9
Total                        425.5   74.8   73.7    31.6    605.6
(163.0)  (23.1)  (23.9)   (0.0)  (210.0)
La Other includes force account, direct contracting, intemational shopping, simplified
procedures for small works, and consultants and training.
l2 NBF: not Bank-financed.
L Selection of consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the Bank Group.
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price
contingencies but exclude the cost of land acquisition and resettlement,
which is shown as a separate component.



- 42 -
3.64  Works. The civil works for the LSE would be divided into eight contract sections
and those for the YBC would form one contract. Electromechanical works would be
grouped into one contract. Administration and maintenance buildings, service areas and
toll plazas would be carried out in several small contracts. Contracts for civil works for
the YBC and the LSE and for the electromechanical works for the LSE with a total cost
of $420.8 million would be procured under ICB procedures. Contracts would be bid on a
slice and package basis; qualified firms would be allowed to bid for more than one
contract so as to attract international contractors and large Chinese contractors. The
contract for electromechanical works would be bid later during the construction of the
LSE. All contractors for the nine ICB contracts for civil works would be prequalified.
The General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project was published in the UN
Development Business No. 426 on November 16, 1995. This GPN served as a specific
procurement notice for the civil works contracts for LSE (each costing more than $10
million). For the remaining large contract for electromechanical works, invitations to bid
would be advertised as specific procurement notices in the UN Development Business
and/or well-known technical magazines, newspapers, and trade publications of wide
international circulation. Domestic contractors competing under ICB would be eligible
for a 7.5 percent price preference. Domestic contractors are expected to be competitive
for all contracts under this project.
3.65  Other works, including small service facilities (toll plazas, maintenance depots,
service and rest areas, administrative buildings, etc., estimated to cost about $20.0
million), link roads (with a cost of $6.7 million), some of the RIPA roads (with a cost of
$45.0 million) and the research center (with a cost of $3.1 million) would be awarded
following NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. These works would involve contracts
estimated to cost less than $2 million per contract, up to an aggregate amount of about
$74.8 million. Since these contracts are small in value and scattered throughout the
Province and would be implemented over a four-year period, ICB would therefore be
neither justified nor practical, but foreign firms would not be precluded from bidding.
3.66 Based on experience with the Road Improvement Program (RIP) in the ongoing
Zhejiang (Loan 3471-CHA), Guangdong (Loan 3530-CHA, and Henan (Loan 3531-
C-A) Provincial Highway projects, generally not more than three bids are received for
contracts whose value is $2.0 million or less. Moreover, most of the bidders come from
the immediate area of the contract works. Larger contractors generally do not wish to
mobilize for small contracts. RIPA involves smaller works and lower value contracts
than RIP, and the works are spread over a very large geographic area. In recognition of
this, and in order to reduce unnecessary administrative overhead and expedite the
procurement of these small contracts, but at the same time ensuring sufficient
competition, RIPA contracts costing $1.0 million (Y 8.3 million) or less up to $27.0
million in aggregate may be awarded under simplified procurement procedures, whereby
a minimum of three bids would be invited from qualified contractors and bids would be
opened in public. This has the advantages of time savings in the bidding process as well
as creating more job opportunities for the poor during construction. Since employment
creation is important in the case of RIPA roads, when the two lowest evaluated bids are



- 43 -
within 5 percent of each other, the number of local people to be employed by each
contractor would be considered in the final award of contract. This will be done by
assigning a value of Y 300 per person-month and by deducting the value of employment
from the bid price. The bidder with the lowest "adjusted" evaluated bid price would be
selected. Because of its innovative nature, the results of this procedure would be
subjected to a mid-term review so that its effectiveness at job creation may be evaluated.
3.67  In the case of very small RIPA contracts, and under special conditions to be
justified by HPHAB, force account could be used for procurement of civil works with a
total estimated cost of 20 percent, about $18.0 million, of the total RIPA component.
Force account would also be used for improvement of black spots, with a total estimated
value of $1.2 million (not Bank-financed). This is justified on the basis of the small
value of the works and their wide geographic distribution. The contracts for power
supply, with a total estimated cost of about $4.0 million and involving works scattered
along the LSE and the YBC, would be awarded by direct contracting with the local
electricity companies, which are monopolies. The total estimated cost of the works to be
procured by force account or direct negotiations is $23.2 million.
3.68  Equipment. Generally, all contracts for goods and equipment costing more than
$250,000 equivalent would be awarded under ICB. All other items or groups of items
covering minor maintenance equipment, laboratories, highway safety, research and
environmental protection purposes estimated to cost less than $250,000 per contract
package, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2.2 million would be procured following
international shopping procedures on the basis of a comparison of price quotations
solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the Bank Guidelines for Procurement.
Domestic manufactures competing under ICB would be eligible for a margin of
preference in the comparison of bids of 15 percent for goods, or the prevailing custom
duties, whichever is lower.
3.69  Consultants. All consultants required for construction supervision (cost of $20.3
million); staff training (cost of $1.1 million); and studies of organization, management
and maintenance of high-grade highways, and highway safety (cost of $1.2 million)
would be selected and employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank in
accordance with Bank Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. Local expertise available in
the various provincial universities and institutes in the highway subsector would be used
as much as possible.
3.70  Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing. HPCD requested advance
contracting and retroactive financing in the following areas:
(a)   Consultants for supervision of construction of the LSE and the Research
Center. This would allow construction of housing, office space and the
laboratory for the main office of the supervision joint venture in the
vicinity of Mianchi to be completed by the time contractors commence
construction of the civil works for the LSE on March 1, 1997; and startup



- 44 -
of supervision of the Research Center. The amount subject to retroactive
financing is estimated at about $370,000.
(b)   Construction of the Research Center.  This would allow startup of
construction of the Center by July 1996. The amount subject to retroactive
financing is estimated at about $230,000.
3.71  Agreement to the above two requests for advance contracting and retroactive
financing is recommended, subject to HPCD completing all Bank requirements, including
those for procurement, environment and resettlement. The total amount subject to
retroactive financing is estimated at about $600,000. All of this amount would apply to
expenditures after January 1, 1996.
3.72  Bank Review. Prior review procedures would be used for: (a) civil works
contracts with an estimated cost of $2 million (Y 17 million) or more; (b) equipment with
an estimated cost of more than $250,000 per contract; and (c) consulting services with an
estimated contract cost of more than $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals. In
the case of consultancy service contracts, all terms of reference and single-source
selections, regardless of the value of the contract, are subject to prior review. Prior
review would apply to about 77 percent and 68 percent of the total contract values of
works and goods, respectively. For contracts below the above-mentioned limits, post-
review procedures would be followed. The nature of equipment (too many items with a
relatively low cost), the number of packages, and HPCD being an experienced borrower
from the Bank (the proposed project is the third highway project in Henan) justify the
relatively low percent of total contracts for goods (68 percent) that are subject to prior
review.
J. DISBURSEMENTS
3.73  The proposed Bank loan of $210 million would be disbursed over a period of
about six years, as follows:



- 45 -
Amount of the
Category                                  loan allocated  Percent of expenditures to be financed
($ million)
Civil works
Construction of LSE                        124.8       40% of total expenditures
Construction of YBC                          2.1       40% of total expenditures
Linking roads                                2.1       40% of total expenditures
RIPA                                        20.2       28% of total expenditures
Research center                              0.9       36% of total expenditures
Electrical and Mechanical Works for the LSE    17.2      80% of total expenditures
and YBC
Equipment                                      6.2       100% of foreign expenditures for
directly imported equipment or 1 00%
of local expenditures (ex-factory) for
locally manufactured equipment or
75% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consultant services and training               6.9       100% of foreign expenditures
Unallocated                                   29.6
Total                                   210.0
3.74   To  facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened with an
authorized allocation of $15 million equivalent, the estimated average expenditures for a
four-month period. The account would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to
the Bank, and managed by the Henan Provincial Finance Bureau. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or whenever the
Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever comes first.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Table 3.5, which takes into
consideration the project disbursement profile for transport projects in China and the
potential risks of delay in project implementation.
3.75   Disbursements would be made against authorized payment requests for work done
under priced contracts for the civil works and for the delivery and installation of the
equipment. Interim certification of civil works completed and costed at unit rates in the
contracts will be prepared by the contractors, reviewed by the supervision teams/units and
payments authorized by HPHGHCA and HPHAB. Retroactive financing of up to
$600,000 would be applied to expenditures made after January 1, 1996 to provide for
supervision activities for the LSE and the Research Center as well as for startup of
construction of the Research Center. Disbursements for staff training in China or abroad
would be made from the Special Account against the actual costs of travel, subsistence



- 46 -
and tuition or training fees. For expenditures relating to contracts for works of $2 million
or less; training, force account, contracts for goods, each valued at $250,000 equivalent or
less, and contracts for services each valued at $100,000 equivalent or less for firms and
$50,000 equivalent or less for individuals, reimbursement would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting SOEs would be retained
by the implementing agencies and made available for review by the Bank supervision
missions.
K. AUDITING
3.76  The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Auditing Administration
(SAA) would be responsible for auditing of project expenditures. Actual audits would be
carried out for SAA by the Henan Branch of SAA or the Henan Provincial Audit
Administration. Agreement was reached with HPG during negotiationis that the project
accounts and the Special Accounts, including SOEs, would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that audit reports would be sent to the
Bank for review within six months of the close of each fiscal year. In the case of the
SOEs, the audit report would contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the
SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. The
Bank Group currently accepts SAA audits for this purpose.
L. PROJECT SUPERVISION, REPORTING AND MONITORING
3.77  Supervision. The project would be supervised through Bank missions whose
frequency would be guided by the progress of the works. However, on the average, a
mission at about nine-month intervals would be mounted; a Supervision Mission Plan is
presented in Annex 8. In addition to field missions, staff input would be provided at
headquarters for project-related activities such as completion of supervision reports,
procurement documentation and contracts, staff training and equipment proposals and
follow-up and review of the studies on highway safety and on organization, management
and maintenance of high-grade highways. Moreover, the Bank would monitor progress
of implementation of all project components through quarterly progress reports to be
submitted to the Bank. In addition, WBFPO would submit to the Bank monthly reports
on the progress of implementation of the LSE and its linking roads, as well as the YBC.
A copy of each of the outline quarterly and monthly progress reports is available in the
Project File. It is estimated that over the implementation period of the project the total
time expended on supervision would be in the order of 60 person-weeks.
3.78  Monitoring and Reporting.  During implementation, project performance,
including the achievement of physical targets and attainment of other project objectives
will be monitored by WBFPO through the use of performance indicators, reports on the
environment and land acquisition and resettlement, progress reports and auditing of
project accounts. In addition, upon completion, the project will be reviewed in an
Implementation Completion Report, to be submitted to the Bank not later than six months



- 47 -
after the loan closing date. Annex 9 presents the outline monitoring plan for the project.
The plan defines for each of the project components indices that will track annual
progress in attaining targets during implementation and impact objectives after the project
is completed. The plan specifies how, with what frequency and by whom, the data for the
indicators will be collected. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that.
(a)   Henan shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof
(b)   Henan shall prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and
furnish to the Bank a monthly report of the progress of works for LSE and
YBC.
(c)    Henan shall:
(i)   prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and
furnish to the Bank a quarterly report, and by March 31 of each
year commencing in 1997 and ending three years after completion
of the project, an annual report, integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to (a)
above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the project
during the period preceding the dates of such reports and setting
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out
of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during
the periodfollowing such dates; and
(ii)   review with the Bank, by such subsequent dates as the Bank shall
request, the reports referred to above, and, thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the
Bank's views on the matter.



- 48 -
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.1   The economic evaluation includes assessments of four of the principal
components of the proposed project: (a) the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway, including
most of its linking roads; (b) the Guanyintang link road, which is not an essential
component of the Expressway itself; (c) the Yangjia-Baijiazhai connection between the
Weinan-Tongguan Expressway in Shaanxi Province and the existing Highway 310 in
Henan; and (d) the roads to be improved as part of RIPA component of the proposed
project. Each of the evaluated components has a positive net present value and an
economic rate of return in excess of the minimum acceptable. The revenue generating
components of the project are expected to be financially viable, and the sensitivity tests
all indicate that these conclusions are robust relative to the sensitivity tests carried out.
A. MAIN BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES
4.2   The proposed Expressway would form part of the Lianyungang-Huoergousi
Trunk Highway, one of the four priority corridors planned as part of the NTHS. It would
eventually link the port of Lianyungang with the border of China and Kazakhstan, a
distance of just under 5,000 km. The principal objective of constructing the highway
would be to improve the accessibility of the inland provinces of Xinjiang, Gansu, Shaanxi
and Henan to an efficient deep-water port and to the commercial centers of the coastal
provinces, as well as improving their land communication with Beijing. Once the
highway is completed, a high proportion of the benefits of the Luoyang-Sanrmenxia
section would accrue to through traffic between inland and coastal provinces. Through
traffic presently represents about 17 percent of traffic in the Luoyang-Sanmenxia
corridor.
4.3   At its eastern end, the Expressway will join with the Zhengzhou-Luoyang
Expressway (which was opened to traffic on December 28, 1995), while at the western
termination, it will join with the existing highway 310, which has been improved under
the Henan Provincial Highway Project (Loan 3531-CHA). Under the proposed Second
Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project, the Weinan-Tongguan (Henan/Shaanxi Border)
Expressway will be completed by the year 2000. When the three sections, together with
the link between Sanmenxia and the Tongguan-Weinan Expressway, are completed there
will be a high-grade road link of some 400 km between the provincial capitals of Henan
(Zhengzhou) and Shaanxi (Xian). Even while the corridor is being completed, a
relatively high proportion of the benefits of the Expressway will accrue to through traffic
between these capital cities and other industrial and commercial centers along the route.
4.4   The cities of Luoyang and Sanmenxia are already suffering the effects of traffic
congestion, even at the present relatively low levels of motorization. This congestion will
be relieved of the through traffic that would divert to the proposed Expressway and the



- 49 -
inter-urban traffic originating and terminating in the cities themselves. The light industry
and commercial activities of these two cities will also be principal beneficiaries of the
proposed Expressway, as it will be easier, faster and less costly for their products to gain
access to expanding regional markets. A revitalization of the Yumi coal field, just to the
north of the proposed Expressway, would also benefit from improved access.
4.5   The frequency of accidents and the number of fatalities and injuries on Henan's
highways and the existing Luoyang-Sanmenxia Highway is high by intemational
standards, partly a consequence of the high proportion of nonmotorized and
underpowered agricultural traffic not being segregated from motorized traffic. By
segregating a high proportion of the motorized traffic onto the proposed Expressway, the
nonmotorized traffic and pedestrians on the existing road will benefit through a greatly
reduced accident risk and less congested traffic conditions. Also because of its high
design standards, the LSE is inherently safer than the existing parallel highway.
4.6   The RIPA component of the project is designed specifically to benefit residents of
counties with average incomes below the poverty level. The project will benefit residents
through improved access to health, education and other social services as well as to
markets for the sale of their produce and commercial centers so that they can more easily
obtain food and other necessities.
4.7   The project is intended to encourage better highway management and
maintenance through institutional strengthening of various departments, institutes and
training schools of HPCD, the study of organization, management and maintenance of
high-grade highways and the provision of modem maintenance equipment. The road
safety program can be expected to result in a reduced number of accidents due to the
support it gives the Traffic Police and to the demonstration effect of the accident black
spot pilot program. The project also is intended to strengthen public works procurement
procedures and to upgrade management of construction entities. From these project
components, substantial (but unquantified) benefits are expected to accrue to
infrastructure users through better planned and maintained highways with associated
lower vehicle operating costs, and to Henan Province through more cost-effective use of
investment funds.
B. LUOYANG-SANMENXIA EXPRESSWAY
Traffic Levels and Projections
4.8   The existing highway between Luoyang and Sanmenxia is a Class II all-purpose
road without access control. Motorized traffic on the road has been increasing at more
than 15 percent per year since 1990, while nonmotorized traffic has been growing even
faster at almost 16 percent. When measured in vehicle equivalents, between 1 and
3 percent of the traffic on the road is nonmotorized but this comprises a large number of
bicycles and barrows that, together with pedestrians, are at high risk from the lack of
separate facilities.



- 50-
4.9  In 1994, the existing highway carried about 7,000 medium-truck equivalents
(mte) throughout its length, and this had increased in April 1995 to over 9,000 mte at the
eastern end and to 7,200 mte closer to Sannenxia (Table 4.1). These traffic volumes are
close to the practical capacity of the road (about 7,000 mte). Even if the growth rate was
to fall to 10 percent per year, the projected traffic volume in the year 2000 (between
11,300 and 14,500 mte) would exceed the capacity of the existing road by more than
60 percent.
4.10  Projections of future traffic in the corridor have been made using a conventional
growth model, using a demand matrix of 35 traffic zones and with base-year interzonal
traffic flows based on an origin-destination survey carried out in April 1995, and
independent variables of population and economic growth. Two alternative projections
of future road transport demand have been made, each based on a different assumption of
economic growth in Luoyang, Sanmenxia and the remainder of Henan. The first is that
the economies will grow at about 9.7 percent per year until 2000, at about 8.5 percent
from 2000 to 2010 and 4.5 percent per year thereafter, whereas the second, less optimistic
projection, is for growth rates of about 7.8 percent, 7.0 percent and 3.5 percent
respectively. A regression analysis was used to derive a relationship between economic
growth and road transport demand and this indicated a demand elasticity of slightly more
than 1.1 for the projected levels of economic growth. Projections of vehicle numbers also
took account of a changing vehicle mix and a general increase in the capacity of freight
and passenger vehicles within each size category. All economic evaluations have been
based on the first of the two demand projections, with sensitivity tests being made with
the lower projection.
4.11  The proportion of traffic that is expected to use the new Expressway rather than
the present highway was estimated using a diversion equation that used generalized travel
cost as the independent variable, with the impact of tolls being determined separately.
The total projected traffic for the proposed Expressway also took account of traffic that
would be generated by the reduced travel times and costs that would be possible, and for
this purpose another elasticity of demand with respect to generalized transport cost was
developed. The generated traffic was projected to be about 10 percent of the corridor
total in 2000, reducing to 7 percent by the year 2020. Traffic that would be diverted from
the parallel railway was also estimated, but found to amount to less than 1 percent of the
total.
4.12  The projected traffic level on the new Expressway was estimated at between 7,700
and 12,900 mte in 2000 and at between 20,000 and 43,000 mte in 2020, with the
equivalent figures for the more optimistic projection being 7,900 and 19,400 mte in 2000
and at between 26,000 and 55,000 mte in the year 2020. These projections derive from
the application of the various demand and route assignment models at the level of
individual traffic zones and road links. By the year 2000, more than 26 percent of the
projected traffic on the Expressway would be through traffic, with both an origin and a
destination outside of the area of influence.



- 51 -
4.13  All the above projections assume that the Expressway would be operated as a toll
road, with a toll equivalent to Y 0.06 per ton-km until the year 2005, rising to Y 0.08 per
ton-km  by 2020.  The traffic projections for a situation without tolls were about
30 percent higher for the year 2000 and 10 percent higher in the year 2020. The reduced
incidence of tolls in the later years would arise because increased congestion costs on the
existing road would provide a greater incentive to use the new Expressway. The
projected traffic levels (measured in mte) on the four sections of the proposed
Expressway and its connecting roads at each end, for the situation with and without tolls,
in the years 2000 and 2020, are shown in Table 4.2
4.14  With tolls, the diversion rate to the new Expressway is projected to average
69 percent of the total corridor traffic in 2000 and to increase to 74 percent in 2020, as the
existing highway reaches its capacity. Without tolls, the equivalent figures are 83 percent
in both cases. These projected rates are considered reasonable and are compatible with
those observed on other toll roads in Henan Province. The Xinxiang-Zhengzhou section
of the Beijing-Zhuhai National Highway has maintained a diversion rate of more than
80 percent since 1990, while the Kaifeng-Zhengzhou section of the Lianyungang-
Huoergousi National Highway has achieved a diversion rate of more than 50 percent in
its first year, even though the existing road is not yet near capacity and coal trucks are not
allowed to use the highway.
Alternative Alignments and Cross Sections
4.15 Alignment. Alternative alignrnents were considered for four sections of the new
Expressway: The alternatives for each section were compared on the basis of costs
(construction, maintenance, operation), benefits, land acquisition and resettlement,
environmental factors, service to major traffic generators, relationships to existing and
future city plans. Also, the affected communities were involved in the formulation and
comparison of alternatives, as well as in the selection of the final alignments and number,
location and technical standards of interchanges, underpasses and grade separations.
Based on experience with completed and ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in
China, changes in locations as well as the number and size of underpasses are a main
source of delav during implementation. This was addressed by holding consultations
with villages and communities along LSE and YBC twice; once at the technoeconomic
feasibility study stage and the other at the detailed engineering design stage. Problem
locations involved additional consultations.
(a)   Luoyang to Xinan Section. An alternative to the north of the selected
alignment, slightly shorter (0.07 km) but closer for most trip origins and
destinations. It would also involve higher construction costs and result in
more resettlement of affected people.  This alternative was rejected
because the increase in construction costs is not justified by the small
increase in travel benefits;
(b)   Xinan to Yima Section. An alternative to the south of the selected
alignment, but 0.21 km shorter. It would pass slightly closer to trip origins



- 52 -
and destinations in Yima but would be more expensive to construct. This
alternative was also rejected because the increased construction costs
would have a greater impact than the increase in travel benefits;
(c)   Mianchi to Sanxian.  An alternative slightly north of the existing
alignment and passing close to the coal field at Yumi, with a route length
4.13 km shorter than the selected alignment. This alternative was subject
to considerable investigation because of its higher benefits to traffic
without a trip end in the Yumi area. It was rejected in order to avoid
archeological sites (para. 16 of Annex.5) and because of the high
probability of cost increases involved in constructing the Expressway
through an extensively mined area where the location of mine tunnels is
not known and because of the opportunity cost of the lost coal that could
not be mined if this alignment were selected;
(d)   Zhangmao to Xihezhuang. Although this alternative would also be
slightly shorter (0.15 km) than the recommended route, it would also
involve higher construction costs. All alignments in this area would
involve high costs, as the route must descend from 700 m to 500 m over a
short distance, while crossing a river and a railway and passing over
unstable geological structures in an area subject to earthquakes. The
alternative was rejected because the economic impact of the increase in
travel benefits was assessed to be less than that of the increase in
construction costs.
4.16 Cross-Section. A minimum of a four-lane divided highway with access control
would provide sufficient additional capacity to meet projected demand in the corridor.
The lower traffic projection also indicated demand in excess of the capacity of a two-lane
Auto Only highway. Since the high traffic projections show that the expressway would
be operating at close to its capacity before the end of the evaluation period, some account
was taken of the possibility of future expansion of the right-of-way width to
accommodate dual three-lanes. However, no allowance was made in the land acquisition
or civil works designs for this expansion, as it was considered to be too far into the future
and other alternative routes would need to be considered closer to the time the capacity
would be needed. The design of link roads and interchanges was determined on the basis
of the more optimistic traffic projection, and taking account of projections of local traffic
growth. Following a review of the traffic expected to access the Expressway at Luoyang,
the interchange location was revised, so that another interchange could be provided when
traffic reached an appropriate level.
4.17  The selection of a closed toll system was made to be compatible with other
expressways being constructed or planned in Henan and Shaanxi. Toll booths would be
provided at each of the access interchanges, and their number at the opening of the LSE
was planned to meet the more optimistic demand projection through the year 2010.
However, the area of the toll plazas would allow for an increase in the number of booths



- 53 -
if and when they should be needed. Toll levels were estimated taking account of the
revenue needed to maintain and operate the Expressway and service the Bank loan for its
construction, as well as compatibility with other tolled highways in Henan province and
an objective of constraining the reduction of traffic diverted to the proposed Expressway
because of the imposition of the toll, to less than 10 percent in the long term.
Economic Evaluation
4.18 Method. Economic evaluation of the LSE was undertaken by HPCD's Planning
Survey and Design Institute, using the standard methodology of the Ministry of
Communications, but adapted to meet Bank standards and requirements. The evaluation
was based on assessment of the economic cost of construction and maintenance,
compared with the traffic benefits of lower vehicle operating costs and time savings
through higher speeds. Accident benefits were included in the evaluation, but using
average accident rates for all roads in each class in Henan province, rather than those for
the present highway. All costs and benefits were expressed in December 1995 values, net
of taxes, subsidies and price contingencies, and adjusted to reflect opportunity costs of
resources. Separate evaluations were made for four parts of the Expressway, Luoyang-
Xinan, Xinan-Mianchi, Mianchi-Guanyintang, and Guanyintang-Sanmenxia. Most of the
link roads were considered an integral part of the Expressway with the costs and benefits
being included in the basic evaluation, but the link to Guanyintang was evaluated
separately.
4.19  Construction costs were estimated using the standard MOC methodology, which
relies on frequent market surveys to determine unit prices, which are applied to bills of
quantities derived from the engineering drawings. Factors for converting financial to
economic prices are based on comparing financial unit costs with border prices plus
transport costs. Labor cost shadow prices were not applied.
4.20  For evaluation purposes, the LSE was assumed to be constructed in 4.5 years,
opening to traffic in 2000. The economic life of the highway was assumed to be 20
years.  In addition to the cost of construction, the costs of periodic maintenance
(pavement overlays) every seven years were taken into consideration. Annual costs of
routine highway maintenance and toll operations have also been included. The residual
value of each highway section at the end of the evaluation period was assumed to be
50 percent of the initial construction cost.
4.21  User benefits were calculated separately for traffic that would continue to use the
existing highway, traffic that would divert to the new Expressway and generated traffic.
Sensitivity tests were made using the more optimistic traffic projection, excluding
accident benefits, with reduced values of time savings, without tolls and with costs and
benefits varying between 60 and 140 percent of those of the base evaluation. The latter
was used to determine the range of values for which the project would remain
economically viable, so that an assessment could be made of the probability of
occurrence of these values.  An evaluation of alternative opening years for the
Expressway was also made, which showed that the earliest possible opening date would



- 54 -
maximize the net benefit of the project. Table 4.4 shows the base evaluation results
together with the sensitivity results in respect of traffic levels, accidents and tolls, while
Table 4.5 shows the range of costs and benefits for which the project remains viable.
4.22  The economic evaluation provides estimates of the net present value (NPV) of the
project and its economic internal rate of return (EIRR). To help in an assessment of the
financial viability of the project from the point of view of Henan Province, a financial
evaluation was also made to estimate the project's cash flow and financial rate of return.
4.23   Results. The basic evaluation of the LSE as a whole and by section indicates that
the selected alignment is economically viable, and the sensitivity tests with respect to
transport demand, absence of tolls, a zero value of time and excluding accident benefits
maintain this position. The base case evaluation for the whole route, as shown in Table
4.4, indicates an EIRR of 19.0 percent, while the evaluation by route section shows the
highest value (19.3 percent) for the section between Luoyang and Xinan and the lowest
value (18.3 percent) for the section between Xinan and Mianchi. The first of these road
sections has the lowest unit construction cost, while the second has a number of
expensive civil works which give it the highest unit construction cost. In addition, while
the first section has the highest traffic level in the early years of the project, contributing
to its rather better economic justification, the second section has the highest traffic in the
later years, but this is insufficient to offset the higher construction cost. Although the
sections have been evaluated separately and all found to have acceptable EIRR values,
the route should be considered as a whole as it is designed to deal with a problem of
through traffic for the whole region and to provide improved access for the provinces
which are further inland.
4.24 As would be expected, assuming an absence of tolls would result in improved
economic assessments of 21.6 percent, while eliminating the benefits of time savings
from the calculation of EIRR reduces the worth of the project, while still providing an
acceptable result of 16.1 percent.
4.25  The analysis of the optimum year for opening of the road showed that delaying
the construction for even one year would reduce the economic viability (analyzed by the
NPV) of the project, and that the reduction would increase with further delays.
4.26  The sensitivity of the evaluation results to variations in the costs and benefits of
the project indicate that the conditions for the project's viability to fall below the
minimum acceptable, that is, an NPV of less than zero or an EIRR of less than 12 percent,
are unlikely to occur. The benefits would have to fall to less than 50 percent of those in
the base case with no change in costs, the costs would have to increase to more than
50 percent of those of the base case, or the costs would have to rise by 30 percent and the
benefits fall by 30 percent at the same time. The unacceptable results are those shown as
shaded in Table 4.5.



- 55 -
Financial Evaluation
4.27  Two financial evaluations were made. The first was to determine the rate of
return on equity from the point of view of the Highway Agency and Central Government.
For this evaluation, the equity of project was taken to be the total investment cost less the
debt, the loan from the Bank for the project. The net revenues were determined by
subtracting the loan servicing costs and road operating and maintenance costs from the
total toll revenue. The return on equity was calculated as the net present value of net
revenues expressed as a percentage of the project equity. The second evaluation was of
the cash flow of the project, to determine the net present value of cash flows and the
financial rate of return.
4.28  The financial evaluation (Table 4.6) shows that with the medium  traffic
projection, the return on equity would be almost 15 percent and the net cash flow would
be positive. However, both these results are very sensitive to the level of toll revenues
and the costs of the project. The greatest risk on toll revenue is that during the first five
years or so, the diversion from the existing road will not reach the equilibrium level
projected.  If this should happen, the return on equity would reduce to just over
10 percent and the net cash flow would be negative. Similarly, if the total construction
cost of the project should increase by 25 percent, the equity would increase by 43 percent
as the debt could not be increased, and the rate of return on equity would fall to a similar
level as with the revenue reduction, just over 10 percent. The net cash flow would also
be negative. These results indicate the importance from a financial point of view of
controlling the costs of construction and of maximizing the project's revenues,
particularly in the opening years.
C. GUANYINTANG INTERCHANGE AND LINKING ROAD
4.29  The Guanyintang link of 3.2 km would provide access to the Expressway for
trucks from the Yumi coal field, particularly the Guanyintang, Ganhao and Zhijian coal
mines, as well as to the town of Guanyintang. The present Class IV road carries only
local traffic of about 250 mte per day. If the connection is not built, traffic from the three
localities would have the possibility of using the Mianchi interchange, about 12 km west
of Guanyintang, or the Sanmenxia interchange, about 26 km east of Guanyintang. About
75 percent of the traffic that would use the interchange would have an origin or
destination to the east. The interchange would be a simple design, similar to the other
intermediate intersections on the Expressway, and the link road would be built to Class II
standards. The cost of the road would be just under $2.0 million and the estimated net
present value is $0.8 million and the EIRR 16 percent. These results were found to be
robust in that the values exceeded the acceptable minimum, for the same sensitivity tests
as were carried out for the Expressway.
D. YANGJIA-BAIJIAZHAI CONNECTION (YBC)
4.30  This connecting road would be a separate part of the project and would not be
linked directly to the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway, but would link the part of



- 56 -
National Highway 310 that joins the Expressway at Sanmenxia with the Weinan-
Tongguan Expressway to be constructed as part of the Second Shaanxi Provincial
Highway Project.  Construction of this connecting road would be necessary for
realization of the full benefits of the Weinan- Tongguan Expressway.
4.31  An evaluation of the YBC has been made from the point of view of Henan
Province, taking account only of the benefits to traffic on the connecting road itself. The
evaluation also took account of different standards of provision of the connecting road,
since it would connect a four-lane divided highway in Shaanxi with a two-lane, two-way
highway in Henan, at least until the Henan section of National Highway 310 was
upgraded to Expressway standard, expected to be about the year 2010. The method of
analysis and derivation of input parameters to the evaluation were the same as for the
Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway.
4.32  The traffic volume between the two roads to be joined by the YBC is projected to
be about 5,700 mte/day in 2000, the opening year, increasing to 19,500 by 2020. The
results of the economic evaluation indicate that the best way to construct the YBC for
these volumes of traffic would be the staged construction of a four-lane Expressway, with
the first stage being a two-lane Expressway, built to the design standards appropriate to a
half section of a four-lane Expressway. This preferred construction phasing gives an
EIRR of 13.4 percent, whereas constructing to a full four-lane standard from the opening
date gives an estimated EIRR of only 9.6 percent. However, since both results only take
account of the benefits to traffic on the YBC itself, and there are large additional benefits
to the same traffic when it is on the Weinan-Tongguan Expressway, it should be
remembered that they significantly underestimate the full economic benefit of the road.
The additional benefits in the WTE would be the same for either method of constructing
the connecting road, so do not influence the preferred construction phasing.
E. EVALUATION OF RIPA COMPONENT
4.33  The RIPA component of the project is aimed at rehabilitating and upgrading
basic-access roads in low-income counties of the province, with a view to increasing
accessibility to basic health, social and education services as well as to markets to
increase the social sustainability of these areas. It is expected that in the long term, the
program will stimulate increased economic activity and employment and significantly
contribute to a reduction of rural poverty.
4.34  The nature of the expected benefits of the component precludes many of them
from a quantified analysis, and many others can only be estimated approximately, so the
expressed economic rates of return must be considered as minimal and as representing
only part of the value of this project component. For the first year subprojects of this
component, the quantified benefits include only reductions in vehicle operating costs,
reduced accident costs, and time savings to vehicle occupants. Unquantified benefits
include improved health, higher education achievement, increased social relations, and
increased output and incomes.  For second and subsequent year subprojects, the
quantified benefits will take account of generated trips for health, social, education,



- 57 -
employment and commercial purposes. The total population that will benefit from this
component is the total population in the area of influence of the proposed highway
systems in the selected counties with a low income. The counties for inclusion in the
subproject were selected using a mix of economic and social indicators. A total of eight
road systems with a length of 662 km were chosen for rehabilitation, upgrading or new
construction in the first year's package. The total number of people who are expected to
benefit from this package is about 1.2 million. Only those components identified for
inclusion in the first year of the project have been evaluated. The estimated economic
rate of return for these eight systems varied from 14.2 to 31.6 percent with an average of
19.6 percent (Table 4.7).
F. EVALUATION OF RISKS
4.35   The principal risks that the net benefits from the project might not be realized
arise from two factors relating to the construction cost and three to the traffic benefits.
The road is to be constructed mostly on embankment and has an unusually high number
of large structures. There is some risk that attempts to build the road too quickly will
result in an inadequate compaction of the earthworks for the high embankments, with a
risk of further settlement after the road is open and a need for an earlier than planned
reconstruction. To some extent this risk will be mitigated by providing only a light
pavement in the initial construction on the sections with high embankments and those
built on soft soils, so that any additional cost from reconstruction will be minimized. The
full strength pavement will be added as an overlay after a few years of operation of the
road when no further sign of settlement is seen. The large and relatively difficult
structures, long and high bridges, in some cases to built at difficult angles to the natural
features of the terrain, will require careful supervision of construction if later expensive
remedial works are to be avoided.
4.36   This risk has already been reduced by making major modifications to the
alignment that have reduced the need for large structures and the associated risk of cost
overruns or need for remedial work. The possibility of a cost increase was evaluated as a
sensitivity test, which showed that an increase of more than 50 percent would be needed
before the EIRR becomes unacceptable level. It is considered that the risk of this degree
of cost overrun is unlikely, given previous experience with Expressway construction in
Henan province and the stringent supervision methods agreed with the provincial
government, which will involve higher-than-usual foreign expert participation and
responsibility for the quality of the works (rather than an advisory role as in previous
projects). The provincial government of Henan has demonstrated its ability and capacity
to manage large road projects, which when taken together with the additional supervision
measures to be taken, significantly reduces the risk of cost overruns.
4.37  The traffic benefit risks relate to projected traffic growth and diversion of traffic
to the new Expressway. The projection of traffic was made on the assumption of a
continued strong growth of the local economy and there is a possibility that this will not
occur. However, the consequences of providing capacity in advance of its need is



- 58 -
considered a more acceptable and less costly risk than that that of not providing capacity
when it is needed. The assessment of the optimum opening date indicates a significant
reduction in project benefits if congestion is allowed to increase before the road is open, a
consequence similar to that of a higher than planned growth of traffic occurring.
Experience with earlier highway projects in China revealed the high costs of providing
too little capacity or providing it too late, while a review of a recent project has indicated
the lesser costs of overprojecting traffic. Providing too little capacity has consequences
that affect the daily lives of all who use the existing road or depend on the services that it
provides, whereas the consequences of providing capacity too soon are only financial,
and road users in any case receive the benefits of a new road.
4.38   There is a further risk that the volume of traffic that will divert to the new road
will be less than that estimated. There is only a short history of the operation of toll roads
in China on which to build expectations of how users will react to the imposition of tolls.
The diversion rate to the new road once the existing road is operating at capacity is not so
questionable, as the only alternative to suffering congestion on the old road or not making
the trip, is to use the new road. So the period of doubt about for considering diversion to
the new road is that until traffic on the existing road is building up to its capacity limit.
Experience with other tolls roads in China and elsewhere is that the diversion to a new
tolled road can take up to four or five years to build up to the estimated level. This is
probably because of the time needed for road users to become aware of the potential
benefits of using the new road and to change their travel behavior to take the new road
into account.
4.39   When the existing road is already nearing congestion, as in this case, the time for
the diversion rate to reach its estimated level will probably be shorter than the average. If
the diversion rate starts at 50 percent and increases to the estimated 67 percent over three
years, the net present value of benefits will be reduced by about 20 percent, and as shown
in Table 4.5, this would have to be combined with a cost overrun of 40 percent or more
for it to result in an unacceptable outcome. Additional measures that can be taken to
encourage a rapid buildup to the estimated diversion rate include giving a toll-free period
at the opening of the road so that users can quickly become aware of its advantages, and
providing other incentives for using the road (many of which would be innovative in the
context of China, but which are used elsewhere, such as free accident insurance,
provision of food and mechanical repair facilities at the access toll stations, prizes for
"lucky" toll ticket numbers, etc.).
Risk and Actions
4.40  Based on experience with the ongoing highway projects, potential risks center on
delays in implementation, particularly for the LSE due to the difficulty of construction,
especially of bridges caused by the rugged topography and limited space in some areas;
design changes, the long time required to handle variation orders during construction as
well as the late start in the traffic engineering component; objections raised by people
living along the right-of-way caused by insufficient consultation, and unexpected



- 59 -
archeological finds. However, preparation of this project has benefited significantly from
the Bank's experience in similar highway projects in China, as well as from the active
involvement of MOC and the review of the design and bid documents for the LSE by
qualified international experts.  Moreover, the design of the traffic engineering
component has already started and more attention is being given to the resettlement and
land acquisition problem, including more consultation with the local people affected by
the LSE. Extensive archeological surveys were conducted to reduce the probability of
unexpected finds. Also, the relatively large value of contracts (average of $40 million)
for construction of the LSE and the possibility to bid on two or more contracts at the
same time would attract the larger and more capable contractors and would ensure
successful completion with little or no delays.
4.41  According to the project financing plan, Henan Province would have to contribute
$291 million or 48 percent of the total cost. This is a large amount, and considering the
investment requirements of other projects in Henan Province, the timely availability of
counterpart local funds in the proper amounts could delay completion of the project as
well as its total cost. However, based on experience with the two ongoing Bank-financed
highway projects in Henan, this has not been a major problem.
4.42  Uneven and sometimes substandard quality of works as well as cost overruns are
another risk that should be addressed. This problem is generally caused by laxity of
construction. For the first time in the highway sector in China a joint venture between
international and local firms/entities, where the international experts are not only advisors
but executors responsible for the quality of the works, will be in charge of construction
supervision.
4.43  Sustainability. In view of the relatively fast expansion of the NTHS and other
high-grade highways and their related high construction costs, there is growing danger
that not enough resources will be devoted to the maintenance of nonhigh-grade highways,
including roads contained in the RIPA component under the project. As pointed out in
para. 2.35, HPCD has agreed to allocate sufficient resources to highway maintenance
during the 9FYP and continue to monitor the condition of existing roads. The proposed
project includes a study of organization, management and maintenance of the LSE and
other high-grade highways in Henan Province, training of staff in highway maintenance,
and provision of equipment for highway maintenance.
4.44  Recent experience suggests that once the high-grade highways are in operation,
operational and safety risks will need to be addressed. The traffic component of the
project will be reviewed by qualified technical experts. Also, the proposed project
includes a study of the operation anid maintenance of the LSE as well as equipment and
training of staff for its operation and maintenance.
4.45  The success of the highway safety component also depends on good cooperation
between HPCD and the Traffic Police, which has in the past been difficult. However,
under the proposed project a Leading Group for Road Safety Coordination was created,
and consideration is being given to holding a highway safety seminar in China in 1997 to



- 60 -
help raise awareness of the safety problem and to increase the level of support at various
governmental levels to this very important issue. This seminar could be followed by a
similar one at the provincial level (in 1998). However, the possibility of holding a small
workshop on safety in 1997 to initiate planning of the provincial seminar would be
explored.



- 61 -
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1   Agreement was reached with the Central Government at negotiations that it would
onlend the proceeds of the loan to Henan Provincial Government (HPG) on the same
terms as those of the Bank loan to it: 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the same
rate payable to the Bank by the Borrower, with 0.75 percent per year commitment fee on
the outstanding balance, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver (para. 3.52).
5.2   During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Henan Province that:
(a)   HPCD shall, by April 30 of each year commencing in 1997 and ending in
2003, furnish an annual highway maintenance report for the Bank's review
and comments, which would: (a) indicate the length and condition of each
class of road; (b) establish realistic targets for the following year,
including an estimate of the required physical works by class of road and
the costs thereof; and (c) measure the results and the actual expenditures of
the past year against the targets and budgeted funds thereof (para. 2.35);
(b)   HPCD shall coordinate closely with the Shaanxi Provincial Transport
Department regarding (i) completion of construction of the Yangjia-
Baijiazhai Connection (YBC) by December 31, 1999, simultaneously with
completion of the construction of the Weinan-Tongguan Expressway
(WTE) in Shaanxi; (ii) the location, design and construction of the toll
station at the border between Henan and Shaanxi; and (iii) transition from
a four-lane cross-section for WTE to a two-lane cross-section for YBC
(para. 3.16);
(c)   HPCD would (i) by November 30, 1996, establish a Leading Group to
guide the study on the organization, management and maintenance of
high-grade highways and provide comments on the results and
recommendations thereof; (ii) by September 30, 1998, complete the said
study in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and
furnish the study together with the comments of the said Leading Group to
the Bank for review; and (iii) take appropriate steps to implement the said
study's recommendations, taking into consideration the comments thereon
of the said Leading Group and the Bank (para. 3.35);
(d)   HPG shall maintain: (i) a Leading Group for traffic safety coordination,
policy making and planning, with functions and responsibilities acceptable
to the Bank; (ii) a Traffic Safety Secretariat to prepare the work for the
Leading Group; and (iii) a Road Safety Unit within HPCD, with functions
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, to carry out a pilot black spot



- 62 -
improvement program and establish safety audit procedures and checks
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.37);
(e)   Henan shall, pursuant to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank: (i) by
December 31, 1998, complete a study of the factors contributing to traffic
accidents; (ii) by December 31, 2000, complete a black spot identification
and improvement program; and (iii) by December 31, 2001, have an
expert acceptable to the Bank prepare an evaluation of its Road Safety
program according to indicators acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.37);
(f)   the environmental protection measures stipulated in the EAPs, with
respect to the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway, the Yangjia-Baijiazhai
Connection, linking roads and the RIPA roads included in the first year
package would be carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Also,
RAPs and EAPs for RIPA systems for subsequent years would be
prepared in accordance with principles acceptable to the Bank and their
environmental protection measures would be implemented in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 3.41 and 3.46);
(g)   HPCD shall furnish to the Bank an annual environmental monitoring
report for the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway and its linking roads
during the construction phase and for each of the first three years
following completion of construction (para. 3.41);
(h)   all land acquisition and resettlement activities with respect to the
Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway, Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection, linking
roads and the RIPA roads would be completed according to the RAPs in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank (para.3.46);
(i)   the monitoring of the effectiveness and socioeconomic impact of the
resettlement process for the LSE, YBC, linking roads and the RIPA roads
would be carried out according to the RAPs in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.48);
(j)    HPCD shall, for the LSE and YBC, furnish to the Bank: (i) by March 31
and September 30 of each year starting September 30, 1996, internal
monitoring reports prepared by appropriate agencies of Henan, and (ii) by
June 30 and December 31 of each year starting December 31, 1996,
external monitoring reports prepared by an independent agency acceptable
to the Bank, regarding the implementation and impact of the resettlement
activities during the previous six months (para. 3.48);
(k)   HPG shall, by June 30 of each year commencing in 1997, furnish the
rolling two-year training implementation schedule to the Bank and shall
carry out the training under a program acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.59);
(l)    HPCD shall undertake and, by March 31, 2000, complete and furnish to
the Bank for its review and comments, an analysis and recommendation



- 63 -
for the structure of toll rates on the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway,
taking into consideration the results of the recent studies on toll rates
conducted under other Bank-financed highway projects in China and the
experience with toll rates on major roads in Henan Province and other
parts of China (para. 3.62);
(m)   the project accounts and the Special Accounts, including SOEs, would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that audit
reports would be sent to the Bank for review within six months of the
close of each fiscal year (para. 3.76); and
(n)   (i) Henan shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof; (ii) Henan shall prepare under terns
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to the Bank a monthly
report of the progress of works for LSE and YBC; and (iii) Henan shall:
(1) prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish
to the Bank a quarterly report, and by March 31 of each year commencing
in 1997 and ending three years after completion of the project, an annual
report, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to (i) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying
out of the project during the period preceding the dates of such reports and
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out
of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
period following such dates; and (2) review with the Bank, by such
subsequent dates as the Bank shall request, the reports referred to above,
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the
Bank's views on the matter (para. 3.78).
5.3   Submission of the following for each RIPA package, to the satisfaction of the
Bank, shall be a condition of disbursement for RIPA subprojects: (a) economic and
social benefit analysis using indicators acceptable to the Bank; (b) environmental action
plan for all subprojects and an environmental impact assessment for subprojects that
involve new road construction or substantial widening/land acquisition; (c) a RAP for
each system; (d) plan for supervision of construction; (e) an implementation schedule;
and (f) a maintenance plan (para. 3.25).
5.4   Subject to the foregoing, the proposed project would be suitable for a US Dollar
Single Currency Bank Loan of $210 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan
would be for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar-denominated single currency
loans.



-64 -
TABLE 1.1: TRAFFIC TURNOVER BY MODE, 1980-93
TURNOVER VOLUME OF FREIGHT TRAFFIC
(billion ton-km)
Petroleum
Civil      and gas
Year                 Total      Railway     Highway    Waterway    aviation      pipelines
1980          1,202.60     571.69      76.40        505.28       0.14       49.10
1990         2,620.70     1,062.24    335.81       1,159.19      0.82       62.70
1993         3,051.00     1,195.46    407.05       1,386.08      1.66       60.80
Compound annual        7.42         5.84      13.73         8.07      20.89        1.66
growth rate,
1980-93 (%)
Compound annual        5.20        4.02        6.62         6.14      26.53       -1.02
growth rate,
1990-93 (%)
TURNOVER VOLUME OF PASSENGER TRAFFIC
(billion passenger-km)
Civil
Year                  Total        Railway        Highway       Waterway        aviation
1980            228.10       138.32           72.95         12.91           3.96
1990            562.80       261.26          262.03         16.49         23.05
1993            785.80       348.33          370.07         19.65         47.76
Compoundannual          9.98         7.36           13.31          3.28         21.12
growth rate,
1980-93 (%)
Compound annual        11.77        10.06           12.20          6.01         27.49
growth rate,
1990-93 (%)



- 65 -
TABLE 1.2: ROAD ACC[DENT RISKS IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES, 1993
Number of  Vehicles per    Number of    Fatalities per   Fatalities per
Population    Vehicles     1,000        Fstalities       10,000        100,000
Country            ('000) La    ('000) Lb    Population    (Person) z      Vehicles      Population
CHINA              1,185,170      13,823          12        63,551          46.0            5.4
Henan (1994)        90,300         452            5         3,648           80.7           4.0
Shaanxi (1994)      34,800         214            6         1,604           75.0           4.6
Brazil              153,900       13,469          88         5,500            4.1            3.6
Canada Ld            27,400       20,632         753         3,485            1.7           12.7
Costa Rica            3,200         396          124          235             5.9            7.3
Denmark               5,200        1,991         383          573             2.9           11.0
Egypt/A              54,700        1,986          36         4,315           21.7            7.9
France               57,400       32,440         565         9,052            2.8           15.8
Germany Ld           80,600       43,826         544        10,643            2.4           13.2
Hungary Ld           10,300        2,510         244         4,577           18.2          44.4
India L             883,600       16,479          19        54,058           32.8           6.1
Indonesia /e        184,300        8,889          48        10,887           12.2            5.9
Japan               124,500       79,761         641        10,942            1.4            8.8
Mexico La            85,000       11,368         134         5,252            4.6           6.2
Norway                4,300        2,981         693          281             0.9            6.5
Pakistan            119,300        2,279          19         6,299           27.6           5.3
Poland               38,400        9,247        241          6,341           6.9           16.5
Korea                43,700        8,210         188        10,402           12.7          23.8
Spain La             39,100       19,128         489        6,014             3.1           15.4
Thailand             58,000       10,243         177         9,496            9.3           16.4
Turkey               58,500        5,648          97         6,444           11.4           11.0
UK                   57,800      25,448          440        4,229             1.7           7.3
USA La              255,400      195,706         766       39,235            2.0           15.4
Zimbabwe La          10,400         377           36         1,021          27.1            9.8
La Mid -1992 population; World Development Report, 1994, pp. 162 -3.
L Analysis of accident rates may be limited by the fct that number of vehicles sometimes includes only motor vehicles.
However, figures for vehicles have been adjusted to include nonmotorized vehicles where da wa available. Provincial data
on the incidence of accidents is based on motor vehicles plus tractors and motorcycles; however, dos not indude bicycles or
other vehicles that may contribute to the rate of accidents.
& World Road statistics 1989-1993, International Road Federation.
La  Data for 1992.
La Data for 1990.



Loan/                                             Loan amount,
(credit)    Board       Date       Closing        $ million (SAR)
Project name                                 number        date     effective     date        Bank        IDA           Status
RAILWAYS
Railway Project                           2394         03/27/84    07/10/84    12/31/90      220.00                    Closed                 >
Second Railway                           2540          05/14/85    11/22/85    06/30/94      235.00                    Closed
Third Railway                             2678/(1680)   04/15/86    01/13/87    06/30/93     160.00       70.00       Ongoing
Fourth Railway                           2968          06/23/88    03/27/89    12/31/93      200.00                   Ongoiiig
Inner Mongolia Local Railway             3060/(2014)   05/12/89    01/03/90    12/31/96       70.00       80.(0       Oligoing
Fifth Railway                            3406          09/24/91    01/09/92    12/31/198     350.00                   Ongoing
Sixth Railway                            3581          03/25/93    07/14/93    12/31/99      420.00                   Ongoing
Seventh Railway                          3897          06/01/95               12/31/2002     400.00                   Ongoiig                 7
Subtotal                                                                                  2,055.00      150.00
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                          2,205.00
IIICIIWAYS
lighwaay Project                        2539/(1594)   05/14/85    12/04/85    06/30/91       42.60       30.00        Closcd
eijine-lialjitt-IangnIli IXprcssway      2811/(1792)   05/12/87    12/08/87    12/31/92       25.00      125.00       Onigoilig               '
Sichtia Provincial Highway               2951/(1917)   06/09/88    05/31/89    12/31/94       75.U0       50.00       Ongoing
Shaainxi Provincial Hlighway             2952          06/09/88    05/31/89    12/31/94       50.00                    Closed
Jiangxi Provincial llighway                   (1984)   02/07/89    05/31/89    12/31/95                   61.00       Ongoing
Shlandonig Provincial Highway            3073/(2025)   05/25/89    12/11/89    06/30/95       60.00       50.00       Ongohig
ZIicji.uig Provincial Ilhighway          3471          05/19/92    09/02/91    12/31/96      220.00                   Ongoinlg
Guangdong Provincial ltighway            3530          11/17/92    04/16/93    06/30/99      240.00                   Ongoing
flenan Highway                           3531          11/17/92    04/16/93    06/30/98      120.00                   Ongoing
Fujian Highway                           3681          12/14/93    07/24/94    06/30/2000    140.00                   Ongoing                ch
National Highway                         3748          06/07/94    10/24/94    06/30/2000    380.00                   Ongoing                 o
Xinjiang Highway                         3787          08/30/94    02/09/95    12/31/2000    150.00                   Ongoing
Shanghai-Zhejiang Hlighway               3929          08/01/95              06/30/2001      260.00                   Ongoilig
Second Shaanxi Ilighway                  3986          03/21/96               12/31/2001     210.00                   Onigoilng               0
0
C-.
Subtotal                                                                                  1,972.60     316.00 1
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                          2,288.60



Loan/                                             Loan amouitt,
(credit)    Board       Date       Closing        S million (SAR)
Project name                                 number       date      etl'eclive   date         Bank        IDA           Status
PORTS AND WATERWAYS
Three Ports                               2207         11/02/82    02/02/83    06/30/88      124.00                    Closed
Tianjin Port                             2689          05/06/86    03/20/87    12/31/92      130.00                   Ongoing
lluangpu Port                            2877/(1845)   10/06/87    10/03/88    12/31/93       63.00       25.00       Ongoing
Dalian Port                              2907/(1975)   02109/88    10/03/88    12/31/93       71.00       25(00       Ongoing
Ningbo and Shanghai Ports                 3006         12/13/88    05/09/89    12/31/93       76.40                   Ongoing
Xiarnen Port                             3007          12/13/88    01/09/90    03/31/94       36.00                   Oligoinig
Ship Waste Disposal                       2391         06/17/92    12/12/92    06/30/96                   15.00 1),Ogoinig
Shanghai Port Restrucluriig and Development    3552    12/22/92    05/13/93    06/30/99      150.00                   Oingoilig
Inland Waterways                         3910          06/20/95              06/30/2001     210.00                    Ongoing
Subtotal                                                                                   860.40       65.00
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                           925.40
MULTIMODAL
Jiangsu lrovincialT'Iransport            3316/(2226)   04/09/91    09/06/91    06/30/96      100.00       53.60       Ongoing
-4
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                            153.60
URBAN TRANSPORT
Shalnghai Metropolitan Transport              (2296)   09/10/91    09/10/91    06/30/98                   60.00       Ongoing
Second Shanghai Metropolitan Transport   3652          10/14/93                              150.00                   Ongoing
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                           210.00
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                        5,782.60
Source: Conpilcd by ihc mission.



- 68 -
TABLE 2.1: HENAN ROAD NETWORK, 1994
(km)
Express-    Class     Class     Class     Class    Unclas-
way        I         11        III        IV      sified     Total
By Administration
National                81        78      1,750      1,309      238         70      3,526
Provincial                -         -     2,633     3,732      1,303       280      7,948
Special accommoda-       -          -       101       348       681          -      1,130
tion road
County and town-          -         -       574     5,671    25,983      2,872    35,100
ship level
Total                  81        78      5,058    11,060    28,205     3,222    47,704
Sand &
Asphalt   Cement      gravel  Clay soil             Total
Pavement type                   26,798     1,142    12,810      6,954               47,704
Source:  HPCD.



Special-
Cars and                 Small        Large      purpose      Special      Sub-                    Motor-
vans la     Buses      trucks       trucks     vehices L    trucks Ld     total      Tractors     cycles       Total
1980              10.9         4.3          0.3        64.5         4.3          ..         84.8         4.0          7.3        96.1
1985              29.5         9.3         11.2       107.6         9.3          ..        166.9       186.5        48.4        401.8         t
1986              33.0        11.1         11.2       119.6         9.4          ..        184.3       160.1        59.5        403.9         r
1987              43.0        13.4         19.2       129.8        10.6          ..        216.0       149.6        125.6       491.2         !4
1988              51.2        14.5        26.8        146.0        14.5         6.1        259.1       130.0        148.0       537.1
1989              58.2        15.9        35.3        162.8        15.5         7.2        294.9       162.8        171.4       629.1
1990              66.4        15.8        42.3        168.6        17.0         7.7        317.8       289.0       207.8        814.6
1991              76.1        17.4         51.1       173.2        19.0         9.1        344.9       356.3       281.7        983.9         P
1992              88.9        18.2         57.0       176.6        20.0         9.7        370.4       497.7       312.5      1,180.6
1993             110.7        20.7        63.7        169.2        11.1          8.6       384.0       532.7       377.9      1,294.6
tEl
1994             144.8        20.5        78.5        186.7        12.4         9.3        452.2       805.5       463.9      1,721.6               0%
% p.a. growth
1980-85          22.0        16.7        106.2        10.8        14.1                     14.5       115.6        46.0         33.3
1985-90          17.6        11.2        30.4          9.4        12.8                     13.7         9.2        33.8         15.1         El
1990-94          21.5         6.7         16.7         2.6        (7.6)        4.8          9.2        29.2        22.2         20.6         m
1985-94          19.3         9.2        24.2          6.3         3.2                     11.7        17.7        28.5         17.5
la 20 seats or less.                                                                                                                          O.
Lb 2.S tons or less.
L Includes police cars, fire engines, and emergency vehicles.
/d Includes containcrs and refrigerator trucks.
Source: HPCD.



- 70 -
TABLE 2.3A: HENAN: FREIGHT TRAFFIC, 1980-94
Annual growth
(%)
1980      1985     1989      1990    1991       1992    1993       1994    (1985-94)
Tons Transported (millions)
Railways          67.58     81.01     90.89     90.38    91.93     93.43    98.11     99.74        2.3
Highways          101.83    273.40    288.11    280.18   293.19    344.04   371.82    404.28       4.4
Civil avialion                  --                  -        --                 -.-
Inland waterway     1.06     2.01      3.45      2.55     2.44      2.71     3.54      3.95        7.8
Total           170.47    356.42    382.45    381.11   387.56    440.18   473.47    509.88       4.1
Ton-Kilometers (billions)
Railways           52.53    72.82     96.71    100.18   102.22    108.52   109.96    116.44        5.4
Highways           2.10      10.57     15.41    16.07    17.00     20.90    22.74     25.84       10.4
Civil aviation-                 -         --                 --                 ---
Inland waterway    0.13      0.43      0.79      0.70     0.71      0.79     1.01      0.96        9.3
Total            54.76     83.82     12.91    116.95   119.93    130.21   133.71    143.24       6.1
Average Haul
Distance Ln (km)
Railways          777.3     894.0   1,069.1   1,108.4  1,111.9  1,161.54  1,120.8   1,167.1        3.0
Highways           20.6      38.7      53.5      55.7    58.0       60.8    61.2       63.9        5.7
Civil aviation-                           --                 --                 ---
Inlandwaterway     125.5    211.4    230.1      274.1   291.4    300.0   285.9        293.0        3.7
All modes         308.2    235.2    295.2       306.9   309.5      252.9   282.4      280.9        2.0
Za Average haul distance  ton-kilometers/tons transported.
TABLE 2.3B: HENAN: PASSENGER TRAFFIC, 1980-94
Annual
growth (%)
1980     1985      1989    1990    1991      1992      1993       1994    (1985-94)
Passengers Transported (millions)
Railways             48.60    57.23     54.76    44.29    42.23    42.71     46.03     45.63     (2.5)
Highways            101.51   307.29    466.34   489.77   481.71   537.03    565.11    579.46     7.3
Civil aviation           -        -      0.07     0.11     0.10     0.16      0.26      0.46
Inland waterway       0.81     1.21      2.11     1.50     1.19     1.06      1.46      0.81    (4.4)
Total             150.92   365.76    523.28   535.67   525.23   580.96    612.16    626.86      6.2
Passenger-Kilometers (billions)
Railways             12.24    20.97     28.00    22.99    24.95    27.55     27.54     30.54     4.3
Highways              4.14    11.34     20.82    19.31    20.96    23.56     23.56     26.07     9.7
Civil aviation           -        -                  -       -        -          -         -      -
Inland waterway       0.02     0.04      0.04     0.05     0.04     0.04      0.05      0.02
Total              16.40    32.35     48.86    42.35    45.95    51.15     53.85     56.63      6.4
Average Travel
Distance La
Railways             428.1    366.5     511.3    519.0   590.9   644.9       642.8     669.2     6.9
Highways              40.7     36.9      44.6    39.4    43.6    43.7         42.9      45.0     2.2
Civil aviation-                   -                  -        -        ---                        -
Inland waterway       28.4     30.6      19.0    30.7    31.1       35.8      30.8      24.7    (2.2)
All modes            108.7    88.4       93.4    79.1      87.5     88.0      78.9      90.3     0.2
La Average travel distance = passenger-kilometers/passengers transported.
Source: HPCD.



- 71 -
TABLE 2.4: FREIGHT TRANSPORTED BY ROAD (1985-94)
Million tons                        Billion ton-km                Ave%&c haul distance (bn)
Social    Public    PrSocial            ocial   Public   Private                              v
Year       truck la  truck lb      truck la   Total   truck   truck    truck    Total   truck   truck    truck    Total
1985       120.0      37.4      116.0    273.4       3.7      1.9     5.0      10.6    31       51      43        39
1986       130.6      37.7      109.7    278.0       4.0     2.0      4.0      10.0    31       52      36        36
1987       141.8      37.9      127.0    306.7       6.5     2.2      4.7      13.4    46       58      37        44
1988       147.7      39.1      106.0    292.8       7.0     2.5      4.4      13.9    47       64      42        47
1989       158.2      37.1       92.8    288.1       9.1     2.4      3.9      15.4    58       65      42        53
1990       162.5      37.2       88.5    288.2    10.1       2.0      4.0      16.1    62       54      45        58
1991       164.6      34.4       94.2    293.2    10.5       2.0      4.4      16.9    64       58      47        58
1992       200.1      32.7      111.2    344.0    13.9       2.1      4.9     20.9    69        64      44        61
1993       200.6      30.6      140.6    371.8    14.4        1.8     6.5     22.9    72        59      46        61
1994       225.8      23.9      154.5    404.2    16.8        1.8     7.2     25.8    74        75      47        64
Percent annual growth rate
1985-94  1   7.3      (4.8)       3.2       4.4    18.3    (0.6)      4.1      9.0    10.2       4.4      1.0      5.7
La       Own-account trucking, including govemment and collective enterprises.
Lb       Public carrier, including all govemment transport sector.
Privately owned.
Source: HPCD.
TABLE 2.5: TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS IN HENAN PROVINCE(1988-94)
Number of accidents   Number of fatalities    Number of persons injured
1988                  19,401                            3,411                             12,325
1989                  18,813                            3,264                             11,864
1990                 17,200                             3,085                             11,053
1991                 18,330                             3,183                             12,039
1992                 18,788                             3,891                             12,201
1993                 14,997                             3,630                             10,947
1994                 14,147                             3,648                             10,162
Source: HPCD.



(Y million)
Actual                                             Estimate
Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95)                    Ninth Five-Year Plan (1996-2000)
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995      8FYP    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000         9FYP
Total                                               Total
Revenues
Road maintenance fee                    754     788    1,170   1,250   1,360      5,322   1,470    1,600   1,740   1,880    2,050      8,740
Grants from MOC                          84       81     146    321      750      1,382     580     650      700     600      750      3,280
Grants from the Province                 31       36      40      44        0       151       0        0       0       0        0          0
Baiik loans                              28       65     181     802     842      1,918   1,172    1,287   1,406   1,304      716      5,885
Toll revenues                            42      46      295     617     970      1,970   1,183    1,345   1,585   1,709    1,834      7,656         >
Total                                 939    1,016   1,832   3,034   3,922    10,743   4,405   4,882   5,431   5,493    5,350    25,561
lAxpeniiliiuliesc
Io central governmilent                  94      114     120     130       80      538       84      90       97     104      112       487
TopublicsecLlrity /a                     10       10      10       10      10        50      10       10      10      10       10        50          9
New road conistiriction & imnpovement   528     521    1,216   2,414   3,010      7,689   3,380   3,470   3,720   3,560    3,500    17,630           V
Overhaul (10-15 years)                   53       66      95      105    309       628      330     351      372     393      414      1,860         t
Inteiiiediate maintenanice (7-8 years)   26       33      49      57      145      310      148      151     155     158      161       773
Routine maintenance                      61      71      120     126      137      515      148      153     162     164      167       794
Management, research, training          103      115     130      143     164      655      173      198     217     237      255      1,080
Repayment of loans                       64       86      92      49      67       358      132     459      698     867      731     2,887
Total                                 939    1,016   1,832   3,034   3,922    10,743   4,405   4,882   5,431   5,493    5,350    25,561
/a As approved by the Provincial Government, from 1989 onward, HPCD gives the Public Security Bureau Y 10.0 million aninially.
Souurce: IIPCD.



(Yuan per liter)
Before March 1984                    After March 1984                       March 1992                March 1994
Price       Price       Market       Price       Price       Market       Priice     Price      Markei        Market        Internalional
I IA       212          price        I A        2lb          price        I la      2/Lb        price         price            price
Gasoline1 (70oct)       0.53         0.70          ....       0.53        0.70         0.95        0.70        1.17       1.76        2.14            0.87
Index                    100          132          ....        100         132          179         132        221        332          404                               w
Gasoline (80 oct)       0.56         0.73          ....       0.56        0.73         0.98        0.77        1.22       1.84        2.22            0.99
Index                    100          130          ....        100         130          175         138        218         329         396
Diesel luel             0.46         0.68          ....       0.46        0.68         0.96        0.65        1.14       1.70        2.13            0.82
Index                    100          148          ....        100         148         209          141        248        370          461                               >
C onsunmer  price      .................  ........ I ... ...... I0............ ...  .................... ..... 129  ............ ............  .......... ......... . 189  .................  125.23r
index                                                                                                                                                                     -
/a Planned allocation prices.
/b Negotiated above quota.
1& Prices of gasoline include an aggregate of 43 percent central government fuel taxes.
id Prices of diesel include a 13 percent central government fuel tax.
Sources: I IPCD; I'laid's Oilgrum Price Repporl, McGraw-Ilill linc., New York, UJSA, Vol. 71, No. 128, p. 5.



- 74 -
TABLE 2.8: HIGH-GRADE HIGHWAYS TO BE CONSTRUCTED DURING 1996-2000
(Y million)
Class after     Length          Estimated cost       Construction
Highway                   improvement       (km)       Total       1996-2000       period
Kaifeng-Luoyang            Expressway        201        3,100         300          1995-96
Xinzheng-Xuchang          Expressway          46         840          370          1995-96
Anyang-Xinxiang            Expressway        125        2,100        1,000         1995-98
Xuchang-Luohe             Expressway          46        1,010        1,010        1998-2000
Luohe-Xinyang             Expressway         203        4,900       3,520          2000-04
Shangqiu-Kaifeng          Expressway         203        3,800       3,800         1996-2000
Luoyang-Sanmenxia          Expressway        141        4,080       4,080         1996-2001
Total                                     965       19,830       14,080
Source: HPCD.



ExIsing cMmitMaM                                                                   Poposed impovement
A.ADT               F   AADr  _                                  APupad
NlE      -                                                                                    ab.      M_.d (                      w     .    C.*-
-a_Sec.            ~      c      I     D        Lt> I Eit                             Y-       Y_   Y-    C_   _          i   waft               ShI          h _ a   d s
M..iT      ds    C_      k        U)   -bob   ( .)    O.W           Ym    _               I    NI.      NIS            (km)      Wa       (al     ih(        Pled      (YMl              1 t s
LlYmg    S                                         4.9                                         11,34   13,39    H      (4.9)      4      15        21.5    1995-96    (12.50)            7
n 4           15     21.5       2.0    Good    199 863             1,366   16,22   16.95                                                                      w                               CO
Xmi        S )   uaclaifihd                        3.0     poor    199    730          1,159   6,367   6,684      tn  3.0         4      15        200.5   1997-98      22.13
N                                       6.3    Por    199    730           1,153   1,944   2,U9  n          6.3       2       9        21.5    1997-98
tl"
Yitt       S       ID      2       6    20.75      3.1     Poor    199    611          969    65356   7,161      n      3.1       4      14.5      200.5   1997-91       9.51
Mi;_ji   S         li      2       6    20.75      2.0     Por    19      496         737    7,577   9.129    11       2.0       4      14.5   7'.7    I97.95           4.39
Gmyia   s          m       2       6    20.75    30.0    Good    199    160             317    1,020   2,016                                                                      lb-       hb-0
N      111     2       6    200.75    3.5       row     199    160          317    3.911   5.449    n        2.6       2      9        201.5    1997-91       7.55                                   0
Xi_a       N                                       4.3                                                          1n    (4.35)      4       2.8     2-0.75   'n4m        (40.70)    -                              0
a      4      15     2*0.5      3.0    Cood    199   6749          9,916   14,60   t9,26
Tod o Xi._, YiWa, M       lum a                   17.9                                                                                                                  43.53
.:                                                                                            . ini  .IhuueIi    i 



Training                         Equipment & Other                          Total Cost
In China        Abroad        Share    Share       Share       Share     In         In                     S share                 _
N      P/M      N      P/M   in Y'000  in $'000   in Y'000   in $'000        YS'000)'000          As % ollTotail  N (hi (000)
ORGANIZATIONAL STRENGTHENING
Training and Equipmeni
Offices in HPCD                           20.0  20.0       4.0    6.0      124.5    54.0      1,709.8       515.0      6,557.0     790.0         72            569.0 
0
World Bank-Financed Project Execution Office   -  -        4.0    6.0        0.0    54.0        590.1      177.8       2,513.8     302.9         77            231.8           z
Expressway Adminisiration Bureau         150.0  150.0     12.0   18.0      933.8   162.0      1,259.9      379.5       6,688.0     805.8         67            541.5           >
Transport Polytechnic School               7.0    7.0      3.0    4.5       43.6    40.5      1,274.5      383.9       4,840.5     583.2         73            424.4
Transport Vocational School               10.0   10.0      3.0   4.5        62.2    40.5      1,195.2       360.0      4,581.6     552.0         73            400.5
Scientific Research Center                 9.0    9.0      4.0    6.0       56.0    54.0      2,448.5      737.5       9,074.0   1,093.2         72            791.5
Links to Other Componcnts                                                                                                                                                      Z
Ilighway Sali:ty                           5.0    5.0      -      -         31.2     0.0         62.5       18.8        249.8       30.1         62             18.8            )
RIPA                                      20.0  20.0                       124.5     0.0          0.0       57.0        597.6       72.0         79             57.0                   ON 
Environmnental Protection                 43.0  43.0                      267.7      0.0          0.0                   267.7       32.2
Civil Works                                                                                                                                                                    3
Scientific Technolgy Center of HSRI l4                                       0.0                           900.0      29,000.0   3,494.0         26            900.0           2
C.)
STAFF DEVELOPIENT & TOURS
Specialized Training                      70.0  70.0      21.0  27.5      435.8   247.5           0.0         0.0      2,490.0     300.0         82            247.5           3
Awareness Tours                            -      -       30.0   15.0        0.0   165.0          0.0         0.0      1,369.5     165.0        100            165.0
STUDIES
Expressway Organization, Management &                                                         1,680.0      618.0       6,809.4     820.4         75            618.0           Z
Maintenance
C)
TOT Al.                            334.0  334.0      81.0   87.5   2,079.4   817.5      10,220.5     4,147.4     75,038.8   9,040.8         55          4,964.9           r)
0
/a Equipment for STC is includcd under procurement for the HSSRI.                                                                                                              0
Z



Trining in Chian                                                                  Traing Abroad                                            TOTAL
Subject of Training         Ag-ey                     Conrten Of Training                    N       P/M     Y'0O0                        Conent of Trairtng                     N      P/M    $000        in YO000   in S1000
INTENSIVE STRENGTHENING
Pr,oj.ectlplenenaution Ntanagerat    WBFPO                                                                                     MInnanemnofinrnationalonutacringo(nifc       sagr-g     30      45       405           3362       405
projqect, anwd orumnagaaent and cost conuol, negoatimg us
of etra  funds and Lind rasing
HPTC   Planing &ad Suaistic. ue of rcoputm and safiwre in      IO        O   0   62                                                                                              6 2        0 7
collcsu and aalysis of dawa prepaati on peridic
repos to World BDnk
HPTVS   Planing and Stati      e of conpute  ad aiwe ar        2 0      2 0       12 5                                                                                           12          t I S
cejikclin and analysis of dan, prepatauon of perodic
repor so World Dank
Itihghy Pav,emrt Cone ut n           tKillAII  Counrucutsipesvira  FlD)ICprocacs, peaces.           21.0     260u     161 a     Q     ruy ruuotughlwh-y -u.-1i- -pircuJ.. pl...pt l  It   0 t       S    I tJS        273 9      J 30 
quihty conuol, tbriry nd praruce of voonnoa                                       design of pavanio ai
p-                                                                                                                                                                                              r
HSFI                                                                                      Pavaemnt eguaeug pa et structure tesunag by             2 0      3 0    27 0         224 1       270 0
baoer deleckmaer, appicatuin and a ntune of 
rerote infrued appmau                                                                                         .-
HPTC   Oa4-bejobtiuiuaignmnoncbanidcenattn ionuad              20       20        125     Mhecamud conructio   n quality teatie                    to0     to      13to        124 6       t$0
bigbway danip 
Hqbb tr' Higway Lban_                HGHAB  On-dbe-job min_g in cmauaten ._nagea:                   24 0     24 0      149 4     Manmgevneam  metdns, qualty coonuol and FIDIC          3 0     4 5    405          483 6       53 S 
-nort o       -     race                                                          pcedarer;
I way (peatm  & lainene              tIIIIAB  O(-ik-jobmaingi  n         r      e y   bitw          S70      570      3541      Advancrulidir and tcwc-cs al tpx iupcatns                50      7 5    07 5         915 1      1101 2C
Flac sm                                       oaiaia    ad ma_moace pla_), i _kmama        ( g.                                 mod tlraimaatr  nangatit                                                                                       0
mitanaI sblae. nin kw apwaina  maammae and 
-
HFTC   Trainng  ai mi        isp    ps        mr arag s        2 0      2 0      12 S     Advancd tubtods and technques of tranapmr operion       I 0     I 5     13 5        124 6       IS O
systm  1  umyim. _v     bwi y ' m- ausknce ad NWnagement
mmanagnmot menA&
HlPTVS   Priuipl eur nandn   bgwn yh         ea                2 0      2 0       12 3                                                                                           12 5        I S
appn  ad ne   ellgy in higway aiuaenanc
Equip        AppLia   Maag     t      HS7U    On-ile-job  Fa           errnd for  rapi  ad .anan re oar  60   60       374                                                                                            374         45           o
and Serav                                       fared ynv   dev-, dynmc mein  yIn             far pale
fouamm  acmuin-ecolled hydaidk ucaiveruls
mn macne; ag  overbamiling rning tunalgy
am emobde quWiny wnar4y; ao n appiaen of
ksANca    CAD
IIPTC   M onmc fadt unio . i ad 4-wl epopi,aon No.#            tO      1t0       62    OfprvAiMad              nceoad     o    itingppkean        t0      1 5    1I5          III3        142
and d-nvict
II'VS  Traaungoftiasni n usmsanngmaeaad aswaont cof             40      40        24Y9     Achbwhofaupoaoa ndaiaiaumntol 1i1611 cInstia tn    J0           405   4-t5           3d  1       43S
nrvacas  and         ac eqwapmeui                                                 Machinery
bghway Svy and Dig                   HGH/AB  Paem      s  -ce deigaw afxblekandrgidpvana            200      200       1243     Mateias abnd ming stady applicaon of quity of  Iphat      O      IS     135          2366        235
and dning. aitit. deip ofaunatyped                                               mataeral, advaced mth  or em   asphalt a  co e
nch-P



Tr_auiq 'a Chm                                                               Trenog Abroad                                        TOTAL
SLiJ,.ndTraaiT g          Al-Cy                     Ca ofTrmag                         N        4    Y'000                       ContentofTrnug                      N      i/I   S'0O0      inY000  'aS 000
Couptrr (bad-w. A setwe)         IWCD4IQ  Offic _mmmiam iimsdomm piamiq cimer  20.0    200     124 5                                                                                                    1245       Is0
_  md 
HSIU f ,-Jb vam"fa r _at _pm   netwt wihaim  mad    30             3.0      15.7     Admiced comuwr (chaoky Wa k btr MNtDBsTn            2 0     3 0    27 0        242 8      29 3
oPaUm, sdfwupglcadia at alckmAm em_ur-                                      (arudwat sum hvapow fracuocal ,drval, Au vidro
d   i                                                                       mary, am" .edmoogy d CD-T3R4
Eigth TmIg6m                      WRFPO                                                                                 Swum mmraiuiasokiaapoangoAacomma                    I0      IS    13.5         1111       133
a: pg  u Mad          in -wag thar k aedji
-d fia-    pttr
Td _eadcm ioma woeks             IIICIIQ                                                                                 E rosand md Piaclat in ulccmcal                     40      60    540          448 2      54o0
eag 1mima-  WwmaauW md aqwip
Twvaic Ea^_a.i                     3WTC   O-lba-jb Wm" fat ra_uac WA _rm ct of                 1 0     1.0       62                                                                                       e2        0 a
Fira       bl_MmmH                             h ImiOOAB   a amacat dola dwcKm                14.0    140       n72     Adtacad amad _dta tackmas of a1eiaa conIol.          I0      \S    13$          1991       239
mmaq. 5_  f alo-aiiM   d uag_                                               ath uag aid pNW rma
HITVS  Trai             d     - ofarama matamp aia gbodjao  1.0     10        6.2                                                                                      62        07
MceuaPq_a9atm of co,pu-. _me             dwory of
fia.ca ,y       -
Pcaned & Libar Aiauuaaiu          IIGIAB  A      _naal,l    of mqowa, capisL_icadpauoad        90      90       560                                                          10      1 S    135         161        202
am cepimatal hohayer 
IlPTVS   Taaigfga            qlicair m tapena               1.0     10        6.2 
NWd blabr  _Aaa. Phy-ul op_d Ofm
Sab11ma 3,.8   1%.6   1.220.1                                                                                                                                             30.00  45.40  4ff.        4,81.G     55Z.6
COlIPREIIENSIVE TRlAINING
Iiphway Opomom *a Ma iosas                                                                    50.0    50.0    3113                                                           7.0   105    945         1.09S7      132.0
Moaj    _d EvaluiII                                                                                                                                                            0     8 0    72          597 6      72 
TtaTic EmVmwuwq& Umaqmi                                                                       20.0    200      124.5                                                         60      90    S10          7968       960
Sabi"                                                                                     72.6   72.6    43&8                                                             21.6   27.5  24753        1,4"..     300.6
AWAREN8SS TOURS
Openaaw.&Maiamamaceof HGWiays                       60      30    330          2739       330
Machaica,. amA MuM o b4od .my miaueaace             60      1 0    33.0        2719       330
Fmbilay and appraisalm   ad                         6 0     3 0    330         273 9      330
Ex-posm eW u      elpoaiak.aa rishods               60      30    330          2739       330
W     dh of fd remain ghr biwu y imrlaeau           60       30    330         2719       33 0
Saia..A                                                                                     *.6      6.6      6.6                                                         36.6   Is.0   140.6       41,34.5     I3S.6
OTIILE TRAINING
Higway Seafy                                                                                   30      30       311                                                                                      313         )3
WIPA                                                                                          200    20.0      1245                                                                          00         124.5      ISO
Ea^i.unenal Prroc                                                                             43 0    430      2680                                                                                     26 0       123
Subhaa                                                                                                      423.6                                                                         e.0        423.6       51.6
TOTAL                                                                                      334.0   334.0   2,679.4                                                        51.4   47.5  S17.5        8864.4   1".9



- 79 -
TABLE 3.4: PROJECT COST SUMMARY la
(December 1995 prices: $1.00 = Y 8.30)
Y million                   S million           Foreign
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total   costs (%)
A. Works
LSE
Civil Works                           1,553.4   1,035.6  2,589.0   187.16   124.77   311.93    40
Traffic Engineering lb                  35.7    143.0   178.7    4.30    17.23    21.53        80
Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection            25.7      17.2    42.9    3.10       2.07     5.17     40
Link Roads la                            26.2      17.4    43.6    3.15       2.10     5.25     40
RIPA                                    437.2    145.8   583.0   52.67    17.57    70.24        25
Black Spots                              10.0       0.0    10.0    1.20       0.00     1.20      0
Research Center                          13.5       7.5    21.0      1.63     0.90     2.53     36
Subtotal                            2,101.7   1,366.5  3,468.2  253.11    164.64   417.85     39
B. Construction Supervision
LSE, Link Roads and YBC                  75.7      45.4   121.1      9.12     5.47    14.59     37
RIPA and Research Center                  8.5       0.0      8.5    1.02      0.00     1.02      0
Subtotal                              84.2      45.4   129.6   10.14       5.47    15.61      35
C. Equipment Id
LSE Operation & Maintenance              37.1      20.3    57.4    4.47       2.44     6.91     35
Highway Network Maintenance               0.2      10.0    10.3    0.03       1.20     1.23     98
Environmental Monitoring                  0.0       0.3      0.3    0.00      0.04     0.04    100
Institutional Strengthening/Training      0.5      21.2    21.7    0.06       2.56     2.62     98
Highway Safety                            0.1       0.2      0.3    0.01      0.02     0.03     67
Subtotal                              37.9      52.0    89.9    4.57       6.26    10.83      58
D. Staff Training
Comprehensive Training                    0.4       2.1      2.5    0.05      0.25     0.30     84
Institutional Strengthening & Training    1.2       3.4      4.6    0.15      0.41     0.56     73
Other Training                            0.4       1.4      1.8    0.05      0.17     0.22     77
Subtotal                               2.0       6.9      8.9    0.25      0.83      1.08     77
E. Studies
Expressway Organization,                  2.2       3.4      5.6    0.26      0.41     0.67     61
Management & Maintenance
HighwayTrafficAccidents                   1.5       1.5      3.0    0,19      0.18     0.37     49
Subtotal                               3.7       4.9      8.6    0.45      0.59      1.04     58
Total Base Cost                     2,229.5   1,475.7  3,705.2  268.62   177.79   446.41      40



- 80 -
Y million                  S million           Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   costs (%/0)
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                 218.6    141.2   359.8   26.33    17.01    43.34       39
Price Contingencies                    623.6    132.3   755.9   75.13    15.93    91.06       18
Subtotal                             842.2    273.5  1,115.7  101.46    32.94   134.40     25
land AcquIsition & Resettlement
LSE                                   182.9      0.0   182.9   22.04       0.00    22.04      0
Link Roads                              2.8      0.0      2.8    0.34      0.00     0.34      0
YBC                                     6.5       0.0     6.5    0.78      0.00     0.78      0
RIPA                                   14.5      0.0    14.5    1.75       0.00     1.75      0
Subtotal                             206.7      0.0   206.7   24.91      0.00    24.91      0
Total                              3,278.4  1,749.2  5,027.6  394.99   210.73   605.72      35
lA  Cost estimate does not include Y 90 million in taxes.
lb Cost estimate does not include Y 22 million in taxes and duties.
lS Cost estimate does not include Y 2 million in taxes.
Ld Cost estimate does not include Y 20 million in taxes and duties.



- 81 -
TABLE 3.5: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
($ million)
Disbursement profile
Bank fiscal year            Estimated disbursements        of transport projects
and semester          Semester    Cumulative      %         in China (%) da
1997
December 31, 1996         10           10           5
June 30, 1997 1           10          20           10              3
1998
December 31, 1997         18          38           18             10
June 30, 1998             17          55          26              18
1999
December31, 1998         23           78           37             26
June30, 1999             22          100          48              34
2000
December 31, 1999        25          125          60              46
June 30, 2000            25          150          71              58
2001
December 31, 2000        23          173          82              70
June 30, 2001            22          195          93              78
2002
December 31, 2001         10         205          98              86
June 30, 2002              5         210         100              94
la Based on most recent disbursement profile available (August 1995).
Lb Includes initial payments into Special Accounts and advance payments to contractors.
Notes: (1)   Project Completion Date: June 2002.
(2)   Loan Closing Date: December 2002.
Source: Mission estimates.



- 82 -
TABLE 4.1: GROWTH OF TRAFFIC ON EXISTING LUOYANG-SANMENXIA HIGHWAY
(AADT measured in mte)
Location              Xinan         Mianchi    Guanyintang     Lingbao
1990
Motorized                3,992        2,860         2,662         2,527
Other                      452        1,074          449           739
Total                  4,444       3,934         3,111         3,266
1995
Motorized                 8,589       7,245         6,935         2,839
Other                      649         769           257           887
Total                  9,238       8,014         7,192         3,726
Annual Growth (%)
1987-90                     11          12            15             5
1991-95                     16          15            18             3
1987-95                     14          14            17             4
TABLE 4.2: Low TRAFFIC PROJECTION
(AADT measured in mte)
2000                        2020
Section of road       Without  With    Total       Without  With   Total
tolls    tolls   corridor   tolls   tolls  corridor
East - Luoyang         10,658    7,720             21,274   19,636
Luoyang-Xinan         17,578   12,847   18,620     42,209   38,980  53,020
Xinan-Mianchi         15,901   11,616   16,323     44,293   40,876  50,002
Mianchi- Guanyintang    14,886   10,866   17,907   43,838   40,466  48,988
Guanyintang-Sanmenxia  16,445   12,003   17,420    41,141   42,652  51,308
Sanmenxia-West         10,085    8,782   14,467    33,975   31,343  43,108
Note: Corridor total is the sum of traffic (mte) on the proposed LSE and traffic on the
existing highway.



- 83 -
TABLE 4.3: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC UNIT COSTS
Economic/
Cost component         Units    Financial Cost Economic Cost  financial cost
(Y)           (Y)           (0/%)
Construction Costs
Timber                 tons       1,680          1,306              77.7
Cement                 tons         313           238               76.0
Asphalt                tons       1,938          1,589              82.0
Steel                  tons       3,970         2,625               66.1
High-tensile steel     tons       7,844         5,869               74.8
Vehicle Operations
Fuel               '000 ton-km       92.61         78.02            84.2
Maintenance                         110.21        107.60            97.6
Time                                 30.76         30.76           100.0
Other                               136.01        123.64            90.9
Total                            369.59        340.02            92.0
TABLE 4.4: EcONOMic EVALUATION-BASE CASE AND
SENSITIVITY TEST EVALUATION RESULTS
Economic Rate of
Return (EIRR), %
Base case (whole route)                                     19.0
Luoyang-Xinan                                             19.3
Xinan-Mianchi                                              18.3
Mianchi-Guanyintang                                        18.9
Guanyintang-Sammenxia                                      18.8
Guanyintang Connection                                      16.0
Without tolls                                              21.6
Zero value of time                                          17.5
Lower traffic projection                                    18.5
Cost level for minimum acceptable evaluation result (%)     150
Benefit level for minimum acceptable evaluation result (%)   55



- 84 -
TABLE 4.5: SENSITIVITY OF EVALUATION RESULTS (EIRR %) TO
COST AND BENEFIT VARIATION
Variation                                        Variation in Benefits
in costs     50%      60%      70%     80%      90%     1000/a   110%    1200/o   130%    140%    150%
500/a    19.01    21.40   23.57   25.57   27.44   29.20   30.86   32.45   33.96   35.42   36.82
60%      16.82    19.01    21.01    22.86   24.59   26.20   27.74   29.20   30.60   31.92   33.22
700/o    15.09    17.15    19.01   20.74   22.35   23.86   25.29   26.65   27.94   29.20   30.40
80%      13.69    15.63    17.40    19.01   20.54   21.95   23.31    24.59   25.81    26.97   28.11
900/a    12.52    14.36    16.02    17.58    19.01    20.38   21.65   2286    24.02   25.13    26.20
1000/a    11,51    13.27    14.87    16.36    17.73    19.01    20.24   21.40   22.51    23.57   24.59
110%      10.64    12.33    13.87    15.29    16.61    17.85    19.01   20.13    21.19   22.21    23.18
1200/a    917      1.51    12.98    14.36    15.63    16.82    17.94    19.01    20.03    21.01    21.95
130%       9.20    10.78    12.21    13.53    14.76    15.90    16.99    18.02    19.01    19.96   20.87
140%       8.60    10.11    11.51    12.79    13.96    15.09    16.14    17.15    18.10    19.01    19.89
150%       8.04    9.54    10.87    12.11    13.27    14.36    15.38    16.36    17.28    18.16    19.01
TABLE 4.6: FINANCIAL EVALUATION4
Value
Input data
Total project cost                                                    Y 4,133 million
Debt                                                                  Y  1.743 million
Equity                                                                Y 2.390  million
Period of loan                                                             20 years
Loan interest rate                                                          6.5%
Commitment fee                                                       0.75%  of balance
Grace period                                                               5 years
Basic               Lower toll             Higher con-
Results                                   evaluation               revenue             struction cost
a. Rate of return on equity                 14.80%                 10.21%                 10.35%
b. Net Present Value                    Y 555 million          Y -281 million         Y -369 million
c. Financial rate of return                 4.36%                  2.47%                   2.33%



- 85 -
TABLE 4.7: ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE FIRST PACKAGE OF RIPA
AADT traffic volume (mte)
Length in km                  Estimated    Influenced    Current      Estimated
System      Class     Class     Unclassi-    Subtotal      cost      population     traffic       traffc        EIRR
no.          III       IV         fied                   (Y'000)       ('000)       (1994)        (2011)        (%/.)
4              -       52         42            94         4,468         202         1,791       10,576        16.0
5              -         -        6S            6S         1,651          92           739        6,526        14.2
7            35          -          -           35         2,150         107           462        4,551        17.0
8              -         -        143          143         4,469         216           495        5,365        15.1
9              -       44         56           100         4,010         150         1,051        5,704        21.2
10             -       66         45           111        4,316          180          523         7,952       23.4
11             -         -        68            68         1,670         115           120        1,075       28.0
12             -         -        43            43         1,075         155           175        6,761       31.6
Total                                         662       23,809         1,217                                  19.6
Average






- 87 -                     ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: ROADS IMPROVEMENT FOR POVERTY
ALLEVIATION (RIPA)
1.    A three-stage screening process was agreed: (a) an initial screening, designed to
select "priority counties," counties whose composite ranking on selected demographic,
economic and social criteria, identifies them as the most in need of improved road
transport as an element in alleviating their "poverty" situation; (b) a second screening
focusing on the cost effectiveness of each roads improvement system per population
served; and (c) a detailed economic and social analysis of those RIPA systems that
successfully meet the criteria of the first two screening procedures.
First-Stage Screening
2.    Identification and Definition of Poor Counties. In 1993, the Henan Provincial
Government (HPG) used the following criteria for defining poor counties: (a) counties
that received poverty alleviation funds from SPC and HPG during 1986-93, and whose
per capita annual income in 1993 was <Y 600; (b) the counties that were defined as poor
by HPG in 1986 and in 1993, if their income was SY 450. Twenty-eight of the Henan
counties have been identified by SPC as the Poor counties. An additional six counties, with
a poverty line at <Y 450 per capita/year, have been identified by Henan Province. Of a total
poor population of 7.6 million, 68 percent (approximately 5.2 million) live in these 34
counties and their 279 townships. The remaining 2.4 million poor people (32 percent of the
total) live in another 195 townships outside of the designated poor counties.
3.    Ranking and Selection of Poor Counties for RIPA. Henan's counties were
ranked according to a composite score taking into account the following indicators:
(a)   Income Ranking: to assess the extent of poverty; this ranking is based on
the counties' average per capita income, and the counties with the lowest
incomes were ranked the highest for RIPA selection. The average per
capita income in 1993 varied from Y 200 to Y 450, and was allocated 5
points in the ranking system. Counties with the lowest incomes were
given the highest ranking. The counties with per capita average incomes
of Y 200-249 were given 5 points, Y 250-299 with 4 points, Y 300-349
with 3 points, Y 350-399 with 2 points and Y 2400 with only I point.
(b)   Poverty Ranking: This indicator is intended to identify the "very poor"
counties, those with an annual per capita income <Y 300. The number of
the very poor as a percent of the total county population was used to
determine the index of poverty ranking. This index varied from 20 percent
to 59 percent, and was allocated 5 points. The counties with the highest



- 88 -                    ANNEX 1
percentage of the very poor were given the highest rank. The counties
with the very poor population being 50 to 59 percent were given 5 points,
40 to 49 percent with 4 points, 30 to 39 percent with 3 points, 20 to
29 percent with 2 points and less than 20 percent given 1 point.
(c)   Value of Agricultural Production:   was measured through the
importance of agriculture andforestry as the economic base and source of
income. Total land area in agriculture and forestry as a percentage of total
county land area was used as a surrogate index and was allocated 5 points.
This varied from 30 percent to 70 percent. When this index was in the
highest range of 60 to 70 percent, 5 points were allocated, 4 points for 50
to 59 percent, 3 points for 40 to 49 percent, 2 points for 30 to 39 percent
and 1 point for less than 30 percent;
(d)   Value of Mineral Production:  in 1993 was another indicator with
S maximum points and varied from Y 2 million to Y 130 million. When
the value of annual mineral production was >Y 100 million, that county
was given 5 points, Y 70-100 million 4 points, Y 40-70 million 3 points,
Y 10-40 million with 2 points and <Y 100 million with I point. As
inaccessibility increases transport cost of mineral resources and hinders
their exploitation, mineral resources potential offers a good measure of
the potential benefits of improved transport. Counties with higher value of
mineral production were scored higher on that basis; and
(e)   Social Development Indicators: based on 1993 data, were allocated
5 points as follows: (i) population without clean drinking water varied
from  5 to 77 percent of total county population.  When this was
>=41 percent, that county was allocated 1 point. Other counties were
allocated zero points; (ii) the number of health workers per 10,000
persons was used as an indicator of access to health services and was
allocated 1 point. It varied from 12 to 40. Counties with lower access
(S25 health workers per 10,000 persons) were given 1 point. All other
counties with higher degree of health access were given zero points;
(iii) percent of people who cannot read or write (number of persons per
10,000 population) was used as an educational indicator. This varied from
0.29 to 15.33. Counties with the higher illiteracy (27.7 persons per 10,000
population) were allocated 1 point. All other counties with higher literacy
were allocated zero points; (iv) Food for Work Program (FWP)
expenditures in each county varied from zero to Y 1.2 million per year.
They were used as a surrogate to unemployment and were allocated
2 points.  Counties in the bottom one-third range of FWP annual
expenditures (<Y 400,000) were given zero points, middle-third range
(Y 400,000-800,000) with I point and the top-third range (>Y 800,000)
given 2 points.



-89 -                      ANNEX 1
4.    On the basis of the above, the ranking of 34 poor counties varied from a low of 7 to
a high of 20, out of maximum possible rank of 25 (the higher the score the more is the
county in need of road improvements). Twenty-one counties had a ranking of >10 and all
of these were included in RIPA.. In the 34 poor counties, 26 administrative townships
currently have only seasonal roads. These townships are in mountainous areas: Dabai
mountains, Tong Bai mountains, Fu Niu mountains, and Xiao Han mountains. Some of
these townships are in four counties with ratings of <10 (Xi Chuan, Xin Xian, Shang
Cheng, and Gushi). However, the highest priority of RIPA is to provide all-weather access
to these townships and therefore, it was agreed during preparation to include these four
counties in RIPA.
5.   It was also agreed to include Xin Yang county (rating of 9) and Luo Shan county
(rating of 10) within RIPA because of the importance of efficiently connecting the "poor
county" road systems to the National Railway Network. Another important priority is
proper all-weather connectivity between counties themselves. Considering this, Bei Yang
county was included (rating of 9).  The Nanjing-Xian Railway is currently under
construction and is to be completed in 1998-99. It was considered important to connect the
two poor counties of Luan Chuan and Lushi to this railway in Xi Xia county, even though
Xi Xia is not one of the poor counties. Based upon these considerations, 28 of the 34 poor
counties are included in the first screening of RIPA. In addition, Xi Xia , which is not a
poor county, will be included in RIPA. This makes the total number of counties selected
for inclusion in the Bank-financed component of RIPA to be 29.
Second Stage Screening of Poor Counties
6.    The purpose of the second screening was to select an initial basket of road systems
from which a RIPA component for the Project could be identified. The criteria below were
applied to the full basket of road segments proposed by Henan Province for the counties
selected in the first screening stage. It was agreed that these criteria would be used in
descending order of priority:
- Upgrade seasonal roads to all-weather unclassified roads, including
rehabilitation and upgrading of culverts and bridges as necessary;
. Build new all-weather roads to those townships that do not have any road
connections;
* Upgrade unclassified roads to Class IV roads;
* Build new Class IV roads; and
* Rehabilitate and or build short critical sections of Class III roads.
As a result, the initial RIPA basket covers 29 counties with 40 highway systems (consisting
of 98 segments) totaling 2,291 km, with an estimated total cost of Y 839 million.



- 90 -                      ANNEX 1
Initial Basket of RIPA Road Systems
7.    The road segments in the poorest counties, which are to be constructed and
rehabilitated as part of Henan's Provincial RIPA program, is described in Table 1 below.
Over 88 percent of the total cost of these roads are for Class IV and Unclassified road
segments.
Table 1. INITIAL BASKET OF 40 RIPA ROAD SYSTEMS
Road Classification    Length in km       Estimated Cost   Estimated Cost as
(Y million)       % of RIPA
Unclassified            1,404               355               42.32
Class IV               714                387               46.16
Class III              173                 97               11.52
Total                2,291               839               100.00
Screening of RIPA Initial Basket for Implementation
8.    The System Cost Ratio (SCR) or the cost of each system divided by the population
in the influence area, was used for screening the initial RIPA systems basket. Based on this
criterion, the most cost-effective systems would have the highest priority for
implementation. However, it was recognized that simple cost factors build inequity,
especially when costs are higher and population densities are lower in mountainous areas,
when compared to lower road construction costs in rolling or flat terrain. Therefore, it was
agreed that the SCR for systems in mountainous areas would be adjusted by a cost factor of
0.66 (SCR will be multiplied by 0.66). It was also agreed that the Class III roads included
in RIPA will not be subject to the SCR screening as their economic intemal rate of return
(EIRR) will have to be equal or >12 percent. Where a system consists of Class III and
lower class roads, HPCD can, for the purposes of the feasibility analysis, use the combined
system (Class III and access roads ) or separate the Class III road as a system by itself.
However, if the Class III roads are combined with the access roads for analysis, then the
EIRR must be that for Class III roads (i.e., = or >12 percent ). If they are analyzed
separately, then the EIRR will vary according to their classification.
RIPA Implementation Basket
9.    Based upon above considerations and subject to a total budget of Y 650 million
(Y 583 million without contingencies), the RIPA Implementation Basket was developed by
HPCD and reviewed by the Bank. This implementation basket includes the road systems
that will be subject to the Third-Stage economic and social analysis, and to the required
minimum EIRR (para. 12 of this Annex).



-91-                          ANNEX I
Table 2. RIPA IMPLEMENTATION BASKET
Road Classification        Total Cost (Y million)     Total cost as % of RIPA
Grade III                      97                         16.6
Grade IV                       216                        37.1
Unclassified                    270                         46. 3
Total                        583                        100.0
RIPA Implementation Plan under the Project
10.   Based upon the preceding considerations, and the practicality of implementation, a
plan for the execution of RIPA systems financed under the proposed project, was developed
by HPCD and reviewed by the Bank. This plan is shown as Table 3.
Table 3. RIPA IMPLEMENTATION PLAN La
Implementation Year          1997               1998              1999        Total
Systems to be Implemented  #12, #14, #18,   #2, #5, #6, #7, #10, #13,  #1, #9, #25,
#21, #22, #23,    #16, #20, #28, #31, #34,  #26, #33, #40
#24, #27 &2    #35, #36, #37, #38, #39
Number of systems           8 systems         16 systems        6 systems   30 systems
Total length (kin)            662                746              259         1,667
Estimated Cost (Y million)    224                245              114         583
% of total cost              38%                42%               20%/e       100%
la 1995 and 1996 are project preparation years ( feasibility analysis, engineering, bid and contract process).
Lk Refers to number assigned by HPCD to road systems in RIPA Transport Plan.
Third-Stage Screening of RIPA Systems
11.   The third-stage screening consists of an analysis of the economic and social benefits
of each of the roads systems proposed for consideration in the RIPA Implementation Plan at
the end of the Second-Stage screening. The following criteria were used in this stage:
Analysis as Groups of Small Systems. The road segments were analyzed as
groups of small systems rather than on a segment by segment basis. RIPA
roads need not be paved roads but must provide all-weather access, and thus
the proposed systems include "unclassified Nonmotorized Transport (NMT)"
(e.g., bicycles, animal-drawn carts, tractors, and jeeps) roads, "unclassified"



-92 -                      ANNEX I
all-weather roads, i.e., below "Class IV," and "classified roads-Class IV and
Class III."
*  Use of Motorization Data to Identify NMT Requirements. Data on the
number of motor vehicles (in different classifications such as cars, trucks,
motorcycles, tractors ) in the counties to be connected by the proposed RIPA
systems is required for this analysis. This information was reviewed in the
context of recent high growth of motorization. The primary purpose of the
review was to confirm that the type of road systems proposed (classified,
motorized, nonmotorized) fits with the trends in the motor vehicle population
and their use.
*  Variations in Expected Minimum  Economic Internal Rate of Return
(EIRR). This depends upon the types of roads within each proposed system.
The system classification for analysis of EIRR is based upon the dominant
class of road within the system.  For example, if the dominant part
(>50 percent of length in km) is unclassified, then the EIRR expected is that
for unclassified roads (both new and rehabilitated). If the dominant part of the
system is Class IV, the expected EIRR is that for the Class IV roads (new,
upgraded and rehabilitated).
12.   The expected EIRR varies as follows:
(a)   Unclassified Roads: Expected Minimum EIRR of 8-10 percent.
(i)    All new roads for Nonmotorized Transport (bicycles and animal
carts) and farmers' vehicles (tractors and jeeps) that may not
necessarily be designed for trucks but primarily to provide access
to farmers and their local economic activities; and
(ii)    New and rehabilitated all- weather unclassified roads.
The expected EIRR for primary access roads (unclassified roads) is lower
than the other classes of roads. Therefore, the EIRR, in this case, must be
supported by higher social benefits (population getting new access,
population getting better access and improvement in the social indicators
included in the county ranking system (outlined below).
(b)   Class IV Roads: Expected Minimum EIRR 10-12 percent
These roads include upgrading of unclassified roads to Class IV,
rehabilitation of existing Class IV roads, and new Class IV roads. If the
EIRR is low, then social benefits (as discussed below) should be high.



- 93 -                      ANNEX 1
(c)   Class III Roads: Expected Minimum EIRR 12 percent
These roads include new and rehabilitated Class III roads, and roads
upgraded from Unclassified or Class IV to Class IlI.
13.   Social benefits are defined as increases in access to health services (clinics and
hospitals), availability of potable water, access to educational services (reduced
educational dropout rates and adult literacy) and improved access to employment
(reduced dependence on FWP expenditures). These rates were not calculated for the first-
year package, but for subsequent years will be calculated by extrapolation with the
existing situation in nearby comparator counties with greater access to roads. The
proportion of the total population getting new and better all-weather access (through
improved connectivity and reduction of travel time and cost) will also stand as an
indicator of social benefits. These social benefits will be calculated for each subsequent
RIPA system to be evaluated prior to its inclusion into an implementation package for
Bank approval.
14.   As influence areas and beneficiary populations change over time, the system cost
ratio, SCR (cost of the proposed system per person in the influence area, adjusted for
mountain terrain) might change accordingly. In order for such systems to continue to be
included in the RIPA Implementation plan, the SCR should be <Y 189. If the SCR is
>Y 189, HPCD can further amend the system or delete it from implementation altogether.
In the event of a system being so deleted, then HPCD must select the next most cost-
effective system from the list of systems agreed upon with the Bank. However, the systems
to be added (chosen initially on the basis of lowest SCR) will also be subjected to social and
economic analysis and must meet the agreed upon EIRR criteria.
15.   Should any of the systems still not yield the required EIRR, it was agreed that:
(a) for all Class III roads, HPCD can either amend the proposed system or delete the
systems and substitute it by either Class III or lower class road systems; these new systems
must be economically feasible and must meet the EIRR considerations; (b) for all Class IV
and Unclassified roads, HPCD must use the list of priorities based upon modified SCR as
discussed in this Annex.
16.   HPCD will conduct a feasibility analysis for each of the subsequent systems before
inclusion in packages for Bank approval. HPCD will send to the Bank documentation as
follows:
(a)   For the second package of RIPA systems:
(i)   one selected feasibility analysis;
(ii)    a summary of feasibility analyses for all the systems in this package.



- 94 -                       ANNEX I
(b)    The summary report of feasibility analysis will include the following:
(i)    brief description of the RIPA system including its location, influence
area, major related highways;
(ii)    system details including segment lengths, estimated costs, system
cost ratio;
(iii)   traffic data including current traffic volumes, assumed growth
factors, traffic growth projections; and
(iv)    economic evaluation table showing net present value, cost benefit
ratio, economic internal rate of return, economic pay back period.



- 95 -                     ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR STUDY OF
ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF
TOLL HIGHWAYS
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Bank's experience worldwide, including China, has shown that the
establishment of toll road corporations often comes late in the period of highway or
expressway construction. As a result, some toll road corporations are not well organized
or vested with the authority they need to manage a modem road enterprise. High-grade
highway entities that are well-organized and managed are a critical requisite, both for
management of a rapidly expanding expressway network-one that is run efficiently
from technical, financial and safety perspectives-and in order to provide confidence to
potential investors.  The development of an implementation plan focusing on the
technical and managerial aspects of expressway operation should therefore come much
earlier in the expressway development process.
2.    High-Grade Highways in Henan Province. Henan Province has an area of
167,000 square kilometers and a population of 90 million people. It is an inland province
that is strategically located at the center of the most inhabited part of China. Most of the
strategic transport links (road and rail) running north-south and east-west cross in the
Province. The Central Government is requiring Henan to implement in the shortest time
the sections of those links located in the Province and to manage them with high
efficiency as they are critical to the nation.  Henan has already made substantial
investment in implementing sections of the north-south trunk highway (107) extending
from Beijing to Zhuhai (Guangdong Province) and the east-west trunk highway (310 and
312) extending from the Port of Lianyungang on the East China Sea (Jiangsu Province) to
Huoergousi (Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region) at the border of China with
Kazakhstan. A four-lane Class I Highway exists between Zhengzhou and Xinxiang (69
km). Efforts to provide full-access control to this highway are under way. Also, the 201
km four-lane expressway between Kaifeng, Zhengzhou and Luoyang has been open to
traffic. The 48 km four-lane expressway from Zhengzhou to Xinzheng is almost
complete and its southward extension to Xuchang (46 km) is under construction and is
expected to be completed by the end of 1996. The 124 km four-lane expressway between
Xinxiang and Anyang and the Hebei border in the north is under implementation and is
expected to be completed by the end of 1997. Under the proposed Second Henan
Provincial Highway Project, the 136 km four-lane expressway between Luoyang and
Sanmenxia will be constructed during 1997-2000. Moreover, depending on availability
of financing, Henan Province plans to construct the Kaifeng-Shangqiu Expressway (203
km) during 1997-2000, the Xuchang-Luohe (46 km four-lane) expressway during 1998-
2000 and its southward extension to Xinyang (203 km) during 2000-04. All of these



- 96 -                    ANNEX2
expressways are or will be operated as toll roads. The tolls are expected to at least cover
the operation and maintenance costs and the debt servicing.
3.    Existing and Future Organization.  Presently, the construction of the
expressways and the operation and maintenance of the completed sections are under the
responsibility of the Henan High-Grade Highway Construction Authority (HGHCA),
which is part of the Henan Provincial Communication Department (HPCD). HGHCA
was originally set up to construct, operate and manage the provincial high-grade highway
network. HPCD is in the process of studying and proposing for official approval to the
Provincial Authorities the establishment of a High-Grade Highway Administration
Bureau (HGHAB), which will be the Public Bureau responsible for the construction,
operation and maintenance of the expressway network. However, China is increasingly
introducing the market mechanism into the Chinese economy. Toll roads are believed to
be one of the areas where more efficiency, accountability and responsiveness to the users
could be achieved through other arrangements besides a public bureau.
4.    Operation and maintenance of toll expressways in China are often reduced to the
maintenance aspects:
(a)   Preliminary concepts like level of service for toll collection (toward the
user of the expressway) or toward safety (minimum rescue delays,
protection of endangered drivers and passengers), provision of facilities
(properly equipped and maintained rest and service areas), dynamic traffic
management in congested sections, etc., are still to be fully grasped.
(b)   Secondary concepts, such as fraud control, proper return on investment,
maximization of revenues are still considered as external to Toll
Expressway Operation and Maintenance.
(c)   Finally, tertiary concepts, such as independent state control of
performance,  subcontracting  of  some  activities,  private  sector
involvement, etc., are still considered as not feasible in China.
5.    At this stage in the development of Henan's highway sector, it is necessary to
address issues of Organization, Management and Maintenance of an effective structure
that is suited to the specific needs of expressways in Henan, and by extension to China as
a whole.
B. OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY
6.    The objectives of the proposed study are to:
(a)   draw on internationally recognized experience as well as on experience in
Henan and other provinces and China in the field of toll expressway
network management to recommend appropriate organizational structures
(that are suitable to Chinese conditions) to efficiently and safely manage



- 97 -                      ANNEX2
the high-grade highways in Henan Province, and balance the benefits to
the users with the toll authority's financial needs, and the returns to the
national economy;
(b)   propose strategies to the provincial authorities to bring the proposed toll
organization to international standards with special attention to
maintenance aspects of management including planning and budgeting,
financial systems, personnel and training, operational aspects such as
tolling, construction, communications, traffic surveillance, lists of required
equipment and inspection and maintenance procedures, traffic including
accident and incident management, marketing and public relations, etc.
C. SCOPE OF THE STUDY
The study shall include, but not necessarily be limited to the following tasks:
7.    International Models. The study should include the review and analysis of a
limited number of international models of toll expressway management such as in Europe
(France, Italy, Spain), Japan, North America (United States) and Latin America (Mexico,
Argentina). This review should concentrate, not only on the actual situation, with an
emphasis on the points listed below, but also on the various steps taken to reach the actual
situation together, whenever possible, with an analysis of the pros and cons of each step.
The objective of this step in the study is to identify leading criteria that will be used in
selecting the most appropriate Organization, Management and Tools for the Henan toll
expressway system.
8.    For each international model, the study shall list the main elements, such as, but
not limited to the:
(a)   respective master plans;
(b)   network in operation and at various stages of construction;
(c)    various steps for implementation (choice of the route, land acquisition,
design and construction, issue of permit to operate, etc.);
(d)   actors (State, Local Authorities, Public Sector, Private Sector) and their
respective roles;
(e)   various organizations, their respective responsibilities, structures and
means, as well as the criteria used for their setting up and evolution; and
(f)   various management tools (e.g., policies, personnel, procedure and fixed
and mobile equipment).
9.    The study shall analyze the way institutional aspects are handled in the various
countries, in order to outline critical factors for evaluation (such as, but not limited to,



- 98 -                       ANNEX2
management control, fulfillment of standards, identification of responsibility of each
party, vested authority, financing of toll roads, etc.).
10.   The study shall analyze the basis on which organizations dedicated to the
construction, operation and maintenance of the toll expressways are established in the
various countries, outline the pro and cons, in order to select leading criteria (such as
administrative led organizations, geographically oriented organizations, financially led
organization, centralized/decentralized organizations, etc.). Because of the expected large
size of the high-grade highways in Henan and the rest of China, and the consequent huge
financial burdens to build these roads, special attention should be paid to the financing of
toll roads.
11.   The study shall analyze the way Management Tools are established in the various
countries, outline the pros and cons, in order to select leading criteria (such as integrated
tools, level of subcontracting, etc.).  The end-result of the above activities is the
identification of leading criteria, together with their respective weight, to be used in
comparing the various international models.
12.   Existing Toll Organizational Structures in Henan and China. The study shall
identify the existing institutional setup for toll organizations in Henan Province and
elsewhere in China with particular emphasis on: (a) the Central Government and the
Ministry of Communications (MOC); (b) the Henan Provincial System; and
(c) developments already occurring in other provinces in China. The study shall place
special emphasis on the legal and regulatory framework that affects the construction,
financing, operation and maintenance of toll roads. The study shall present an overview
of the National Trunk Highway System, with key milestones and the detailed planning of
the Henan portion. The existing traffic volumes as well as future traffic volumes for the
Henan toll expressways shall be estimated, mainly from existing traffic volume counts
and available prefeasibility and technoeconomic feasibility study reports.
13.   The study shall show the following financial data for each of the toll expressways
in Henan: (a) construction costs split into land acquisition/resettlement, civil works,
buildings and equipment; (b) operating and maintenance costs (both existing and
expected future costs); and (c existing and future toll fees and revenues. The study shall
also identify existing standards applicable to expressway inspection and maintenance.
14.   Risk Analysis for Operation of Toll Highways. The study shall analyze the
various risks involved in operating a toll expressway, in order to stress the value of proper
organization and management tools for the operation and maintenance of the toll
expressways. The risk analysis shall be illustrated with examples, in order to strengthen
the value of the study. These risks relate to: (a) investment related risks and their
potential effects on the overall financial soundness of a project; (b) institutional risks
resulting from improper institutional arrangements (lack of state control, nonexistent
standards); (c) organizational risks related to improper organization; (d) management
risks related to improper management tools (lack of procedures, unqualified personnel,



- 99 -                       ANNEX2
under performing equipment); (e) traffic and safety risks related to traffic and safety (such
as cost of accident, loss of revenue); and (f) maintenance (short- and long-term) risks
related to maintenance, with respect to either the infrastructure or its users and in the
short term (localized inefficiency) and in the long term (integrity of the infrastructure).
15.   Proposed Level of Services. The objective of this task is to propose a set of
indicators of level of services, which shall be applicable to Henan and China in the short
term, with possible future improvement.  The study should refer to international
experience in this respect. This task includes: (a) Classification of Expressways: to
identify whether a new expressway classification, with reference to various level of
services, geometry, and urban or interurban situation is required and applicable in China;
(b) Toll Collection: the study shall propose indicator(s) for the level of service for toll
collection, as well s range(s) of values(s) (if applicable) for such items as waiting time at
the toll station, transaction time, and the reliability of the toll auditing systems;
(c) Safety: the study shall propose indicator(s) for the level of service for safety, as well
as range(s) of value(s) (if applicable) for such items as incident intervention time on the
expressway, repair of crash barriers and accident/incident monitoring indicators;
(d) Routine Maintenance: the study shall propose indicator(s) for the level of service
for routine maintenance, as well as range(s) of value(s) (if applicable) for such items as
litter picking, pavement cleaning, grass cutting; and (e) Heavy Maintenance: the study
shall propose indicator(s) for the level of service for heavy maintenance, as well as
range(s) of value(s) for such items as skid resistance, roughness, etc.
16.   Proposed Improved Organization.  The study shall propose up to three
alternative improved organizational structures for improving management of high-grade
highways in Henan. The proposals shall be based on the: international experience; local
Chinese and Henan situation; evolution towards a market oriented economy; criteria
defined in para. 14; and level of services defined in para. 15. The proposals shall cover:
(a)    The Organization(s):  This shall cover the:  state and provincial
institutional functions (such as, but not limited to HPCD, the Traffic
Police); local authorities; existing and planned network of toll
expressways in Henan; cross-border links and the liaison with the
neighboring provinces; construction, in broad terms, although the study is
dedicated to the operation and maintenance of the toll expressways.
(b)    State and Provincial Levels: The study shall detail the overall functions,
responsibilities and communication channels of the concerned entities.
(c)    Legal Issues: The selection of the appropriate organizational structure for
Henan high-grade highways should consider legal changes that would be
required to realize the proposed organizational structure. Also, the powers
that the proposed organization should have should be clearly stated. For
example, a provincial toll authority organized as an independent legal
person would be able to:



- 100 -                     ANNEX2
(i)   operate independently and be responsible for its own profits and
losses;
(ii)   possess and dispose of its assets;
(iii)   enter into contracts in its own name with third parties; and
(iv)    sue or be sued as an independent legal person and be responsible
for its own civil liability.
(d)   Financial Issues:    Major financial issues facing  the  selected
organizational structure should be clearly identified and the powers it
should have to meet its objectives should be defined. For example, in the
case of an independent legal entity, it might have to be able to:
(i)   obtain certain tax benefits with respect to its income from the
operation of its highways;
(ii)   have the authority to issue debt in the international capital markets
(as well as in domestic ones) to finance its highway projects;
(iii)   have a mechanism whereby income in Yuan Renminbi can be
readily exchanged into hard currencies; and
(iv)    have limited liability.
(e)   Organization Models for Operations: The study shall detail the overall
functions, the vested responsibilities as well as communication channels
with the outside parties. This shall cover:
(i)    The "Administrative" Divisions:  The study shall detail the
overall functions, responsibilities and communication channels
with the other divisions and entities.  The "administrative"
divisions are in charge of activities such as but not limited to
General Administration, Personnel Management, Financial
Management, Internal Auditing, Insurance, marketing, Public
Relations, Central Planning, Toll Auditing, etc.
(ii)    The "Operational" Divisions: The study shall detail the overall
functions, responsibilities and communication channels with the
over divisions and entities. The operational divisions are in charge
of activities such as, but not limited to Toll Collection, Traffic
Management and Traffic Surveillance, Routine Maintenance, etc.
17.   Proposed Management Tools. These tools cover the fixed equipment, the
standards and procedures and personnel. The proposed management tools will be based



-101-                       ANNEX2
on the same information as for the Proposed Improved Organizations (para. 16). The
proposals shall cover:
(a)   The Fixed Operating Equipment:  The study shall describe the
requirements for an operation and maintenance policy to be defined before
the fixed operating equipment are designed and procured, analyze the need
for the integration of the fixed operating equipment and propose
guidelines following the standard Chinese classification: (i) toll collection
equipment; (ii) communication equipment; and (iii) traffic surveillance
and management equipment.
(b)   The Procedures:   The study shall describe the requirements for
operational and maintenance procedures, in accordance with the Policy,
and draw a tentative and preliminary list of procedures, such as, but not
limited to: (i) liaison procedures; (ii) emergency plan; (iii) toll collection
procedures; and (iv) safety procedures.
(c)   The Personnel: The study shall summarize the requirement of trained
personnel, outline the on-the-job training Policy and draw a tentative
preliminary list of qualification of personnel classified into: (i) rank and
file; (ii) lower management; (iii) technicians; and (iv) executives.
(d)   The Other Equipment: The study shall list the main equipment (other
than the fixed operating equipment) required to properly operate and
maintain an expressway.
18.   Cost Estimates:  The study shall provide preliminary cost estimates, for
representative sections, related to: (a) management costs; (b) operation costs; and
(c) maintenance costs.
D. REPoRTs
19.   The Study Team shall prepare and submit the following reports to the Bank and
HPCD:
(a)   Inception Report (2 copies in English and 10 in Chinese). Shall outline
the detailed implementation schedule of the study; the detailed tasks
assigned to the experts and to the research team; the fonnat of the progress
reports; and the format of the following reports.
(b)   Interim Reports (5 copies in English and 15 in Chinese): Interim report
(no. 1) shall present the results of the international and Chinese survey;
and interim report (no. 2) shall present the results of the risk analysis and
the proposed level of services.



- 102 -                    ANNEX2
(c)   Final Reports: A draft final report (2 copies in English and 10 in
Chinese) shall be submitted presenting the recommendations of the study
team regarding the Organization, the Management and the Costs.
Following review of this report by the Bank and the Leading Group, the
report shall be finalized and 20 copies in English and 50 copies in Chinese
shall be printed.
E. TIME SCHEDULE
20.   The study is expected to be completed in 18 months. In the first 12 months, the
Study Team shall complete all technical aspects of the study. The following three months
shall be used to prepare the final recommendations, discuss them with HPCD, and
prepare the draft final report. The final report will be reviewed by the Bank and the
Leading Group within two months of its receipt. The revised final report will be
submitted within one month of the receipt of comments from the Bank and the Leading
Group.
21.   The key milestones are:
(a)   Completion of the Inception Report within three months of the start of the
study.
(b)   Completion of the study on international models and Chinese situation and
preparation of Interim Report 1 within six months of the start of the study.
(c)   Completion of the analysis of the risks and the proposed level of services
and preparation of Interim Report 2 within nine months of the start of the
study.
(d)   Preparation of the recommendations of the proposed organization and
management tools as well as the preparation of the draft final report within
15 months of the start of the study.
(e)   Submittal of the revised final report within 18 months of the start of the
study.
F. ORGANIZATION OF THE STUDY AND STUDY TEAM
22.   Leading Group. The study shall be guided and supervised by a Leading Group
that shall comprise representatives of HPCD and other concerned departments of Henan
as well as the Ministry of Communication. The Leading Group will guide the study and
review its output and recommendations as well as provide policy input when needed, and
organize one or two seminars to ensure the dissemination of the results of the study.



-103 -                      ANNEX2
23.   Study Team. The study will be carried out by a team composed of three parts: a
research team from the Henan Provincial Communications Scientific Research Institute
(HPCSRI), Chinese experts, and international experts.
24.   The HPCSRI Research Team. The team will:
(a)   provide home support and logistics for the study such as, but not limited
to, office and secretarial facilities, transport facilities, transport and
accommodation arrangements, translation of documents from English to
Chinese and from Chinese to English;
(b)   collect and analyze all documentation and data as required by the Study
Tearn; and
(c)   carry out all surveys as required by the Study Team.
25.   The Chinese Experts Team. The team will bring expertise available in China in
fields such as Road Transport Management, Law, Finance, Transport Economics and
Highway Engineering. The team will consist of:
(a)   A Road Transport Management Expert with 10 years experience in the
field. He/she shall:
(i)    with the assistance of the international Toll Expressway Expert,
lead the Study Team;
(ii)   lead the team of Chinese Experts;
(iii)   take responsibility on all matters related to Operation Policy,
Standards, Legal Aspects, etc., in China;
(iv)    manage the Research Team; and
(v)    advise the Study Team on the adequacy of the proposals related to
the local situation;
(b)   A Legal Expert with 10 years experience in the field. He/she shall:
(i)   be responsible for all legal aspects of the study; and
(ii)   define, organize and review the works to be done by HPCSRI
research team in the field.
(c)   A Financial Expert with 10 years experience in the field. He/she shall:
(i)   take responsibility of all aspects related to financial issues; and



-104 -                      ANNEX2
(ii)   define, organize and review the work to be done by HPCSRI
research team in the field.
(d)   A Transport Economics Expert with 10 years experience in the field.
He/she shall:
(i)   take responsibility of all aspects related to Transport Economics;
and
(ii)   define, organize and review the work to be done by HPCSRI
research team in the field (documentation and data collection and
analysis);
(e)   A Highway Engineering Expert with 12 years experience in the field.
He/she shall:
(i)   take responsibility on all matters related to Highway Engineering
in the study; and
(ii)   define, organize and review the work to be done by HPCSRI
research team in the field (documentation and data collection and
analysis).
26.   The International Experts.  They will bring to the team the international
expertise in fields such as Operation and Management, Law, Maintenance and Finance.
The team will include:
(a)   A Toll Expressway Operation and Management Expert with 10 years
experience in the field. He/she shall:
(i)   co-lead the Study Team;
(ii)   lead the team of international experts;
(iii)   take responsibility for all aspects of the study related to
organizational and management aspects, and operation policies,
whether related to international experience or proposed
Organizations and Management; and
(iv)    define, organize and review the works to be done by HPCSRI
research team in this field (data collection, surveys, etc.).
(b)   A Legal Expert with 10 years experience in the field. He/she shall:
(i)   be responsible for all legal aspects of the study; and



-105 -                     ANNEX2
(ii)   define, organize and review the works to be done by Chinese
experts and HPCSRI research team in this field.
(c)   An Expressway Financial Expert with 10 years experience in expressway
financial management. He/she shall:
(i)   take responsibility for all financially related aspects of the study;
and
(ii)   define, organize and review the works to be done by HPCSRI
research team in this field (data collection, surveys, etc.).
(d)   A Toll Expressway Maintenance Expert with at least 10 years experience
in the field (Civil Works). He/she shall:
(i)   take responsibility for all aspects in the study related to
maintenance;
(ii)   define, organize and review the works to be done by HPCSRI
research team in this field (data collection, surveys, etc.); and
(iii)   review with the Chinese experts the existing Chinese standards and
jointly prepare guidelines for improvement, if any.
27.   The team shall be led by the Chinese expert on Road Transport Management who
will be assisted by the international expert in Operation and Management. They will
jointly: (a) prepare the detailed planning of the study; (b) allocate the works to the other
experts and to the Research Team; (c) monitor the work progress; (d) submit the study
reports; and (e) attend the Leading Group meetings (with, from time to time, other team
members, as needed.
28.   The international experts will be selected on the basis of competition among a
short list of international firms (to be cleared by the Bank), on terms approved by the
Bank. The successful firm, after negotiation with HPCD, will then enter into contract(s)
with HPCD. The Chinese experts will be selected by HPCD and will enter into
contract(s) with HPCD, on terms approved by the Bank. The Research Team will be
proposed by HPCSRI and contracted by HPCD.
29.   Person-Months. The overall person-months required for the study are estimated
as follows:
(a)   Henan Provincial Communications Scientific Research Institute
Team. The total input by this team is estimated at about 135 person-
months.
(b)   Chinese Experts Team. The total input is estimated at about 23 person-
months divided into 8 person-months for the Road Transport Management



-106-                      ANNEX2
Expert, 2 person-months for the Legal Expert, 4 person-months for the
Financial Expert, 3 person-months for the Transport Economist, and 6
person-months for the Highway Engineering Expert.
(c)   International Experts Team. The total input is estimated at about 11
person-months of which 6 person-months (5 in China and I in home
office) are for the Operation and Management Expert, I person-month (0.5
in China and 0.5 in home office) is for the Legal Expert, 1.5 person-
months (I in China and 0.5 in home office) are for the Financial Expert,
and 2.5 person-months (2 in China and 0.5 in home office) are for the
Maintenance Expert.
G. BUDGET COST ESTIMATE
30.   The total cost for carrying out the study is estimated at about $410,000 and Y 2.19
million ($264,000) or a total of about $674,000 as detailed below:
Cost Item                                Foreign Cost Local Cost Total Cost
($'000)     (Y'000)    ($'000)
Fees of international experts (11 pm) Za    210             -        210
Living costs for international experts       50             -         50
Travel for international experts (13 trips)  65             -         65
Fees for Chinese experts (23 pm)              -          230          28
Fees for local Research Team (135 pm)         -          540          65
Local Transport                               -          210          25
Office Costs                                  -          260          31
Communication Costs for Int'l Experts        21             -         21
Survey Costs                                  -           50           6
Printing Costs                                           150          18
Seminar Costs                                 -          300          36
Leading Group                                10          250          40
Office Equipment (2 desk top computers and 2  15            -         15
printers)
Total                                    371         1,990        610
Contingencies (10%)                          39          200          64
Total Cost                               410         2,190        674
La pm means person-month.



-107 -                      ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: ROAD SAFETY IMPROVEMENT
General
1.    The traffic accident situation in Henan (as in other provinces in China) is serious.
During 1990-94, annually about 16,700 accidents took place, resulting in about 3500
fatalities and about 11,300 injuries. The number of accidents is not high, but this may
reflect a low degree of reporting of accidents, especially in rural areas. However, the
number killed is relatively high, and the rate of 93 killed per 10,000 motor vehicles (or 29
killed per 10,000 vehicles if motorcycles and tractors are included) is high and is about 40
times higher than that for Western European and North American countries. But, the
number killed per 100,000 population (3.9) is less than that in those same countries.
Also, the severity rate (24 percent) defined as the number killed divided by the total
number killed and injured is high.
2.    Due to this situation, the Bank engaged the services of two separate experts-one
a Danish and the other a Norwegian safety expert under Danish and Norwegian Trust
Funds respectively, to study the topic, identify the problems, develop a generalized
program for tackling the road safety problem and define a component for inclusion in the
proposed project. The Danish expert visited Henan in March 1995 (identification!
preparation) and July 1995 (preappraisal of the project) and submitted their final reports
in May and August 1995 respectively. These reports form the basis for the contents of
this annex.
Institutions Involved
3.    Roadway safety is a complex subject involving many issues (driver, vehicle, road,
environment, engineering, education, enforcement, attitudes and behavior, etc.) and many
entities. The Traffic Police Tearn of Henan Public Security Bureau (PSB) has the major
role. It is responsible for vehicle testing and licensing, driver training and testing, traffic
law enforcement, information and education, and collection and treatment of accident
data. In each prefecture, there is a Traffic Police Branch and in each county, there is a
Traffic Police Brigade. Each brigade has one or more Traffic Police Squadrons, which
are responsible for the management of traffic as well as propaganda. The Henan
Provincial Communications Department (HPCD) is responsible for design, construction
and maintenance of highways, as well as installation and maintenance of road traffic
signs and markings. Also, the Henan Communication Scientific Research Institute, when
asked by Public Security, undertakes vehicle testing and studies of accidents. Hospitals
treat accident victims and ambulance services transport victims.



-108 -                      ANNEX3
Existing Situation
4.    There is a variety of traffic safety activities taking place in Henan province.
These activities do, however, seem to be relatively isolated activities. Even though most
of the activities are managed by HPCD and PSB, and there are reasonable relations
between the two, there seems to be limited coordination. The most important deficiency
does seem to be the total lack of long-term planning within the field of traffic safety.
Another important problem is that there is little development work going on within this
field. The main objectives of the traffic safety component will therefore logically be to
strengthen the capacity for policy-making and planning, and to initiate some pilot
development work. This should hopefully start a lasting process consisting of the
development of regular traffic safety planning and coordination, which is a prerequisite
for efficient comprehensive traffic safety work. It is further believed that the pilot work
on black spot improvement will start a lasting process, as this way of working has proven
to be one of the most efficient activities within traffic safety work. Also, the work on
accident statistics will hopefully give birth to future research on the relationship between
accidents and accident contributing factors.
5.    It was observed that the existing accident data collection system is adequate, even
if there is room for improvement. This system was elaborated a few years ago and is
used in all provinces, and hence it is not subject to local modifications for the time being.
6.    It should be noted that in general, both in HPCD and PSB, there is an agreement
as to the description of the accident situation as unsatisfactory. When it comes to
monitoring and improvements, however, it is sometimes difficult to get a positive
response. There is a general reluctance in considering possible improvements. The
present situation and present procedures are to a certain degree considered as sacred, and
improvements are not looked for.
7.    The agreements presented on the following pages are based on the discussions
between the mission, HPCD and PSB. The implementation of some elements will be
subject to approval by the Provincial Government.
Traffic Safety Policy And Planning
8.    Leading Group For Traffic Safety Planning. It was agreed to establish a
Leading Group for traffic safety coordination, policy-making and planning. The Leading
Group will be chaired by the Vice Governor, and it will have two representatives from
each of HPCD and PSB. The Deputy Directors of HPCD and PSB respectively will act
as Vice Chairmen. The main functions of the Leading Group will be to monitor the
accident situation and to propose strategies and policies as well as comprehensive traffic
safety plans to the Provincial Government. Such plans should include all aspects of
traffic safety work, also those parts which are outside the responsibility of HPCD and
PSB. The analyses of the situation should be done on a yearly basis. Short-term action
plans should also be developed on a yearly basis and objectives and longer-term plans
should equally be revised at regular intervals. The Leading Group will be a permanent



-109 -                      ANNEX3
group, and its activities will go on after the termination of the project. The Leading
Group will act as a board for the Traffic Safety Secretariat (see below). It is anticipated
that the Leading Group will meet a few times per year. The Leading Group was
established in March 1996. The first tentative policy and action plan shall be presented
by the end of 1997.
9.    A Traffic Safety Secretariat.  It was agreed to establish a Traffic Safety
Secretariat (TSS) in order to prepare the work for the Leading Group. The Secretariat
was established in March 1996. It will be staffed by one specially qualified person from
each of HPCD and PSB. It is suggested that TSS be administratively situated in HPCD.
10.   The main tasks of TSS will be to carry out analyses of the traffic accident
situation, and on the basis of such analyses it will prepare traffic safety objectives,
strategies and short- and long-term traffic safety plans. These objectives, strategies and
plans will be presented to the Leading Group, which will discuss them in an annual
conference on traffic safety. When adopted by the Leading Group they will be presented
to the Provincial Government. TSS will monitor the situation and suggest new actions to
be taken and new studies to be undertaken. TSS will also act as a resource group for the
authorities.  In carrying out their duties, TSS should have the possibility to get
professional assistance from the staff in HPCD and PSB when needed.
11.   TSS was established in March 1996. Shortly after its creation, the two members
of TSS will be offered one-month training. The training will be offered in Henan
province and it will be given by a foreign consultant. The training will focus on accident
monitoring, on the elaboration of traffic safety objectives and the development of traffic
safety policies and plans, and also on the necessity to undertake regular traffic safety
development work and research. A total of two person-months consultancy, including
preparation and training, will be required. TSS will be provided with a computer, a
printer and a plotter.
Safety Audit Procedures
12.   It has been seen in industrialized countries that despite detailed road design
manuals, new road plans do not meet all the requirements for safety. Many countries are
now introducing what is called safety audits of new road plans. This work consists of the
development of a number of check lists and guidelines that explain how to check road
design to ensure that the roads do not contribute to the occurrence of accidents.
13.   It was agreed that such safety audit procedures shall be developed by TSS during
the project period. In this regard, Henan Province should avail itself of the safety audit
work to be carried out under the Bank-financed Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project
(Loan 3569-CHA).



-1I 10 -                    ANNEX3
Improved Computer Software
14.   The existing accident data collection form provides a large amount of data on
each accident. This makes it possible to analyze the accident data in many ways that are
useful for traffic safety planning and traffic safety work. However, the current software
only allows a few such analyses to be carried out, which seriously hampers the
exploitation of the accident data.
15.   It was agreed that PSB shall provide a computer software that is capable of
making a number of meaningful analyses of accident data. Such a software is available in
the Shaanxi province and probably in other provinces. It was agreed that PSB would
approach one of these provinces in order to acquire the software. It is also anticipated
that there is a need for one person-month training by an expert from the selected
province.
Pilot Black Spot Work
16.   Traffic safety work in industrialized countries has shown that the improvement of
traffic accident black spots is one of the most efficient traffic safety measures. Black spot
improvement work consists of the following steps:
(a)   Identification of black spots
(b)   Analyses of the accident situation
(c)    Selection of improvement measures
(d)   Implementation
(e)   Monitoring
17.   It was agreed that pilot black spot work be carried out as part of the project during
the first three years of the project period (1997-2000). For this purpose, a black spot
group will be established. The group will consist of three persons from the Road
Maintenance Section and the Road Management Section of the Highway Administration
Bureau. During the three-year period, these sections will be strengthened by two people.
18.   The study shall be carried out as an experiment with control site. Some 20-30
black spots will be identified. Out of these, some 10-15 are selected at random for
treatment. The rest will constitute the control sites. It will be tried to select half of the
black spots at grade intersections (X-crossings and Y-crossings) and half of them at road
sections. Some should be near urban areas and some in rural areas.
19.   It is reported that black spots can be identified with the existing accident data
analyses program. The data forms will be made available by the police at the prefecture
level, where they are stored. The accident reports and sketches from the accidents at the



-111-                       ANNEX3
black spots will be made available to the black spot group by the police at the county
level.
20.   For the analyses of the black spots and their traffic, the group will be provided
with a photo camera, a video camera and a speed radar, and for office work it will be
provided with a computer and a printer.
21.   The group will initially be trained by a foreign consultant for one month. After
approximately six months, the consultant will come back for one month to assist and
supervise the analysis work, and after another 12 months he will come back for two
weeks to supervise the process of proposing solutions. In total there is a need for 2.5
person-months of consultancy, divided on three trips to Henan.
22.   Subsequent to the analyses, HPCD will implement the proposed improvements.
A special budget of Y 10 million will be established by HPCD for this purpose. One
million yuan will be allocated the first year, and then two, three and four million in the
following years. This special budget will also cover all specific costs related to the black
spot analyses.
23.   The black spot work is expected to be initiated by January 1997 and go on for a
three-year period. After termination of the pilot black spot work, the black spot work will
be transferred to the Maintenance Section at the prefecture level on a permanent basis.
The personnel who participated in the pilot black spot work would be responsible for the
training of the relevant personnel at the prefecture level.
Storage of Accident Files
24.   In order to carry out black spot work, it is necessary to get hold of complete data
concerning the accidents at the black spots. The identification of the black spots will
identify the place of the black spot and the number of accidents at the black spot, and it
will provide serial numbers of the accidents that have occurred.
25.   The definition of a black spot is a place where many accidents have happened
during a certain period of time. It is obvious that one has to consider a period covering a
number of years. At present, it is required to keep the accident data for at least three
years, and current practice in the Henan province is to destroy the files after three years.
It is obvious that this can seriously hamper the possibility for carrying out black spot
work. It was therefore agreed that this practice will be changed, and that accident files
will be kept at the county level for five years in the future.
Accident Analyses
26.   The knowledge about accidents and their contributing factors is extremely limited
today. The police identifies what they consider to be the "cause" of the accident.
Thereby they can determine the percentage of the accidents which is caused by for
example "reckless driving." This is, however a legal consideration, and it is seldom



-112-                        ANNEX3
fruitful for initiating traffic safety actions. It is widely accepted today that an accident is
a multifactoral event, meaning that it is a combination of many factors, which in a certain
combination leads to an accident. This implies that the accident can be avoided by
influencing any of the present factors. An important step in traffic safety work is
therefore to identify factors that are overrepresented in accidents.
27.   It was agreed that the Henan Communication Scientific Research Institute would
undertake statistical work to describe the accidents according to all the contributing
factors that are available on the accident form currently in use. This could, for example,
be used to determine the number of accidents per type of vehicle. When compared with
the vehicle population, this will give an idea about the relative risk between the different
types of vehicles.
First Aid Training
28.   The first people who arrive at the scene of an accident will be other drivers and/or
the police. If there are injured people, these two categories of people (drivers and the
police) are therefore the first who are capable of helping. The problem is, however, that
none of these have any special training in first aid, and in many cases that may lead to
more harm than help. It was agreed to introduce first aid into the curriculum for driver
training of all categories of drivers, and it was agreed to introduce first aid into the
curriculum for the basic training of traffic police.
Training of the Police
29.   The police is responsible for training of children at school. Only in Zhengzhou as
many as 20 police officers are involved in this activity. None of these have, however,
received any training related to the training of children. It was agreed to offer a one-week
course/seminar to a group of police officers who are involved in this activity. The
seminar should treat items like child psychology and the child's capability to learn about,
and to cope with traffic at different ages. The seminar should be held by a Chinese expert
in training of children, and if possible with competence in traffic matters. A two-week
consultancy will be required including preparation and seminar.
Evaluation of the Traffic Safety Component
30.   The objective of the traffic safety component is, first of all, to initiate activities
that will start processes leading to improved traffic safety in a longer perspective. In
order to reach the objective, it is important that all activities are carried out and that there
is a reasonable follow-up. If this is not the case, correcting actions should be taken. It
has therefore been agreed that by the end of the fifth year, a qualified Chinese consultant
for 1 person-month shall carry out an evaluation of the highway safety component.



-113 -                     ANNEX3
Costs
31.  Institutional Strengthening. Based on the above agreements with HPCD and
PSB, institutional strengthening would require:
(a)   2 people for the Traffic Safety Secretariat for five years for a total of 10
person-years
(b)   2 people for the Highway Administration Bureau for 3 years for a total of
6 person-years
(c)   Total institutional strengthening required is 16 person-years
(d)   Total costs are 16 person-years at Y 10,000 = Y 160,000 = $18,823
The costs of this component shall be covered by HPCD.
32.   Foreign Experts. Consist of:
(a)   I consultant for 2 months for the Traffic Safety Secretariat for a total of 2
person-months
(b)   I consultant for 2.5 months for black spot work for a total of 2.5 person-
months
(c)   Total input from foreign experts is 4.5 person-months
Cost element                         Unit cost (Y)           Cost (Y)
4.5 person-months                      130,000     =           585,000
4 trips from abroad to Henan            33,000     =           132,000
3.5 months hotel and subsistence        33,000     =           115,500
Total                                                       832,500
(or $97,900)



-114-                      ANNEX3
33.   Chinese Experts.
Cost element                                                    Costs (Y)
I person-month for expert on software for the police              10,000
0,5 person-month for expert for training the police                5,000
1 person-month consultant for evaluation of the whole safety component  15,000
Hotel and subsistence (including travel) - 2.5 months             10,000
Total                                                             40,00Ola
(or $4,700)
La Of these costs, some Y 21,000 will be covered by PSB.
34.   Implementation Budget. HPCD will establish a special budget for black spot
analyses and black spot improvement. This budget will be of Y 10 million ($1,180,000)
over a four-year period (Y 1.0 million in the first year, Y 2.0 million in the second year,
Y 3.0 million in the third year, and Y 4.0 million in the fourth year).
35.   Equipment. The required equipment and their cost estimate is shown below,
Cost element                                                    Costs (Y)
2 computers                                                       80,000
2 printers                                                        16,000
1 plotter                                                         10,000
I speed radar                                                     20,000
1 still camera                                                     4,000
Video equipment                                                   30,000
Total                                                            160,000
(or $18,800)



-115 -                       ANNEX3
36.   Summary of Cost.
Cost element                                     Cost in Y          Cost in $
Institutional strengthening                        160,000             18,800
Foreign experts                                   832,500              97,900
Chinese assistance                                  40,000              4,700
Implementation budget                           10,000,000          1,176,200
Equipment                                          160,000             18,800
Total                                           11,192,500          1,316,400
Of these total costs, some Y 10,160,000 will be covered by HPCD and some Y 21,000
will be covered by PSB.
37.   Distribution of Cost by Year of Implementation.
Cost in Y
Year                   1         2         3        4          5      Total
Institutional strengthening  40,000    40,000    40,000   20,000  20,000    160,000
Foreign experts          718,000    114,500       -         -     -    832,500
Chinese assistance        21,000        -         -         - 21,000    40,000
Implement. budget      1,000,000  2,000,000  3,000,000 4,000,000  -   10,000,000
Equipment                160,000        -         -         -     -    160,000
Total                   1,939,000  2,154,500  3,040,000 4,020,000  39,000  11,192,500
Implementation Schedule
38.   The agreed implementation schedule is shown below.
Year                                 1       2        3        4        5
Establishment of Leading Group      x
Establishment of Secretariat        x
Development of traffic safety policy    xxxxxx
First tentative traffic safety plan      x
Dev. of safety audit procedures                       xxxxxx  xxxxxx xxxxxx
Procurement of software             xxxxxx
Black spot analyses                   xxxx  xxxxxx  xxxxxx
Physical black spot improvement                 xxxx  xxxxxx  xxxxxx
In-depth accident analyses                   xxxxxx
Introduce first aid training                 x
Training of police                     x
Procurement of equipment            xxxxxx           I         I       I



-116 -                     ANNEX4
ANNEX 4: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR STUDY OF
FACTORS CONTRIBUTING TO HIGHWAY TRAFFIC
ACCIDENTS
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Henan, a land-locked province, located in China's central plain, has an area of
167,000 km2 and a population of about 90 million. Its Gross Output Value of Agriculture
and Industry has grown at about 12 percent per year since 1990. This has been
accompanied by high traffic growth, particularly around the capital Zhengzhou, with a
population of about 5.0 million. In 1993, highways accounted for 44 percent of the
passenger-kilometers, and 17 percent of the ton-kilometers carried in Henan. The road
network comprises about 47,700 km, of which 44,500 are classified (Classes I to IV).
The civilian vehicle fleet included 286,900 trucks and 165,300 passenger cars and buses.
Unfortunately, this growth in traffic was accompanied by growth in highway traffic
accidents. Over the 1990-94 period, on the average about 3,500 fatalities and 11,300
injuries per year occurred on Henan roads. The rate of 93 killed per 10,000 motor
vehicles is high and is about 40 times higher than that for Western Europe and North
American countries. But, the number killed per 100,000 population (3.9) is less than that
in those same countries.
2.    To address the highway safety problem, the Henan Provincial Communications
Department (HPCD) and the Traffic Police in the Henan Public Security Bureau
developed a highway safety program for implementation under the Second Henan
Provincial Highway Project during 1977-2000. A Leading Group for Road Safety
Coordination as well as a Traffic Secretariat to prepare the work for the Leading Group
were established in March 1996. Among many other items, the safety program calls for a
study of the factors contributing to highway traffic accidents. This Annex presents the
terms of reference for this study as well as the team to carry out the study, the
implementation schedule and the estimated budget. It should be pointed out that the
study of traffic accidents is still in the early stages of development in Henan Province as
elsewhere in China. The proposed study is to be carried out under the auspices of the
Leading Group for Traffic Safety Coordination and its Traffic Safety Secretariat (TSS).
B. OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY
3.    The objectives of the study are to:
(a)   collect accident data on highways in Henan by class of road;



-117 -                       ANNEX4
(b)   investigate the factors contributing to accidents on highways including the
vehicle, the driver, the road, and the environment;
(c)    determine the relative importance of the various factors contributing to
accidents; and
(d)   make practical proposals to reduce accidents on Henan's highways
including the identification of future studies to be carried out.
C. SCOPE OF THE STUDY
The study shall include, but not necessarily be limited to the following tasks:
4.    Data Collection. This includes, but is not limited to:
(a)    Traffic Accident Data. The Traffic Police collects traffic accident data
on special forms, codes the data, stores it, analyzes it and publishes
summary results. However, little is currently being done with these data.
It is essential that the Study Team gets the accident records for a period of
3-5 years from the Traffic Police.
(b)   Road Condition Data. HPCD is responsible for intercity roads whereas
the Municipalities are responsible for roads in urban areas. Data on road
conditions; class, length, width, number of lanes, shoulders, horizontal and
vertical alignment; bridges/culverts, condition of pavement including
roughness/evenness,  speed,  traffic  volumes  (vehicles,  tractors,
motorcycles, animal-drawn carriages, bicycles, pedestrians), intersections,
traffic control devices (signals, signs, pavement markings) etc. are
available from these agencies. HPCD is developing a Road Data Bank
and a pavement Management System.
(c)   Vehicle Condition Data. These data relate to the mechanical and visual
conditions of the vehicles and are collected by the Vehicle Inspection
Stations run by the Traffic Police. The purpose of this inspection is to
ensure that vehicles are roadworthy. Henan has many of these stations
spread around the Province and has specific rules and regulations as to the
frequency of inspection and what is inspected.
(d)   Driver Data. Operators of all types of vehicles have to be licensed in
Henan Province. Drivers have to take a prescribed Driver Training
Program  and to pass examinations and road tests.  There are also
regulations on age, vision, hearing, health, etc. that have to be met. These
data are available from the Traffic Police.
5.    Surveys. It is envisioned that most of the required data for this study is already
available. However, data need to be assembled and organized to fit the software that will



-118 -                       ANNEX4
be used in the analyses of the factors contributing to highway traffic accidents. Some
survey work will be required to ascertain the accuracy of the accident records available
from the Traffic Police and to complete missing entries. Limited survey may need to be
conducted on road width, friction factors, pavement evenness, alignment of the road,
traffic control devices, intersections and other locations where there are frequent
accidents (black spots). Metereological records (weather; temperature, wind, fog, snow,
rain; darkness, night, light, dusk, etc.) might also have to be consulted. Geographic
location of accidents will probably need some checking, and a system to identify
locations should be developed. Collection of data in the field should be kept to a
minimum.
6.    Software and Hardware. The study team will investigate the software and
hardware available in Henan and China to determine their suitability for analyses of
traffic accident records. It is less costly and less time consuming to use or modify
existing software than to develop a new software. Should it be found that the Chinese
software is not adequate, internationally available software would be compared and the
one most suitable for Chinese conditions should be determined. The required hardware
should be identified and arrangements for procurement of hardware and software should
be made so that they are available when needed.
7.    Data Analyses. Summaries of accident data will be developed by such factors as
class of road, road alignment, road grade, intersection type, type of pavement, traffic
volume, speed, weather, time of day time of year, condition of vehicle, overloading of
vehicles, age of driver, use of seat belts, driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol,
etc. Statistical analyses would be used to find the relationships, if any, between the
number and severity of traffic accidents and the various contributing factors. These
factors could be broken into four major categories: those relating to the driver, the
vehicle, the road, and the environment. The environment refers to such factors as:
weather-related factors; time-of-day and of year factors, prevailing land uses, urban/
suburban/rural conditions, frequency of intersections and driveways, etc.
8.    Recommendations. On the basis of the results of the analyses of the factors
contributing to accidents, recommendations would be made on the most significant
factors affecting traffic accidents and the priorities to be attached to them as well as on
proposals and strategies to reduce traffic accidents. As this study is the first serious
attempt to analyze accidents in Henan Province, it is expected that it will not answer all
reasonable questions regarding traffic accidents. Accidents are complex occurrences and
generally several factors simultaneously contribute to them. Hence, one of the outputs of
the study would be the identification of future studies to be undertaken including their
relative order of priority, outline terms of reference, approximate cost, and indicative
implementation schedule. Also, the study should propose an appropriate and sustainable
institutional structure to conduct the recommended studies, ensure continuity of traffic
accident research work and to keep the research focused and pragmatic.



-119-                      ANNEX4
D. REPORTS
9.    The Study Tearn shall prepare and submit the following reports to the Bank, the
HPCD and the TSS:
(a)   Inception Report (2 copies in English and 10 in Chinese): Shall outline
the detailed implementation schedule of the study; the detailed tasks
assigned to the experts and to the research team; the format of the progress
reports; and the format of the following reports.
(b)   Interim Reports (3 copies in English and 15 in Chinese): Interim report
(no. 1) shall present the results of the data collection; and interim report
(no. 2) shall present the results of the analysis of the factors contributing to
accidents.
(c)   Final Reports: A draft final report (2 copies in English and 10 in
Chinese) shall be submitted presenting a summary of the data collection
and analyses as well as the recommendations for reducing accidents and
for future research work. Following review of this report by the Bank,
HPCD, and TSS, the report shall be finalized and 10 copies in English and
50 copies in Chinese shall be printed.
E. TIME SCHEDULE
10.   The study is expected to be completed in 15 months. In the first eight months, the
Study Team shall complete all technical aspects of the study. The following four months
shall be used to prepare the final recommnendations, discuss them with HPCD and TSS
and prepare the draft final report. The final report will be reviewed by the Bank, HPCD,
and TSS within two months of its receipt. The revised final report will be submitted
within one month of the receipt of comments from the Bank, HPCD, and TSS. The key
milestones are:
(a)   Completion of the Inception Report within 2 months of the start of the
study.
(b)   Completion of the study phase on data collection and preparation of the
first Interim Report within 4 months of the start of the study.
(c)   Completion of the analysis of the factors contributing to accidents as well
as preliminary recommendations and preparation of the second Interim
Report within 8 months of the start of the study,
(d)   Preparation of the recommendations of the study as well as the preparation
of the draft final report within 12 months of the start of the study.



-120-                       ANNEX4
(e)   Submittal of the revised final report within 15 months of the start of the
study.
F. ORGANIZATION OF THE STUDY AND STUDY TEAM
11.   The study shall be guided and supervised by the Traffic Safety Secretariat. The
study will be carried out by a team composed of three parts: a research team from Henan
Province with mot of its members from the Henan Provincial Communications Scientific
Research Institute (HPCRSI) and few from the Traffic Police of the Public Security
Bureau; Chinese experts; and international experts.
12.   Henan Team. Will consist of about four research staff from HPCDSI and one or
two from the Traffic Police. This team will:
(a)   collect and analyze all documentation and data as required by the Study
Team;
(b)   carry out all surveys as required by the Study Team;
(c)   participate  in  analyses  of accident data  and  development of
recommendations; and
(d)   provide home support and logistics for the study such as, but not limited
to, office and secretarial facilities, transport facilities, transport and
accommodation arrangements, translation of documents from English to
Chinese and from Chinese to English.
13.   The Chinese Experts Team. Will consist of three reputable Chinese experts (in
the fields of highway safety) from recognized institutes. The team will consist of:
(a)   A Highway Safety Expert with 10 years experience in the field and with at
least a college degree in a field related to highway safety. He/she shall:
(i) with the assistance of the International Highway Safety Specialist, lead
the Study Team; (ii) lead the team of Chinese Experts; (iii) take
responsibility on all aspects of the study; and (iv) advise the Study Team
on the adequacy of the proposed recommendations related to the local
situation.
(b)   Traffic Engineer with 10 years experience in the field and with a college
degree in Traffic engineering. He/she shall: (i) take responsibility of all
aspects of the study related to traffic engineering and to analyze highway
traffic accidents and their relationships to road conditions, driver, vehicle,
and environmental factors; (ii) play a major role in the preparation of the
interim report on analyses of traffic accidents and in the development of
recommendations for the final report; and (iii) define, organize and review



-121-                        ANNEX4
the work to be done by the Henan Team in the area of analyses of traffic
accidents.
(c)    Computer Specialist/Traffic Accident Statistician with 10 years experience
in the field and with a college degree in computer science and a good
knowledge of statistics He/she shall: (i) take responsibility of all aspects
of the study related to collection of data; (ii) investigate the required
hardware, and available software for analysis of traffic accident data; (iii)
work with the international expert on modifying the software, if needed, to
study relationships between accident data and contributing factors;
(iv) play a major role in the preparation of the interim report on collection
of data; and (v) define, organize and review the work to be done by the
Henan Team in the area of data collection and computerized analyses of
accident relationships to contributing factors.
14.   The International Experts.  They will bring to the team the international
expertise in highway traffic safety, traffic engineering and highway engineering.
(a)    A Highway Safety Specialist with 15 years experience in the field. He/she
shall: (i) co-lead the study team; (ii) lead the team of international experts;
(iii) take responsibility for all aspects of the study related to analyses of
factors contributing to traffic accidents on highways as well as the
recommendations of the study; and (iv) help prepare the reports of the
study with special emphasis on the final report.
(b)   Traffic Accident Statistician/Computer Specialist with 10 years experience
in the field(s). He/she shall: (i) take responsibility for all aspects of the
study related to collection of data and its analyses; (ii) specify the software
and hardware required for the study and modify, if needed, the software
for analyses of accident data; and (iii) help prepare the study reports with
emphasis on the two interim reports.
15.   The team shall be led by the Chinese Traffic Safety Expert who will be assisted
by the International Traffic Safety Specialist. They will jointly: (a) prepare the detailed
planning of the study; (b) allocate the work to the other experts and to the Henan Team;
(c) monitor the work progress; (d) submit the study reports; and (e) attend the meetings
with the Traffic Safety Secretariat and with HPCD as needed.
16.   The international experts will be selected on the basis of competition among a
short list of international firmns (to be cleared by the Bank), on terms approved by the
Bank. The successful firm after negotiation with HPCD, will then enter into contract
with HPCD. The Chinese experts will be selected by HPCD and will enter into contract
with HPCD, on terns approved by the Bank. The Research Team will be proposed by
HPCSRI and the Traffic Police and contracted by HPCD.



-122 -                     ANNEX4
17.   Person-Months. The overall person-months required for the study are estimated
at about 84 person-months as follows:
(a)   Henan Team. The total input by this team is estimated at about 60
person-months.
(b)   Chinese Experts Team. The total input is estimated at about 18 person-
months divided into 7 person-months for the Traffic Safety Expert,
6 person-months for the Traffic Engineer and 5 person-months for the
Computer Specialist/Traffic Accident Statistician.
(c)   International Experts Team. The total input is estimated at about
6 person-months of which 3.5 person-months are for the Traffic Safety
Specialist and 2.5 person-months are for the Traffic Accident Statistician/
Computer Specialist.
G. BUDGET COST ESTIMATE
18.   The total cost for carrying out the study is estimated at about $180,000 and about
Y 1.58 million ($191,000) or a total of about $371,000 as detailed in the following.
Foreign    Local   Total
Cost Item                                          Cost      Cost    Cost
Fees of international experts (6 pm) la             90           -     90
Living costs for international experts              27           -     27
Travel for international experts (6 trips)          30           -     30
Fees for Chinese experts (18 pm)                     -       180      22
Living expenses for Chinese experts                   -       200      24
Fees for Henan Team (60 pm)                           -       300      36
Travel for Chinese experts (9 trips)                  -        30       4
Local transport                                       -        50       6
Data collection/surveys                               -       440      53
Office costs/secretaries and interpreters             -       200      24
Training cost/meetings                                -        80      10
Printing costs/communications costs                   -       100    112
Office equipment costs (2 desktop computers, 1 printer,  33
1 scanner, I UPS)
Total                                            180      1,580    371
la pm means person-month.



-123 -                     ANNEX5
ANNEX 5: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND
ACTION PLAN SUMMARY
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Environmental impact assessment (EIA) of LSE and its linking roads were carried
out by the Henan Provincial Environmental Protection Institute. The EIA reports and the
Environmental Action Plans (EAPs) were submitted to the Bank in May 1995 and
reviewed by the Bank during the preparation mission in July 1995. Based on the
comments by the Bank, the revised EIA reports, EAPs and the Environmental
Assessment Summary (EA Summary) covering both LSE and its linking roads were
submitted to the Bank in September 1995 for review. A sectoral environmental
assessment (EA) approach was applied to the RIPA component, and the Initial
Environmental Evaluation (IEE) report, the EIA reports and EAPs for the first package of
projects under the RIPA component were submitted to the Bank in September 1995 for
review. The EIA report and an EAP for the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection were
submitted to the Bank in October 1995. All of these EIA-related documents were further
reviewed by the Bank during the appraisal mission in November 1995 and the final EIA
reports, EAPs and EA Summary were submitted to the Bank by January 1996, and were
found to be satisfactory.
2.    The process of environmental review involved inputs from various units in the
province, including environmental protection bureaus, research institutions and
universities. The affected groups and NGOs along the highways, and the people subject
to resettlement and land acquisition in particular, have been intensively consulted.
3.    The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment of
development projects in China were followed during preparation and evaluation of the
EIA, as well as the Bank's OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. Major laws and
regulations applied to the EIA for the Second Henan Highway Project are presented
below. The major environmental standards applied in the EIA are listed in Appendix 1 of
this Annex.
(a)   Environmental Protection Law of People's Republic of China (PRC);
(b)   Atmospheric Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(c)   Environmental Noise Control Law of PRC;
(d)   Water Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(e)   Cultural Relics Protection Law of PRC;



-124 -                     ANNEX 5
(f)   Land Management Law of PRC;
(g)   Management Guidelines on Environmental Protection of Construction
Project, Number 003 (86), issued by the National Environmental
Protection Agency (NEPA);
(h)   Measures for Environmental Protection Management of Transport
Construction Projects, Number 17 (90), issued by Ministry of
Communications (MOC); and
(i)   Procedure for Environmental Protection of Construction Projects in Henan
Province.
4.    The scope of and the criteria for the EIA are presented below.
(a)   The investigations for eco-environmental setting including wildlife, and
air pollution sources cover 1,000 m from both sides of the proposed roads.
Scope of the predictions for noise, atmospheric environmental impacts and
cultural relics covers areas within 200 m from both sides of the roads.
(b)   The following standards are applied as the criteria for the EIA:
(i)    Air pollution: Class 2 air quality standard (GB 3095-82);
(ii)    Noise: Class 4 standard [70 dB(A) in daytime and 55 dB(A) at
night: GB 3096-93] within 100 m from the roadsides and Class 2
noise standard [60 dB(A) in daytime and 50 dB(A) at night]
between 100 m and 200 m from the roadsides.
(c)   Considering the project features and construction cycle, the base years for
the EIA were decided to be 1997-2000 (construction period), 2000 for
initial stage prediction, 2010 for mid-term prediction and 2020 for long-
term prediction.
B. BRIEF PROJECT DESCRIPTION
5.    The Second Henan Provincial Highway Project includes:
(a)   Construction of 136 km four-lane expressway between Luoyang and
Sanmenxia (LSE);
(b)   Improvement and new construction of four linking roads to LSE;
(i)   New construction of 9.3 km Class 2 (mountainous and heavy-hilly
area) Xinan Linking Road (3.0 km from Xinan Interchange to the
south to Jiangzhuang and 6.3 km to the north to Baiqiang);



-125 -                     ANNEX5
(ii)    Widening and upgrading of 3.1 km Class 2 (mountainous and
heavy-hilly area) Yima Linking Road (from Yima Interchange to
the south to connect National Highway 310);
(iii)    New construction of 2.0 km Class 2 (mountainous and heavy-hilly
area) Mianchi Linking Road (from Mianchi to the south to
Donghuancheng); and
(iv)   New construction of 2.6 km Class 2 (plain and slightly-hilly area)
Guanyintang Linking Road (from Guanyintang Interchange to the
north to connect National Highway 310).
(c)   Improvement and new construction of 6.1 km of two-lane expressway
between Yangjia and Baijiazhai (YBC);
(d)   Improvement and new construction of about 1,700 km of a rural road
improvement program to help alleviate poverty (RIPA), including 76 road
segments under 30 systems in 29 poor counties in Henan;
(e)   A highway safety component to reduce accidents on highways in Henan
Province;
(f)   Procurement of equipment for operation and maintenance of LSE,
maintenance of the highway network, environmental monitoring, highway
safety, and institutional strengthening;
(g)   Institutional strengthening and training component which will supplement
what is being provided under the ongoing Bank-financed highway
projects; and
(h)   Supervision of construction of LSE, linking roads, YBC and RIPA.
C. BASELINE ENVIRONMENTAL DESCRIPTION
6.    Geology and Topography. The proposed alignment of LSE lies in loess deeply
incised loess gullies. Passing through Mount Xiaoshan, the section from Xinan to
Sanmenxia (approximately 90 km) is located in extensive hillyland with developed
gullies and rolling terrain. The section from Sanmenxia to the end point (approximately
40 km) is located in loess plateau and deeply incised gullies. There are many coal fields
including a large coal area with subsidence problems to the north of Guanyintang
township. The area that LSE traverses has many major faults, where earthquakes
occurred. The basic seismic intensity is 6 degrees to the east of Mianchi, 7 degrees from
Mianchi to Guanyintang, and 8 degrees to the west of Guanyintang.
7.    Climate and Hydrology. The project area belongs to the warm semi-arid
continental monsoon climate zone, with distinct four seasons.  The mean annual



-126 -                     ANNEX5
temperatures range 12.6-13.9C). The maximum depth of frozen ground is 20-30 cm.
The mean annual precipitation is 467-543 mm, 60-80 percent of which is concentrated
from June to September. Deflected south wind prevails in summers while deflected north
wind prevails in winters. The project area belongs to the Yellow River basin and the
rivers are rainfed seasonal ones except Jianhe, Qinglonghe and Canglonghe Rivers.
Groundwater is phreatic water lying 60-80 m under the ground except in floodland.
8.    Socioeconomic Situation.  The proposed alignment of LSE goes through
Mengjin County under Luoyang City, Sanmenxia City, Yima City, Mianchi and Shanxian
Counties under Sanmenxia City. There are rich mineral resources, mainly coal, bauxite,
iron, molybdenum, gold, lead, etc., which are easy to mine. In 1993, Luoyang and
Sanmenxia, including counties, cities and districts directly thereunder, had a total
population of 7.96 million, accounting for 8.9 percent of the population of Henan
2
Province. The population density was 300 persons/km  which is lower than that for the
province as a whole. As important industrial and mining base of the province, Luoyang
had gross output value of agriculture and industry (GOVAI) of Y 34.55 billion in 1993,
i.e., 11 percent of the provincial total. In the same year, the economic growth rate was 13
percent, which was higher than the provincial average. Sanmenxia had a GOVAI of
Y 8.83 billion, i.e., 3 percent of the provincial total. The project area is rich in tourism
resources, including famous scenic spots like Longmen Grottos, White Horse Temple,
Guandi Temple, Baiyunshan Natural Reserve, Yanshao Cultural Site. All of these are
located 5-10 km away from the proposed alignment.
9.    Land Use. Luoyang and Sanmenxia constitute 15.4 percent of the total provincial
land area, including farmland which is about 8 percent of the provincial total. Luoyang
has more than 40 rich and large mineral deposits, mainly coal, aluminum, molybdenum
and iron. Molybdenum and aluminum are proven to rank the first in the country. In
Sanmenxia, 57 deposits have been discovered, mainly coal, gold, aluminum, and lead.
The farmland in the project area produce two crops a year with winter wheat playing the
leading role. The annual grain yield is 600 kg/mu (9.0 tons per ha) on the average. As a
result of frequent natural disasters, mainly droughts, agricultural development is
considerably limited. However, forestry and fruit production have developed at a faster
pace in recent years.
10.   Ecological Setting.  The project area is located in the warm temperature
deciduous and broad-leafed forest zone. As a result of a long history of forest destruction
for reclamation, the natural vegetation has changed to a great extent. Because of varying
tectonics in hillylands, gullies, loess hills, ridges and loess plateaus, distribution of local
vegetation varies from place to place. There are more than 100 common species of
plants, including 14 species of crops, 27 species of vegetables, 19 species of green and
ornamental plants. There are no rare or endangered species within the 1,000 m from the
proposed alignment.
11.   According to zoogeographic zoning of China, the project area falls in the Mount
Xiaoshan and loess hilly and plain areas in North China zone. North China fauna of



-127 -                      ANNEX5
paratactic realm predominate, and some south and north species are also found. There are
some species of oriental realm, but the population is small. The number of species is
comparatively small, and there are few large and middle-sized forest animals. There are
relatively large populations of small-sized rodents in fields, waste slopes, shrubs, loess
gullies etc.. Also, there are various types and large numbers of insects, fowl and
livestock in the project area. No rare and endangered species were found within 1,000 m
from the proposed alignment.
12.   Cultural Relics. The project area is in an important ancient route (Yaohan
Route) connecting Guanzhong and Huabei plains, and thus a battlefield of different
periods. According to the field surveys by the Henan Provincial Archaeological Institute,
there are 18 archaeological sites along the proposed LSE alignment which would be
affected by the project. Ranks of the cultural relics preservation of these sites are city-
level protection (4 sites), county-level protection (6 sites) and unclassified (8 sites). None
of them are of national or provincial-level protection.
13.   Air Quality. There are five major industrial air pollution sources in the project
area, namely Quarry of Luoyang Cement Factory, Sanmenxia Cement Factory, Yuxi
Cement Factory, Sanmenxia Aluminum Power Plant, and Sanmenxia Pulp Mill. There
are many small township and private factories and coal mines which are contributing a
large discharge of CO and other pollutants. Atmospheric baseline monitoring (TSP, CO
and NOJ) was carried out at six sites along the proposed LSE alignment in January 1995
for five consecutive days, and supplemented at three additional sites in November 1995
due to the significant change of the alignment. According to the monitoring results, NO,
concentrations were much lower than the ambient air quality standard in both maximum
and daily average values. At all monitoring sites, maximum TSP concentrations were
below the standard. At four sites, daily average TSP concentrations were above the
standard, but they did not exceed the standard value significantly. Maximum CO
concentrations were below the standard at all monitoring sites, but daily average CO
concentrations significantly exceeded the standard at five monitoring sites. The major
reasons are that (a) there are many coal mines which contribute significant CO emissions,
(b) there are many township and private coking plants using primitive coking methods,
and (c) incomplete coal combustion was carried out by local residents for heating
purposes in winter.
14.   Noise. Baseline noise monitoring was carried out at six sites in January 1995,
supplemented at three additional sites in November 1995 due to the significant change of
the alignment. The monitoring results suggest that at all sites except Hejiazhuang and
Leijiawan, the noise levels (Leq) in both daytime and at night are below the noise
standards which are adopted as assessment criteria, and at most sites the noise level is
fairly low compared with the Class 2 standards. The noise levels at Hejiazhuang and
Leijiawan slightly exceed the standard at night time because of the Long-Hai Railway
and National Highway 310.



-128 -                     ANNEX5
15.   Water and Soil Loss. The local soil category is cinnamon soil which includes
six kinds of soil. The local soil has a pH value of 7.0-8.8 and is generally fertile.
According to the local topography, geomorphology, soil and vegetation, the project area
is divided into deeply incised gullies, loess plateau and loess rolling hills. Water and soil
loss vary to a great extent in different areas. Generally, the erosion module is 1,500 to
2,000 t/km2 in deeply incised gullies, 500 to 2,000 t/kmn in loess plateaus, 1,000 to
2,000 t/km2 in highland and hillyland areas, and 500 to 1,000 t/km  in low loess hills.
Recently, more attention has been paid by local government to water and soil
conservation. Water conservation measures practiced in the local area include reforesting
farmland and increasing vegetation coverage. Lead in soil at seven sites ranges between
15.37 and 39.98 mg/kg, which is not only lower than the national and provincial averages
but also significantly lower than the value of 300 mg/kg, which is recommended by the
Ministry of Agriculture as the criterion for soil with a pH value of 6.5.
D. POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND THEIR MITIGATION MEASURES
16.   Major potential impacts and their mitigation measures regarding LSE and its
linking roads are summarized below and incorporated in the Environmental Action Plans
(EAPs)of LSE and its linking roads. The EAPs stipulate how the environmental impacts
identified in the EIA will be dealt with in the design, construction and operation phases,
and what institutional arrangements have been made for the implementation of the EAPs
during the three distinct phases. The key elements of the EAPs are summarized as
Appendix 2 of this Annex..
Design Phase
17.   Alternative Alignments. Quite a few comparative alignments schemes were
considered in the project design phase. In this alignment scheme, the section from west
of Mianchi to Hongtuao of Shaanxi has a relatively unfavorable configuration and an
alternative alignment was proposed to go from Mianchi through Xiamatou,
Zhuchengcum, Suzhaicum, Beigou, Yinnhao and reach Zhangcun Road. After leaving
the railway for the coal mine at Houying, it goes west to pass by Beigetiao, Lishupo and
deflects southwest to pass through Tuling and Langwo. This alternative alignment is
relatively smooth and 4 km shorter, but as passing through extensive coal mine settlement
areas, it poses difficulties for subgrade treatment. Another consideration was given to
Guanyintang section from Mianchi to Sanmenxia. Two alternatives were proposed for
this section. One goes to the south of Guanyintang to avoid the coal mine with
subsidence problems, and the other goes to the north of Guanyintang which has caves
with subsidence problems. The south scheme was adopted with due consideration to
avoid unfavorable geological conditions, coal mines and archaeological sites as well as to
minimize land acquisition, as well as impacts of air pollution and noise on residential
areas.



- 129 -                     ANNEX5
18.   Social Disruption. In order to minimize problems of community separation and
isolation due to the project construction, adequate numbers of overpasses, passageways
and bridges were incorporated into the project design.
19.   Soil Erosion. High embankment slopes will be stabilized with grout, concrete
grids, shotcrete and grass. Deep cut slopes will be protected with grout, concrete grids,
shotcrete or sprayed grass seeds in line with the geology, ramp height and slope. Water
sumps will be provided as appropriate, to lead natural slope water to ditches or other
drainage facilities. Planting of trees and grass in the median divider and along the
roadside was included in the design where appropriate. Temporary and permanent
drainage systems were designed to minimize soil crosion and alteration of hydrological
regimes.
20.   Earthworks. Since the land undulates to a considerable extent, large quantities
of excavation and backfill works are required in many sections, which will cause
significant impacts on ground stability and ecological setting as well as dust and noise
problems during the construction stage. Particular attention was paid to balance the cuts
and fills along LSE so that spoil from excavation works are best used for embankment
works and impacts of borrow/spoil operations on farmland are minimized. Quarries and
borrow sites were selected, in such a way as to minimize the dust and other problems at
environmentally sensitive locations such as residential areas.
21.   Noise. Most of the villages within 200 m from the roadsides are small and
sparsely populated. Altogether, 16 environmentally sensitive sites were selected for
special attention. According to the traffic noise prediction during the operation phase
(2000, 2010 and 2020), the noise level at four sites will significantly exceed the
assessment criteria in 2000. In later years, the noise will increase and the noise level will
exceed the assessment criteria by more than 10 dB(A) in five sensitive sites in 2020. To
avoid such noise problems, the following measures have been identified and integrated
into the designs of LSE, considering predicted noise levels and local situations. For the
linking roads, fences on the side facing the proposed roads will be raised and double glass
windows will be furnished for the first row of houses where appropriate.
(a)   Noise barriers at the sensitive sites (1,700 m at two sites by 2000, 285 m at
one additional site by 2010);
(b)   Heightened fences besides the first row of residences facing the road (three
sites by 2000 and one additional site by 2010);
(c)   Double glass windows for the first three rows of residences (three sites by
2000 and two additional sites by 2010);
(d)   Forest belts with a width of more than 30 m (one site by 2000 and two
additional sites by 2020); and



-130 -                       ANNEX5
(e)   Resettlement of houses near the roadsides (within 24 to 55 m from the
roadsides, depending on the local situation-12 sites by 2000).
22.   Air Pollution. In the initial operation stage (2000), maximum CO concentrations
at all 16 sensitive sites will be within the assessment criteria while maximum NO,
concentrations at 6 sites will exceed the assessment criteria. In the mid-operation stage
(2010), maximum CO concentrations will slightly exceed the assessment criteria at eight
sites mainly due to high background concentrations, and maximum NO, concentrations
will exceed the assessment criteria at 11 sites with the maximum 2.2 times higher than
the criteria. In the late operation stage (2020), the maximum CO concentrations at nine
sites will exceed the assessment criteria, and maximum NOX concentrations at all sites
will exceed the assessment criteria, with a maximum value 3.3 times higher than the
assessment criteria. Such conditions will happen during the peak traffic volume and
when the meteorological conditions are worst. However, such incidents do not occur
frequently. This problem will be dealt with by improving vehicle emission controls to
reduce NOX and other vehicle exhaust emissions, strengthening vehicle emissions
inspection and planting trees at sensitive sites. Construction of residences, schools,
hospitals and other sensitive buildings will not be allowed within 200 m from both sides
of LSE.
23.   Water Pollution. Adequate permanent and temporary drainage systems were
incorporated in the project design to minimize surface water pollution and disturbance to
irrigation channels and existing drainage systems. Wastewater treatment facilities as well
as boilers equipped with precipitators were included in the design of service area facilities
in order to prevent direct discharge of wastewater to public water bodies.
24.   Cultural Relics.  An archaeological field survey was carried out during
December 1994 through February 1995 by the Henan Provincial Archaeological Institute,
following the relevant rules and regulations in China to identify cultural relics to be
affected by LSE. Altogether, 18 archaeological sites were identified to be protected along
LSE. Ranks of the cultural relics preservation of these sites are city-level protection (4
sites), county-level protection (6 sites) and unclassified (8 sites). None of them are of
national or provincial-level protection. An archaeological salvage and protection plan
was developed and integrated as a part of the Second Henan Provincial Highway Project.
All the salvage activities will be carried out after land acquisition and prior to project
commencement.
25.   Flooding. All bridges, culverts and roadside drainage systems were adequately
designed to meet requirements for safe discharge of floods (300 year design floods for
super-large bridges and 1 00 year floods design for other bridges and culverts).
26.   Landscape. Afforestation will be undertaken to improve landscape at median
dividers, slopes and ditches as well as beyond the right-of-way. Also, landscaping and
other aesthetic effects were considered during the design of bridges (without endangering
safety of the structures), service areas and interchanges.



- 131 -                      ANNEX5
Construction Phase
27.   Fugitive Dust and Other Air Pollution. Quarries, material borrow sites, waste
disposal sites and transportation routes to construction sites were identified as the major
areas that create dust and other air pollution. Road surfaces, excavation areas and
construction sites will be sprayed with water and kept moist particularly near towns,
water sources and other sensitive locations. Access roads will be upgraded, widened and
paved where necessary, and sprayed regularly to minimize fugitive dust. Stockpiles and
storage areas will be either covered or sprayed. Construction materials will be covered
during hauling to prevent undue dust or debris on roads. Asphalt and lime stone mixing
equipment will have dust collectors and will be located at least 200 m from residential
areas on the leeside of the wind directions. Construction machines will be equipped with
exhaust gas control units.
28.   Noise.  Since operations of machinery associated with excavation and road
construction may cause hearing damage in the event of prolonged exposure, hearing
protection will be provided for construction workers. Construction machinery and trucks
will be equipped with proper noise control devices and will be properly operated and
maintained. Construction activities will be suspended between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 am
near residential areas. Transportation of construction materials will be undertaken with
careful consideration to minimizing noise impacts on residents along the roadside.
Traffic management, including dissemination of traffic rules and setting up of speed
limits will be strengthened.
29.   Protection of Land Resources. Forests will not be used for material borrow
sites. Reforestation will be undertaken for any previous forests upon completion of
construction activities. Afforestation will be carried out on previous wasteland used for
borrow or spoil sites. Arable land will be avoided as material borrow sites where
possible. If excavation has to be done in arable land, top soil layer will be saved and
returned after construction works is completed to minimize impacts on ecosystems and
agriculture. Education of construction workers will be strengthened to protect natural
resources, wild plants and animals. Poaching will be strictly prohibited.
30.   Soil Erosion and Water Pollution. Trees and grass will be planted on side
slopes, and along the roadside, where appropriate.  Appropriate measures, either
rehabilitation or reconstruction, will be taken if the existing irrigation or drainage systems
are damaged. All necessary measures will be taken to prevent earth and stones from
silting up rivers, water channels or existing irrigation and drainage systems. Construction
camps will be located far away from Yanghe and Qinglonglian Rivers, which are used for
drinking water sources. Temporary channels or conduits will be constructed for irrigation
and drainage during the construction of permanent drainage systems. All reasonable
measures will be taken to prevent direct discharge of polluted water from construction
activities into rivers and irrigation channels.



-132 -                      ANNEX5
31.   Construction Camps. Septic tanks will be installed at construction camp sites to
prevent direct discharge of sanitary sewage to public water bodies. Sludge in sewer
treatment pits will be disposed of regularly. Garbage will be collected in garbage cans at
fixed locations and disposed of regularly. Drinking water at construction sites will meet
China's national drinking water standards.
32.   Cultural Relics. Construction works will be stopped immediately if any cultural
relics are discovered as a result of road construction or excavation activities. The local
cultural relics authorities will be informed and a field survey of the site will be
undertaken. Excavation will not be resumed until authorized institutions identify the
importance and necessary preservation measures of the discovered cultural relics.
33.   Traffic Management. Local resources will be used to the extent possible to
avoid long distance transportation of construction materials. Adequate traffic control
measures will be implemented in consultation with the Communications Department and
Public Security Bureau to prevent or minimize traffic jarns during the construction
period. Where sections of existing roads are used for transportation of construction
materials, temporary service roads will be constructed as appropriate to alleviate
congestion of existing roads.  A construction material transportation plan will be
developed to avoid hauling activities during peak hours especially on existing roads. In
order to guarantee safety, efficient lighting equipment and safety signs will be installed
on temporary roads during the construction, and adequate traffic regulations will be
adopted and implemented for temporary roads.
Operation Phase
34.   Noise and Air Pollution. Unnecessary use of horns will be strictly restricted at
night. Noise barriers or other appropriate noise protection measures will be taken at
locations where noise exceeds standards, based on the results of monitoring.
35.   Vehicle Management. Better vehicle maintenance and management will be
enhanced to keep vehicles in good conditions. Vehicle noise and emission inspection
will be strengthened and vehicles which do not meet noise and exhaust emission
standards will not be allowed to use LSE and other roads in the province. Random
vehicle emission inspections will be undertaken at the entrance of the interchanges.
Public awareness campaigns and education will be undertaken to familiarize people with
air and noise pollution regulations. In order to avoid future noise and air pollution
problems, development of residential areas and construction of sensitive buildings such
as schools and hospitals will be prohibited within 200 m from the roadside of LSE.
36.   Risk of Hazardous Material Spill. Any vehicle transporting hazardous materials
will be required to obtain permissions from the Public Security Bureau (PSB), the
Communications Department and the Fire Protection Department.



-133 -                    ANNEX 5
E. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
37.   During the construction and operation of LSE and its linking roads, environmental
monitoring will be carried out to verify the actual impacts on the environment, identify
unexpected environmental problems at an early stage, and adjust environmental
protection measures as appropriate.   The High-Grade Highway Environmental
Monitoring Center under the Henan Provincial High-Grade Highway Construction
Authority (to be called Henan Provincial Communications Environmental Monitoring
Center: HPCEMC) will be mainly responsible for environmental monitoring during the
construction and operation phases. However, noise, vibration and fugitive dust will be
monitored by the environmental supervisor at each construction contract section. The
enviromnental monitoring for the linking roads during both construction and operation
phases will be undertaken by local environmental monitoring stations. An annual
environmental monitoring report would be furnished to the Bank during the construction
phase and for each of the first three years following completion of construction.
38.   The major items to be monitored during the construction phase will include air
quality, noise and vibration, and water quality. Air quality, noise and water quality will
be monitored during the operation phase. In addition, vehicle exhaust and noise will be
inspected during the operation phase. The detailed monitoring plan is presented below.
39.   Air Quality. Items to be monitored will include fugitive dust (by environmental
supervisors) and total suspended particulates (TSP) during the construction phase and
nitrogen oxides (NOJ), CO, TSP and hydrocarbons (HC) during the operation phase.
During the construction phase, TSP will be monitored 4 times a year for 3 consecutive
days each time and fugitive dust once a week. Monitoring sites will be construction sites,
quarries and material borrow sites, and major roads used for hauling construction
materials. According to the EAP, fugitive dust will be monitored at least 6 places around
construction sites. During the operation phase, NO,, CO, TSP and HC will be monitored
three times a year, each time for 5 consecutive days and 4 times a day at 9 monitoring
sites along LSE. NO,, CO and TSP will be monitored during the operation period at 5
monitoring sites along the linking roads.
40.   Noise and Vibration. During the construction phase, vibration (for LSE only)
and noise monitoring will be carried out by environmental supervisors in each contract
section in daytime and at night on a weekly basis at construction sites, quarries, material
borrow sites and major construction materials hauling roads. Ad hoc monitoring will also
be undertaken. During the operation phase, noise monitoring will be carried out 4 times a
year, in daytime and at night at 9 sites along LSE and 5 sites along the linking roads (as
identified in the EAPs). Ad hoc monitoring will also be undertaken.
41.   Water Quality. During the construction phase, pH, dissolved oxygen (DO),
biochemical oxygen demands (BOD), chemical oxygen demands (COD), suspended
solids (SS), oil and lead will be monitored once a week at 100 m both upstream and



-134 -                     ANNEX5
downstream of the Qinglonghe Bridge. During the operation phase, the same items will
be monitored at the same sites 3 times per year.
42.   Vehicle Exhaust and Noise Inspection. Vehicle exhaust gasses and noise (CO
and HC in gasoline-powered vehicles, and smoke density and noise in diesel-powered
vehicles) will be randomly inspected at the entrance of interchanges.
F. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF RIPA COMPONENT
43.   The Rural Roads Improvement Program to help alleviate poverty (RIPA) under
the Second Henan Provincial Highway Project includes 76 road segments under 30
systems (a set of road segments) in 29 poor counties of Henan Province. Since the road
segments under the RIPA are large in number, and most of the RIPA projects are
upgrading of the existing roads and small in the size of construction works, it was agreed
that a Sectoral Environmental Assessment (EA) approach would be applied to the RIPA
project.
44.   The Sectoral EA approach is summarized as follows:
(a)   Initial Environmental Evaluation (IEE): All the RIPA subprojects will be
classified into two categories, Category I and Category II. IEE was carried
out only for the first package of RIPA project because of lack of necessary
information for the rest of sub-projects. Therefore, classification of the
rest of sub-project needs to be done at a later stage when the subsequent
packages of RIPA project are prepared.
(i)    Category I projects are those which are not expected to have
significant environmental impacts.  This category of projects
include upgrading of existing roads without substantial widening
and land acquisition.
(ii)    Category II projects are those which may have potentially
significant environmental impacts.  This category of projects
includes new road construction, upgrading of existing roads with
substantial widening and land acquisition, and other road
upgrading projects passing through enviromnentally special areas
such as national parks, nature reserves, and important cultural
heritage sites.
(b)   Preparation/review of EIA reports and EAPs
For Category I projects, only Environmental Action Plans (EAPs) are
required to determine various environmental protection measures to be
implemented, based on the principles on environmental protection
measures. For Category II projects, both EIAs and EAPs are required. All



-135 -                     ANNEX5
EIA reports and EAPs will be submitted to the Bank and reviewed by the
Bank together with the application of a package of subprojects.
45.   Regarding the first package of RIPA subprojects, only three road segments will be
newly constructed, while the remaining 20 road segments will be upgraded. The major
upgrading works include:
(a)   improvement/construction of culverts;
(b)   widening of roads in a small number of road segments; and
(c)   upgrading of road conditions to all-weather gravel-earth surface.
46.   Major Environmental Protection Measures for the RIPA Projects: Major
environmental protection measures to be commonly implemented for most RIPA projects
are summarized below and listed in Appendix 2.
Environmental Protection Measures during the Design Stage
(a)   Soil Erosion. Engineering and biological measures will be taken to
stabilize slope and protect soil erosion. Temporary and permanent
drainage systems will be constructed to minimize soil erosion and
alteration of hydrological regimes, including impacts on irrigation
channels. Trees and grass will be planted to minimize soil erosion, air
pollution and enhance good landscape along the proposed road.
(b)   Subgrade Soil Works.  Borrow areas will be identified in the land
acquisition areas where possible to minimize farmland and forest
destruction.
(c)   Afforestation. Trees will be planted alongside the sides of the road to
improve aesthetics and grass will be planted alongside slopes to protect the
embankments against erosion.
Environmental Protection Measures during the Construction Stage
(a)   Dust/Air Pollution. All reasonable steps, including watering, will be
taken to minimize dust pollution by construction works, and transportation
of construction materials, particularly in places near towns, water sources
etc. Stockpiles and storage areas will be covered or watered to prevent
dust pollution. Trucks to transport construction materials will be covered
to minimize spills. Lime mixing and tar heating sites will be located far
away from residential areas, at least 200 m of the lee side of the wind
direction.
(b)   Soil Erosion/Water Pollution. Spoil will not be stored on riverbeds,
farmland, forests and cultivated fields to protect water sources and natural



-136 -                       ANNEX5
ecology, and prevent interruption of rivers and flooding. Rivers and water
sources will be cleaned up as appropriate if they are interrupted by soil and
spoil. All reasonable measurers will be taken to prevent direct discharge
of polluted water from construction activities into rivers and irrigation
channels.
(c)   Construction Camps. Adequate measures will be taken to prevent water
pollution by waste water from construction camp sites. Drinking water
will meet the China national drinking water standards. Garbage will be
collected in garbage cans on fixed places and disposed of regularly. Clean
hygienic conditions will be strictly maintained.
(d)   Noise. Where residences are located near the construction sites, noisy
construction works will be undertaken during the daytime (6:00-22:00).
Maintenance of machines and trucks will be strengthened to keep them
with low noise
(e)    Conservation of Land Resources.  Arable land, especially good
farmland, will not be selected as material borrow sites as much as
possible. Afforestation will be undertaken for the land used for temporary
use of construction.   Education of construction workers will be
strengthened to protect natural resources, wild plants and animals.
Poaching will be strictly prohibited.
(f)    Construction Safety. Management regulations will be established to
ensure safe construction activities. Warning limits will be clearly decided
and people should be evacuated prior to any blasting operations.
Temporary roads will be provided with lightening facilities and traffic
marks to prevent from possible traffic accidents.
(g)   Cultural Relics. If fossils, coins, artifacts of value or antiquity, structures
and other remains of geological or archaeological interest are found, the
local cultural authority will be immediately informed of such discovery,
and excavation shall be stopped until identification of cultural relics by the
authorized institution of preservation is completed
Environmental Protection Measures during the Operation Stage
(a)   Noise/Air Pollution. At roads adjacent to villages, use of horns will be
minimized or prohibited during night time.  Vehicle speed will be
restricted along villages. Macadam road segments close to villages will be
often watered . In dry seasons, watering will be carried out at least two
times a day. Roads will be maintained in a good conditions to minimize
traffic noise. Noise will be monitored periodically to take appropriate
measures where needed.



-137 -                     ANNEX5
(b)   Transportation of Hazardous Materials. Trucks transporting hazardous
materials will obtain permits from the Public Security Bureau and
Transportation and Fire Fighting Departments.
(c)   Others. During and after the construction of RIPA roads, new permanent
buildings will not be allowed to be constructed within 10 m from the
roadsides. new hospitals, schools and large residential areas will not be
built within 200 m from the roadsides. Traffic regulations will be strictly
enforced and education to comply with traffic regulations will be provided
to residents in the vicinity of the roads.
47.   Environmental Monitoring for the RIPA  Projects.  The environmental
monitoring will be carried out by local environmental monitoring centers through
contracts with the county transportation bureaus.  The monitoring results will be
submitted to the higher levels of transportation and environmental bureaus for their
review. Dust, TSP, asphalt smoke, noise and river water quality will be monitored during
the construction phase and TSP, NO,, CO, noise and river water quality during the
operation phase. Water quality monitoring both in the construction and operation phases
will also be undertaken for Category II projects.
G. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF YANGJIA-BAIJIAZHAI CONNECTION
48.   Basic Environmental Description. The project area is located in the floodland
on the south bank of the Yellow River which is less covered by vegetation. There are
some gullies along the proposed alignment, but the area is generally flat and located in
loess land. As investigated, there are two environmentally sensitive sites, namely
Nanchengzi and Yangjia. Through investigation, there are no rare or endangered species
in the project area and no cultural relics along the proposed alignment. To collect
baseline monitoring data, air quality (TSP, CO and NOJ) and noise were monitored at
two sites in October 1995. The monitoring results indicate that the project area is calm
and air quality is fairly good.
49.   Potential Environmental Impacts and their Mitigation Measures.  Major
potential impacts and their mitigation measures are almost the same as those for LSE and
its linking roads. The noise level will not be significant in the initial operation stage
(2000) but will exceed the standard from 2010. The first two rows of houses in the north
part of Nanchengzi and Yangjia will be furnished with double glass windows by 2010. In
addition, considering that the southern half of the proposed road will be constructed
during the period of 2000-2010, the northern half will handle one way traffic and driving
speeds will be limited where necessary along the sensitive areas during this period, to
avoid possible interference of construction and operation of the proposed road. Air
quality at the sensitive sites will not exceed the standard significantly.



-138 -                    ANNEX5
H. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
50.   During the construction phase, the following institutional arrangements for
environmental protection will be undertaken for LSE.
(a)   The Environmental Management Agency of the Henan Provincial High-
Grade Highway Construction Authority has five staff, two of whom will
work on the Second Henan Provincial Highway Project. The functions of
the agency will include:
(i)   to ensure compliance with environmental protection policies, laws
and regulations of the Governments both at central and provincial
levels, to work out environmental management procedures in line
with those policies, laws, regulations and local situations;
(ii)   to develop environmental work plans and to be in charge of
implementation of surveillance and routine management of
environmental protection measures of high-grade highways during
the construction phase;
(iii)   to organize and coordinate environmental monitoring, research and
information work for both construction and operation phases of
high-grade highways, to collect and interpret environmental
monitoring and research data, and to disseminate environmental
protection experiences on and technologies for high-grade
highways;
(iv)   to investigate and deal with any traffic pollution events on high-
grade highways;
(b)   An Environmental Protection Section will be established at each of the
Luoyang and Sanmenxia Project Offices with two well trained, full-time
environmental staff respectively to be responsible for the routine
environmental work during the construction phase.
(c)   One or two part-time environmental staff will be assigned to each of the
eight contract sections for LSE, on part-time basis, to carry out regular
monitoring of fugitive dust, noise, vibration, and supervise
implementation of environmental protection measures stipulated in the
EAP and the bid documents.
(d)   The High-Grade Highway Environmental Monitoring Center under the
Henan Provincial High-Grade Highway Construction Authority (to be
called Henan Provincial Communications Environmental Monitoring
Center: HPCEMC), with staff of 24 experts (2 senior engineers, 10
engineers and 12 assistant engineers), and expected to have additional 6



-139 -                     ANNEX5
staff in the future, will carry out the environmental monitoring works of
LSE both during construction and operation phases, except fugitive dust,
noise and vibration. Approximately 10 monitoring staff of HPCEMC will
work for the Second Henan Provincial Highway Project.
51.   Upon completion of LSE, Luoyang and Sanmenxia Project Offices will come
under the Henan Provincial High-Grade Highway Management Authority (HPHGHMA).
The Environmental Protection Sections and their staff of Luoyang and Sanmenxia Project
Offices will remain the same under HPHGHMA. Menjin, Xinan, Yima, Mianchi and
Shanxian will set up their separate expressway management subagencies. Menjin, Xinan
and Yima subagencies will have one full-time environmental manager respectively, and
Mianchi and Shanxian subagencies will have two environmental managers respectively.
During the operation period, these environmental managers will be responsible for
regular environmental management of LSE under the guidance of the Environmental
Management Agency of HPHGHMA.
52.   For linking roads, the following institutional arrangements will be undertaken.
(a)   Each of the relevant cities and counties has established its own project
office staffed with one full-time environmental inspector. Each contractor
will provide a part-time environmental staff to assist the environmental
inspector in fulfilling his/her environmental responsibilities.
(b)   Upon completion of the project, the environmental responsibilities will be
handed over to the environmental protection sections under the local
communications bureaus. Each of the environmental protection sections
will have one to two full-time staff to work for environmental protection/
management of all the highways under its jurisdiction.
(c)   Environmental monitoring during both construction and operation phases
will be undertaken by local environmental monitoring stations through
contract with the relevant agencies. Environmental monitoring data in the
construction phase will be submitted to the relevant project offices and
local environmental protection bureaus (EPBs). During the operation
phase, such data will be submitted to the environmental protection sections
under the local communications bureaus and local EPBs.
53.   The institutional arrangements for environmental protection of RIPA projects are
presented below.
(a)   During the construction stage, Henan Provincial Highway Administration
Bureau (HPHAB) and its subsidiary bodies at city/prefecture and
county/township levels will be responsible for the environmental
management of RIPA projects. Three environmental staff are currently
assigned in HPHAB for the RIPA projects.



-140 -                    ANNEX5
(b)   For the first package of RIPA projects, each of the 4 communications
bureaus at city/prefecture level will have separate environmental
protection sections with 3-4 full time staff. Each of the eight county
communications bureaus will have a communications environmental
protection section with 1-2 full time staff. Each contractor will assign one
environmental management staff for the implementation of environmental
protection measures addressed in the EAP and the bid documents.
Environmental monitoring will be carried out by local environmental
monitoring stations through contract with HPHAB.
(c)   During the operation period, an environmental management network under
the leadership of the Environmental Protection Division of HPCD will be
formed to conduct environmental management of RIPA projects.
54.   For the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection, environmental management during both
construction and operation stages will be carried out by the environmental protection
section of Expressway Construction Authority of Sanmenxia with two full time staff.
The environmental protection section with one full time staff under Linbao
Communications Bureau will be directly responsible for the implementation of the
environmental protection works under the proposed highway project.  During the
construction stage, a part-time environmental manager will be assigned to assist the
environmental staff under the Linbao Communications Bureau. The environmental
monitoring during both construction and operation stages will be carried out by Linbao
Environmental Monitoring Station through contract with Linbao Communications
Bureau.
55.   The following environmental training will be undertaken to provide adequate
training for environmental staff at the Environmental Protection Agency at the
Headquarters in Zhengzhou, the Environmental Protection Sections at the Project Offices,
environmental supervisors at the contract sections and monitoring staff of HPCEMC. All
the training will be provided locally and no environmental training in other parts of China
or abroad will be undertaken under the Second Henan Provincial Highway Project.
(a)   Two new environmental staff of the Environmental Management Agency
and four environmental experts of the Environmental Protection Sections
in Luoyang and Sanmenxia project offices will have training on
environmental management of transportation projects, for a month or two
in Zhengzhou.
(b)   An environmental training course for about a month will be undertaken in
Zhengzhou to provide training on environmental supervision and on noise,
vibration and dust monitoring.  Approximately five environmental
supervisors out of eight contract sections will need the training, while
others are supposed to have sufficient expertise from the previous projects.



-141-                     ANNEX5
(c)   The staff of HPCEMC, particularly new staff, will have training on
monitoring technology, data management, processing and quality control
for about two months. The Henan Provincial Environmental Monitoring
Center and HPCEMC will organize training on monitoring items, analysis
methods and principles, work process and data processing for all the
personnel to be engaged in the environmental monitoring of the Second
Henan Provincial Highway Project.
56.   The following environmental equipment will be procured under the Second Henan
Provincial Highway Project.
Eouipmen                                  Numtber
TSP Monitor                                 1
NOx Monitor                                 1
Psophometer                                2
Analytical balance                         4
Spectrophotometer                          2
Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer         2
Computer                                   2
Refrigerator                               2
Bake oven                                   2
Monitoring car                              I



-142-                       ANNEX5
APPENDIX 1 OF ANNEX 5: ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS APPLIED tN ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Standards                                                  Number
Ambient Air Quality Standards                              GB3095-82
Ambient Noise Standard for Urban Areas                     GB3096-93
Environmental Quality Standards of Surface Water           GB3838-88
Standard for Pollutant Emission from Asphalt Industry      GB4916-85
Environmnental Vibration Standards in City Regions         GB10070-88
Noise Criteria for Construction Sites                      GB12523-91
Two standards, namely ambient air quality standards and ambient noise standards
for urban areas, most relevant to the EIA of this project, are presented below.
AMBIENT NOISE STANDARD FOR URBAN AREAS
(GB3096-93)
Category        Day          Night    Type of land use
dB(A)        dB(A)
0            50            40      Residential, cultural and educational areas
1            55           45      Class I mixed area
2            60            50      Class II mixed area
3            65            55     Industrial zone
4            70            55      Sides of traffic artery



-143 -                     ANNEX5
AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARD
(GB3095-82)
Items                                      Concentration Limits (mg/m3)
Class I     Class II    Class III
standards    standards    standards
Suspended Particulate  Daily average     0.15        0.30         0.50
Matter (SPM)
Spot sample La       0.30        1.00         1.50
Dust                Daily average        0.05         0.15        0.25
Spot sample          0.15        0.50         0.70
SO2                 Annual average L2    0.02         0.06        0.10
Daily average        0.05        0.15         0.25
Spot sample          0.15        0.50         0.70
NOX                 Daily average        0.05         0.10        0.15
Spot sample          0.10        0.15         0.30
CO                  Daily average        4.00         4.00        6.00
Spot sample         10.00       10.00        20.00
Ozone               Average over one     0.12         0.16        0.20
hour
Lead lZ             Maximum              0.0015       0.0015      0.0015
la Spot sample means concentration at any time.
Lb Annual average means the annual average of daily average concentrations.
LQ BasedonGB9137-88.
Note: Class I standards are to ensure that the ecology and people's health are not
damaged over a long period of time due to air quality.
Class II standards are to protect people's health and the growth of plants and
animals both in cities and in the countryside from any damage over a short or long
period of time due to air quality.
Class III standards are to ensure the normal growth of plants and animals and
protect them from chronic and acute poisoning.



-144 -                                 ANNEX5
APPENDIX 2-1 OF ANNEX 5: KEY ELEMENTS OF THE EAP
FOR THE LUOYANG-SANMENXIA EXPRESSWAY AND THE
YANGJIA-BAIJIAZHAI CONNECTION
Environmental issues                              Action taken/to be taken                  Responsibility
A. D12Ehase
1. Routc Selection              The alignment was selected from two alternatives with due con-  HPHSDI
sideration to minimize land acquisition, impacts of air pollu-
tion and noise on residential areas, and to avoid unfavorable
geological conditions, coal mines and archaeological sites.
2. Social Disruption            Adequate numbers of overpasses, passageways and bridges     HPHSDI
were designed to meet the requirements for crossing of local
people, animals and vehicles.
3. Soil Erosion                 Planting of trees and grass on median divider, sideslopes, and  HPHSDI
along the roadside, was included in the design where appropri-
ate. Slope protection, such as grout, concrete grids, etc., were
incorporated in the design.
Temporary and permanent drainage systems were designed to  HPHSDI
minimize soil erosion and alteration of hydrological regimes,
including impacts on irrigation channels.
4. Earthworks                   In view of huge quantities of earthworks, due consideration was  HPHSDI
given to properly allocate roadbed earthworks. Quarries and
borrow sites were selected, taking into account the dust and
other problems at environmentally sensitive locations such as
residential areas.
5. Water Pollution              Waste water treatment facilities as well as boilers equipped with  HPHSDI
precipitators were designed for service areas.
6. Noise                        Adequate measures such as noise barriers, brick walls and  HPHSDI
double-glass windows were identified and integrated in the
design and bid documents.
7. Flooding                     All of super-large, large, medium and small bridges and    HPHSDI
culverts were adequately sized to meet requirements for safe
discharge of design flood (300 years for super-large bridges,
100 years for other bridges).
S. Culbual Relics               Cultural relics survey was carried out and an archeological  HPICRA/
salvage plan was developed.                                HPHSDI
9. Afforestation                Afforestation plan was developed to reduce air pollution prob-   HPHSDI
lems and enhance better landscape.



-145 -                                ANNEXS
Environmental issues                             Action taken/to be taken                  Responsibility
10. Landscape                  Afforestation plan paid due attention to aesthetic effect of  HPHSDI
medians, side slopes, etc.. Bridge design also included
consideration on aesthetic effect.
B. Constructin Pham
1. Protection of Land Resources   Forests will not be used for material borrow sites. Reforesta-  Contrators
tion will be undertaken for any previous forests used for tempo-
rary purposes upon completion of construction activities.
Afforestation will be carried out on previous wasteland used for
borrow or spoil sites upon completion of construction activities.
Arable land will be avoided as material borrow sites wherevr
possible. If excavation has to be done in arable land, top soil
layer will be saved and retumed after construction work is com-
pleted, so as to minimize impacts on ecosystem and agriculture.
Education of construction workers will be strengthened to
protect natural resources, wild plants and animals. Poaching
will be strictly prohibited.
2. Soil Erosion/Water Pollution   Trees and grasses will be planted on side slope, and along the    Contradors
roadside, where appropriate. Appropriate measures, either
rehabilitation or reconstruction, will be taken, if the existing
irrigation or drainage systems are damaged.
All necessary measures will be taken to prevent earth and
stones from silting up rivers, water channels, or existing irri-
gation and drainage systems. Construction camps will be
located far away from Yanghe and Qinglonglian rivers, which
are used for drinking water sources.
Temporary channel or conduit will be constructed for irrigation
and drainage, during the construction of permanent drainage
systems.
All reasonable measurers will be taken to prevent direct dis-
charge of polluted water from construction activities into rivers
and irrigation channels.
3. Construction Camps          Septic tanks will be installed at the construction camp sites.  Contractors
Sludge in sewage treatment pits will be disposed of regularly.
Drinking water will niect the China national drinking water
standards.
Garbage will be collected in garbage cans at fixed locations and
disposed of regularly.



-146 -                                 ANNEX5
Environmental issues                              Action taken/to be taken                  Responsibility
4. Dust/Air Pollution           All reasonable steps, including watering, will be taken to mini-   Contractors
mize dust pollution during construction, particularly in places
near towns.
Stockpiles and storage areas will not be located within 100 m
from residential areas on the lee side of the wind direction.
Stockpiles and storage areas will be covered or watered to pre-
vent dust pollution. Trucks to transport construction materials
will be covered to minimize spills.
Asphalt mixing and lime-soil mixing will be carried out cen-
trally to the extent possible. Asphalt mixing and lime-soil mix-
ing sites will be located at least 200 m from residential areas on
the lee side of the wind direction. Asphalt mixers will be
equipped with adequate dust collectors. Necessary protection
measures will be taken for asphalt plant operators to protect
their health.
5. Transportation Management    Hauling route of construction materials will be selected in a  Contractors
careful manner to minimize interference with existing commu-
nications facilities, and dust and noise.
Adequate actions to direct traffic will be taken in consultation
with communications and public security departments, to pre-
vent or minimize traffic jans during the construction period.
6. Noise                        Noisy construction works will not be undertaken during the  Contractors
night time (22:00 - 6:00). Maintenance of machines and trucks
will be improved to minimize noise.
7. Cultural Relics              Excavation will be stopped immediately if any cultural relics  Contractors/
are found, and the local cultural authority will be informed of    HPICRA
such discovery. Excavation will not be resumed until identifi-
cation of cultural relics by the authorized institution is com-
pleted and necessary preservation measures identified.
8. Transportation Safety        In order to guarantee safety, efficient lighting equipment and  Contractors
safety signs will be installed on temporary roads during the
construction, and adequate traffic regulations will be adopted
and implemented for temporary roads.
C.    0ion Pas
1. Noise and Air Pollution      Unnecessary use of horns will be strictly restricted at night.  HPHGHMA
Noise barriers or another appropriate noise protection measures   HPHGHMA
will be taken at locations where noise exceeds standard, based
on the results of monitoring.



- 147 -                             ANNEX 5
Environmental issues                           Action taken/to be taken                Responsibility
2. Vehicle Management         Better vehicle maintenance/management will be enhanced to  HPPSD/HPCD
keep vehicles in good conditions. Vehicle noise and emissions
inspection will be strengthened. If a vehicle does not comply
with the noise and/or emissions standards, the vehicle will not
pass inspection on roads till the problem is rectified. Periodical
and random exhaust gas emissions inspection will be under-
taken at interchanges.
Public awareness and education will be promoted to familiarize   HPEPB/HPCD
people with the problems of air pollution and noise from vehi-
cles and with related regulations.
3. Hazardous Materials Spills  Any vehicle transporting hazardous materials will be required    HPPSD/HPCD/
to obtain permissions from public security, communications,  HPFD
and fire departments.
4. Others                     Construction of permanent buildings including schools and  HPCD
hospitals will not be allowed within 200 m from the roadside.
Three emergency fire brigades will be established and equipped   HPHGHMA
with ambulances and fire engines, and trained staff will be pro-
vided to cope with any abrupt event. In case of any explosion
and fire, fire departments will be promptly informed and the
relevant road section will be closed until appropriate measures
are taken.
D. Environmental Monitoring
1. Air Quality                (I) Construction period:
(a) Monitoring item: TSP, dust and asphalt smoke
(b) Monitoring frequency: 4 times a year, 5 consecutive days,
4 times a day (TSP, smoke), once a week (dust)
(c) Monitoring points: construction sites, quarries, material
borrow sites, major hauling roads and asphalt mixing
sites
(2) Operation period:
(a) Monitoring items: NO,, CO, HC and TSP
(b) Monitoring frequency: 4 times a year, 5 consecutive days,
4 times a day
(c) Monitoring points: identified in the EAPs
(3) Monitoring technical criteria:
Present Atmosphere Monitoring Standard Methods issued
by National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA)
2. Noise and Vibration        (1) Monitoring frequency:
(a) Construction period: once a week, 2-3 times a day. Ad
hoc monitoring will be undertaken as appropriate.
(b) Operation period: 4 times a year, 3 consecutive days, once
each in daytime and at night. Ad hoc monitoring will be
undertaken.



-148-                               ANNEX5
Environmental issues                          Action taken/to be taken                Responsibility
2. Noise and Vibration (cont'd)   (2) Monitoring points:
(a) Construction period: same as air quality monitoring
(b) Operation period: identified in the EAPs
(3) Monitoring technical criteria:
Present Noise Standard Method issued by NEPA
3. Water quality              (I) Monitoring items: BOD or COD, SS, oil, temperature, pH,
DO etc.
(2) Monitoring frequency:
(a) Construction period: once a week
(b) Operation period: 3 times a year
(3) Monitoring points:
(a) Construction period: one site each at 100 m upstream and
downstream of the Qinglonghe River Bridge
(b) Operation period: same as above
(4) Monitoring technical criteria:
Water Quality Standard issued by NEPA
4. Vehicle Exhaust and Noise    (I) Inspection items: CO and HC (gasoline-powered vehicles),
Inspection                    particulate matter (diesel-powered vehicles)
(2) Inspection frequency: periodical and random check
(3) Inspection site: interchanges
Abbreviations
HPHSDI: Henan Provincial Highway Survey and Design Institute
HPICRA: Henan Provincial Institute of Cultural Relics and Archaeology
HPHGHMA: Henan Provincial High-Grade Highway Management Authority
HPCD: Henan Provincial Communications Department
HPPSD: Henan Provincial Public Security Department
HPFD: Henan Provincial Fire Department
HPEPB: Henan Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau



-149 -                               ANNEX5
APPENDIX 2-2 OF ANNEX 5: KEY ELEMENTS OF THE EAP
FOR RIPA COMPONENTS
Environmental issues          Action taken/to be taken                                  Responsibility
A. Design Phase
1. Soil Erosion               Engineering and biological measures will be taken to stabilize    Local Commu-
slopes and reduce soil erosion.                          nications
Bureaus (CBs),
Temporary and permanent drainage systems will be constructed   EPBs, design
to minimize soil erosion and alteration of hydrological regimes,  institutes (Dls
including impacts on irrigation channels.
Trees and grass will be planted to minimize soil erosion, air
pollution and enhance good landscape along the proposed
roads.
2. Subgrade Soil Works         Borrow areas will be identified in the land acquisition areas  Local CBs,
where possible to minimize farmland and forest destruction.  EPBs, DIs
3. Afforestation               Afforestation scheme was improved for slopes and side ditches,  Local CBs,
and to incorporate aesthetic effect into the afforestation designs.  EPBs, Dls
B. Construction Phase
1. Dust/Air Pollution         All reasonable steps, including watering, will be taken to mini-   Contractors
mize dust pollution by construction works, and transportation
of construction materials, particularly in places near towns,
water sources etc.
Stockpiles and storage areas will be covered or watered to pre-
vent dust pollution. Trucks to transport construction materials
will be covered to minimize spills.
Lime mixing and tar heating sites will be located far away from
residential areas, at least 200 m of the lee side of the wind
direction.
2. Soil Erosion/Water Pollution   Spoil will not be stored on riverbeds, farmland, forests and cul-   Contractors
tivated fields to protect water sources and natural ecology, and
prevent interruption of rivers and flooding.
Rivers and water sources will be cleaned up as appropriate if
they are interrupted by soil and spoil.
All reasonable measurers will be taken to prevent direct dis-
charge of polluted water from construction activities into rivers
and irrigation channels.
3. Construction Camps          Adequate measures will be taken to prevent water pollution by    Contractors
waste water from construction camp sites.
Drinking water will meet the China national drinking water
standards. Garbage will be collected in garbage cans at fixed
places and disposed of regularly. Clean hygienic conditions
will be strictly maintained.



-150 -                                  ANNEX5
Environmental issues             Action taken/to be taken                                     Responsibility
4. Noise                         Where residences are located near the construction sites, noisy    Contractors
construction works will be undertaken during the daytime
(6:00-22:00).
Maintenance of machines and trucks will be strengthened to
keep them with low noise.
5. Conservation of Land          Arable land, especially good farmland, will not be selected as  Contractors
Resources                     material borrow sites as much as possible. Afforestation will be
undertaken for the land used for temporary use of construction.
Education of construction workers will be strengthened to
protect natural resources, wild plants and animals. Poaching
will be strictly prohibited.
6. Construction Safety           Management regulations will be established to ensure safe con-   Contractors
struction activities. Affected areas will be clearly established
and people should be evacuated prior to any blasting opera-
tions.
Temporary roads will be provided with lighting facilities and
traffic markings to reduce traffic accidents.
7. Cultural Relics               If fossils, coins, artifacts of value or antiquity, structures and  Contractors,
other remains of geological or archaeological interest are found,  Local
the local cultural authority will be immediately informed of  Archeological
such discovery, and excavation shall be stopped until identifi-    Bureaus
cation of cultural relics by the authorized institution of
preservation is completed
C. Operation Phase
1. Noise/Air Pollution           At roads adjacent to villages, use of horns will be minimized or   Local CBs
prohibited during night time. Vehicle speed will be restricted
along villages. Macadam road segments close to villages will
be often watered . In dry seasons, watering will be carried out
at least two times a day. Roads will be maintained in a good
condition to minimize traffic noise. Noise will be monitored
periodically to take appropriate measures where needed.
2. Transportation of Hazardous    Trucks transporting hazardous materials will obtain permits  PSB, HPCD,
Materials                    from the Public Security Bureau, and the Transportation and   Fire Fighting
Fire Fighting Departments.                                   Dept.
3. Others                        During and after the construction of RIPA roads, new perma-  Local CBs
nent buildings will not be allowed to be constructed within 10
m from the roadsides. new hospitals, schools and large resi-
dential areas will not be built within 200 m from the roadsides.
Traffic regulations will be strictly enforced and education to
comply with traffic regulations will be provided to the residents
in the vicinity of the roads.
D. Environmental Monitoring
1. Air Quality                   (1) Construction period:
(a) Monitoring item: TSP, dust and asphalt smoke
(b) Monitoring frequency: 4 times a year, 5 consecutive days,
4 times a day (TSP, smoke), once a week (dust)
(c) Monitoring points: construction sites, quarries, material
borrow sites, major hauling roads and asphalt mixing
sites



-151-                               ANNEX5
Environmental issues          Action taken/to be taken                                Responsibility
1. Air Quality (cont'd)       (2) Operation period:
(a) Monitoring items: NOx, CO and TSP
(b) Monitoring frequency: 4 times a year, 5 consecutive days,
4 times a day
(c) Monitoring points: identified in the EAPs
(3) Monitoring technical criteria:
Present Atmosphere Monitoring Standard Methods issued
by National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA)
2. Noise and Vibration        (1) Monitoring frequency:
(a) Construction period: 6 times a year, 2-3 times a day. Ad
hoc monitoring will be undertaken as appropriate.
(b) Operation period: 4 times a year, 3 consecutive days, once
each in daytime and at night. Ad hoc monitoring will be
undertaken.
(2) Monitoring points:
(a) Construction period: same as air quality monitoring
(b) Operation period: identified in the EAPs
(3) Monitoring technical criteria:
Present Noise Standard Method issued by NEPA
3. Water quality              (1) Monitoring items: BOD, COD, SS, pH, DO, oil, volatile
phenol, lead.
(2) Monitoring frequency:
(a) Construction period: 3 times a year during the bridge
construction
(b) Operation period: 3 times a year
(3) Monitoring points:
(a) Construction period: to be determined adequately
(b) Operation period: same as above
(4) Monitoring technical criteria:
Water Quality Standard issued by NEPA
Abbreviations
EPB:  Environmental Protection Bureau
HPCD: Henan Provincial Communications Department
NEPA: National Environmental Protection Agency
PSB:  Public Security Bureau



-152 -                     ANNEX6
ANNEX 6: LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
ISSUES
1.    Context. This annex describes the land acquisition and resettlement impacts
under the Second Henan Provincial Highway Project and the framework for
implementation of resettlement established during project preparation. The annex is
divided into two main sections: (a) impacts of land acquisition and resettlement under
the project; and (b) framework for implementation of land acquisition and resettlement.
All information related to the RIPA component of the project relates only to the first
year's package under RIPA.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Impacts
2.    Construction of the various components of the project will require 1,060.42
hectares (ha) of permanent land acquisition and will affect about 11,567 persons. Land
acquisition will be necessary for the expressway, the linking roads, the Yangjia-
Baijiazhai Connection (YBC) and the roads under the RIPA component. Persons whose
houses or the enterprises where they are working are affected as a result of construction
will need to be resettled and/or rehabilitated. It was agreed that the project impacts would
be identified through two types of surveys. These are: (a) a census survey of affected
people and properties to determine the physical impact of the project; and (b) a baseline
socioeconomic survey of the affected persons to determine their existing income levels
and standards of living.
(a)   Census survey. The land acquisition and resettlement impacts of the
project were determined as a result of the census survey carried out by the
Henan Planning Survey and Design Institute (HPSDI). The survey was
carried out between November 1994 to May 1995. This survey was based
on the preliminary engineering designs of the expressway and the
interchanges. The survey of the RIPA component roads to be constructed
during the first year of implementation and the YBC and linking roads was
carried out in July 1995. The census surveys were carried out with the
participation of affected persons and their local representatives.  The
survey indicated that 1,060.42 ha of land would need to be acquired and
11,567 persons will be affected. Out of the 11,567 persons affected, 3,548
would need to be relocated. Most of the persons affected by land
acquisition will be rehabilitated through land redistribution. Thirty-two
persons affected by relocation of two enterprises will resume employment
in the reconstructed enterprises. Another 235.26 ha of land would need to
be leased temporarily during project construction, affecting 1,903 persons.



-153 -                      ANNEX6
(b)   Socioeconomic Survey. In order to establish the baseline of incomes and
standards of living of the affected persons, a detailed socioeconomic
survey will be carried out by the Legal Institute of the Zhengzhou
University before the initiation of resettlement implementation.  The
baseline survey is expected to be completed by March 31, 1996.
Framework for Implementation of Land Acquisition and Resettlement
3.    In order to mitigate the impacts of land acquisition and resettlement under the
project, a comprehensive framework of implementation of land acquisition and
resettlement activities has been established. This framework consists of the following:
(a)   legal framework and resettlement policies
(b)   institutional arrangements
(c)   costs and budgets
(d)   implementation framework and schedule
(e)   participation of affected persons
(f)   redress of grievances of affected persons
(g)   monitoring of implementation
These elements of the implementation framework are discussed below.
4.    The Objective And Principles Of Resettlement. The main objective of the
resettlement program under the project is to ensure that all categories of affected persons
are able to at least restore, if not improve, their standard of living after resettlement. Both
national and provincial governments have established principles that help ensure that the
above objective of resettlement implementation is achieved. These principles aim to:
(a) minimize land acquisition and resettlement in order to reduce adverse impacts of the
project; (b) restore or improve the area and standards of housing; (c) consult the affected
persons regarding their relocation and rehabilitation choices, and rates of compensation
offered; (d) provide alternative farmland to affected persons through land redistribution;
(e) in cases where land redistribution is not possible, provide jobs in enterprises to the
affected persons; and (f) ensure resettlement is satisfactorily completed before initiation
of construction activities.
5.    Legal Framework And Resettlement Policies.  The legal framework for
implementation of land acquisition and resettlement has been established based on the
following laws/regulations:
(a)   Land Management Law of the People's Republic of China-1986



-154 -                     ANNEX6
(b)   The implementation methods of land management in Henan Province-
1987
(c)   The notice on the revised standards/rates of compensation for attachments
on the ground taken by construction projects in Henan province-1989
(d)   The circular on compensation/subsidiary for attachments to the ground
taken by construction projects in Henan province-1 993
(e)   The Circular on Compensation for the attachments to the ground taken by
construction projects in Sanmenxia-1993
(f)   The circular on Implementation of the tentative regulations on utilization
tax on cultivated land in Henan-1 989.
The Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for the project were prepared based on the above
regulations. Implementation of the land acquisition and resettlement activities under the
project will be carried out on the basis of specific provisions of the RAP.
6.    Based on the census survey carried out by HPSDI, the following categories of
project impacts were identified. The compensation/resettlement policies for each of these
categories of impacts is as follows:
(a)   Houses And Other Structures Affected By The Project. All affected
houses and structures will be compensated on the basis of replacement
value of the affected assets. Depreciation will not be taken into account
while calculating the total compensation payable and no deduction will be
made for the value of salvageable materials. Inflation factors from the
year 1993 (when the compensation rates were fixed) until the time of
payment of compensation will be used to calculate the actual
compensation payable.
(b)   Agricultural Land Affected. Two types of compensation will be paid for
land  affected  under the  project:   (i) land  compensation; and
(ii) resettlement subsidy. Land compensation will be paid at the rate of
4-6 times (depending on the location of the land) the average annual
output value of affected land. Resettlement subsidy will be paid at the rate
of 3-10 times the average output value of affected land depending on the
per capita land holding of affected farmers. The details regarding the
multiplier to be used in specific cases are given in the RAPs.
(c)   Enterprises Affected By The Project. Affected enterprises will be
rebuilt in the vicinity on land to be provided by the local villages. The
cost of land will be paid by the project. The affected workers will
continue their employment in the reconstructed enterprises. They will be



-155 -                      ANNEX6
paid an allowance equivalent to their wages for the period when
production will be disrupted.
(d)   Persons Losing Agricultural Land. Most of the affected persons losing
agricultural land will be given alternative land through land redistribution
in the affected village. The minimum average per capita land holding is
0.1 mu. If, as a result of land acquisition, the average per capita land
holding of the village falls below this level, some of the affected persons
would need to be provided nonagricultural jobs in order to restore the
average land holding of the affected village to the minimum standard of
0.1 mu. However, in the Second Henan Provincial Highway Project, there
is no need to provide enterprise jobs since the residual per capita
landholdings are substantially higher than 0.1 mu (in most cases above
0.75 mu).
(e)   Persons Affected By Temporary Acquisition Of Land. Land to be
leased temporarily, during the construction period, will be compensated
for the duration of the lease. The project will provide compensation for
the land leased, the loss of crops on the land, and the cost of restoration of
land after use. The compensation for the land leased, equivalent to its
annual production value, will be paid to the affected persons.
(f)    Affected  Infrastructure.   Affected  civic  infrastructure  will be
reconstructed at the new sites. Private infrastructure facilities will be
compensated at replacement rates. All basic facilities, such as, schools,
health centers, etc. will be provided by the project at the new sites.
(g)   Affected Access to Underpasses. Affected access to underpasses will be
provided at regular intervals in order to restore access of the affected
persons to their lands, markets and other facilities. The number, location
and design features of the underpasses in each village have been decided
after extensive consultations with the affected people.
7.    Institutional Framework. The administration office within HGHCA will be
responsible  for coordination  of land  acquisition  and  resettlement activities.
Implementation of resettlement will be carried out by the local county/township and
village govermments. HGHCA will pay the local governments the necessary funds for
this purpose.
8.    Coordination. A special resettlement coordination group (RCG), headed by the
Deputy Provincial Governor, has been established by the provincial government for
coordinating the implementation of land acquisition and resettlement under the project.
The RCG consists of representatives of all departments concerned with resettlement
implementation and also from the affected local governments.



-156-                      ANNEX6
9.    Costs and Budget. The costs associated with implementation of the RAP will be
a part of the project budget and will be included in the investment plan for the project.
The total cost of land acquisition and resettlement is estimated at Y 196.2 million. This
does not include the cost of RIPA component roads following the first year of
implementation. The cost estimate for the various activities associated with land
acquisition and resettlement for the LSE component is given in Table 1.
Table 1. LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT COMPENSATION COST FOR LSE
Resettlement Compensation                                    Y million
House Relocation                                                28.89
Ground Attachment                                               19.52
Power Supply & Communications                                   16.56
Subtotal (A)                                                 64.97
Crop Compensation                                                3.82
Land Compensation & Resettlement Subsidy                        78.08
Land Lease for temporary Use                                     8.64
Subtotal (B)                                                 90.54
Farmland Use Tax (C)                                            14.18
Overhead Charge (A+B,3%)                                         4.66
Contingencies (A+B+C,5%)                                         8.48
Grand Total                                                 182.85
Provision has been made for covering the increase in costs due to inflation. Inflation will
be factored into the cost estimates at the rate of 5 percent per year for the period between
RAP preparation and implementation.
10.   Linkage Of Resettlement And Construction Schedule. The RAPs contain a
detailed schedule of implementation of all land acquisition and resettlement related
activities. All land acquisition and resettlement activities relating to the LSE, linking
roads, the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection and the first year package of RIPA will be
completed at least one month before the initiation of construction activities on the site. It
is expected that the LAR activities for the LSE will be completed in February 1997,
whereas construction activities are expected to start in March 1997. The month-wise
implementation schedule of land acquisition and resettlement activities is given in
Table 2.



-157-                      ANNEX6
Table 2. LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETrLEMENT SCHEDULE FOR THE LSE
Activi Description
1. Preliminary Design                                         Jan-Mar 1995
2. Identification of ROW                                      Oct-Dec 1995
3. Construction Drawings & Resettlement Agency Establishment   Jul 1995-Mar 1996
4. Pegging out Road Boundary, Land Measurement & Detailed    Mar-May 1996
Census Survey
5. Detailed Calculation & Disbursement of Compensations       May-Jul 1996
6. Redistribution of Land & Arrangement of New Residential     Jul-Sep 1996
Plots
7. Compensation Payment & House Relocation                    Sep-Nov 1996
8. Clearing of Ground Attachments within Road Boundary   Nov 1996-Jan 1997
9. Start of Construction                                          Mar 1997
11.   Participation and Consultations. The project has been designed with the
participation of representatives of the affected persons in townships and village
governments. The census of project-affected persons (PAPs) was carried out with the
involvement of affected persons and their representatives. The PAPs will also build their
houses themselves at the resettlement sites with the compensation amount provided to
them. The project agencies have constantly informed the affected people about the
project and the details of RAP implementation and will continue to do so during
implementation. The PAPs will receive a Resettlement Information Booklet (RIB) to
provide them with detailed information about the land acquisition and resettlement
policies under the project and their own specific resettlement entitlements. The RIB will
be distributed to the PAPs after the RAP has been approved by the Bank.
12.   Grievance Redressal. The affected persons will have ample opportunity for
redressal of their grievances regarding any aspect of land acquisition and/or resettlement
implementation. If any PAP is dissatisfied with any aspect of land acquisition and/or
resettlement, he/she can first appeal to the resettlement office/local government office at
the township/county level. If the decision of this office is not considered satisfactory by
the PAP an appeal can be lodged with the project office or the government office at the
city level. Another appeal, if necessary, can be made to the provincial coordination
group. In case the affected person is still not satisfied, he/she can also approach the
People's court.
13.   Monitoring and Evaluation. The resettlement implementation framework as
described in detail in the RAPs provides for monitoring and evaluation of RAP
implementation. Monitoring will be of two types: (a) internal; and (b) external. Internal
monitoring will be carried out by a unit especially designated for the purpose in the
administrative office of HGHCA. The main indicators to be monitored are: (i) payment



-158-                       ANNEX6
of compensation; (ii) construction of houses at the resettlement sites; (iii) reconstruction
of affected enterprises; and (iv) payment of allowances according to eligibility. HGHCA
will submit internal monitoring reports to the Bank every six months. The first
monitoring report will be submitted by September 30, 1996. Detailed formats for
quantitative internal monitoring have been annexed to the RAP.
14.   External monitoring will be carried out by the Legal Institute of Zhengzhou
University. Apart from verification of the information submitted on the basis of internal
monitoring, the following indicators will be monitored through external monitoring:
(a) the adequacy of compensation paid to PAPs for affected houses; (b) the quality of
houses constructed at resettlement sites; (c) payment of wages to affected workers during
the period when the enterprises are stopped; (d) restoration of income levels and
standards of living of the affected persons. The external monitoring agency will submit
its report every six months. The first external monitoring report will be submitted to the
Bank by December 31, 1996. A final monitoring and evaluation report will also be
prepared after project completion and submitted to the Bank by December 31, 2001.



-159-                      ANNEX7
ANNEX 7: IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
This annex presents the implementation program for the various components of
the project. Table 1 summarizes the overall implementation schedule for the project as a
whole. Table 2 shows the detailed implementation schedule for the eight civil works
contract sections of the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway (LSE) to be constructed by
ICB; administration and maintenance buildings, and service areas and electrical and
mechanical works for LSE. Tables 3, 4, 5 and 6 summarize the implementation
schedules for the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection (YBC), link roads to LSE, the RIPA
first-year package, and the new Scientific Research Center respectively. Table 7 depicts
the detailed implementation schedule for the supervision of construction of LSE and its
link roads. These schedules show the estimated time requirements for construction
activities as well as for preconstruction activities such as preparation of designs and bid
documents, prequalification process, bidding process, evaluation of bids, negotiations and
signing of contracts.



Table 1. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1995           1996           1997           1998            1999           2000           2001           2002
L. Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway                                                                 ----------------
2. Linking Roads to LSE
3. Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection
4. RI PA
First-year package
Second-ycar packagc
rlhird-yca package
5. Scientific rescarch center                        . . __
6. Road accident black spots
Supsrvision of Construction: LSE
and Link Roads                                                                                                                                 -
Procurecmnt ol Elquipmcnt_
II..l.i:.C
C'einral laboratory and
environmental monitoring                           ......... .. .
Opcrationi and mnaintenance
2. Highway network - RIPA
Train_n_
Study of Mainenance and Operation
of lligh-Grade Iliihwavs
Legend:                                               Prequalification/preparation of bidding docunients/TOR
Bidding process/competition among consultants
Construction/supervision/delivery/execution of studies
Defects liability period
Training/technical assistance/roadway safety



-161-                      ANNEX7
Table 2. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR CONSTRUCTION OF LSE
A. Civil Works (ICB)
Prequalification stage
General Procurement Notice is published by the Bank      November 16, 1995
Preparation of Prequalification (PQ) Document             December 15, 1995
Bank clears PQ documents                                    January 10, 1996
PQ Advertisement in China                                   January 15, 1996
Last date to submit PQ applications                          March 15, 1996
PQ applications evaluation report and Government review       April 15, 1996
Bank review and no objection to PQ evaluation report          May 15, 1996
Bidding and Evaluation Stage
Prepare bid documents                                       January 31, 1996
Italian consultants review bid documents                     March 31, 1996
Bank review and no objection to bid documents                 April 30, 1996
Sell bid documents to prequalified contractors                May 22, 1996
Last date to receive bids from prequalified contractors     August 20, 1996
Bid evaluation report and Government review                  October 1, 1996
Bank review bid evaluation report and no objection          October 31, 1996
Negotiate and sign contracts                                January 15, 1997
Start construction                                            March 1, 1997
Complete construction                                     December 31, 2000
B. Administration and Maintenance Buildings, Service Areas. Toll Plazas (NCB)
Complete preparation of bid draft documents                    January 1998
Bank review of bid documents (for prior review only)            March 1998
Revise bid documents                                             April 1998
Invite bids                                                       May 1998
Last date to receive bids                                         July 1998
Bid evaluation report and Government review                    August 1998
Bank review bid evaluation report and no objection (prior review)  September 1998
Negotiate and sign contracts                                   October 1998
Start construction                                          November 1998
Complete construction                                        November 2000
C. Electrical and Mechanical Works (aCB)
Complete draft design and bid documents                          June 1998
Review of designs and bid documents by foreign experts      November 1998
Bank review bid documents and no objection                   December 1998
Invite bids                                                    January 1999
Last date to receive bids                                        Apnl 1999
Prepare bid evaluation report and government review               July 1999
Review bid evaluation report by Bank and no objection          August 1999
Negotiate and sign contract                                  September 1999
Start implementation                                           October 1999
Detailed design by contractor                                December 1999
Manufacture and purchase of equipment                            June 2000
Transport of equipment to site                                 August 2000
Installation and debugging of equipment                       February 2001
Test running of systems                                          May 2001
Complete implementation                                          June 2001



-162 -                     ANNEX7
Table 3. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR CONSTRUCTION OF YANGJIA-BAIJIAZHAI
CONNECTION (ICB)
Prequalification Stage
Prepare prequalification (PQ) document                   September 30, 1996
Bank review PQ document and no objection                    October 31, 1996
Publish and issue PQ notice                                November 1, 1996
Last date to receive PQ applications                      December 31, 1996
Prepare PQ evaluation report and clearance by Government    January 31, 1997
Review PQ evaluation report by Bank and no objection         March 31, 1997
Bidding and Evaluation Stage
Complete draft bid documents                               February 28, 1997
Bank review bidding documents and no objection               March 31, 1997
Sell bid documents to prequalified contractors                 April 1, 1997
Last date to receive bids                                     May 31, 1997
Bid evaluation report and Government review                   June 30, 1997
Bank review bid evaluation report and no objection             July 31, 1997
Negotiate and sign contract                                 August 21, 1997
Start construction                                         October 15, 1997
Complete construction                                    November 30, 1999
Table 4. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR LINK ROADS (NCB) la
Complete draft bid documents                                     June 1998
Review of design and bid documents by Bank and no objection       July 1998
(prior review only)
Revise bid documents                                           August 1998
Advertise the notice for bidding                            September 1998
Last date to submit bids                                    November 1998
Prepare bid evaluation report and clearance by Government      January 1999
Review bid evaluation report by Bank and no objection         February 1999
Negotiate and sign contract                                     March 1999
Start construction                                               May 1999
Complete construction                                       September 2000
la It is possible to advance the completion of these linking roads by about two years
should the local governments desire so to meet local traffic requirements.



-163 -                     ANNEX7
Table 5. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR RIPA FIRST-YEAR PACKAGE
(NCB/FORCE ACCOUNT) lA
Complete bid doLuments                                             July 1996
Advertise the notice for bidding                                August 1996
Last date to submit bids                                       October 1996
Prepare bid evaluation report and clearance by Government    November 1996
Review bid evaluation report by Bank and no objection        December 1996
Negotiate and sign contract                                    January 1997
Start construction                                               March 1997
Complete construction                                        December 1998
/a It is possible to advance the completion of these linking roads by about two years
should the local governments desire so to meet local traffic requirements.
TABLE 6. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH CENTER (NCB)
Prepare draft bid documents
Bank review bid documents and no objection                 February 15, 1996
Revise bid documents                                         March 15, 1996
Sell bidding documents to contractors                        March 20, 1996
Last date to receive bids                                     April 30, 1996
Bid evaluation report and Government Review                    May 25, 1996
Bank review bid evaluation report and no objection             June 25, 1996
Negotiate and sign contract                                    July 10, 1996
Start construction                                             July 31, 1996
Complete construction                                          July 31, 1998
Table 7. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR CONSULTING SERVICES FOR
SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION OF LSE AND ITS LINK ROADS
Prepare Terms of Reference and Letter of Invitation        February 15, 1996
Bank review TOR and LOI and no objection                     March 28, 1996
Send TOR and LOI to shortlisted consultants                    April 1, 1996
Last date to submit proposals                                  July 31, 1996
Prepare proposal evaluation report and Government review     August 31, 1996
Bank review proposal evaluation report and no objection   September 30, 1996
Negotiate and sign contract                                 October 31, 1996
Train local supervision staff                              February 15, 1997
Start supervision of construction                             March 1, 1997
Complete supervision of construction                              June 2001



-164 -                           ANNEXS
ANNEX 8: SUPERVISION MISSION PLAN
Timing  Main Activities                                       Skill Requirements    Staff-
weeks
10/96    ProjectILaunh
Review of all key procedures for interactions between    Highway Engineering  4
the Bank and project executing agencies, including  Road Safety
procurement, disbursement, and project reporting  Highway Economics
requirements. Overall project implementation schedule  Institutional Strengthening/
will be reviewed, including early stage activities for  Training
environmental protection and resettlement.       Procurement
Disbursement
Resettlement
Special emphasis on:
-Resettlement and environmental measures and
monitoring
-Contractors and Supervision consultants for LSE
-RIPA first-year package
-Establishment of Leading Group for Traffic Safety
Coordination and Traffic Safety Secretariat
-Training proposals for 1997
-Study of expressway management
-Procurement
4/97    General Supervision
(i) review progress for each project component,  Highway Engineering         2
identify pending issues, and agree on follow-up actions;  Procurement
(ii) reach agreement on resettlement monitoring
arrangements;
(iii) review proposals for maintenance of highway
network; and
(iv) review sources and uses of highway funds.
Special emphasis on:
-Procurement of laboratory, research, environmental,
and road safety-related equipment.
-RIPA second-year package
-Monitoring of maintenance of highway network
-Construction of high bridges.



-165 -                          ANNEX 8
Timing  Main Activities                                     Skill Requirements    Staff-
weeks
10/97   Major Supervision
In-depth review of implementation status with   Highway Engineering         3
particular emphasis on:                         Road Safety
(i) contractor's perfornance;                   Procurement
Environment/Resettlement
(ii) effectiveness of supervision;
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection measures
and environmental monitoring;
(iv) monitoring of resettlement;
(v) review proposal for equipment procurement for the
operation and maintenance of the highway network; and
(vi) review activities on design/bid documents for
E&M supply and installation contract for the
Expressway.
Special emphasis on:
-Road Safety Program - black spots.
-Training proposals for 1998 and 1999.
-Procurement of equipment for institutional
strengthening.
6/98    General Supervision
(i) review overall progress for each component, identify  Highway Engineering  2
pending issues, and agree on follow-up actions;  Procurement
(ii) review proposal for procurement of equipment for
operation and maintenance of Expressway; and
(iii) review annual highway maintenance report and
sources and uses of highway funds.
Special emphasis on:
-Monitoring of maintenance of highway network
-Environmental protection measures.
-RIPA third-year package.
-Review final report for study of operations and
maintenance of high-grade highways.



-166-                            ANNEX8
Timing  Main Activities                                       Skill Requirements    Staff-
weeks
4/99    Major Supervision
In-depth review of implementation status with    Highway Engineering/        4
particular emphasis on:                            Maintenance
(i) contractor's performance;                    Procurement
Training
(ii) effectiveness of supervision                Environment/Resettlement
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
(iv) staff training programs; and
(v) annual maintenance report and sources and uses of
highway funds.
Special emphasis on:
-Expressway construction, quality and supervision.
-Training proposals for 1999 and 2000.
-Electrical and Mechanical Works: procurement.
-Monitoring of maintenance of highway network.
10/99    General Supervision
Review overall progress for each component and   Highway Engineering         2
identifying pending issues and agreeing on follow-up
actions.
Special emphasis on:
-Review of project resettlement actions and final
monitoring report.
-Training proposals for 2000 and 2001
6/2000   Major Supervision
In-depth review of implementation status with    Highway Engineering         3
particular emphasis on:                          Transport Economics
(i) contractor's performance;                    Road Safety
Environment
(ii) effectiveness of supervision;
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
(iv) staff training program; and
(v) review annual maintenance report and sources and
uses of highway funds
Special emphasis on:
-Progress on E&M contracts.
-Toll arrangements for SLE.
-Monitoring of maintenance of highway network.



-167 -                           ANNEX 8
Tining  Main Activities                                       Skill Requirements    Staff-
weeks
4/2001 General Supervision
Reviewing overall progress for each component and  Highway Engineering       2
identifying pending issues and agreeing on follow-up
actions. Preliminary arrangements for preparation of
the Implementation Completion Report will be
discussed.
Reviewing annual maintenance report and sources and
uses of highway funds.
3/2002   Implementation Completion Report Mission
A consolidated review of project implementation.  Highway Engineering/       4
Maintenance
Transport Economics
Environment
Resettlement
Implementation Review
Preparation of Project Implementation Completion
Report.
Toial                                                                        26



-168 -                     ANNEX9
ANNEX 9: PROPOSED MONITORING INDICATORS
1.    From the start of project implementation through completion, progress will be
monitored against the project objectives. To facilitate this process and provide objective
means of evaluation of how well the project is meeting its objectives, a limited number of
indicators are developed for each objective. For each indicator, the baseline level should
be stated and the target values for various years in the future (such as mid-term year,
implementation completion review (ICR) year and full impact year) should be estimated.
2.    Table I lists the project objectives, the indicators for each objective, the baseline
level, and the target values for each indicator for the years 1999 (mid-term), 2001 (ICR
year) and 2003 (full impact year). This table also depicts the source of information for
estimating the value of each performance indicator. The values for these indicators are to
be estimated by HPCD and to be submitted to the Bank by the end of 1996. The project's
objective related to reduction of congestion on the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Highway (LSH)
will be monitored using the average daily traffic volume as well as the average vehicle
speed on the existing highway (LSH) and the proposed expressway (LSE). The objective
relating to stimulation of economic activity in the Luoyang-Sanmenxia corridor will be
monitored using the gross output value of agriculture and industry (GOVAI) for the
affected counties along the corridor. The indicators for the objectives relating to helping
alleviate poverty in the poor counties consist of GOVAI of affected counties, average
daily traffic and thc number of days the road is closed to traffic. Strengthening of
institutional capabilities will be monitored through qualitative evaluation of sharing of
new knowledge and exercising new/improved skills by staff trained under the project as
well as by improvement of performance of specific functions and activities.  The
indicators for the increase in roadway safety comprise the number of fatalities and
injuries on LSH and LSE and for the Henan highway network as a whole.
3.    The monitoring of outputs during implementation of the project will be based on
the monitoring of procurement processes, percent completed of civil works, consultants
engaged to prepare studies, number of person-months of training achieved,
disbursements, compliance with loan covenants, audit reports, etc. Table 2 presents the
key performance indicators during implementation of the various components of the
project as well as the source of information for estimation of the various indicators.
HPCD will, by the end of 1996, complete the missing information in this table and revise
the values of the indicators for the various years of the implementation period of the
project.



Implementtairn
Comnpletion
Baseline Value           hlid-tenM Value           Review Yen
Proect               Key Perfoenmnce                   Road                     (19495)                   (1999)                (2001) Value            Value in 2003                  Source of Infomatio
Objectives                lodcaoa                      Section            Extumg         rposed    toitng        Proposed        isting    ropoDsed     olxing     rro osed                   nd Remarks
Road  Road      Road         Roadd        Roa         Roa         Road         Ra
Raduciot  of         - Avase Daidy Traffic       Lsasya -Xinan                                                          -                                                           Routine periodic traffic counts conducted
Congsson on             (mWDty)                  Xi -incki                                                 -by HPCD
Lusy    w_ a                                       inh       intng
Hignaray                                          -uawy                                                    - nm  x x
Luoyaag-Suaanenxia                                                                                                                c       --Withted "a=c ofADnT oa sliuv sectarss
Luoy""S Nnanxpmhal  stdie c .AD bn sKsctd onr
Cxisting aW nd newras fan small paissenger
cars buse, and sracks separately
- Aveesa,. Which Speed     L"uoYaasj-Xinast                                                                               -                                  Aveaagc speed is the wvitIeda veaof
Mianchi-Csanyintang                                                                                                                tye -ee
Lwy angS uneiia                 -                                                                                       -         eighted average of speed on above sctions
Stimulate economic    - Caoss ra    vale of      Lyang-Sanmeni                          -                         -                                                               Routine economic data nd udis conducted
activity in Luoyang-    A          rlAe a ndIusty   Ceeidor                                                                                                                      bl the prefectures and counmies affected by
S=nmen-a corridor       (GO VAI) is affiected                                                                                                                                     LoE
ceusoes
HeIp alleviae        - GOVAI of ftected          First Package                                                                                                                      Routine economic data and studies
povery in poor          cute                     Second Package--                                                                    ----                                         I conducted by the affected counties Values>
coumies                                          Third Packae                    -            -            -            -            -           -                                  for each pactage should be the weighied            t
values fre she constituent road comnponentsr
Total RIPA program              -                  -            -                   -           -           -           -       W hied average of CO VAI far the
lclpaekegrs
- Aveese Daily Traffic     Firs Package                                              -            -            -           -           -            -         Routine periodic counts and special counts
(mieffly)                Second Package                                                                                                                    to be conducted by the Hliwoy
Thild Package                                                                                                                      Administration Bur-m    avluek  fe each
Thind Package  -                      -            -           -           -           -          pac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gkage should be the weighted values for
UeConstituent road Components.
tonstita   PAt peas".<
- Nmber of days rood is    Firt Pk                         -            -                         -                        -           -            -         Avilable data fm  county-level I ligh"wy
closed so toaffic        Second Package                  -            -t-dc  l                                                       --t                    Administration Weather bureau etc    -
CkGcd W uafrbc ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~egte aue o tecasiieatra
Third Packag                    -            --                                                                                    Values for eawi package should li the
weigham   vaus  fo0W osttetra
Total RIUA program                                                                                                                 giliZ rAte of  Itas far the
Suengiaieung of      - Qualitaive ealuation                                                                                                                                      See detailed monitoing pan foe institutional
bistutional              eleu ig arig ofsew                                                                                                                                      SItengtheningtrminig (T abl 3).
capabilities            kw      e and 
exercisis  nevw skills by
star utrained under the
project u well as
smpov n dof
7erforwsance in specific
Increase roadway     - Aswau nmaber of           Number of faulitin pen                                                                                                             Accident records rnsm the Traffic Police.
sfety                  fasabtes and ioj-mss on    sear.                                                                                                                            an  ---  td traffic volume dats frons the I lighway
exisung LSH and          Faiities per 100 mil                                                                                                               Administration Bueru
proposed LSE             vehicle-kilometrs
Numbef  ioisjse
Imw es    I pnIrwmvehcl        --
- Anmil mbner of           Numiber of frualites
faxlites AM'      on    p        oear     
rhe  M$o hbhv "uy  N"umben of 9n)uric pn f
netv AkIn Ie =n          year<
Pissob cef      d
Valuesas be peosided by IPCD befute theend of 19ff96,



Project Component                                         Performance Indicator        1996   1997   1998   1999   200         2001         Source of information and Remrks
* Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway (LSE)
- Civil works                                     Cumulative percent complete           -      15     45      73    100         -     Monthly progress renorts to be prepared by tihe
- Electrical and mechanical works                 Cumulative percent complete           -       -       5      15     80      100   I joint venture for supervisiont ofconstruc-ion of      . 
- Supervision of construction                     Cumulative percent complete           -       -       *       -       -       -       LSE, linking roads and YB3C and the peJject
quarterly progress reports to be prepared by         >
HPCD.                                                r
* Linking Roads                                     Cumulative percent complete           *       -       5     45      100 [ D
* Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection (YBC)               Cumulative percent complete           -      15      55    100        -       -
* RIPA
- First Package                                   Cumulative percent complete           -     40    100                 - -           Reports on each package to be submitted by
- Sccond Package                                  Cumulative percent complete           -      10     60    100         -       -   ) Henan Highway Administration Duresu
- Third Package                                   Cumulative percent complete           -       *      10     60     100            X (HAB) for each package as well as project
I quarterly progress reports to be prepared by
% HPCD/lIAlt.                                         FJ
Total                                                                         -      22      62      88    Io0        -      IC_
* Equipment                                         Cumulative percent delivered to       -      10     35      60     100        -   Project quarterly progress reports to be subiniited     >
Henan                                                                            by HiPCD.                                               - 
* Institutional Strengthening and Training (IST)
* Training                                        Cumulative person-months              -     50    184    324    394           -   Two-year rolling training programs and project          o        o
quarterly progress reports.                            Fl
- Equipment for IST                              Cumulative peaent delivered to        -      20      90    100        -       -   Quartedy progress reports to be submitted by
Henan                                                                            IIPCD.                                                  h
- Scientific Technology Center of IISRI          Cumulative percent complete          15      65     100       -       -       -   Project quarterly progress reports and imionthly        0
progress report to be subiitted by supervisionm
- Study of Organization. management and           Cumulative percent complete           -     40    100         -       -       -   Project quarterly repons and reports to be             >
maintenance of toll roads                                                                                                         submitted by the study team.
* Roadway Safty                                                                                                                                                                               Fi
- Traffic accident black spots                    Number of spots treated               *       2      4       6       3        -   I Special concept report to be prepared by Road
I Safety Unit at start of black spot work; project
quartedy progress reports to be submitted by         t
i HPCD; two-year rolling training program.
- Development of rafric safety policv             Percent complete                      -    100        -       *       -       -
* Development of safety audit procedures          Cumulative percent complete           -       *     40     100               >-   I                                                      H
- Training of police                              Person-months                         -       3       2       1       1       -   X
- Procurement of software for nalvses of accidents   Percent delivered to Henan         -    100        - t o                   -
Procurement of equipment fortratffic safety      Percent complete                      -    100        - t             -       - o
- Studyof factors contributing to highway uaffic  Cumulative percent complee            -      35    100        -           -   -
acti  ts
S
'C



-171-                                                   ANNEX9
TABLE 3: MONITORING PLAN FOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Compoest                                   Implemsentation Indicators                                     Impact Idleators                              Remarks &
Fless                                 Proces                     Completion                   Shor-term                     Long-term                    Comments
iNDICATOR                   INDICATOR  Completion        INDICATOR                     INDICATOR  Improvement   Baseline Perfommance in
Number of Staff             of training plinned under    Staff trined are shlring new  of performance in specific   sector functions sre
Development program         Staff development pmgrams    kwwledge wa                   functions and activities     specified in Training Needs
Intensive institutionl       candidates selected and sent   SOURCE:                   exercising new skills           rgeted by staff             Profiles which are kept on
atrengthming progrnms at     for taining                   * Mid-tenm Training        SOURCE                         development prgnm            file in Prioje  Execution
SOURCE                      Report                           Reports of workshops      SOURCE.                      Ofrice Sample of these
tntmive institutional            Annual rining Plan        * Project Implementation    held by retuming trainees     Implementation Completion    Training Needs Profiles ue
strengthening prognrnt at        TORE for Study Abroad    Completion Report             n Supervision interviews     Review                       provided as pan of Annual
the Support and Reerch         * TORI for Investigation                               and their reports on trainees   I Assessment of             Training Plan submission
units                        Study Tours                 INDICATOR  Equipment         performunce                    institutional performance in
procured in opertion                                      Acivities identified at stan  Additional baseline datai re
Intensive institutional      INDICATOR  Equipment         SOURCE                      INDICATOR Equipment used    of project as requiring         included in
strengthening programs at    procured within time und      * Equipment Status         succeafully for purpoo         Tradning and other           TORs for Study Abroad
the Schools and Training     budget allowed               reports                     intended                      institutional strengthening   and
inmtitutions                 SOURCE                                                   SOURCE:                        meaures                      TORs for
I Annual                                                 * Reported use of                                         Investigstion/Study
Procurement Plan                                         equipment                                                  Abroad.
Both of these ar included
as part of annual
ubmir ion of a 2-veu
rol n,TIuinm, Plan
imluima                      INDICATOR                    INDICATOR  Training         INDICATOR. Trinee              INDICATOR: Critical          Performance on critical
Trining In Henan             W of Trainees selected and   programs completed in       assigned to jobs where new     Function and ativities (for  functions and activities
ent for timely training in  timely manner (as per        skills are effectively utilized  which training was        saseed through interviews
Training in Other China      China and abroad .           periodic Plans provided by                                identified as key fatoor)     with Supervisors of Units
HPCD)                                                     dmnonsrate improved           which requested training
SOURCE:                                                  SOURCE.                       perforrnance                 e g type of analyses
Short-Tarm Training Abroad    * Annual Training Report   SOURCE                          a Reports from interviews    SOURCE.                     undetken, successful
* Annual Trining Plan       * Mid-tenm Repon           of fomer trainees              Assesment of institutional    completion of certin tasks,
Invetigation Study Tour                                      Implementaion              *  Reports from former       perfomance (as above)       opertion of cenain kind of
Completion Report           trainees' supervisors                                       equipment. etc.
(informnation included as part
of Training Needs Profiles
Interviews ar conducted as
pan of assesment of
institutional perfomaLnce
for Function (activitie)
identified at statn of project
as requiring Trining and
other insotiutional
strengthening measure.
MNeawlMma 1NDICATOR                                       INDICATOR Systems in        INDICATOR Colleacd Date    INDICATOR
imuihtu                      Trining of stffEquipment    place and operting           used as pat of Projec
procured                    properly                     execution, to guide            I- Data collecion and
RIPA Monitoring              SOURCE                                                   implementation                 reporting continued after
Training Report                                                                      project completion
Semiannual               SOURCE                      SOURCE:
HighwiLy snd Traffic Safety    implementatim reports                                  Pesiodic Summaries provided    2- Data usd s pat of
covering (consuuction,          Data specified in        to HPCD and PEO Direcko       continuing system of
supervision, ma.' tenance)  monitoring plans are                                       monitoring, supervision of
Environmental ,onitoring                                 collected and periodic                                     new inveatmentu in HPCD
and Suprvision               INDICATOR                    report for each romponent
Propoted data-collection    produced.
systems daigned arn data
Rasdtnent Monioring and    collected                       * Project Implementation
Supervision                  SOURCE:                     Report
Annuss Monitoring
Summarien



-172 -                     ANNEX9
MONITORING INDICATORS FOR ENVIRONMENT
Construction Period
4.    Environmental Supervision: One of the environmental supervisors in each
contract section will be assigned or nominated to carry out the supervision of the
environmental protection measures addressed in the Environmental Action Plans (EAP)
and integrated in the bid documents. The results will be included in the engineering
supervision reports and reported periodically to the environmental protection staff at the
district level. The results of environmental supervision will be annually reported to the
Bank in the annual report. The monitoring items will include:
(a)   brief description on environmental protection measures supervised/
inspected during the reporting period; and
(b)   brief description of problems regarding environmental protection measures
and their reasons and possible solutions.
5.    Environmental Monitoring:   Environmental monitoring items, methods,
frequencies, monitoring sites have been clearly decided in the EAP (Annex 5).
Environmental monitoring will be carried out by an environmental monitoring group in
the Central Supervision Laboratory except noise and dust, which will be conducted by
environmental supervisors at respective contract sections. The results will be reported to
the environmental protection staff at the district level. The results of environmental
monitoring will also be annually reported to the Bank through the annual report.
6.    Environmental monitoring items during the construction period would
include: air quality (TSP and dust); noise/vibration; and water quality (BOD/COD,
suspended solids (SS), oil).
Operation Period
7.    Environmental Monitoring:   Environmental monitoring items, methods,
frequencies, monitoring sites have been clearly decided in the EAP (Annex5).
Environmental monitoring will be carried out by an environmental monitoring group in
the Environmental Protection Office of HPCD. Based on the monitoring results,
environmental protection measures (to be carried out during the operation period) will be
adjusted as appropriate.
8.    Environmental monitoring items during the operation period would include:
air quality (CO, NO., TSP); noise/vibration; water quality (BOD/COD, SS, oil); vehicle
exhaust inspection (CO, Hydrocarbons: gasoline-fueled vehicles, particulate matter:
diesel-fueled vehicles); and lead in soil and crops.



-173 -                     ANNEX9
MONITORING OF LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
9.    The monitoring and evaluation of the Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) agreed
between the Bank and HPCD will be carried out both internally and extenally (Annex6).
Internal monitoring will be carried out by a unit in HPHGHCA regarding LSE and the Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Department of HPHAB regarding RIPA.  An intemal
monitoring report will be submitted to the Bank every six months, with the first one due on
September 30, 1996 and the last one on the completion of the land acquisition and
resettlement activities. The Legal Institute of Zhengzhou University will conduct the
external monitoring of resettlement and will submit a monitoring report every six months,
with the first one to be submitted by December 31, 1996 and the last one at the completion
of the project (December 31, 2000). A final monitoring report and evaluation report will
also be prepared after project completion and submitted to the Bank by December 31, 2001.
10.   The main indicators of land acquisition and resettlement monitoring have been
identified and are included in the RAPs. They are:
(a)   T imely payment of compensation to affected entities of various categories
according to the levels described in the RAP;
(b)   Progress of construction of new houses and quality of construction, also
distance from old houses
(c)   Progress in land redistribution;
(d)   The type of productive use to which compensation amounts have been put
by the local (township and village) governments;
(e)   Restoration of production/ business activities of affected enterprises.
Payment of all types of compensation (in accordance with RAP) to affected
enterprises and workers;
(f)   Propose linkage of resettlement activities with the project implementation
schedule (resettlement to be completed at least one month before start of
construction);
(g)   Restoration of civic infrastructure at the new sites;
(h)   Levels of satisfaction of the affected persons;
(i)   Income levels and standards of living after resettlement.






-175 -                      ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT
FILE
ECONOMIC AND ENGINEERING DOCUMENTS
1.    Engineering Feasibility Study of the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway, prepared
by Henan Communication Planning Survey and Design Institute consisting of:
main report and three volumes of Technical Report, December 1995
2.    Engineering Feasibility Study of the Shan Yu Connection (Yangjia-Bayiazhai
Connection), prepared by the Henan Communications Planning Survey and
Design Institute, December 1995
3.    Feasibility Study of the Link Road between Mianchi County and LSE, Highway
Administration Bureau of Sanmenxia City, April 1995
4.    Feasibility Study Report of the Road Connecting Guanyintang and LSE, Highway
Administration Bureau of Sanmenxia City, September 1995
5.    The Economic and Social Benefit Analysis of RIPA Roads: (a) Road System No.
14, Sanmenxia City Communications Bureau, August 1995; (b) Road System No.
22, Communications Bureau of Tongbai County, August 1995
6.    Road Improvement Program for Poverty Alleviation (RIPA) package, Highway
Administration Bureau, consisting of:
(a) Summary Report of Feasibility Studies of first package of RIPA, September
1995
(b) Maps of RIPA System
(c) Implementation Plan of RIPA
(d) Bid (Contract) Section Cost analyses for RIPA
(e) Maintenance Plan of RIPA, August 1995
7.    Review of Engineering Design, Phase 1 Final Report, ItalConsult, May 1995
8.   Introduction of Engineering Design of the Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway,
Henan Communications Planning Survey and Design Institute, July 1995



-176 -                     ANNEX 10
9.    Traffic Capacity analysis of the Link Roads to LSE and the At-Grade
Intersections, Henan Communications Scientific Research Institute, September
1995
10.   The Outline for Preliminary Design for the Traffic Engineering for LSE, Henan
Communications Planning Survey and Design Institute, December 1995
11.   Prequalificatiohi Document for LSE, CMC International Tendering Company,
January 1996
12.   Letter of Invitation, and Terms of Reference for Consulting Services for
Supervision of Construction of LSE, its Linking Road and the Yangia-Bayiazhai
Connection as well as the Scientific Research Center, Henan Provincial
Communications Department, January 1996
13.   Henan Provincial Communications Science and Technology Center, HPCD,
November 1995
(a) Feasibility Study
(b) Environmental Protection
(c) Management Enforcement Scheme
14.  Implementation Schedules for the Second Henan Highway Project, HPCD,
December 1995
15.   Monitoring Report for the Second Henan Provincial Highway Project, HPCD,
December 1995
EQUIPMENT
1.    Equipment Procurement Report for the Second Henan Provincial Highway
Project, December 1995
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING/TRAINING
1.   Institutional Strengthening/Training Package for the Second Henan Provincial
Highway Project, May 1995, consisting of:
(a) Institutional Strengthening and Training Report (December 1995)
(b) Staff and Planning Development Report
(c) Management Over IST
(d) Cost of IST



-177 -                     ANNEX 10
(e) Implementation Plan of IST
STUDIES
1.    Terms of Reference for the Study of the Organization, Management and
Maintenance of Toll Highways, Transroute International, February 14, 1996
2     Terms of Reference for the Highway Traffic Accident Study, Terms of Reference,
Henan Communications Science Research Institute, December 1995
SAFETY
1.    Report from the World Bank Project Preparation Mission for the Henan 2
Highway Project, Road Safety Component, Danish Road Directorate, Road Safety
and Environment Department, May 1995
ENVIRONMENTAL DOCUMENTS
1.    Executive Summary of Environmental Impact Assessment - National Trunk Road
from Lianyungang to Huoergousi, Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway and its
Linking Roads, Henan Provincial Communications Department, December 1995
2.    Environmental Impact Assessment-National Trunk Road from Lianyungang to
Huoergousi, Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway, Henan Provincial Environmental
Protection Institute, December 1995
3.    Environmental Action Plan-National Trunk Road from  Lianyungang  to
Huoergousi, Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway, Henan Provincial Communications
Department, December 1995
4.    Environmental Impact Assessment-Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway Linking
Road Projects, Henan Provincial Environmental Protection Institute, November
1995
5.    Environmental Action Plan-Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway Linking Road
Projects, Henan Provincial Environmental Protection Institute, November 1995
6.    Environmental Impact Assessment-National Trunk Road from Lianyungang to
Huoergousi Shaanxi-Henan Connection Road, Henan Provincial Environmental
Protection Institute, December 1995
7.    Environmental Action Plan-National Trunk Road from  Lianyungang to
Huoergousi, Shaanxi-Henan Connection Road, December 1995
8.   Initial Environmental Evaluation-Road Improvement Program for Poverty
Alleviation (RIPA), Henan Provincial Environmental Protection Institute,
November 1995



-178-                       ANNEX 10
9.    Environmental Action Plan, The First Package of RIPA Projects, Category I
Projects (Including 20 Road Segments in 8 Systems), November 1995
10.   Environmental Impact Assessment, The First Package of RIPA Projects, Category
II Projects, (Including 3 Road Segments in 2 System), Henan Provincial
Environmental Protection Institute, November 1995
11.   Environmental Action Plan-The First Package of RIPA Projects, Category II
Projects, (Including 3 Road Segments in 2 Systems), November 1995
12.   Archaeological Survey Report for the Proposed Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway,
August 1995
RESETTLEMENT DOCUMENTS
1.    Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway Resettlement Action Plan (Final Revision)
December 1995
2.    The Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan for the Linking Highway of
Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway under Henan Provincial Highway Project II,
December 1995
3.    Yang/ia Baijiazhai Connection Road Resettlement Action Program (Revision),
December 1995
4.    The Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan for Road Improvement Program for
Poverty Alleviation (RIPA) under Henan Provincial Highway Project II (first
package), December 1995



tienan Provincial Govemnment                       HPCD Dir-ector    -l                                        3                       
I  I-I-{3ocal Railway (144)
|Deputy Director                       3yi
I.
World Bank~(5 
Project                                                                                                                                               0)
WPrldjeBtnk                       | Division (5) 1                            .                ~~~~~~~~ ~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Local Air  Oz
Execution                    High-Grade           Survey,                                T                           s-         Transport              O
Office (14)                  Expressway           Planning             Tians_ot                                 adin              (376)                0
tration(36
Administration           i                    ec             School (194)         Division (30)
BUreaU  Diiin1) ZiagZhI  Yellow                                 Transhort       Bureau (63)
Burauin(260)       Instituer            Reglaios4ivsin 2
Division 3~)          Bridge            Division (5)                                                                      >
Trfic      Pre         *_                        * CE4ifenng |
Adiciires             AdmwiInistratinicvete
Bureau           DistBre ctu (I (X     (3S)hSupply
|Trafc  |(<oanfte.|  Rod ||   lfuoyang                     lriiwl|| Ivsn
|Uur|u Level    |    S         |     Adminismtivc           R                R I) qaito |                                                                      *
Divisioa (46)           (I)          5)                                                                                   tin    5
I                      I                              -   R3s fc
os: Numrs ia rfc  thess   rAier to nunibr of stafi:



|Drector(I | 
|World Bank Financed ||Dputy Drector (3| 
[                                 .                                                                    3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
Chief                                                                                                                   Highway
Engineering                                                                                                               Histrict
.  l  |   Rs ad    l                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DisItrictsC
Office (2)               Road                                                                                               in2
0
Adminis-                                                                                         Prefectures
tration (5)                                                    Supervision
Engineering                                     Ra                                         (7)
L)ivision (10)  Maintenance (10)                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~       ~~~~~~~~~~L.ocal Road  2z
u_piilellT rcchnical                                                                                       Stations                  0
Eqluipmencilt    r       _                             (10)                          Financial                  in
Matrials (8)    s                                                                       (2)                   Counties
Rural             Planning                   Personnel       Communications
Roads (7)               (3)Station (3)
Audit F    Computer| 
Inflormaation~    Moniitoriing
(2)           Stationi (10)  |.
Note: Numbers in parentheses refer to number of staff.                                                                                               >



Director
Vice Director (4)                                                                       >
Chief Engineer (I)
Chief Economist (I)
Chief Accountant (I)
Administration I                                                I                                                    nisvay  ASIrtictioin  | ligi i.i ig
Office (25)                                                Tolling                    Administration               Division           Division
Division (20)                 Division (10)                 (10)         (Laboratory) (14) 1   
0
Equipment                            Zhengzhou   |1u
Financial              Materials                          Administration
Division (9)          Division (10)                         Division (64)
Envi; ronrnental         Planning               Personnel              Administration                                                                      >
Protection            Division (9)           Division (5)             Division (35)
taf                 AdministrLuoyang                           Acquisition
Staff                Administration                        _   Resettlement
Training               Division (41)
Eniginecering
Implementation
Note: Numbers in parentheses refer to number of staff.
13



World Bank-Financed
Project Exccution Office
Planning Grotip             Purchase Group                       ~~~~~~Financial Group        Comprehensive Groupm
I  :                                                                                                  q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
*  *                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
I   Schedule                                     Construction
Project                           Preparation                                    Progress
Pre-preparation                                           Equipment               Management &
Purchasing                  Paying                                                   3
oec_                                   &                                                                                 0 .  o
Project Negotiation                Subproject w                                                                                t
&                           Execution
Signing                                                                                                             >
Institutional                                >
.                             ~~~~~~~~~     ~~Subproject  Strengthcning                                 t
Bid Invitation                               Supervision                     &
&                                           &                        Training
Evaluation                                 Coordination
soil & civil
Road Network               Land                      Engineering                  Project
Improvement             Requisition                 Construction               Supervision



- 183-                 CHARTS
CHART 5: ORGANIZATION OF HENAN SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE
.2
on~~J
<~~~
WU
Xm~~~~~~~~~~~~c
ou~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
S  I
06'1
z



|Polytechnic Party|Q
Committee                                                                ;
Secrctary                                               
[ 53                                                    ~~~~~~~0
|Personnel   |          Uin |Yotith League                                                                                                                         > 
|Division (4)  |       1                 1             
>
l                                                         I                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
Vice President                                                                                   Vice President
General Services                                                                                 Teaching Affairs
School AlTairs                                                                                 C)
SiLdcnl Althiis (2)              (12)                      ibrary
(iciielal Scrices                                                                                                      ducational                                    
Training (5)                                 Administration (3)
Office of Capital                                                                                                                                                 >
Construction (2)  |9
-FFactory (26)          -       Basic Course Ut (28)]
Vehicle Operations
l    Finance (6)  >                                                                l    Course (26)
Day Care
Kindergarten (4)SklsApaas 
laiwci Engineering & |                                                                  I   Course (2 )
|  I':eliilical Co (n2:)   C                                                            lglvl  lcI;lized W< 
Note: Numbers in parentheses refer to number of staff.                                                                                                                Z       Qa



-185 -                                  CHARTS
CHART 7: ORGANIZATION OF HENAN PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT VOCATION SCHOOL
-    7-
-T- -T-~0
S
0.~~~~~~"
C-)~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~C
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~L






IBRD 27488
RUSSIAN                                         Z                -
FEDERATION
KAZAKHSTAN                         1              -       -
> ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ULMNaAATAR/
UZBEKISTAN
_ALM4A                                                                            MONGOLIA
\ ' ATA
FRUNZE
KYRGYZ E
REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                           JA
-                                                                                                                                                                        Sea \  r\  ., .    w r    oS   JAPAN
TAJIKISTAN
,  . ,                          >                                ^~~~~~~~~~~~~ \                          -   }      /   \ o - D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EM. REP
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-4g</D OF KOREA
- ' n , { Z ; XHEE TAN N                                                                                              REP OF
TS___ t[L__    \                               \ANS".    i                 <  /  T:    4  XY                      txT   Yellow   KOREA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yll.    KRE
- '- - 'U -oaChino
51  t-HANGH~~~~~~GAI ShI
A.~ ~  ~ -N - - ..j .  -.
PACIFIC
_NEP_AL                                                                     /-;'.   -- .                             j-               /                                       OCEAN
CHINA
MAJOR HIGHWAY
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
National Trunk Highway System  (NTHS)                                                                                                                          South
MAJOR HIGHWAYS:
Completed                                       Mapo Pors
-       Under Cotrruchon / 8th Fi"e Yor Play (1991-1995)   0    ProvrmceCapitls  -                                                             :7, ..7HONGKONG, U.K.
-       9th Five Yer Plan (1996-2000)              6    Nao-vl Capitos -1                *       "   VIET NAM  "''                                                     PHILIPPINES
Planned Beyond 2000                             Province Boijdanna    ;
NTHS Prionty Corridors                          Internotonol Bovadrnes              0 LAO PEOPLE'S N                                         -      
NTHS Loiglerm Corndors n                                                            DEM REP                     ! 4,_                                    _ I  I  I  I  '  I  I  I
02/25/g96   fiml9ipI235 TPTF






110                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~12                                  1*                                                I6AIS                                                                         IBRD 274.
lio-   9               li2'                                 Q          ]14  ~~~~~~~~~                       ~~H E B E I   ;                                                iIR24
CHINA
SECOND HENAN PROVINCIAL
{  ( a  >  * =     +'    -HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                            3
5 H  A   N   X  I                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HENAN HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM
' S H A N  X    / 5 B . onI                       -   a_PROJECT ROAD LOUYANG- SANMENXLA EXPRESSWAY
..... BANK.- FINANCED EXPRESSWAY ~Con'pledj
I - - BANK FINANCED EXPRESSWAY (Undw Cwcn )
EXPRESSWAY CONSTRUCTED WITH GOVERNMENT FUNDS
F. Ch-gh,               X ..                                                                                   EXPRESSWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION WITH GOVERNMENT FUNDS
,/1                                                                                               S~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HANDONG   KNATIONAL. ROADS              --RIVERS
-       PROVINCIAL ROADS            RIVER PORTS
Woo5..                                                                            - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- RURtAL ROADS  PROVINCE
~l  Onions -  -.--  RAILROADS  BOUNDARIES
i    AIRPORTS                    INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES
ymviio 861.mho                                                         K.i g       L..k-~~~~~~~~~~~~~,nJ.g  hogqo 
T. X-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oX,o
SHAANXI (.''6i                                                                                                                                                                                                         JI A NG 5U
W7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
IRUSS-,
A N H U I ~~~~~.~                       FEDRWOo- 
- .-                 ,.-7>
Y..g~~~~~~~~~~~~~j 32
KILOEAETRS                                           *G
En Sian  Soo~I ~, Th,. boAd,..  o0..  d.-.n...oo  ndoyota,nnnnn..
T. W~~~~~~~~~~h-hO. on;A.  d.n  -o n.                         0t* eno Th... wod Oa,k       L                   .ICCUn
I 0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I!2'~~~~.doanav0                                                                    eaon o   no,bv.ona                                U    A
FEBRUARY






IBRD 27J90
RUSSIAN FEDEIATION
CHINA                                                                                  
SECOND HENAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
LUOYANG - SANMENXIA EXPRESSWAY                                                                                                                 (-' \   - 
MAONGOL
PROPOSED LUOYANG - SANMENXIA EXPRESSWAY (LSE)                           NATIONAL ROADS                                   .                                       o' _
-----Z--- FUTURE EXTENSION OF LSE TO SHAANXI BORDER                              PROVINCE ROADS                                              -                                            ," OF c0,i
PROPOSED YANGJIA  5AIJIAZHAI CONNECTION                       -         RAILROADS                                                                             .   -
LINKING ROAD IMPROVEMENTS                                              AIRPORT
EXISTING ZHENGZHOU  LUOYANG EXPRESSWAY                                  RIVERS
*     INTERCHANGES                                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                            . ..
*     SERVICE AREA                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSETI        __
j  _-'    '        r~~j .       ,
O         0        20       30        *o                     -6 ,. ,w,      f A. -                                                                  - v  .  
EILOMERTF Us 
SA-        2-
>ii  P R O V I N C E) ' -
{ /~~~~-                                                    C5l,. o Meng1jf, 
w Ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ong 4 yog 
Sonmauria                                                      C     AChgd,T
\  eiYi hun h
MARCH -09









IMAGING
Report No:      15358 CHA
Type: SAR



