Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4027 CHA
Project Agreement
(Second Henan Provincial Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HENAN PROVINCE
Dated September 13, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4027 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 13 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HENAN PROVINCE (Henan).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to two hundred and ten million dollars ($210,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Henan 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
WHEREAS Henan, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Henan declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
Page  2
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Henan shall otherwise agree, Henan shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the  Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03.  (a) Henan shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Henan shall:
(i)
prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this 
purpose between the Bank and Henan, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Henan on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Henan shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
Henan shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Henan of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Henan shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Henan responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Henan shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
Page  3
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Henan 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Henan thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For Henan:
People's Government of Henan Province
No. 10 Weierlu
Zhengzhou, Henan
People's Republic of China
Telex:
46034 HFEA CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Henan may be 
taken or executed by the Governor or Vice Governor of Henan or such other person or 
persons as said Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Henan shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  4
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Russell Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
HENAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Prequalification
 
Bidders for all contracts for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix  2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Dispute Review Board
 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.42 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Page  5
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
International Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in paragraph 3 of this Part C, works for Parts A, B and C of 
the Project estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $74,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works and Force Account
 
(a)
Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereunder, works for Part B of 
the Project estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $27,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
(b)
For RIPA Sub-projects located in mountainous or remote areas, works under 
Part B of the Project which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, 
and estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $18,000,000 equivalent, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance 
with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
 
Works related to the installation of electric power to be used along the 
Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway and the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection Road, undertaken by 
the local electricity companies and costing $4,000,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the  provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for:
(a)
works estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more; and
 
(b)
goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more,
 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
 
Page  6
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants'services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract 
for consultants'services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall 
have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section II, the provisions 
of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to:
(a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (i) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms; (iii) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (iv) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Parts A and B of the Project: Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement
 
1.
In respect of Part A of the Project, Henan shall: 
 
(a)
carry out each Expressway EAP and each Expressway RAP in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
furnish any proposed revision of the plans referred to in paragraph (a) 
above to the Bank for its prior approval.
2.
In respect of Part B of the Project,
 
(a)
Henan shall: (i) prior to commencing construction on a RIPA Sub-project, 
furnish to the Bank an environmental action plan and resettlement action plan for such 
RIPA Sub-project satisfactory to
the Bank, prepared in accordance with the basic policies, planning principles and 
institutional arrangements applied in the First Year RIPA EAPs and the First Year RIPA 
RAP; and (ii) thereafter, carry out such environmental action plan and resettlement 
action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
For any RIPA Sub-project which involves new road construction, 
substantial widening, or land acquisition or special areas such as national parks, 
natural reserves and areas of significant cultural heritage, Henan shall furnish to 
the Bank an environmental impact assessment satisfactory to the Bank in addition to 
the environmental action plan referred to in paragraph (a) above.
3.
Henan shall:
 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
Page  7
the carrying out of the Expressway EAPs and RAPs, and the environmental action plans 
and resettlement action plans in respect of the RIPA Sub-projects; and 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) an annual environmental monitoring report during the construction phase 
of the Expressways under Part A of the Project and for each of the first three (3) 
years following completion of construction; (ii) by March 31 and September 30 of each 
year starting September 30, 1996, internal monitoring reports prepared by appropriate 
agencies of Henan, and by June 30 and December 31 of each year starting December 31, 
1996, external monitoring reports prepared by an independent agency acceptable to the 
Bank, regarding the implementation and impact of the resettlement activities during 
the previous six months.
B.
Part A of the Project
 
Henan shall, in carrying out Part A (3) of the Project, coordinate closely with 
Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department regarding: (a) completion of the construction 
of the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection Road by no later than December 31, 1999, 
simultaneously with the completion of the construction of the Weinan-Tongguan 
Expressway in Shaanxi; (b) the location, design and construction of the toll station 
on the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection Road at the border between Henan and Shaanxi; and
(c) transition from the four-lane cross-section on the Weinan-Tongguan Expressway in 
Shaanxi to the two-lane cross-section on the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection Road.
C.
Part B of the Project: RIPA Sub-projects
 
1.
Henan shall select each RIPA Sub-project on the basis of technical and 
socioeconomic criteria acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Henan shall prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval, by October 31 of 
each year, an annual work plan and budget for the following year, such annual work 
plan to include, inter alia: (a) all RIPA Sub-projects proposed for the year; (b) an 
economic and social benefit analysis using indicators acceptable to the Bank; (c) an 
implementation and supervision schedule; (d) a maintenance plan; and (e) the 
resettlement action plan, the environmental action plan and, as the case may be, the 
environmental impact assessment required in respect of each proposed RIPA Sub-project 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 of Part A of this Schedule, all in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
D.
Part C of the Project: Institutional Strengthening and Training
 
1.
Henan shall: (a) carry out the training under Part C (1) of the Project in 
accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank; and (b) to that end, 
furnish to the Bank for its prior approval, by June 30 of each year commencing in 
1997, a rolling two-year training implementation schedule.
2.
Henan shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, by April 30 of each 
year from 1997 until 2003, an annual highway maintenance report which shall: (a) 
indicate the length and condition of
each class of road; (b) establish targets for the following year including an estimate 
of the required physical works and the costs thereof; and (c) measure the results and 
the actual expenditures of the past year against the targets and the budgeted funds 
therefor.
3.
Henan shall: (a) by November 30, 1996 establish a Leading Group with composition 
acceptable to the Bank, to guide the study on the organization, management and 
maintenance of high-grade highways under Part C (2) of the Project and provide 
comments on the results and recommendations of said study; (b) by September 30, 1998 
complete said study in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and 
furnish the study together with the comments of said Leading Group to the Bank for 
review; and (c) take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations of said study, 
taking into consideration the comments thereon of said Leading Group and the Bank.
4.
Henan shall, by March 31, 2000 furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, 
an analysis and recommendation of the structure of toll-rates on the Luoyang-Sanmenxia 
Expressway, taking into consideration the results of studies on toll-rate structures 
conducted under other Bank-financed highway projects in China and the experience with 
Page  8
toll-rates on major roads in Henan and other parts of China.
E.
Part D of the Project:  Road Safety Program
 
1.
Henan shall maintain: (a) a Leading Group, which shall include representatives 
from HPCD and from the provincial agency responsible for traffic safety, for traffic 
safety coordination, policy-making and planning, with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank; (b) a Traffic Safety Secretariat to prepare work for said 
Leading Group; and (c) a Road Safety Unit within HPCD, with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, to (i) carry out the pilot black spot 
improvement program described in paragraph 2 (b) below, and (ii) establish safety 
audit procedures and checks under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Henan shall, pursuant to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank: (a) by 
December 31, 1998, complete a study of the factors contributing to traffic accidents; 
(b) by December 31, 2000, complete a black spot identification and improvement 
program; and (c) by December 31, 2001, have an expert acceptable to the Bank prepare 
an evaluation of its Road Safety Program according to indicators acceptable to the 
Bank.
F.
Reporting and Monitoring
 
Without limitation on the provision of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions:
1.
Henan shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Bank, the carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
Henan shall prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and 
furnish to the Bank a monthly report of the progress of works under Part A of the 
Project.
3.
Henan shall:
 
(a)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) a quarterly report, and (ii) by March 31 of each year commencing in 1997 
and ending three (3) years after completion of the Project, an annual report, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to Section 1 of this Part F, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the dates of such reports and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such dates; and
(b)
review with the Bank by such subsequent dates as the Bank shall request, 
the reports referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 3, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said reports and the Bank's views on the matter.
