                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 31649

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-40270)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 210 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                 FOR A

                        SECOND HENAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT




                                              May 11, 2005




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

                  Currency Unit = yuan (Y)
                          Y1.00 = US$ 0.1205
                            US$ = Y8.30

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1-    December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


   EIRR            -        Economic Internal Rate of Return
   FIDIC           -        Federation Internationale Des Ingenieurs Conseils
   FIRR            -        Financial Internal Rate of Return
   GOVAI           -        Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
   HPCD            -        Henan Provincial Communications Department
   LSE             -        Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway
   MOC             -        Ministry of Communications
   NPV             -        Net Present Value
   NTHS            -        National Trunk Highway System
   RIPA            -        Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation
   WTE             -        Weinan-Tongguan Expressway
   YBC             -        Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection




                 Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
              Country Director      David Dollar, EACCF
               Sector Manager       Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Jacques M. Tollié, EASTR

                                               CHINA
                             Second Henan Provincial Highway Project


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
   6. Sustainability                                                                11
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
   9. Partner Comments                                                              15
   10. Additional Information                                                       25
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             48
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             50
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                51
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            52
MAP(S)
  1. IBRD No. 27489R
  2. IBRD No. 27490R
  3. IBRD No. 34044

Project ID: P040513                                                  Project Name: Second Henan Provincial Highway
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Jacques M. Tollie                                       TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 11, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Henan Provincial Highway Project                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-40270
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (99%); Sub-national government
                            administration (1%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Municipal governance and
                            institution building (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/16/1995                                     Effective: 12/11/1996                12/11/1996
     Appraisal: 10/25/1995                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/30/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PRC/HENAN PROVINCIAL COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell J. Cheetham
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Richard G. Scurfield
Team Leader at ICR:             Jacques M. Tollié                              Hatim M. Hajj
ICR Primary Author:             Jacques M. Tollié


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were: (a) to support the continuing development of road infrastructure in Henan in
order to stimulate economic activity; (b) to assist in the implementation of Henan's poverty alleviation
strategy for the poorer counties by the provision of better road access; (c) to improve highway sector
institutional capacity in Henan; and (d) to increase the safety of road transport in Henan.

These objectives were clear and reflected the current strategy of the Government of China designed to
alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks by, inter alia, rapidly modernizing and expanding its highway system on
a sustainable basis, and to alleviate poverty through rural roads improvement in targeted poor counties.
The project would improve transport conditions in Henan, the most populated Chinese province in Central
China, and focus on the Luoyang-Sanmenxia segment of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS).
The project objectives were also in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for China,
presented to the Board on June 1, 1995, and the Progress Report discussed on March 26, 1996, which
supported continued institutional development and sectoral reforms aimed at modernizing the highway
system and its management. These objectives are still valid and are being pursued under the follow-on
project (Third Henan Provincial Highway Project, Loan 4548-CHA). Furthermore, in line with the current
CAS, the project by promoting long-distance road traffic in a safe environment, supported the
liberalization, facilitation and cost reduction of transport, key requirements for market-oriented reforms to
succeed especially in the more remote areas to the west. In this respect, the project was responsive to
current priorities expressed in the Government's regional development policy for the Western Region.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives remained the same throughout project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had the following four components:
A.    New construction in the main corridor between Zhengzhou, capital of Henan Province, and the
      border with Shaanxi Province to the west (Map IBRD No. 27490R), consisting of:
         (i)    the Luoyang ­Sanmenxia Expressway (LSE), a 136 km long, four-lane divided
                access-controlled highway, including supply and installation of electrical, electronic and
                mechanical equipment for toll collection, telecommunication and lighting facilities, as well as
                construction of service areas and management and maintenance buildings;
         (ii)   construction of the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection (YBC), a 6 km, two-lane expressway to
                link the Weinan-Tongguan Expressway (WTE) in Shaanxi Province with the existing
                National Highway 310 in Henan Province;
         (iii) construction, rehabilitation and upgrading of four linking roads with a total length of about
                17km that would interconnect and feed traffic to LSE at selected interchanges; and
         (iv)   construction supervision.
B.    Improvement and new construction of about 1,700 km of rural roads in a Road Improvement for
      Poverty Alleviation (RIPA) program targeting poor counties in Henan.
C.    Institutional development consisting of strengthening relevant institutions affiliated with Henan
      Provincial Communications Department (HPCD) through staff training and provision of equipment;
      construction and equipping a Science Technology Center for research in the highway sector; and a
      study of Organization, Management and Maintenance of Toll Highways.
D.    A highway safety program consisting of improved coordination among the main responsible agencies,
      identification and improvement of black spots, provision of specialized equipment, and a study of
      Factors Contributing to Traffic Accidents.


                                                       - 2 -

The project was well designed to meet the national objectives at the provincial level. This was the third (one
national, two provincial) Bank-financed highway project in Henan, a large province strategically located as
a central transport hub. The Luoyang-Sanmenxia corridor was part of the most important transversal
element of the NTHS linking the port of Lianyungang on the east coast, with Horgas in Xinjiang at the
border between China and Kazakhstan, a priority project as it facilitates inter-provincial trade and
promotes long distance and transit traffic. The design also called for a balanced development of the
secondary road network, allowing to capture more fully the benefits from investments in the arterial
network while targeting the poorer counties in the province. The institutional components were building on
progress achieved under the previous projects, and were well balanced with the physical components.

3.4 Revised Components:
No major changes were made in the project components. However, the Loan Agreement was amended four
times. The first time was in January 2001 to extend the loan closing date from December 31, 2002 to
December 31, 2004 to enable the borrower to complete the traffic engineering component on LSE. The
second time was in July 2001 to extend the scope of the traffic engineering component to cover the
expressway section between Sanmenxia and Shaanxi border, as explained below. The third time was in
August 2002 to reallocate the proceeds between loan categories. Finally, the loan was amended in
November 2003 to cancel US$19.00 million project cost savings from the loan.

At the time of appraisal, the section of National Highway 310 between Sanmenxia and Shaanxi border was
not designed for upgrading because it had been rehabilitated as a two-lane highway under the first Henan
Highway Project in 1995. Only the connection between Yangjia, at the end of the WTE in Shaanxi
Province, and Baijiazhai on the rehabilitated section of the National Highway 310 in Henan Province, was
to be constructed as a staged two-lane expressway. During implementation however, it was found that the
early completion of WTE in Shaanxi combined with delays experienced on LSE in Henan worsened the
congestion on National Highway 310, and in 1999 Henan Province decided to upgrade the section from
Sanmenxia to Shaanxi border to a four-lane expressway. The additional financing (including the dualling
of the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection) was borne by the Government and no restructuring of the project
was deemed necessary, except to accommodate the request to fund under the loan the totality of the traffic
engineering component from Luoyang to Shaanxi border. This was agreed on grounds of standardization
and formalized in the second loan amendment.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was overall satisfactory for the following reasons:
    a. consistency of project objectives with China's long-term priorities for the sector and region;
    b. attention given during preparation to lessons of experience, including past performance of the
         implementing agencies. This led to an innovative arrangement for construction supervision through
         a joint-venture of foreign and local firms;
    c. in terms of assessment of risks, results were mixed. On the one side, the potential factors that may
         affect sustainability including resource constraints due to fast expansion of the NTHS, as well as
         the operation and safety risks once the highways are completed, were flagged. On the other side,
         the geomorphology in the LSE corridor was unfavorable to an extent that was underestimated in
         the design, leading to cost and time overruns; and
    d. importance given to monitoring and evaluation in the design, through specific description of
         monitoring indicators. This was one of the first projects to internalize performance indicators (for
         earlier projects these indicators had to be retrofitted).




                                                      - 3 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Notwithstanding the various constraints faced during implementation, the project has substantially achieved
its major development objectives. The overall satisfactory rating is a reflection of the performance
indicators shown in Annex 1. In terms of the overall goal of the Government, each of the four objectives
may be equally weighted although, given the focus on opening the expressway as soon as possible, relieving
congestion may be weighted slightly more.

A. Support development of road infrastructure to relieve congestion, and stimulate socio-economic
development in the LSE corridor.
This objective was satisfactorily achieved with the removal of the bottleneck constituted by the congested
National Highway 310 between Luoyang and the border with Shaanxi. The total traffic in the corridor is
now distributed grossly as follows: one quarter on the existing highway, and three quarters on the new
LSE, well within the capacity margin of the facilities. At the same time average vehicle speed has
increased, resulting in more comfortable and economical travel. This in turn contributed to a stimulation of
economic activities in the Luoyang-Sanmenxia corridor, as measured by the gross output value of
agriculture and industry (GOVAI) in the affected counties along LSE. The output increased from Y 51.1 to
66.5 billion between 1999 and 2004, a growth rate of 5.5%.

B. Help alleviate poverty in the poor counties of Henan.
The achievement of this objective is assessed as highly satisfactory. The GOVAI estimated in the counties
affected by the RIPA program increased from 83.3 to 131.56 units between 1999 and 2004, a 10% rate
annual growth. Moreover, the average daily traffic increased from 581 vehicles to 948 vehicles per day, an
annual growth of 10%. Further, roads which were closed to traffic for more than 30 days are now open
throughout the year.

In addition to the project-mandated indicators, an ex-post evaluation of the program's outcome was
conducted, confirming the RIPA's substantial social benefits (see box below). A scaling-up of the program
was then decided by the Government, both through an expansion of the program financed under this project
and the follow-on project, and through similar operations financed domestically. In view of the positive
outcome and potential for scaling-up of the RIPA program, the components under this project and the
follow-on project were selected as a case study presented to the Shanghai Poverty Conference held in May
2004.




                    Findings of an ex-post evaluation of the RIPA program's outcome
                                                (HPCD, 2002)

    l The improved roads shortened transport mileage, saved passengers traveling time and cost,
       quickened freight transport, reduced freight losses, and traffic accidents.
    l Several hundred thousand surplus farmers along the roads took part in the construction of RIPA.
       After completion, over one thousand workers were employed on a part time basis in road
       maintenance activities with potential increase in annual income. Primary, secondary industries such
       as aquaculture, mining, processing, food industry sprang up alongside of the roads opened.
    l Tourist services boom. Over a million tourists visited to the Qinba mountainous areas. The direct
       income from tourism between 1996 to 1999 increased from 24.58 million yuan to 78.8 million, an
       increase of more than 220%.



                                                     - 4 -

     l RIPA roads made possible for the utilization of abundant natural resources and mobility of labor
       in Henan province. Farmers once employed only for a half a year now venture even to be
       employed abroad (e.g. in South Korea).
     l Participation in high school, junior middle school and elementary school increased significantly.
       The introduction of market economy taught poor families the importance of education. Parents are
       now willing to pay for their children education.
     l The living standards before and after RIPA also showed significant improvement. Housing areas
       increases in square meter per capita (by 33%), power consumption per capita (20.85%),
       passenger transport volume (32%), rural telephone (160%), TV per one hundred families
       (59.32%), etc.
     l The improvement of the road network made possible for social stability as it made relief operations
       possible in the event of earthquake, wild fire, flood, draught.
     l RIPA raised the quality of the highway department personnel in local governments. The staff in
       charge of planning and implementation of RIPA were exposed to international practices in detailed
       investigation, preparation of plans in accordance with selection criteria, survey and design,
       feasibility studies, and environmental mitigation.



C. Promote development of institutional capacities of HPCD, through training and studies.
This objective has been achieved satisfactorily. The capacity of the transport sector agencies selected under
this project has improved. Through overseas and domestic trainings and study tours, and active
participation in project implementation, the staff received exposure to new management, economic and
technical approaches. Also the acquired equipment was put to good use, and contributed to the increased
organizational efficiency. The new Science Technology Center has made possible a much needed expansion
of research activities in the highway sector.

The Study on the Organization, Management and Maintenance of Toll Highways has had a positive
impact on institutional reforms in the sector. The study identified the main shortcomings in the
administrative organization then prevailing and made recommendations for changes based on a review of
international best practices. As a result, the institution in charge evolved from a High-Grade Highway
Administration Bureau to a commercialized Expressway Development Company.

Finally periodic discussions around the covenanted submission of an Annual Report on Highway
Maintenance were very effective in maintaining a dialogue between HPCD and the Bank on issues of
highway maintenance, leading to a specific component on improving maintenance management under the
follow-on project.

D. Increase the safety of road transport.
The road safety objective was satisfactorily achieved, albeit to a lesser extent than expected. The main
sub-components dealing with blackspot identification and improvement and development of safety audit
procedures, were designed to address the engineering dimensions under the control of HPCD, and as such
were successfully completed. Together with efforts to better coordinate with the Traffic Police under the
Road Safety Leading Group, they contributed to enrich the experience of staff, bring agencies closer
together, improve safety-engineering practices, create access to high-quality advice, and raise community
awareness. However the statistics on traffic accidents were only marginally improved (statistics in Annex
1 are difficult to compare with the SAR ones because a new data collection reporting system was put in
place, more comprehensive and reliable). The findings of the Study of Factors Contributing to Highway
Traffic Accidents were instrumental in demonstrating the need for joint progress on multiple fronts:



                                                        - 5 -

engineering, enforcement, and education. The recommendations from the study were used to design a more
holistic approach for the safety component under the follow-on project.

An independent evaluation of the Highway Safety Component under this project was conducted when most
activities were completed. It was found that the physical achievements were satisfactory and that the
recommendations of the study of relevant factors provided a more scientific basis for much needed
follow-up.

4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Construction in the LSE Corridor.
Civil works on LSE (SAR: US$322.50 million base cost excluding contingencies; ICR: US$ 424.07
million).
The works were executed under a total of 9 construction contracts awarded through ICB procedures. The
construction period was from January 1998 to December 2001, a relatively short period considering the
difficult geomorphology of the area. Post-construction repair works were needed in some sections where
poor geological conditions led to settlements or landslides. In addition the project passed through an
intensively farmed land where any change in alignment would require costly resettlement and compensation
solutions. The project as completed is of satisfactory quality, consisting of (i) a 135.6 km, 4-lane divided,
access-controlled expressway; (ii) a 5.9 km Yangjia-Baijiazhai connection with expressway standards (the
dualling of the initial two-lane standard was domestically financed as explained above); (iii) five linking
roads totaling 17.8 km, providing access to the secondary network; and (iv) administrative and service
facilities along the corridor.

LSE Traffic Engineering (SAR: US$21.5 million; ICR: US$ 8.09 million).
The works included all electrical and mechanical systems for toll collection, traffic surveillance and
telecommunications. There were substantial delays in the procurement of these works, due to two main
reasons: first, the need to adapt to MOC new national directives concerning toll integration (this explains
the scaling down of the scope of works, in particular all mainline toll barriers were suppressed); and
second, the lengthy internal clearance procedures, particularly at the State Control Agency for
Import/Export of Mechanical and Electrical Equipment. This led to an extension of the closing date by two
years (the decision to expand the works coverage to include the section till the Shaanxi border was taken
early enough, so that it did not add to delays). During these two years the completed expressway was
operated with temporary solutions regarding toll collection and traffic surveillance, resulting in reduced
level of service to the users. Eventually all works were satisfactorily completed to a good standard of
installation.

Construction supervision (SAR: US$15.60 million; ICR: US$10.64 million).
A joint venture consisting of two foreign firms and one domestic firm was selected from a short-list of four
joint ventures. This approach differed from the usual "combined supervision team" approach whereby only
the foreign firm was subject to international selection, and would then team up with the local partner. It
was felt that through a joint venture, one would avoid the difficulties encountered during supervision of
previous projects in China, mostly on account of (i) internal conflicts between the two partners of the
combined team and (ii) lack of independence of the local team. The results have been mixed. On the one
side, there were less internal conflicts and the joint venture was in a stronger position to demonstrate how to
enforce the Federation Internationale Des Ingenieurs Conseils (FIDIC) conditions of contract in the face of
huge amounts of variation orders. On the other side, the joint venture did not solve the problem of lack of
independence of the local partner, and there were conflicts with the Employer when the latter established a
"Front Command Post" to strengthen its oversight on the Engineer and the Contractors. In the end the
Client recognized that the joint venture provided a better outcome than would have a combined supervision



                                                       - 6 -

team. But the intense pressure put on both the Employer and the Engineer to manage that approach showed
that it was perhaps premature and that a prerequisite would have been to solve separately the issue of
independence as per the FIDIC requirements.

B. Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation (SAR: US$70.30 million; ICR: US$114.0 million).
The RIPA program consisted of 30 road systems in 29 poor counties and with a total length of about 1667
km. Only a first package of 662 km was defined and for the rest, selection criteria were to be met. Priority
was to be given to rural road segments that, through related road systems, were linked to (i) existing or
planned productive and economically viable development projects; and (ii) investments enabling landlocked
populations to have easier access to education, health and other social services. The program was
completed successfully in three packages, and the early positive outcomes led to an agreement to finance
two additional packages under the loan. A total of 1948 km of RIPA roads were eventually constructed,
representing 87 road segments in the 29 poor counties of the province. The quality of the road network
constructed is overall good, although concerns were raised as to the quality of maintenance after severe
floodings in 2000 and 2001. To mitigate such risks, the standards of construction were raised in the last
two packages. Also HPCD is providing continuous technical assistance to the local governments for an
adequate upkeep of the improved roads.

C. Institutional strengthening and staff training
The following institutions were involved in the strengthening program:
§        HPCD Headquarters. Increased capacity in office technology was provided, enabling Internet
connection between main units of HPCD, and establishment of policy and regulatory databases.
§        Foreign Capital Utilization Office. Modern and advanced management tools are being used now
for improved procurement and handling of information. Capability for monitoring and evaluation was
strengthened.
§        Scientific Research Institute. The Institute was strengthened mostly through the construction and
equipping of the Science and Technology Center (see below). It is now classified as a National Level
Laboratory.
§        Transport Polytechnic School. Wide application of computer multi-media and the setup of the
integration of the campus greatly improved teaching. Use of vehicle testing equipment has improved the
skills of students majoring in vehicle maintenance.
§        Transport Vocational School. The scope of training was expanded and graduated over 600 students
specializing in multi-media techniques, automobile and computer, surveying, mechanized construction.
§        High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau. Quality control systems on the expressways were
implemented, three-level control framework established and a central laboratory built. The improved
telecommunications and surveillance systems facilitated the planning of maintenance and operation on the
expressways across the province. The Bureau was eventually transformed into the Henan Expressway
Company as part of HPCD reorganization.

Staff training (SAR: US$ 1.10 million; ICR: US$0.93 million). This consisted of domestic training,
overseas training and study tours covering main topics such as highway engineering, transport economics,
highway maintenance management, traffic engineering, etc. The program was implemented substantially as
planned, covering 334 persons under domestic training (334 person-months), and 81 persons under
overseas training (78.5 person-months).

Science and Technology Center (SAR: US$2.50 million; ICR: US$ 3.28 million). There were delays and
cost overruns due to an upgrading of the design. The center is now fully operational for the benefit of the
Scientific Research Institute. It is also housing the Provincial Quality Control Institute.




                                                      - 7 -

Provision of equipment (SAR: US$10.80million; ICR: US$6.07million). Equipment was provided for (i)
laboratory testing and construction control; (ii) operation and maintenance of LSE; (iii) institutional
strengthening of HPCD and related institutions; and (iv) the highway safety component. The program was
implemented as planned with some adjustments due to technological changes, and procurement was
efficient with prices lower than expected.

Study of Organization, Management and Maintenance of Toll Highways (SAR: US$0.50million; ICR:
US$0.57million). The study was implemented satisfactorily in terms of process ­combining foreign
experts and local institutes working together- and output. It provided good analyses of options for the
organizational setup of entities in charge of managing and operating high-grade highways. The final report
was presented during the annual Ministry of Communications (MOC)/Bank Highway Seminar in 1999.
Most importantly, its recommendations were useful to HPCD in (i) recognizing the limitations of operating
the province's expressways under a "Branch of Government" type of organization in view of the many
constraints hindering the financial viability; and (ii) agreeing to take steps for gradual commercialization in
this area.

D. Road Safety Program.
The Leading Group for Road Safety Coordination and its Secretariat were established at the start of the
project. They provided effective guidance to implement the various activities under the program, starting
with the improved accident data reporting and analysis, and the establishment of safety audit procedures.

Regarding the Black Spot Improvement Program (SAR: US$1.2 million; ICR: US$4.44 million),33
locations were identified using the methodologies approved by the Leading Group, and a pilot program on
19 locations was implemented. It was later expanded to include 11 additional locations.

The Study of Factors Contributing to Traffic Accidents (SAR: US$0.50million; ICR: US$0.56million),
was completed satisfactorily. It was also presented at the 1999 MOC/Bank Highway Seminar. It provided
the province with a more scientific knowledge about accidents and their contributing factors, and was the
basis for specific action plans to address the broader factors related to engineering, driver behavior, and
vehicles.

Land Acquisition and Resettlement (SAR: US$24.90 million; ICR: US$48.71 million).
The Resettlement Action Plan was satisfactorily implemented. Higher costs were incurred in land
acquisition and relocation than planned, mainly due to (i) difficulties in making an accurate inventory of the
affected assets, such as the underground electric power and telecommunication cables; (ii) additional
compensation for houses damaged by vibration during heavy compacting; and (iii) changes in alignment in
some areas. Two issues were flagged during the thematic supervision in 1999, i.e. the lowering of
compensation rates for affected houses, and the lack of independent monitoring. The two issues were
satisfactorily resolved by additional payments for the houses and by assigning the Shanghai Academy of
Social Sciences as the external monitor. The final assessment of livelihood restoration prepared by the
external monitor showed that income, livelihood and productivity of the project affected people have been
restored and overall improved.




                                                       - 8 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic evaluation is comprised of two components i.e. (a) the Luoyang- Sammenxia Expressway
including the Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai Connection road, and (b) the Roads Improvement for Poverty
Alleviation (87 subcomponents carried out under five packages). The economic evaluation covers all
components individually, as well as the entire project. The detailed analysis, presented in Annex 3, is
summarized below.

Luoyang- Sammenxia Expressway (LSE)
The Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of the LSE is estimated to be 13.3%versus the SAR
estimate of 19.0%, and the Net Present Value (NPV), at a discount rate of 12%, is estimated to be Y 466.4
million. The recalculated EIRR and ENPV are lower than anticipated at appraisal mainly because of
increases in project costs and less traffic than the SAR's projection (for both total and diverted traffics).

Roads Improvement for Poverty Alleviation (RIPA)
The EIRR for the RIPA is estimated at 40.1% versus the SAR estimate of 19.6%, and the NPV, at a
discount rate of 12%, is estimated to be Y 2,995.9 million. The EIRR stated in the SAR covers only the
first package. The EIRR for the ICR covers all five packages of construction. Results can be summarized
as follows:

                         THE RIPA: EIRR AND NPV (12%, million Yuan)
                                     EIRR (in %)              NPV (12%, Y million)
                                The SAR       The ICR        The SAR       The ICR
                    Package 1      19.6        54.9%             --         1,924.0
                    Package 2        --        19.4%             --           136.9
                    Package 3        --        30.8%             --           595.4
                    Package 4        --        36.3%             --            78.5
                    Package 5        --        46.7%             --           939.9
                      Total          --       40.1%              --         2,995.9

The entire project
The EIRR and NPV for the entire project (the LSE and the RIPA) is estimated to be 19.4% and Y3,462.4
million, respectively, compared with 19.2% estimated in the SAR (there were no aggregated data on NPV).


4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial evaluation of the project is comprised of three sections. Section 1 assesses the revenue
earning entity (the LSE, tolled roads); Section 2 assesses the non-revenue earning entity (the RIPA,
non-tolled roads) and Section 3 assesses the financial capacity of HPCD to sustain highway activities.
There was no financial evaluation in the SAR.

For the revenue earning entity, the results of the financial evaluation shows that the FIRR for the LSE
which constitutes about 82.6% of the total project investment, is expected to be 0.2 percent. The NPV
(4.8% discount rate) would be Y ­1,885 million. This reflects HPCD's low toll rate policy based on the
need to generate enough cash for repayment of debt only (financial contributions from the central or
provincial governments are not recovered), as well as for operation and maintenance expenditures. This
maximizes the economic return at the expenses of the financial return.




                                                      - 9 -

For the non revenue earning entities - the RIPA, about 17.4 % of the total project investment - the financial
evaluation focuses on the availability of sufficient counterpart funds and the operating expenses given the
nature of financial risks on those investments. All the indicators show that the financial risks are modest.

Regarding the long term sustainability of highway maintenance, the financial data (1996- 2005) indicate
that HPCD has allocated increasing financial resources for the required highway activities (detailed
analysis is in part IV of Annex 3).

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated as substantial. There was significant transfer of technology
and knowledge throughout the implementation of all components. Through exposure to the joint venture
supervision, there was a better understanding of true FIDIC requirements. The RIPA concept was tested
and scaled up. Sector policies were also improved and recommendations from the Expressway
Organization study, the Traffic Safety study, and the periodic review of the Highway Maintenance reports,
are being applied under the follow-on project. These achievements strengthened HPCD's capacity to
manage the provincial highway network efficiently while improving its responsiveness to social needs. This
also prepared HPCD for a more ambitious Institutional Development and Reform Component under the
follow-on project, that would build on achievements under the previous three projects.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Change in technical regulations. The pavement design for LSE was completed in early 1996, and bids
were called on that basis. In January 1997, MOC issued new Engineering Specifications for Highway
Asphalt Pavement to come into effect by October 1997. HPCD had to redesign the pavement structure of
LSE to the new specifications, with ensuing delays, cost overruns, and pressure on project management in
terms of design resources and treatment of multiple variation orders.

External economic conditions. The project activities started in late 1997, at a time when an economic and
financial crisis swept across Asia. This had an adverse effect on the global demand for transport. Hence
the overestimation of general traffic in the corridor as revealed in the economic re-evaluation (with
corresponding reduction of the diverted traffic on LSE).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Procurement delays. Substantial delays occurred in the procurement of the traffic engineering works,
resulting in a two-year extension of the loan closing date. The main reasons were traced to the lengthy
procedures for (i) the design and preparation of bidding documents, (ii) the preparation of the evaluation
reports, and (iii) for the internal clearances both at central and provincial levels. In the end, the systems
were installed satisfactorily, but for two years the expressway was opened to traffic without the benefits of
efficient tolling and traffic surveillance systems.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Pressure for early delivery. The pressure to shorten the completion date for the construction of LSE was
dictated by the desire to open to traffic this important gap in the corridor from Lianyungang on the coast to
Horgas at the border with Kazakhstan. This led the implementing agency to overlook the difficulty of the
terrain and minimize the amount of geological and geotechnical surveys and the extent of pre-construction
design work. During implementation, there was also a tendency for the Employer to interfere with the
Engineer in the supervision of the works, thus creating confusion vis-a-vis the Contractors. It was difficult
in these conditions for the joint venture to enforce strictly the FIDIC system.



                                                       - 10 -

Department reorganization. The project start-up was hindered by HPCD reorganization in 1997. In
particular the Foreign Capital Utilization Office which was responsible for managing the project, was
understaffed and did not have enough qualified staff and equipment to manage three concommittant
Bank-financed Highway Projects. This led to temporary weaknesses in project management and to initial
delays that took some time for HPCD to catch up.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$605.7 million, comprising a total baseline cost of
US$471.4 million and contingencies amounting to US$134.3 million or 28.5% of base cost. The actual
project cost is US$621.3 million, representing contingencies equivalent to 31.8% of the base cost. A finer
analysis of contingencies shows that inflation was much lower than expected (a large amount had been
reserved for price contingencies because at appraisal in 1995, local inflation was very high), and physical
contingencies much higher, as shown below:

               Contingencies (in %)                      SAR                              ICR
                      Physical                            9.2                             23.5
                       Price                              19.3                             8.3
                       Total                              28.5                            31.8

The main items with significant cost variations are as follows:
l civil works on LSE: bid prices were lower than expected, but physical contingencies were much higher
    due to variation orders dictated by actual terrain conditions or MOC new regulations.
l traffic engineering on LSE: there was a sharp decrease due to a design change to better match the
    actual needs.
l civil works on RIPA: the sharp increase is due to the scaling up of the program.
l equipment: part of the equipment for heavy maintenance was cancelled under the project because the
    responsibility was transferred to the new Expressway Company.
l black spot improvements: the program was expanded under domestic financing.


There was also a large amount of non Bank-financed items related to (i) the upgrading of some facilities on
LSE and (ii) land acquisition and resettlement where the cost was much higher as explained in Section 4
above. As a combined result of the above, a total of US$19 million was cancelled from the loan in 2003,
and a residual amount of US$13.1 million would be cancelled at the end of the grace period.

On the financing side, the Central Government transferred part of its grant to the province, to help finance
the adjacent section from Sanmenxia to Shaanxi border. This benefitted the province by solving the issue of
residual congestion on National Highway 310.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project is likely to be sustainable on the following grounds:
a. The completion of LSE and associated linking roads has relieved congestion in the corridor and has
    improved the efficiency of road transport in the province. The economic re-evaluation has
    demonstrated the robustness of the economic return (although the EIRR is somewhat lower than the
    appraisal estimate). On the financial side, the analysis performed in Annex 3 indicates that the toll
    revenues will be able to provide sufficient funds to support the loan repayments and the operation and
    maintenance related to the investment.



                                                     - 11 -

b. The RIPA program, besides improving the functionality of the secondary road network, provided a
    positive impact that was visible relatively early after completion. Here also the economic re-evaluation
    has demonstrated the robustness of the economic return, showing an EIRR much higher than the
    appraisal estimate.
c. The institutional development impact has been substantial, and further capacity strengthening is being
    pursued under the follow-on project. This contributes to enhance the sustainability of achievements
    under this project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project was fully operational at closing. The LSE was opened to traffic in December 2001, and the
period till closing in December 2004 was put to good use in improving the conditions for regular operation,
with the tolling, telecommunications, and surveillance systems fully installed and operating satisfactorily.

The operation and maintenance of the LSE has been generally satisfactory except for the slow diversion of
traffic from the parallel National Highway 310. There is good understanding now in HPCD on the
importance of monitoring traffic in the whole corridor to keep a proper balance between the two parallel
highways, and on the need for tolls to be adjusted if and when required to maintain the allocation of traffic
at an economic optimum.

Adequate maintenance equipment has been purchased (under this project and with domestic funding) for
dealing with the main highway network. Monitoring measurement for road safety, environmental impacts
and quality of the civil works have been instituted. Regarding the RIPA works, HPCD is aware of the need
to continually impress the importance of maintenance upon the local governments. These arrangements
augur well for a sustainable operation of the highway network in Henan.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification of the project was satisfactory. The project team focused on relevance, making sure that the
project objectives met the Government's priorities and were in line with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy.

Bank assistance to project preparation was highly satisfactory. The Bank assigned a highly qualified team
with the appropriate skill mix in the areas of engineering, environment, resettlement, road safety, social
development, procurement, institutional development and training, contributing to the soundness of the
design. The partnership approach in the preparation of the project helped to transfer technical knowledge to
the Chinese counterparts.

Performance at appraisal was satisfactory, with a focus on clarification of outcomes and agreement on
performance indicators. Special attention was paid on identifying and assessing the key risks; however the
overload imposed on the implementing agency which was already dealing with two ongoing Highway
Projects was underestimated. Reviews of technical designs by international consultants were undertaken,
and recommendations made for design improvement.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision is assessed as satisfactory, based on the effective approach in the
identification of problems and the constructive advice offered to the borrower, who was particularly
receptive since this was the third project approved by the Bank.




                                                     - 12 -

Over the life of the project two task managers were assigned on supervision of the project. There was
adequate overlap and no issue arose due to lack of continuity. Key contributions from the Bank supervision
team were in the areas of promoting quality of the civil works, attention to proper operation and
maintenance of the completed infrastructure, and critical review of studies that significantly enhanced the
transfer of knowledge and strengthened capacity. Thematic supervision missions were set up to deal
efficiently with fiduciary and safeguard issues.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The assistance provided by the Bank ensured quality at
entry, supported implementation through responsive supervision, and ensured adequate transition
arrangements for regular operation of the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower commitment was satisfactory. It assigned a dedicated team to prepare the project, with
experience gained from involvement in the previous projects. In particular, it agreed to an innovative
approach to supervision through a joint venture, that would provide a better on-the-job training experience
than the traditional combined supervision teams. However it overlooked the complexity of the
geomorphology in the corridor area and failed to provide sufficient pre-construction survey and design
work.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The task of removing bottlenecks in the provincial east-west corridor was particularly challenging in view
of the difficult physical context. In its desire to ease the increasing congestion on the main National
Highway 310, the Government put pressure for an acceleration of the construction works. This led to an
early opening of the LSE to traffic, however more time was then needed to complete all ancillary works and
repairs to damaged sections. This also increased pressure on the implementing agency and reduced its
efficiency in the initial period. There were ensuing delays on the traffic engineering component, leading to
an extension of the loan closing date.

The Government showed strong commitment to the RIPA approach for targeted poverty alleviation. It was
also supportive of all institutional development objectives. In areas where multiple agencies were involved
such as traffic safety, it encouraged HPCD and other relevant Departments in the province to improve their
coordination.

Overall the Government performance was satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of HPCD was satisfactory. Initially, the project execution office was understaffed and
hardly equipped to manage three concomitant Bank-financed projects. However, over time, the
implementing agency removed the constraints and performed well. Its management of the project was
flexible and relatively quick to adapt to new conditions and take appropriate measures. There was however
a tendency for the Employer to interfere with the Engineer in the supervision of LSE, thus creating
confusion vis-a-vis the Contractors. It was difficult in these conditions for the joint venture to enforce
strictly the FIDIC system.

Regarding the RIPA component, it was indeed due to the commitment of HPCD that this component
became a success story with lasting effects. HPCD committed the necessary resources to conduct an
ex-post evaluation, paving the way for a scaling up of the program. Regarding the main studies on



                                                       - 13 -

Expressway Organization and Traffic Safety, they were completed on time and with satisfactory quality,
demonstrating that the agency was no less committed to the institutional development aspects.

There was full compliance with safeguard requirements. As for resettlement, the main objectives have
been met, i.e. restoration of income, livelihood and productivity. Monitoring was done by both internal and
external agencies. Issues identified by the Bank's resettlement thematic supervision missions were addressed
to the satisfaction of the Bank.

As for environment, after initial delays, the Environmental Management Plan was distributed to all
contractors and considered integral part of the contract requirements. Monitoring was adequate, both at the
construction phase and at the operation phase. It was found that the project had not caused significant air
and noise pollution except in the initial construction period.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. The Borrower assumed ownership and
responsibility to ensure quality of preparation and implementation, and complied overall with covenants
and agreements. It demonstrated commitment towards the achievement of all development objectives and
sustainability.

8. Lessons Learned

Relevance of RIPA as a targeted poverty alleviation program. The RIPA experiment demonstrated that
once the main infrastructure was constructed, developing feeder roads after a careful selection process
could have a significant impact on economic growth and poverty alleviation. Even more, by involving the
beneficiaries to participate in the process of planning and implementation, significant resources could be
mobilized to expand the program with limited resources. The RIPA experiment has demonstrated potential
for scaling up.

Improving the effectiveness of supervision. The jury is still out as to the most effective approach to
construction supervision under Bank projects. The joint venture experiment under this project showed that
some prerequisites have to be met for this approach to be effective. Each of the protagonists in the FIDIC
trilogy -Employer, Engineer, Contractor- needs to be truly independent, their roles clearly specified, and
their mutual relationships governed by clear contractual clauses. Reforms are underway in that direction
(such as the SOE reform). The issue should be revisited on the occasion of each new project with an update
as to the status of the reforms.

Realizing the effectiveness of well designed covenants. Highway maintenance was considered an important
sector issue but no specific component was included in the project. Instead a covenant in the Project
Agreement called for Annual Highway Maintenance Reports to be submitted to the Bank for joint reviews.
This proved to be quite an effective device to engage and maintain a dialogue on the issue. The need to
modernize the maintenance systems and tools in the province became apparent, and was addressed under
the follow-on project.

Capacity Building. The efficiency of institutional development components in Highway Projects has
sometimes been questioned in terms of its high costs and limited effectiveness as perceived by some
provinces. The impact of the institutional strengthening activities under this project has been considered
substantial by all parties involved, and the ingredients for success appear to be: (i) firm grounding in a
sectoral strategy, (ii) support from MOC and sustained engagement from the province, (iii) good selection
of local and international teams, (iv) appropriate arrangements for the conduct of the studies and their



                                                     - 14 -

dissemination, and (v) recognizing that the process of change may take time, devise action plans for
short-term and long-term recommendations.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower contributed to the ICR through (i) their own assessment of the project achievements and (ii)
comments on the Bank's draft ICR. These contributions are presented below. Supporting documents are in
Annex 7.

(i)     Borrower's Contribution

1. Project Background and Overview of Implementation

1.1    The Luoyang ­ Sanmenxia Corridor

1.1.1       The Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway is the third expressway financed by the World Bank in
            Henan Province and it is located in the south of the Yellow River, parallel to the existing 310
            national highway and the Liangyungang ­ Qinghai Railway. The expressway runs from east
            to west and links two major cities ­ Luoyang, an ancient capital, and Sanmenxia, constituting
            an important part of the Liangyungang--Hurguss Expressway, one of the two essential trunk
            highways in the road network of China. The Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway runs through
            the towns and cities such as Xin`an, Yima, Nianchi and Guanyintan, becoming part of the
            important transport system between the east and the west regions of China together with the
            national highway 310 and other roads as well as the Liangyungang-Hurguss Railway.

1.1.2       The Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway lies within a loess belt where many loess gullies exist.
            From Xin`an to Sanmenxia, the expressway cut through the Xisan Range for a distance of
            about 90 km, which is a heavy hilly area with well-developed deep gullies. From Sanmenxia
            to the ending point (about 40 km in distance), it shows a geomorphology of loess ridges and
            gullies, and to the north of the Guanyintan, there are many coal mines, including a large coal
            mine, where the ground has a severe settlement. The expressway runs in a region where many
            faults exist which may likely cause earthquake. The basic seismic intensity varies from 6º in
            the area east to Nianchi, to 8º in the area west to Guanyintan. The expressway project passes
            through Luoyang, Mengjin county, Xin`an county, Sanmenxia city, Yima city, Nianchi
            county, Shaanxian county, and links up with the Weinan-Tongguan Expressway at the border
            west to Lingbao, Henan. Luoyang city is the important industrial and mineral products base
            of the province, and Sanmenxia city is the major agricultural products base in Henan. Both
            cities have rich tourist resources.

1.2    Project design

1.2.1       The initial project objectives are: (a)by way of supporting the construction of a key highway
            of the most priority in the east-west corridor and by supporting the rural road investment plan
            of Henan province during the ninth-five year period, to encourage the provincial economic
            development, to assist the continuous development of highway infrastructure in the province,
            to relieve traffic congestion, to improve road conditions accessing some important cultural
            and archaeological spots and tourist places, and to facilitate improvement of road transport



                                                     - 15 -

            efficiency; (b)to help Henan in implementation of its poverty alleviation policies in the poor
            areas; (c)to improve institutional capabilities of Henan Provincial Communications
            Department in road network planning, design, operation and maintenance by provision of
            staff training and other means; and (d)to improve the safety of road transportation.

1.2.2       The project components consisted of : (a)construction of a 136-km long expressway between
            Luoyang and Sanmenxia together with four linking roads totaling about 18 km in length, as
            well as construction of a 6.1 km long connection between Shaanxi and the existing highway
            310 in Henan; (b)implementation of a rural road improvement plan for poverty alleviation;
            (c)implementation of studies on road safety, factors contributing to traffic accidents, and toll
            highway organization, management and maintenance; (d)institutional strengthening by way of
            providing training courses to personnel from selected agencies and providing necessary
            equipment.

1.2.3       The main project component was revised. As the key section of the Liangyungang Port ­
            Hurguss Expressway, one of the two major expressway corridors planned by the State, the
            Luoyang-Sanmenxia expressway was taken as one of the most priorities of the State and its
            feasibility study was completed in 1994 and by September 1995 the study report was
            officially approved by the State Planning Commission. Prior to the implementation of the
            Luoyang-Sanmenxia expressway, another important part of the Liangyungang Port ­
            Hurguss expressway among the National Trunk Highway Network, the four-lane expressway
            between Weinan-Tongguan, Shaanxi province was commenced and was expected to be open
            to traffic by December 31, 1999, which ended at the border between Shaanxi and Henan.
            From the provincial border to Sanmenxia city, the 98-km long road was upgraded to Class II
            road standard under Henan Provincial Highway Project (LN3531-CHA) early in 1995. The
            Bank held that before 2000 it was not necessary to upgrade the said road link to an
            expressway standard and HPCD intended to upgrade it when fund is available. Anyway, to
            guarantee the smooth transition of traffic from the Weinan-Tongguan expressway to the
            national highway 310 between the provincial border and Sanmenxia city, as agreed by the
            MOC, SPC and MOF, a two-lane connection between Yangjia and Baijiazhai is to be
            constructed with the Bank loan under Second Henan Provincial Highway Project to link the
            Weinan-Tongguan expressway with the national highway 310 in Henan. However, by 1998
            the demands imposed by the economic growth and traffic growth speed within the corridor
            pushed Henan to decide that an expressway between Sanmenxia and Linpao (the border) shall
            be built up, that the original planned two-lane connection shall be revised to a four-lane
            facility between Yangjia and Baijiazhai so as to have a four-lane expressway from Shaanxi to
            Henan, and that extra cost for additional two lanes of the connection shall be borne by the
            government. Also, to improve the safety with the entire corridor and the highway capacity
            within the province, HPCD initiated and the Bank agreed that the traffic engineering (E&M)
            works for the Sanmenxia-Linbao (the border) expressway were added to the project financed
            by the Bank, which is proven necessary to the improved operation of the highway and the
            safety in the corridor.

2. Achievement of Project Objectives and Project Outputs

2.1    Objective Achievement

The major development objectives of the project have been basically achieved though the loan closing date
has to be extended for two years to satisfy the quality installation of the E&M systems for the


                                                    - 16 -

Luoyang-Sanmenxia expressway and the additional works for the Sanmenxia-Linbao (border)
expressway. The overall satisfactory evaluation is based on the Project Performance Indicators shown in
Table 1, the basically accomplishment of the physical objectives and the achieved satisfactory economic
outputs. As far as China and Henan province are concerned, within the corridor from Luoyang through
Linbao to the border, traffic congestion is relieved and traffic volume increased. The completion of the
Luoyang-Sanmenxia-Linbao (border) expressway greatly improved the transportation capacity between
the east- and west regions of China and provided a faster and safer facility for the Great West Region
Development Drive. The implementation of the Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation Plan provided
improved mobility for the people in the poor counties of Henan and effectively facilitated the betterment of
the production, living, health care, schooling and trade environment of the local folks. The industrial and
agricultural production output values in the counties affected by the project indicate a stable growing
tendency and the planned implementation of the project components are satisfactory. Staff training has
brought in improvement institutional operation and performance of the selected agencies for strengthening
under the project. A large group of technical and managerial personnel have acquired new visions of new
technology, new concept and new way of thinking of international highway and transport works and
transport management skills, and their horizons of knowledge broadened. All of these prepared human
resource reserve for the sustainability of the highway and transport development in Henan. The
implementation of Road Safety Study, The Study on Factors Contributing to Road Accidents, and the
Study on Toll Highway Organization, Management and Maintenance assisted Henan in analyzing the
current status of road transport and the aspects to be urgently improved. Some of the recommendations
produced by the studies were implemented already and further relevant action plans were put forward to
be implemented and to be followed up and encouraged under Third Henan Provincial Highway Project to
be financed by the Bank.

2.2    Outputs of Project Components

2.2.1        Relieved traffic congestion and improved highway capacity. The construction of the
             135.549-km long Luoyang-Sanmenxia expressway and the 5.9-km long Yangjia-Baijiazhai
             Connection together with the auxiliary facilities along the expressway, including the totally
             17.8-km long 5 linking roads, one service area, three management and maintenance branch
             centers, electric supply and distribution system, traffic surveillance, tolling and telecom
             systems, and road safety facility, greatly enhanced the economic connection of the Sanmenxia
             area in the west part of Henan with the other areas, uplifted the strategic position of Henan
             among the transport network of China, mitigated the traffic pressure in the corridor, and
             largely cut down the transport operation costs of the west provinces in China. The civil works
             of Luoyang-Sanmenxia expressway got started on January 8, 1998 and by December 19,
             2001 it was basically completed and put into trial operation. Competitive bids were invited
             for such works and the FIDIC clauses and conditions were followed in contract management
             of the works. The civil works were packaged into 9 contracts which were awarded to 9
             successful bidders. The consulting services for the construction of such works was
             undertaken by a joint venture of American Wilbur Smith Association, Canadian Lavalin
             International and Henan Yutong Highway Construction Consulting Engineers Office. The
             traffic engineering contract including supply and installation of the traffic surveillance, tolling
             and telecom systems, through the public competition, was awarded to China Tsinghua
             Splendor Co. Ltd. To ensure the completed E&M systems have the designed quality, it was
             necessary to give one-year extension to the loan closing date. The E&M systems could not be
             completed simultaneously with the civil works, affecting to some degree the service level of
             the expressway. Anyhow, it is fortunate that the completed quality of the systems and the trial
             operation result are satisfactory and were commended by the Bank experts.


                                                      - 17 -

2.2.2  Improved mobility in the poor areas of Henan. The designed Road Improvement for Poverty
       Alleviation Plan under the project intended to rehabilitate or construct 40 road systems and
       structures within 29 poor counties with a total length of about 2291 km at an estimated cost
       of RMB 8.39 million including 25% out of the loan. With the implementation of such a plan
       by HPCD, as a matter of fact totally five packages of RIPA roads were implemented under
       the project and as a whole, 85 road links and one bridge were rehabilitated or reconstructed
       with a total length of 19448 km, involving nine prefectures or cities in Henan. Generally, the
       implementation and completion of the RIPA program greatly improved mobility and living
       and production conditions in the poor counties, increased opportunities of development in
       such areas and the impacts generated by the project component were positively and highly
       commended by local people and officials. They said again and again that the RIPA roads
       have strongly promoted the tapping and marketing of the local resources and that their living
       standard has been improved. The localities highly appreciated the Bank`s involvement in rural
       road improvement plans and there are still high demands.

2.2.3  Construction supervision. To ensure a successful completion of the Luoyang-Sanmenxia
       expressway and the Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection, four joint ventures of international and
       Chinese consulting engineers were invited to submit proposals in accordance with the Terms
       of Reference and Short List as agreed by the Bank. Out of these four, the joint venture of
       Wilbur Smith Associations, USA, Lavalin International, Canada, and Henan Yutong
       Highway Construction Consulting Engineers Office was selected to undertake the supervision
       on the construction of Luoyang-Sanmenxia expressway and the Yangjia-Baijiazhai
       Connection. The joint venture signed the consulting service contract on July 2,1997 and
       started service in January 1998. The joint venture provided for the project: 10 personnel from
       its overseas members for 194 man-month services for construction supervision plus 2
       man-month services for the overseas training program; 580 personnel from its local member
       for 4500 man-month services for construction supervision. The joint venture provided
       pre-post training to the supervision staff in the province and overseas. Under the consulting
       service contract, two overseas training courses were arranged and in April 1998 an overseas
       training was given to 13 persons for a period of 21 days but the second training course could
       not be implemented due to some reason. The expatriates of the joint venture provided also
       on-post training to the local counterparts during the construction period. The joint venture
       performance was relatively well and was commended by the Bank. The supervision over the
       contract for supply and installation of the E&M systems was also undertaken by the same
       joint venture and totally 217 man-month services were provided, including 12 man-month
       services by expatriates and 205 man-month services by local personnel. With the joint efforts
       of the Employer, the Engineer and the Contractor--Tsinghua Splendor Co. Ltd., the
       completed quality of the E&M works for Luoyang-Sanmenxia-Lingbao expressway was
       appraised by domestic and the Bank officials and the cost of the systems was effectively
       controlled and cut down. The construction of the RIPA roads was supervised by separate
       supervision teams of local engineers, whose performance were satisfactory.

2.2.4  Equipment. Under the project, an equipment procurement plan was designed as part of the
       institutional strengthening component, consisting of two batches of equipment, namely,
       equipment for institutional strengthening and equipment for operation and maintenance of the
       expressway. 412 items of equipment for institutional strengthening was originally listed for
       the seven selected agencies in HPCD and eventually 251 items of equipment in 10
       contract-packages were procured through the international shopping procedure. Originally 18


                                               - 18 -

       items of equipment for expressway operation and maintenance were listed and finally 12
       items in 9 contract-packages were procured through international competitive bidding
       procedure. The procured items were delivered by October 2002 and were all put into use by
       the agencies of HPCD, which extremely improved the capacities of the agencies strengthened
       under the project, further reinforced the capacities of Henan highway sector in terms of road
       planning, design, construction quality assurance and road operation and management and
       helping create better conditions for the sustainable development of Henan highway system.

2.2.5  Improved efficiency and effectiveness of public management of road network. The in-China
       and overseas training program has been successfully completed and there is a strong sense
       that institutional strengthening component has produced positive impacts on the
       administration and management of Henan highway industry and provided valuable chances to
       large number of technical personnel and project managerial staff to be exposed to
       international advanced technologies and management experience. The training courses in
       China an abroad, which gave opportunities to the staff within HPCD to familiar with
       up-to-date technologies and skills of road construction, management and maintenance,
       provided entirely in-China training to 334 persons for totally 2334 man-months, and overseas
       training to 81 persons for totally 78.5 man-months. Additionally, the joint venture for
       consulting services provided on-post training and technical transfer to the local personnel, and
       tailor-made training courses were provided to the seven agencies within HPCD and modern
       equipment were procured for them. The seven agencies are: Telecom Center in the head office
       of HPCD, Foreign Capital Financed Projects Administration Office, Henan Transport
       Scientific Research Institute, Henan Transport Polytechnic College, Henan Transport
       Vocational School, Henan Expressway Construction and Administration Bureau and Henan
       Transport Infrastructure Construction Quality Control Station. All of the agencies confirmed
       that the institutional strengthening improved their working efficiency and produced positive
       results. To be specific, by strengthening of the Telecom Center in the head office of HPCD,
       HPCD was improved to a great degree in the capacity of office telecommunication, electronic
       handling of office affairs and operation commanding and control; the expressway
       construction management bureau, after being familiarized with modes and modern skills of
       toll highway organization and management in China and abroad, was transformed into an
       expressway development company limited on August 8, 2000 as an important part of the
       institutional reform of HPCD and the road investment and financing system reform, which
       was in compliance with the development requirement in China; The completion of the Science
       and Technology Center not only provided Henan Transport Scientific Research Institute with
       a more spacious building for office use and scientific research and tests, but also with large
       number of testing equipment items, which improved and increased the research and consulting
       capacity of the institute. By May 14, 2000, the institute passed the appraisal held by MOC
       for a Class A Laboratory Qualification and in January 2003, it was awarded the Certificate
       for a National Level Laboratory.

2.2.6  Study. Under the project, the following studies were designed: (1)a study on high-grade
       highway organization, management and maintenance; (2)a study on road safety (including the
       factors contributing to traffic accidents); (3)Road Black-spots Improvement. These studies
       were kicked off in June and July of 1997 respectively. Study (1) was completed by March
       2000, study(2) and (3) were completed by February 20004. The studies produced good
       reports and relevant recommendations for improvement. The success of such studies should
       be attributed to: (1)the high attention given by HPCD to the selection of the subjects and the
       adequate preparation and mobilization for the implementation of these studies; (2)the modes


                                                - 19 -

             and approaches adopted for the studies; (3)the effective use of the sino-foreign combined
             specialist teams; and (4)the realistic analyses and constructive recommendations made by the
             study teams. The recommendations in the study reports were catalogued into those applicable
             within the jurisdiction of HPCD, those applicable within jurisdiction of relevant departments
             of the provincial government and those applicable to the concerned departments at the central
             level. Several of such recommendations were implemented by HPCD, for instances, the
             adoption of toll highway company mode, the shift of investment focus onto rural road and
             trunk highway network upgrading and construction and onto improvement of road network
             performance and service level while more efforts are given to transportation market regulation
             and standardization, to industrial guidance to the logistics industry, to continued maneuver in
             enhancing the governmental macro planning and operation readjustment capacities and
             improving office efficiency.

2.3    Impact on Institutional Development

The agencies involved in the implementation of the project in the province accumulated certain capacity
and experience in dealing with issues of engineering, land acquisition, resettlement, construction
management and environmental monitoring from the implementation of such complicated projects such as
Zhengzhou - Luoyang Expressway and Anyang - Xinxiang Expressway, which provided a foundation for
the effective preparation and successful implementation of the project. As aforesaid, under the project, the
capacities of the agencies involved in the implementation of the project got further improvement through
positive cooperation with the Bank and through the institutional strengthening component. Public
competitive selection of a sino-foreign joint venture was tried on LSE, which is the first time in China for
a highway project financed by the Bank. Valuable experience was obtained and it proved that the service
quality of a joint venture is superior to that of a sino-foreign combined team since the local and the
expatriate personnel were entitled to the same power and duties in performing the contract and they
provided more effective services for the construction by giving a better play of their respective advantages
in their operations. The measures taken for strengthening the five agencies within HPCD were effective.
The studies provided methodologies and approaches of researches and a sino-foreign joint research mode.
Such a mode is very helpful to the successful implementation of the completed studies and the future
studies.

3. Sustainability

3.1     Justification for Sustainability

As presented below, the project is very likely to be sustainable in view of the achievements from the
project components and through the coming project. The sustainability of the project could be enhanced:

        (1)     With the mitigated congestion of traffic in the Luoyang-Sanmenxia-Border corridor, the
                improved linkage between the rural and poor hilly areas in west Henan and the
                capital--Zhengzhou, and the neighboring provinces, the complete openness of the east-west
                corridor up to an expressway standard in 2002 through Henan, Anhui and Jiangsu
                provinces, the increasing role of the expressway between Luoyang and Sanmenxia in
                bridging the east and the west within the national highway network and in facilitating the
                Great West Development Drive will be more outstanding.

        (2)     The RIPA program greatly improved the mobility in the poor counties and the benefits
                generated by the program were commended by local government and people. The Bank`s


                                                       - 20 -

               involvement in the poverty alleviation has been widely appreciated and the on-going Third
               Henan Provincial Highway project financed by the Bank, through its component of Local
               Road Improvement Plan, will continuously bring the benefits of poverty alleviation policy
               to more poor counties in the province.

        (3)    The achievement of many technical transfers to local personnel and the strengthening given
               to the priority institutions provided further incentives to the institutional restructuring and
               to the improvement of working efficiency within HPCD.

        (4)    Some of the major recommendations made by the study on toll highway organization,
               management and maintenance, the study on road safety and road black-spots improvement
               as well the study on factors contributing to traffic accidents, were implemented and further
               action plans were worked out and will be followed under the on-going Third Henan
               Provincial Highway Project.

3.2     Arrangements for Transitional Plan.

LSE was put into trial operation on December 19,2001 without the E&M systems and collection of tolls
was handled manually. When the commissioning of the E&M systems was completed, the service level of
LSE was greatly improved in the following aspects: (1)the stop and transaction time at toll gate; and
(2)the reaction time to accident or incident due to use of emergency telephone along LSE and other traffic
surveillance and control equipment. The strengthened expressway operation company will adopt more
comprehensive and service-level type indicators to monitor its operation.

4. Performance of the Bank and the Borrower

The Bank

At the identification stage, the Bank was informed through missions that the project objectives and the
construction scale were not only in compliance with the priorities of the central and the provincial
governments, but also consistent with the country assistance strategy of the Bank Group. At the
preparation stage, the Bank offered strong assistance in the areas of project design, technical concepts,
environmental and resettlement by way of specialist advices and technical guidance. The preliminary
feasibility study was revised to the satisfaction of the Bank but it underestimated the economic growth
speed and the potential traffic growth. The outcome thereof as aforesaid, is the early upgrading of the
Sanmenxia-Lingbao (border) highway to an expressway standard and the varied standard of the
Yangjia-Baijiazhai connection (about 5.9 km long) from a two-lane highway to a four-lane facility.

The project appraisal mainly focused on the very likely risks: the knowledge of the implementation
agencies about modern highway engineering and construction, international procurement, archeology,
resettlement, and environmental protection; engineering standards, especially the selection of expressway
alignment, major bridge sites and designing of interchanges and linking roads. Extensive investigation and
discussions were carried out by the Bank missions, and the engineering documents were reviewed by the
Italian consultants under the Italian Trust Fund. Also, attentions were given by the province to the project
financing and finance management as well as to the organization and staffing of the implementation
agencies, and the project performance monitoring indicators were set up at the preparation stage.




                                                      - 21 -

Supervision
From 1997 to 2004, the Bank sent out 16 supervision missions or about two missions each year and quite
some man-powers were input into the project supervision. the missions handled issues of several projects
each time, showing a high working efficiency and the Bank staff for the project basically remained
continuity. At the critical stage of the project, the Bank`s environmental and resettlement personnel
provided professional reviews. With the enhanced role and reinforced resources of the resident mission in
Beijing Office, their resources played a better role in the implementation of the project.

Whereas LSE is the third expressway financed by the Bank in the province, and whereas the project is
located in an area of quite complex topography and geology, the Bank missions paid special attention to
the alignment, the harmony of the engineering design and the surroundings with attempts to avoid
problems and issues occurred in the previous projects and to minimize the risks. Therefore, prompt
clearances were given by the Bank to the structural design variations due to geological changes during the
construction and timely suggestions were provided to the Employer, the Engineer and the Contractor for
normal performance of the FIDIC clauses and conditions, particularly several times of reinstatements of
the powers and duties of the Employer, the Engineer and the Contractor as well as coordination between
the Employer and the Engineer.

The Bank`s supervision was effective to the other components of the project. In the implementation of the
RIPA component, the Bank staff offered timely guidance and strong assistance in bid-invitation and
evaluation processes and in the construction. The involvement of the Bank in the studies was also deep
and helpful assistance was provided y the Bank.

Overall Performance of the Bank
Through the successful preparation and implementation of the project, it is proved that the overall
performance of the Bank is satisfactory.

The Borrower

Preparatory Work
The Borrower started preparatory work for the project in 1994. By September 1995, the State Planning
Commission approved the project proposal and by October 1996, the State Planning Commission
approved the feasibility study report. In March 1997, the Ministry of Communications (MOC) cleared the
project preliminary design and according to the design, the land acquisition and resettlement actions for
LSE got started from May 28, 1997. HPCD made compact arrangement for the preparation of the
Bank-financed project and for the implementation organization, planning and resources, and HPCD
honored its commitments in a responsible way and showed high attachment to experience with modern
expressways and international procurement. Serious considerations and active responses were made to the
technical suggestions or recommendations offered by the Bank. Close cooperation was extended by HPCD
to the technical review on the design documents by foreign consultants.

Performance of Government on Project Implementation
The government presents a committed and proactive attitude towards the implementation and completion
of the project and in general, to successfully complete the project, the government honored the covenants
of the project and the relevant departments at the central and the provincial levels extended strong
supports at the stages of the project review and approval and the implementation, and were supportive to
the institutional reform under the project. However, the review of the bid documents and the approval to
the subsequent bid evaluation reports took too much time.




                                                       - 22 -

The Implementation Agency
HPCD as the implementation agency of the project, presented a strong commitment to the delivery of the
duties and promises as indicated in the Project Agreement and it can follow the Bank Procurement
Guidelines and Procedures without observation of any major default or malpractice in the procurement of
the project components. The contract packaging of the civil works and the goods was proper and the
awarding of contracts was in time except for the delayed implementation of the procurement schedule for
the E&M systems, which led to LSE open to traffic without the necessary three systems. The delays in the
procurement of the said systems caused an extension of the loan closing date for one more year. The
supervision on the construction of LSE was undertaken by a sino-foreign joint venture and the team
performed well, which was a good trial on the Bank-financed highway project in China. Anyhow, due to
the constraints at present, the implementation to the last letters of the FIDIC clauses and conditions in
China needs more time. The supervision over the rehabilitation or construction of the RIPA roads was
undertaken by a separate supervision team of local engineers. The overseas study and training program
had a satisfactory implementation at an early stage but since 2001, the program implementation was
seriously lagged behind the schedule. The institutional restructuring and major personnel reshuffles as
well as the lacking of a formal establishment and strengthening of the foreign capital utilization office
which is in charge of the project coordination and administration, are the most key factors contributing to
the delays of the scheduled implementations of the project components and the disjoint observed in the
finance management.

In the course of implementation of the project components, the implementation agencies can basically, as
required in the Project Agreement and the by the Bank officials, submit reports and documents in a timely
manner and reflect the issues occurred and measures taken in the implementation of the project
components. These provided necessary tools to HPCD decision-makers for their prompt knowledge and
dealings with problems cropped up. Anyhow, it deemed necessary that the mode and way of information
and data collection for reporting, the professional qualification of the compilers and their skills of
preparation of reports as well as the translators, shall be improved and enhanced.

Overall Performance of Borrower
Although various difficulties were observed in the course of the project implementation, the overall
performance of the Borrower is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Obtained

Administrative interference by government. The engineering and construction of any works has their own
serious and compact technical standards and specifications, and the implementation schedules are
hammered out based on historical experience and scientific studies. With inappropriate interference from
outside, it may accelerate the progress somewhat and the accelerated progress will surely be at the cost of
additional money and quality of the works. The survey and engineering actions for the expressway under
the project showed a tight schedule, the review and clearance by the higher authorities for the civil works
of the expressway prior to the procurement indicated delays, the contractors` progress schedules were not
strictly controlled at the early stage of construction, the Engineer`s supervision was not fully exercised,
and later the government gave a too heavy pressure on the Employer to reach the dead-line of completion,
resulting in phenomena of hurrying-up for completion of the works.

Adequate Design for expressway including all the facilities. As aforesaid, due to the underestimate of
the technical and construction complexity of the expressway, large numbers of design variations and the
consequent cost overruns were encountered. Giving more time to the justification of a project and to a
thorough investigation and consultation at preparation stage, is critical to prevent variations of designs


                                                      - 23 -

and cost overruns. It is certainly an effective measure for improving quality and life of works by selecting
the survey and design institute through competitive procedures. Meanwhile, the sense of safety in
expressway operation needs to be intensified. It has been proved that the E&M systems is the important
auxiliary part of the safety operation of a tolled highway, and the invitation for bids for the supply and
installation of such systems should be released two years ahead of the expected completion of the civil
works of an expressway.

Enhancement of Traffic Safety. In developing countries, the sense of traffic safety is commonly poor and
this reflected in the annual records of traffic accidents and the consequent statistics of injuries and
fatalities as well as the economic losses. China is one of the countries where traffic accidents occur in
most high frequency and Henan Province, as a big populated province, witnesses a quite high annual rate
of traffic accidents. Hence, the project included the selected studies on traffic safety, road black-spots
improvement, and factors contributing to road accidents and the provincial government gave much
attention to these studies. A leading group was established and headed by the Secretary General of the
provincial government with the vice-directors of HPCD and the provincial public security as deputies.
Expatriate specialists were also invited to provide advices and consulting services. Through investigations
into Henan and other provinces with respect to different type of road structures, operation and safety,
inceptive, interim and final reports were produced with constructive recommendations for improvement.
Some of the recommendations have been adopted by relevant departments. The successful cooperation
between HPCD and the public security department provided experience to the other provinces and the
studies together with the constructive recommendations provided a direction for an comprehensive
improvement to traffic safety in Henan.

Relevance of RIPA Program.         The implementation and post-evaluation of RIPA component showed the
great benefits achieved so far, and the appreciation and further demand for the Bank involvement in this
type of operation as well as the continuity of such an experience in the implementation of the local road
improvement for poverty alleviation under the following project financed by the Bank, affirmed the
effectiveness of RIPA.




                                                      - 24 -

(ii)    Borrower's Comments on the Bank's Draft ICR

See Borrower's letter of April 27, 2005. These comments have been considered in the ICR.



To:              Mr. Jacques Tollie, Sr. Highway Engineer, EASTR
                 Transport Sector Unit, EASTR, World Bank
From:            Liu Zhangtu, Deputy Director, Henan Communications Department
Date:            April 27, 2005
Subject:         CHINA: Second Henan Provincial Highway Project (Loan No. 4027-CHA)
                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
__________________________________________________________________________________
MESSAGE:


Dear Mr. Tollie:


        This is to acknowledge the receipt of your e-mail message and the attached draft ICR for Henan II
and meanwhile, we would like to say the draft ICR was well prepared and the conclusions and comments
are objective and acceptable to us. As for the EIRR and NPV of the project as well as traffic data which
show discrepancy from those obtained by the Bank, we already asked our Institute to cross-check the
outcomes of our exercises based on the data contained in the Bank`s ICR and consequently, the statement
in our Completion Report will be reconciled.


        Thank you for your time in preparing a good ICR for Henan II.


                                                 With best regards!




                                                 (Signed)
                                                 Liu Zhangtu, Deputy Director
                                                 Henan Communications Department


(b) Cofinanciers:
No outside cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                   - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
1. (a) Average daily traffic on existing LS  6012/16000                        5653/16076
Highway/New LSE

1. (b) Average vehicle speed on existing     57/92                             56/70.5
LSH/new LSE

2. Gross Output Value of Agriculture and     63.31                             66.5
Industry in affected counties along LSE

3. (a) GOVAI in affected counties            186.48                            131.56
concerning the rural road program for poverty
alleviation (RIPA)

3. (b) Average daily traffic on RIPA road    872                               948

3. (c) Number of days RIPA road closed to    0                                 0
traffic

4. (a) Number of staff trained in specific   415                               415
areas

4. (b) Percentage use of equipment for       100%                              100%
Institutional Strengthening/Training.

5. (a) Annual number of injuries on          242/42/5914                       214/30/22211 (new reporting system index)
LSH/LSE/whole province

5. (b) Annual number of fatalities on        40/12/4540                        36/7/4910
LSH/LSE/Whole province


Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
% Civil works completed on LSE               100                               100
% Civil works completed under RIPA           117                               117
Number of person-months of completed         100                               100
training
Highway safety: improved black spots         30                                30
Number of main studies completed             2                                 2

1End of project




                                                            - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
A. New Construction
1. LSE and Linking Roads                                   344.00         432.16            125.6
2. Supervision of Construction                              15.60          10.64             68.2
B. Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation                 70.30         114.00            162.2
C. Capacity Building
1. Institutional Strengthening and Training                  1.10            0.93            84.5
2. Equipment                                                10.80            6.07            56.2
3. Research Center                                           2.50            3.28           131.2
4. Studies                                                   0.50            0.57             114
D. Road Safety
1. Black Spot Program                                        1.20            4.40           366.7
2. Studies                                                   0.50            0.56             112
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                           24.90          48.71            195.6

Total Baseline Cost                                        471.40         621.32
 Physical Contingencies                                     43.30
 Price Contingencies                                        91.00
                          Total Project Costs              605.70         621.32
                    Total Financing Required               605.70         621.32


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            420.80         74.80        48.90         1.20         545.70
                                   (158.30)       (23.10)      (13.50)        (0.00)      (194.90)
2. Goods                             4.70           0.00         2.20         5.50         12.40
                                    (4.70)         (0.00)      (2.20)         (0.00)       (6.90)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00        22.60         0.00         22.60
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (8.20)         (0.00)       (8.20)
Land Acquisition and                 0.00           0.00         0.00         24.90        24.90
Resettlement
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            425.50         74.80        73.70         31.60        605.60
                                   (163.00)       (23.10)      (23.90)        (0.00)      (210.00)




                                                - 27 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                               367.87             86.81             53.40             45.78            553.86
                                          (126.59)           (24.42)           (13.80)            (0.00)          (164.81)
    2. Goods                                3.34               0.00              2.73             0.00              6.07
                                           (3.24)             (0.00)            (2.68)            (0.00)           (5.92)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00             12.69             0.00             12.69
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (10.03)            (0.00)           (10.03)
    Land Acquisition and                    0.00               0.00              0.00             48.71            48.71
    Resettlement
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               371.21             86.81             68.82             94.49            621.33
                                          (129.83)           (24.42)           (26.51)            (0.00)          (180.76)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. New Construction
1. LSE and Linking Roads       146.20       113.40       84.30       133.23       226.30     72.65       91.1     199.6     86.2
2. Supervision                  5.50         1.10                     8.95         1.69                  162.7    153.6
B. Road Improvement for        20.20        29.60        20.50       30.40         83.48      0.12       150.5    282.0      0.6
Poverty Alleviation
C. Capacity Building
1. IS/Training                  0.80         0.30                     0.68         0.25                  85.0      83.3
2. Equipment                    6.20         4.60                     5.92         0.15                  95.5      3.3
3. Research Center              0.90         1.60                     1.18         2.10                  131.1    131.3
4. Studies                      0.30         0.20                     0.21         0.36                  70.0     180.0
D. Road Safety                  0.30         1.40                     0.20         4.76                  66.7     340.0
Land Acquisition and                        24.90                                  48.71                          195.6
Resettlement
Contingencies                  29.60        129.60                                                        0.0      0.0
Total Project Cost             210.00       290.80                                                        0.0      0.0




                                                           - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


                         ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATIONS

Preface

1.      The economic evaluation of the project covers the following two components:

        (a)    Construction of the Luoyang- Sammenxia Expressway (LSE) including the Yangjia ­
               Baijiazhai Connection road (the connection road), totaling 142.3 km in Henan province, and

        (b)    construction and/or renovation of 87 rural roads and bridges in the poor counties of Henan,
               totaling about 1,948 km, under the Roads Improvement for Poverty Alleviation program
               (RIPA).

2.      The economic analysis is based on the re-evaluation of data on traffic, operational performance,
costs and benefits of project components. The methodology used was similar to that employed by the SAR
and is summarized as follows:

        (a) capital investment and maintenance costs were revised to reflect December 2004 prices and
              are included in the cost stream;

        (b) the benefits stream, also reflecting in December 2004 prices, were included, and consist of
              savings in vehicle operating costs, travel time savings, reduced traffic congestion on existing
              roads, and enhanced road safety; and

        (c) a project life of 20 years has been assumed and the capital investment period for all
              components was from 1997 to 2004, depending on the construction phases.

3.       During the project's implementation, approved by the Bank, some project components have been
modified. The economic analysis reflects the final implementation of the project.

4.      This annex is comprised of four parts. Part I is the economic evaluations of the LSE; Part II is the
economic evaluations of the RIPA; Part III is the overall economic evaluation of the project, including the
probabilistic risk analysis, and; Part IV is the financial evaluation of the project.

                           PART I: ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE LSE

5.      Similar to the SAR, the economic evaluation of the LSE consists of four sections and one
connection road (Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai).




                                                     - 29 -

                                                   Length (km) of Length (km)         Opening
                                                     the Old Road     of the LSE        Date
              1.    Louyang ­ Xian                      26.00            25.08       Dec. 2001
              2.    Xinan ­ Mianchi                     36.00            38.88       Dec. 2001
              3.    Mianchi - Guanyingtang              23.00            21.27       Dec. 2001
              4.    Guanyingtang - Sanmenxia            56.00            50.98       Dec. 2001
              5.    Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai                10.00             6.10       Dec. 2001
                               Total                   151.00           142.31


The Corridor Traffic Analysis

6.       The LSE was opened in December 2001. The traffic of the LSE for 2002 - 2004 and its
distribution between the old and the new roads are presented in the Table 1, indicating the SAR forecast
and actual traffic census data.

7.       In Table 1, the total traffic demand of each section of the LSE in 2002 (i.e. the sum of traffic on
the parallel sections of the existing arterial road and the new expressway), was only about 50 percent of the
SAR's forecast. In 2003 and 2004, this ratio improved to about 60- 70 percent. During the same period,
the traffic on the three sections of the old road were better than expected, despite the traffic distribution of
the corridor (i.e. between the existing arterial road and the new highway) being less than projected.

8.       During the first year's operation (2002), the average actual diversion ratios (DR) for the five
sections of the LSE were about 60-80 percent which were slightly higher than the SAR's forecasted. The
DR for 2003 and 2004 are estimated slightly lower than the expected.

Traffic Projection

9.       Through actual records, it is recognized that, normally, the buildup of traffic on a new expressway,
particularly when it operates as a toll facility, is gradual in the early years and then the diversion
accelerates. From 2002-2004, the average traffic growth rate on the LSE was about 16 percent. Despite
the fast traffic growth rate in 2002-2004, the long term traffic growth projections on the new roads are
estimated to be slightly lower than the SAR's forecast. The traffic projections for the LSE are summarized
as follows:




                                                        - 30 -

                        TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON FOR THE LSE (AADT)
                         1. Louyang - Xian       2. Xinan - Mianchi    3. Mianchi - Guanyingtang
                          Total      MTE          Total     MTE            Total       MTE
         SAR
             2002           --      14,355         --       13,173           --        12,392
             2003           --      15,174         --       14,028           --        13,234
             2004           --      16,040         --       14,939           --        14,133
             2010           --      22,378         --       21,788           --        20,967
             2020           --      38,980         --       40,876           --        40,466
         Average growth p.a.
            2002-2020       --       5.7%          --       6.5%             --        6.8%
         ICR
             2002         7,676      6,575       7,676      6,575          7,886       6,863
             2003        10,192      8,573       9,617      8,088          9,755       8,442
             2004        11,217      9,415       10,562     8,865         10,656       9,202
             2010        15,165     12,729       15,113     12,685        14,787       12,769
             2020        21,854     18,344       23,972     20,121         22,660      19,568
         Average growth p.a.
            2002-2020     6.0%       5.9%         6.5%      6.5%           6.0%        6.0%

         Sources: HPCD and the Bank staff.



                        TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON FOR THE LSE (AADT)
                         4. Guanyingtang - Sanmenxia         5. Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai
                              Total         MTE              Total           MTE
         SAR
             2002               --          13,626             --            9,974
             2003               --          14,518             --           10,629
             2004               --          15,468             --           11,327
             2010               --          22,627             --           16,592
             2020               --          42,652             --           31,343
         Average growth p.a.
             2002-2020          --          6.5%               --            6.6%
         ICR
             2002             7,886         6,863            7,876           6,853
             2003             9,288         8,038            9,475           8,882
             2004            10,156         8,769           10,285           8,882
             2010            14,092         12,167          13,481          11,642
             2020            21,594         18,644          18,435          15,920
         Average growth p.a.
             2002-2020        5.8%          5.7%             4.8%            4.8%

         Sources: HPCD and the Bank staff.



10.      Actual traffic data was used from 2002 - 2004, and for subsequent years the following growth
rates are assumed:

(a)      The normal traffic growth forecast of the new roads are estimated to be within a range of 4.0 to 7.5
percent between 2004 - 2010, depending on the type of vehicle and road. Between 2010 - 2020, the growth
rate is assumed to be in the range of 3.0 to 6.5 percent;



                                                     - 31 -

(b)      It is assumed that there is no generated traffic.

Economic Costs

11.      Financial construction costs have been converted to economic costs by shadow pricing for each of
the input items. Compared with the total economic cost of the LSE, at constant December 2004 prices, the
ICR is 5.2 percent higher than the SAR. Summarized the total economic project cost of the LSE as
follows:

                               The Economic Cost Comparison (million Yuan)
                                                   The ICR    The SAR /1    ICR/ SAR
            1. Louyang ­ Xian                        844.78      831.18       1.6%
            2. Xinan - Mianchi                     1,309.54    1,288.54       1.6%
            3. Mianchi - Guanyingtang                716.44      704.89       1.6%
            4. Guanyingtang - Sanmenxia            1,717.11    1,689.54       1.6%
            5. Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai                  205.41       44.14      365.4%
                          Total                    4,793.28    4,558.29       5.2%
          /_1: December 2004 prices.


Economic Benefits

12.      Project benefits were estimated by using the VOC model which was developed by the Highway
Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III). The economic analysis includes the benefits derived
from: (a) VOC savings on the new roads (summarized as below), (b) time savings through relieved
congestion on the existing road, and (c) lower accident costs. The VOC savings contains the net VOC
savings for the vehicles using the new road. The time savings contains the benefits resulting from the lower
level of congestion on the existing road and the new road. The value of passenger time savings was
estimated at 1.5 Yuan per passenger-hour, on the basis of updated values from a report on feasibility study
methodology for highways in China (Rust PPK. Australia Feasibility Study Methodology Report, March
1996). The same source was used for vehicle accident rates on different classes of road.


                                  Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
                                  (Yuan per km, December 2004 prices)
                                               The New Road     The Old Road

                       Car                          1.038           1.189
                       Medium bus                   1.760           2.170
                       Large bus                    3.786           4.677
                       Small truck                  1.843           2.136
                       Medium truck                 2.400           2.750
                       Large truck                  3.357           3.903
                       Tractor/trailer              5.614           6.476




                                                     - 32 -

                      Sample of Economic Vehicle Operating Cost Calculation
                              (Yuan per 1,000 veh.-km December 2004 prices)
                                             Medium Large Small Medium Large        Trailer/
                                         Car     bus     bus   truck truck   truck container
               The New Road:
               Fuel                      476        581  1,163   842    958   1,082    1,396
               Tires                      59         92   260     94    364     860    1,971
               Maintenance               415        527  1,108   824    917   1,103    1,438
               Crew                       12         29     29    12     29      35       37
               Depreciation               26        102   369     71    132     277      772
                      Subtotal           988     1,331   2,929  1,843  2,400  3,357    5,614
               Time value- passengers     50        429   857
                        Total          1,038     1,760   3,786  1,843  2,400  3,357    5,614
               The Old Road:
               Fuel                      512        650  1,368  1,017  1,132  1,361    1,776
               Tires                      63        106   286    101    403     960    2,195
               Maintenance               461        585  1,231   915   1,019  1,225    1,598
               Crew                       24         49     49    24     49      49       49
               Depreciation               29        113   410     79    147     308      858
                 Subtotal              1,089     1,503   3,344  2,136  2,750  3,903    6,476
               Time value- passengers    100        667  1,333
                        Total          1,189     2,170   4,677  2,136  2,750  3,903    6,476

                 Sources: HPCD and the Bank staff.


Economic Evaluation

13.      Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) on the expressway is estimated to be 13.3 percent, which
is lower than the 19.0 percent estimated in the SAR. The low EIRR is primarily the result of (a) a lower
traffic demand on the LSE (par. 9), and (b) project cost overrun (par. 11). Summary of EIRR and Net
Present Value (NPV) as follows:

                                 EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, million Yuan)
                                                            The SAR            The ICR
                                                          EIRR    NPV       EIRR     NPV
                1. Louyang ­ Xian                         19.3     --      12.8%      50.9
                2. Xinan ­ Mianchi                        18.3     --       8.8%    (280.7)
                3. Mianchi - Guanyingtang                 18.9     --      14.1%     114.8
                4. Guanyingtang - Sanmenxia               18.8     --      14.4%     306.9
                5. Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai                   16.0     --      26.5%     271.3
                             Total LSE                    19.0     --      13.3%     466.4
                   Sources: HPCD and the Bank staff.



Sensitivity Analysis

14.      The EIRRs summarized below show that the effects of possible changes in assumptions made in
the evaluation and could alter the yield on the investment. Since cost of operation and maintenance of the
LSE is a relatively small portion of the investment, any variation in these costs would have minimum
discernible impact on EIRR. The impacts of changes in traffic volumes were studied under the two traffic
growth scenarios discussed in par. 15 and 16 of this Annex. The results of the sensitivity test show that the
reduction of total benefits by 10 percent has the greatest impact while the reduction of road congestion has
the least impact on the EIRR.




                                                       - 33 -

                                                SENSITIVITY TEST
                                                            EIRR (in %)   NPV(12%, Y million)
                VOC savings reduced by 10%                     12.2               63.1
                Accident savings reduced to zero               13.3              441.8
                Congestion savings reduced to zero             13.3              454.7
                Total benefits reduced by 10%                  12.2               59.4



Scenario Analysis

15.      Besides the normal traffic growth scenario, two traffic growth alternatives have also been
considered: e.g. a lower traffic growth projection (15 percent lower than the normal traffic) and a higher
traffic growth projection (15 percent higher than the normal traffic growth). The traffic growth and
average annual average growth rate under these two scenarios are as follows:

                             THE EXPRESSWAY TRAFFIC FORECAST SCENARIOS
                                             High Growth Rate        Low Growth Rate
                Average growth rate pa         4.5% ~ 8.0%             2.5% ~ 6.0%



16.      The overall EIRR for the different traffic growth scenarios are summarized in the following table.
It shows that the overall EIRR for a higher traffic growth rate is 14 percent and for a lower traffic growth
rate is 12.6 percent.

                                  TRAFFIC GROWTH RATE SCENARIO TEST
                                                                EIRR      NPV (12%,
                                                                (in%)    million Yuan)
              The high traffic growth rate scenario (+15%)       14.0        752.4
              The low traffic growth rate scenario (-15%)        12.6        206.2



                PART II: ROADS IMPROVEMENT FOR POVERTY ALLEVIATION (RIPA)

Background and Traffic

17.      In the SAR, the RIPA was designed to be implemented in different phases, with a total of 662 km
for 8 roads in the first phase. The total budget for the entire RIPA was estimated to be about 583 million
Yuan. After completion of the RIPA, there were a total of 87 roads being upgraded/ rehabilitated with total
cost of 950 million Yuan. The RIPA was carried out by 5 phases in 9 counties in Henan province. The
RIPA started in April 1997 and completed in November 2004. Summarized as follows:




                                                       - 34 -

                                                       RIPA PROGRAM
                                The SAR                                       The ICR
                       Length (km)    No. of Roads        Length (km)     No. of Roads     Completion Date
           Phase 1        662                8                614.30           22           Dec. 1997
           Phase 2         --               --                509.50           22            Jan. 1999
           Phase 3         --               --               438.20            31           Dec. 1999
           Phase 4         --               --                81.50             3            Apr. 2002
           Phase 5         --               --                304.71            9           Nov. 2004
            Total          --               --              1,948.21           87
          Sources: The SAR, HPCD and the Bank staff.




18.     The main purpose of the RIPA was to repave the existing roads or bridges in the poorest areas of
the Henan province, particularly the mountainous regions in the western and southern parts of the province.
Since all the components under RIPA are located in the same region, the economic development and traffic
patterns are quite similar. Based on the traffic performance, the traffic growth rate forecasts is assumed to
be 5.0 percent per year for motor vehicles and 3.5 percent for tractors for 2004 - 2010, and reduced by 1
percent for the next ten years following that. By comparison, the average traffic growth rate projection of
the SAR was 9.6 percent, ranging from 7.3 percent to 16.4 percent for 1994- 2018.

Economic Costs

19.     Financial costs have been converted to economic costs using a similar methodology applied to the
LSE. All input items have been evaluated to constant December 2004 economic prices. The overall
economic cost is about 3.6 percent higher then the financial costs. In the summer of 2000, some of the
project area was hit by a very severe flood disaster. The disaster not only destroyed most of the newly built
roads and bridges, but also damaged the road bed, bridge piers and eroded the foundation of earth work.
The costs of the repair work were estimated to be about 30.0 million Yuan. All these repair costs have
been included in the economic evaluation.

20.     The total actual economic costs of the RIPA at December 2004 constant prices is about 63.6
percent higher than the SAR's estimate.

                         RIPA COST (million Yuan, December 2004 prices)
                                          The SAR (A)           The ICR (B)       (B)/(A) in %
                       Phase 1                25.95                 235.46           807.4%
                       Phase 2                 --                   198.84               --
                       Phase 3                 --                   289.79               --
                       Phase 4                 --                     34.99              --
                       Phase 4                 --                   224.79               --
                    Total RIPA               601.42                 983.87            63.6%
                   /_1. The 1995 prices (the SAR) has been updated to December 2004 prices.


Economic Benefits

21.     Similar to the SAR, the economic benefits of the RIPA are derived mainly from: (a) VOC savings
due to shorter distance (if applicable), (b) VOC savings due to normal traffic and (c) generated traffic.




                                                         - 35 -

22.     As a result of the project, the classification of all 87 subcomponents were upgraded. The better
surface pavement reduced VOC and yields the major portion of the project benefits. Generated traffic is
assumed to be 3 percent of the normal traffic. In addition, the better paved roads or bridges increase
vehicle speed and reduce congestion. These benefits have been quantified also as part of operating cost
savings.

Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis

23.     The EIRRs of the five phases range from 19.4 percent to 54.6 percent. The overall EIRR for the
RIPA is 40.1 percent. If there was no flood disaster, the EIRR of the RIPA could be about 41.3 percent.

                                           EIRR AND NPV OF THE RIPA
                                       EIRR (in %)               NPV (12%, Y million)
                                  The SAR        The ICR         The SAR      The ICR
                     Phase 1        19.6           54.9             --        1,924.0
                     Phase 2          --           19.4             --          136.9
                     Phase 3          --           30.8             --          595.4
                     Phase 4          --           36.3             --           78.5
                     Phase 5          --           46.7             --          939.9
                       Total          --           40.1             --        2,995.9



24.      The risks considered for sensitivity analysis are: (a) slower than projected growth of traffic, (b) the
lower VOC savings, and (c) less than expected benefits. The result of the sensitivity test show that the
reduction of total traffic growth by 25% has the greatest impact while reduction of total benefits has the
least impact on the EIRR.

                                            SENSITIVITY TEST FOR RIPA
                                                               EIRR (in %)  NPV(12%, Y million)
          Slower than projected growth of traffic (-25%)          31.1             1,794.0
          The lower VOC savings (-25%)                            32.0             1,995.4
          Reduction of total benefit (-25%)                       33.0             2,070.9



                PART III: THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT

Overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)

25.     The overall EIRR of the entire project (including the LSE and the RIPA) is 19.4 percent and the
NPV (12%) is about Y 3,462.4 million. In the SAR, the EIRR for the entire project is estimated to be 19.2
percent.

                              EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, Y million) Summary
                                              The SAR                 The ICR
                                            EIRR       NPV       EIRR       NPV
                           The LSE           19.0      --         13.3      466.4
                           The RIPA         19.6 /1    --         40.1     2,995.9
                              Total          19.2      --         19.4     3,462.4
                            /1: Phase 1 (8 roads) only.




                                                         - 36 -

The Project Risks

26.      The overall EIRR of the project is economically justified, particularly for the RIPA's components.
The less than expected EIRR for the LSE was mainly because of: (a) cost overrun, and (b) less traffic
demand on the corridor. It is suggested that it should have had better estimates on traffic O/D and
construction cost estimates in the feasibility study stage.

Probabilistic Risk Analysis

27.       To determine the degree of uncertainty for the project, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte
Carlo techniques was carried out. In a Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertainty factor is allowed to vary at
random between set limits and all uncertainty factors are allowed to change simultaneously. Monte Carlo
simulation provides probability distributions of the potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing these
distributions, we can assess the risk associated with making various decisions (or probabilistic risk
analysis). The product of the analysis is a judgment on the possible range of the decision variable, and on
the likelihood of each value within this range.

28.       The probabilistic risk analysis covers the LSE and the RIPA as well as the entire project. The
factors with the most uncertainty associated with the economic evaluation have been identified as the
following: (a) traffic growth rate, and (b) the value of vehicle operating costs. The results of the
probabilistic risk analysis for the project show that the EIRR for the most likely scenario is 19.0 percent.
The worst case scenario of the analysis is 16.7 percent and for the best case scenario, it is 21.7 percent.
The standard error of the mean is 0.2 percent. The results of Monte Carlo test and probabilistic analyses
(Appendix 1) are summarized as follows:

                                   Summary of Probabilistic Risk Analysis
                                                               Most likely      Standard error of
                                          Range of EIRR          EIRR               the mean
                  1. The LSE               9.1% ~ 16.9%         12.9%                 0.2%
                  2. The RIPA             38.3% ~ 41.8%         40.0%                 0.1%
                     Total Project        16.7% ~ 21.7%         19.0%                0.2%



                                   PART IV: FINANCIAL EVALUATION

Preface

29.      The financial evaluation of the project is comprised of three sections. Section 1 assesses the
revenue earning entity (the LSE); Section 2 assesses the non-revenue earning entity (the RIPA) and Section
3 assesses the financial capacity of HPCD to sustain highway activities. Section 1 focuses on the
consolidated financial statements for the LSE. Section 2 focuses on the financial risk assessment in terms
of construction, operating and maintenance for these toll free components under the RIPA. Section 3
focuses the adequacy of the fund's allocation regards to the provincial road development plan. For the
LSE, the financing structure consists of grant capital (40.5 percent), the local bank's loan (35.8 percent),
the Bank's loan (20.4 percent) and other sources (3.3 percent). The financial cost of capital is assumed to
be 4.8 percent (79.6 percent of domestic financing at 5 percent and 20.4 percent of foreign financing at 4
percent). In the SAR, there was no financial evaluation for the project.




                                                     - 37 -

                           THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF THE TOLL ROAD

30.      An operating entity has been established by HPCD to operate the toll road. The entity is
responsible for the day to day management, operation, maintenance, and development of the highways
including the repayment of the loan. The toll charges are strictly controlled by the government. The toll
charges forecast has been assumed to be increasing once (15 percent) every five years (or average 2.8
percent p.a.).

Financial Assessment

31.      Tolls: The toll is charged on the basis of vehicle size (small vehicle, medium vehicle, large vehicle
and extra large vehicle) and distance traveled. The current toll charges are listed as follows:

                                       Toll Charges (Yuan/ Vehicle km)
                      Small vehicle     Medium vehicle       Large vehicle      Extra- large
                           0.25              0.50                 1.00            >1.375



32.      Operations. The operating costs of the LSE can be broken down into working costs (a. wage and
benefits, b. maintenance and materials, c. administration, d. others) and depreciation. All other expenses,
including interest payments on the loans, are also taken into account in the calculation of the LSE
profitability.

33.      Profitability. The LSE will generate enough revenue over the project life. However, lower profits
took place in 2002-2004. The main reason is the financial obligations of the repayments of the Bank's and
the local banks' loans which started in 2002 and it yielded the financial pressures to the LSE. And,
because of the low toll growth assumptions, the rate of return on average net fixed assets for the early
years' operation is rather low (Income statement, Table 2.1).

34.       Cash flow. The low toll growth assumption may cause lower profitability, but it will not affect
the cash flow of the LSE. This is because of the large sum of depreciation reserves. In 2003 , for example,
the total depreciation reserve (Y 89.8 million) contributed about 55.6% of the total interest payments (Y
161.66 million), or equivalent to 3.4 times of total working costs in that year. The strong internal cash
generation capacity will be able to provide sufficient funds to support the operations, loan repayments, even
the major maintenance expenditure. Based on the revenue forecast, it is estimated that the LSE will not
need any external cash injection over the life of the project (Sources and applications of funds, Table 2.2).

35.      Leverage and Liquidity. The high proportion of borrowing (56.2 percent of the total project cost)
will cause the debt/ equity ratio and debt/ capital ratio (the financial leverage of the company) to be over 50
percent before 2006. Due to the strong cash flow status, except for 2003, the current ratio will be in the
sound range of 12 and over (to avoid short-term solvency problems, the current ratio should be at least
1.0). (Balance sheet, Table 2.3). The major assumptions for financial evaluation are shown in Table 2.4.




                                                      - 38 -

Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR)

36.      Based on the current financial status, the LSE may not need any external financial assistance.
But, the low profit margin in the early year's operation produces a negative impact on the FIRR to the
capital investment. The result of the financial evaluation for the LSE shows that the FIRR for the LSE is
expected to be 0.2 percent with a NPV (4.8 percent) of Y -1,885 million.

Scenario Analysis

37.      The financial sensitivity analysis tested two scenarios: the higher traffic growth rate projection and
the lower traffic growth rate projection for the LSE (par. 15). The results for the different traffic growth
scenarios are shown as follows:

                                     FINANCIAL SCENARIO ANALYSIS
                                                     FIRR (in %) NPV (Y million, 4.8%)
              Higher Traffic Growth Rate (+15)            1.1              -1,605
              Lower Traffic Growth Rate (-15%)           -0.7              -2,139

Project Risks

38.      HPCD delivered the LSE on time within a modest cost overrun. The missions visiting Henan
confirmed that HPCD could provide quality services to the road users while maintaining the roads in good
condition. Physically, the only remaining tangible risks are some unforeseeable factors (with various
degrees of uncertainty) which will affect the results of the financial evaluation. This will discussed in the
section of probabilistic risk analysis.

Probabilistic Risk Analysis (Financial Simulation)

39.      To determine the degree of financial uncertainty for the project, a probabilistic risk analysis using
Monte Carlo techniques was carried out. The three most uncertain factors which may affect the financial
evaluation have been identified: (a) traffic growth rate, (c) toll charges growth rate, and (c) total working
costs growth rate. The risk analysis reveals that the most likely FIRR would be 0.2 percent, while the
worst and the best FIRR would be ­0.3 percent and 0.8 percent, respectively. Details are in Appendix 2
and summarized as follows.

                 Summary of Financial Sensitivity and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
                                                     Financial Simulation and Risk Analysis
                                                  Range of          Most Likely      Std. Error of
                                                FIRR / NPV          FIRR / NPV        The Mean
               FIRR (in %)                        -0.3 ~ 0.8            0.2               0
               NPV (4.8%, Yuan million)       - 2,063 ~ - 1,708       - 1,888             11



                                  THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF RIPA

40.      All of the 87 roads improved under RIPA are toll free. The financial evaluation of these
non-revenue earnings entities focuses on the HPCD's capacity to minimize financial risks, i.e. the lack of
counterpart funds for the repairing and maintenance works, including the future operating expenses to the
project roads and bridges.



                                                      - 39 -

41.       HPCD's budget (actual and forecasts) shows that the maintenance expenditures for the RIPA
constitute only a small fraction of HPCD's fund flow. Therefore the fiscal impact is minimal. Based on
the HPCD plan, the required maintenance expenditure of RIPA is less than 3.0 percent of the total
maintenance expenditure of HPCD. These very low ratios indicate that the project presents a low financial
risk regarding the repairing and maintenance of the project roads and bridges. Details are shown in Table
3 of this Annex and summarized as follows:

                                         HPCD: Maintenance Expenditures
                                       1998        1999      2000     2001        2002      2003       2004     2005
      Unit maintenance cost
        (`000 Y/ km) (1):              18.77       20.01     21.01    30.17      30.93      31.95     33.97    35.71
      RIPA (km)        (2)            614.30    1,123.80  1,562.00 1,562.00    1,562.00  1,643.50   1,643.50 1,948.21
      Total RIPA Maintenance
        Cost (million Y) (3=1x2)       11.53       22.49     32.82    47.12      48.32      52.51     55.83    69.57
      Total HPCD Maintenance
        Budget (million Y) (4)      1,073.40    1,174.61  1,260.53 1,840.27    1,933.22  2,028.83   2,184.46 2,321.23
      Ratio (5 = 3 / 4)              1.1%        1.9%       2.6%    2.6%        2.5%      2.6%       2.6%     3.0%




                                 THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF HPCD

42.      HPCD has provided its financing plan on total revenue and expenditure for the Ninth Five Year
Plan (9th FYP, 1996 - 2000) and the Tenth Five Year Plan (10th FYP, 2001 - 2005). Based on the
Henan highway development plan, HPCD has acquired sufficient funds to finance yearly increases in the
length of the provincial road network and allocate resources for the maintenance of the existing road
network. In addition, a moderate self-financing ratio (57.7 percent for the 10th FYP), improved from 54.5
percent in the 9th FYP, will ensure the implementation of the highway development plan. The detailed
sources of highway revenues and expenditures for 1996 - 2005 are shown in Table 3 of this Annex.

43.      To avoid a capital squeeze effect (i.e. given limited annual capital resources, emphasis would be
placed on new road constructions to the detriment of the maintenance of the existing roads), HPCD has also
given special attention to road maintenance. With regards to the sustainability of road maintenance with
the allocated resources, the average yearly increase in maintenance expenditures during the 9th FYP (11.1
percent) exceeded the growth of the road network (3.3 percent), which means an increase in the average
maintenance expenditure per km. Current data show that the same trend is continuing under the 10th FYP
(2001-2005).

                              HPCD: Average Increase in the Road Network and
                                  Road Maintenance Expenditures (in %)
                                                                       9th FYP           10th FYP
                                                                     (1996 - 2000)     (2001 - 2005)
              Average annual increase in the road network                 3.3               1.3
              Average annual increase in maintenance expenditures        11.1               3.4




                                                      - 40 -

              Table 1: NUMBER OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PER DAY (2002-2004)
                                          The Old Road        The New Highway          Total Traffic   Diversion
                                         Total      MTE         Total     MTE         Total   MTE         Ratio
                                                      (1)                   (2)              (3=1+2)  (4) = (2) / (3)

2002   SAR
        Louyang ­ Xian                     --       6,310         --     14,355        --    20,665      69.5%
        Xinan ­ Mianchi                    --       5,029         --     13,173        --    18,203      72.4%
        Mianchi - Guanyingtang             --       7,177         --     12,393        --    19,570      63.3%
        Guanyingtang ­ Sanmenxia           --       5,677         --     13,626        --    19,303      70.6%
        Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai               --       6,114         --      9,974        --    16,087      62.0%
        ICR
        Louyang ­ Xian                   5,934      4,565       7,676     6,575     13,610   11,140      59.0%
        Xinan ­ Mianchi                  5,327      4,330       7,676     6,575     13,003   10,905      60.3%
        Mianchi - Guanyingtang           2,597      2,084       7,886     6,863     10,483    8,947      76.7%
        Guanyingtang ­ Sanmenxia         2,597      2,085       7,886     6,863     10,483    8,948      76.7%
        Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai             2,045      1,574       7,876     6,853      9,921    8,427      81.3%
        Ratios (ICR/SAR)
        Louyang ­ Xian                     --       72.4%         --      45.8%        --     53.9%        --
        Xinan ­ Mianchi                    --       86.1%         --      49.9%        --     59.9%        --
        Mianchi - Guanyingtang             --       29.0%         --      55.4%        --     45.7%        --
        Guanyingtang ­ Sanmenxia           --       36.7%         --      50.4%        --     46.4%        --
        Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai               --       25.7%         --      68.7%        --     52.4%        --
2003   SAR
        Louyang ­ Xian                     --       6,596         --     15,174        --    21,771      69.7%
        Xinan ­ Mianchi                    --       5,198         --     14,029        --    19,227      73.0%
        Mianchi - Guanyingtang             --       7,246         --     13,235        --    20,481      64.6%
        Guanyingtang ­ Sanmenxia           --       5,812         --     14,517        --    20,329      71.4%
        Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai               --       6,340         --     10,629        --    16,969      62.6%
        ICR
        Louyang ­ Xian                   9,176      7,155      10,192     8,573     19,368   15,728      54.5%
        Xinan ­ Mianchi                  7,143      5,850       9,617     8,088     16,760   13,938      58.0%
        Mianchi - Guanyingtang           6,706      5,433       9,755     8,442     16,461   13,875      60.8%
        Guanyingtang ­ Sanmenxia         7,586      6,145       9,288     8,038     16,874   14,183      56.7%
        Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai             1,839      1,521       9,475     8,882     11,314   10,403      85.4%
        Ratios (ICR/SAR)
        Louyang ­ Xian                     --      108.5%         --      56.5%        --     72.2%        --
        Xinan ­ Mianchi                    --      112.5%         --      57.7%        --     72.5%        --
        Mianchi - Guanyingtang             --       75.0%         --      63.8%        --     67.7%        --
        Guanyingtang ­ Sanmenxia           --      105.7%         --      55.4%        --     69.8%        --
        Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai               --       24.0%         --      83.6%        --     61.3%        --
2004 /1 SAR
        Louyang ­ Xian                     --       6,896         --     16,040        --    22,936      69.9%
        Xinan ­ Mianchi                    --       5,373         --     14,940        --    20,313      73.5%
        Mianchi - Guanyingtang             --       7,315         --     14,134        --    21,449      65.9%
        Guanyingtang ­ Sanmenxia           --       5,949         --     15,467        --    21,417      72.2%
        Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai               --       6,575         --     11,327        --    17,902      63.3%
        ICR
        Louyang ­ Xian                   9,537      7,437      11,217     9,415     20,754   16,852      55.9%
        Xinan ­ Mianchi                  7,423      6,079      10,562     8,865     17,985   14,944      59.3%
        Mianchi - Guanyingtang           6,975      5,651      10,656     9,202     17,631   14,853      62.0%
        Guanyingtang ­ Sanmenxia         7,906      6,405      10,156     8,769     18,062   15,174      57.8%
        Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai             1,952      1,521      10,285     8,882     12,237   10,403      85.4%
        Ratios (ICR/SAR)
        Louyang ­ Xian                     --      107.8%         --      58.7%        --     73.5%        --
        Xinan ­ Mianchi                    --      113.1%         --      59.3%        --     73.6%        --
        Mianchi - Guanyingtang             --       77.3%         --      68.1%        --     69.2%        --
        Guanyingtang ­ Sanmenxia           --      107.7%         --      56.7%        --     70.9%        --
        Yangjia ­ Baijiazhai               --       23.1%         --      78.4%        --     58.1%        --

       /1: the figures were estimated on bases of the actual record for the first ten months of 2004.
       Sources: The SAR and HPCD.




                                                           - 41 -

                                      Table 2.1: Income Statement
                                     (Y million, year ending 31 December)

                              2002    2003    2004     2005   2006   2007 2008     2009   2010   2011   2012

Traffic (million veh-km)      420.48  521.01  570.68  602.76  636.62 672.45 710.41 750.51 792.96 823.95 859.14

Revenue
Tolls                           20.32   333.31  370.94  391.79 413.80 437.09 461.77 562.88 594.72 617.96 644.36
Others                            0.00    4.32    4.57    4.82   5.09  5.38   5.68   6.00    6.34   6.59   6.87
            Total               20.32   337.63  375.51  396.61 418.89 442.47 467.45 568.88 601.06 624.55 651.23

Operating Taxes
Business tax                      1.02   16.88   18.78   19.83  20.94  22.12 23.37  28.44   30.05  31.23  32.56
City tax                          0.07    1.18    1.31    1.39   1.47  1.55   1.64   1.99    2.10   2.19   2.28
Education levy                    0.03    0.51    0.56    0.59   0.63  0.66   0.70   0.85    0.90   0.94   0.98
            Total                 1.12   18.57   20.65   21.81  23.04  24.33 25.71  31.28   33.05  34.36  35.82
Net Revenue                     19.20   319.06  354.86  374.80 395.85 418.14 441.74 537.60 568.01 590.19 615.41
Operating Costs
Wages and benefits                0.36    1.71    1.88    1.98   2.09  2.21   2.34   2.84    3.01   3.12   3.26
Maintenance and materials         2.66   19.03   21.03   22.21  23.46  24.78 26.18  31.86   33.66  34.97  36.47
Administration &
management                        0.92    4.34    4.88    5.16   5.45  5.75   6.08   7.40    7.81   8.12   8.47
Others                            1.15    1.16    1.31    1.39   1.47  1.55   1.64   1.99    2.10   2.19   2.28
     Total working costs          5.09   26.24   29.10   30.74  32.47  34.29 36.24  44.09   46.58  48.40  50.48
         Depreciation           14.62    89.80  150.55  150.62 150.68 150.75 150.83 151.37 151.44 151.52 151.60
    Total operating costs       19.71   116.04  179.65  181.36 183.15 185.04 187.07 195.46 198.02 199.92 202.08


Operating Profit                (0.51)  203.02  175.21  193.44 212.70 233.10 254.67 342.14 369.99 390.27 413.33
Financial charges: IBRD         18.43    20.00   34.55   32.62  30.62  28.53 26.35  24.09   21.74  19.30  16.75
                   Local Bank  145.63   141.66   79.85   74.35  68.85  60.60 52.35  44.10   33.10  22.10   8.35
Other income (expenses)              -       -       -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -

Profit Before Taxes           (164.57)   41.36   60.81   86.47 113.23 143.97 175.97 273.95 315.15 348.87 388.23
Income tax                           -       -       -    7.94  37.37  47.51 58.07  90.40  104.00 115.13 128.12


Net Profit After Taxes        (164.57)   41.36   60.81   78.53  75.86  96.46 117.90 183.55 211.15 233.74 260.11

Rate of Return on Average Net
Fixed Assets                  (8.1)     1.0     1.3     1.9    2.5    3.2    3.9    6.0    6.9    7.7    8.5




                                                      - 42 -

                                  Table 2.2: Sources and Applications of Funds
                                          (Y million, year ending 31 December)

                     1997  1998   1999   2000   2001    2002    2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009    2010   2011


Sources:
Net profits           -      -      -      -      -     (164.57)   41.4 60.81   78.53  75.86 96.46   117.9 183.55  211.15 233.74
Depreciation          -      -      -      -      -       14.62   89.80 150.55 150.62 150.68 150.75 150.83 151.37  151.44 151.52
State contributions   27.42  99.94 97.68  94.62  116.07   142.69  24.58  -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -
Local contributions   55.72 203.08 198.47 192.26 235.86   289.95  49.94  -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -
Borrowing:    IBRD    41.92 152.76 149.30 144.62 177.42   218.11  37.56  -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -
               Local  73.43 267.61 261.56 253.35 310.83   382.10  65.80  -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -
Others                 6.82  24.86 24.30  23.54   28.87   35.50    6.11  -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -

        Total        205.31 748.25 731.31 708.39 869.05   918.40 315.15 211.36 229.15 226.54 247.21 268.73 334.92  362.59 385.26


Applications:
Capital expenditure  205.31 748.25 731.31 708.39 869.05 1,068.35 183.99 19.06   19.63  20.22 20.83   21.45 162.24  22.75 23.43
Other expenditure     -      -      -      -      -       -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -
Loan repayments:
        IBRD          -      -      -      -      -       -       45.90 47.75   49.68  51.68 53.77   55.95  58.21  60.56 63.00
        Local         -      -      -      -      -       72.45   90.42 100.00 100.00 150.00 150.00 150.00 200.00  200.00 250.00
Change w/ capital     -      -      -      -      -     (283.18)  55.40 35.16  (3.14) (3.33) (3.52) (3.73) (15.14) (4.81) (3.50)


        Total        205.31 748.25 731.31 708.39 869.05   857.62 375.71 201.97 166.17 218.57 221.08 223.67 405.31  278.50 332.93


Net Funds Flow        -      -      -      -      -       60.78  (60.6)   9.39  62.98   7.97 26.13   45.06 (70.39) 84.09 52.33

 Open balance                              -      -       -       60.78   0.22   9.61  72.59 80.56  106.69 151.75  81.36 165.45

 Closing balance                           -      -       60.78    0.22   9.61  72.59  80.56 106.69 151.75  81.36  165.45 217.78


D/S Cover                          --     --     --    (2.07)   0.96   1.43   1.53   1.12   1.21   1.30   1.30    1.39    1.23




                                                         - 43 -

                                         Table 2.3: Balance Sheet
                                     (Y million, year ending 31 December)

                             2002     2003     2004     2005     2006     2007     2008     2009     2010     2011     2012

Assets:
Fixed Assets
 At cost                     4,044.10 4,558.93 4,516.56 4,518.52 4,520.54 4,522.62 4,524.77 4,540.99 4,543.27 4,545.61 4,548.02

 Less: Depreciation             14.62   104.42  254.97    405.59  556.27   707.02   857.85 1,009.22 1,160.66 1,312.18 1,463.78


         Net fixed assets    4,029.48 4,454.51 4,261.59 4,112.93 3,964.27 3,815.60 3,666.92 3,531.77 3,382.61 3,233.43 3,084.24

Current Assets
 Inventory                      -         0.22     0.26     0.28     0.29     0.31     0.33     0.40     0.42     0.44     0.46
 Receivable                     -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
 Cash                           60.78     0.22     9.61    72.59   80.56    106.7    151.8      81.4  165.45   217.78     392.0

             Subtotal           60.78     0.44     9.87    72.87   80.85    107.0    152.1      81.8  165.87   218.22     392.4

Other Assets                    17.92   264.52 300.41   317.29   335.11   353.98   373.96   455.10   480.85   499.64   520.98


          Total Assets       4,108.18 4,719.47 4,571.87 4,503.09 4,380.23 4,276.58 4,192.96 4,068.63 4,029.33 3,951.29 3,997.66

Liabilities & Equity
State funds- Equity          1,209.41 1,686.55 1,772.42 1,818.51 1,860.57 1,921.78 2,002.89 1,969.42 2,137.58 2,333.78 2,553.49

L/T loans:     IBRD            884.13   875.79  828.04    778.36  726.68   672.91   616.96   558.75   498.19   435.19    369.64
              Local          1,542.23 1,451.81 1,351.81 1,251.81 1,101.81  951.81   801.81 601.81    401.81   151.81    (0.00)


             Subtotal        2,426.36 2,327.60 2,179.85 2,030.17 1,828.49 1,624.72 1,418.77 1,160.56  900.00   587.00    369.64

Current Liabilities            472.41   623.23   56.33     59.49   62.83    66.37    70.12    85.33    90.16    93.68     97.68

Other Liabilities               -        82.09  563.27    594.92  628.34   663.71   701.18   853.32   901.59   936.83    976.85

Total Liabilities & Equity   4,108.18 4,719.47 4,571.87 4,503.09 4,380.23 4,276.58 4,192.96 4,068.63 4,029.33 3,951.29 3,997.66


Debt: capital ratio           66.7     58.0     55.2     52.7     49.6     45.8     41.5     37.1     29.6     20.1    12.65
Debt/ equity ratio           71/29    63/37    49/51    46/54    43/57    40/60    36/64    31/69    25/75    17/83    12/88
Current ratio                12.87     0.04    17.06    122.02   128.22   160.75   216.41   95.35    183.51   232.47   401.29




                                                        - 44 -

                            Table 2.4: Assumptions for Financial Forecasts

1. Normal Traffic (AADT):
                        Small     Medium      Large        Small     Medium        Large     Tractor
                         car        bus        bus         truck       truck        truck    -Trailer Total
    a. Louyang - Xian
          2002          2,106       234        635          573         776         2,876     476     7,676
          2003          3,183       354        808          827        1,036        3,214     770     10,192
          2004          3,545       394        899          902        1,130        3,506     841     11,217
          2010          5,173       513       1,171        1,175       1,472        4,566     1,095   15,165
          2020          8,426       689       1,574        1,579       1,978        6,136     1,472   21,854
   b. Xinan - Mianchi
          2002          2,106       234        635          573         776         2,876     476     7,676
          2003          3,004       334        762          781         977         3,033     726     9,617
          2004          3,337       371        847          850        1,064        3,302     791     10,562
          2010          5,150       512       1,168        1,172       1,467        4,553     1,091   15,113
          2020          9,223       758       1,729        1,735       2,172        6,740     1,615   23,972
   c. Mianchi - Guanyingtang
          2002          2,091       232        719          456         746         3,143     499     7,886
          2003          2,853       317        833          616         949         3,345     842     9,755
          2004          3,155       350        921          667        1,028        3,623     912     10,656
          2010          4,735       469       1,234         894        1,378        4,855     1,222   14,787
          2020          8,480       662       1,741        1,261       1,944        6,848     1,724   22,660
   d. Guanyingtang - Sanmenxia
          2002          2,091       232        719          456         746         3,143     499     7,886
          2003          2,716       302        793          586         904         3,185     802     9,288
          2004          3,007       335        877          636         980         3,453     868     10,156
          2010          4,513       449       1,175         852        1,313        4,627     1,163   14,092
          2020          8,082       633       1,657        1,202       1,852        6,527     1,641   21,594
   e. Yangjia - Baijiazhai
          2002          2,091       232        709          456         746         3,143     499     7,876
          2003          2,771       308        809          598         922         3,249     818     9,475
          2004          3,044       338        889          644         992         3,497     881     10,285
          2010          4,318       428       1,125         815        1,255        4,425     1,115   13,481
          2020          6,706       548       1,440        1,043       1,607        5,664     1,427   18,435

2. Operating Taxes :
    a. Business Tax                     5% of total revenue.
    b. City Tax                         7% of business tax.
    c. Education levy                   3% of business tax.

3. Operating Cost:
    a. Wages and benefits            0.0050 of total revenue.
    b. Maintenance and materials     0.0560 of total revenue.
    c. Administration                0.0130 of total revenue.
    d. Others                        0.0035 of total revenue.
    f. Depreciation                      30 years straight-line method.

4. Income tax rate                     33% after the tax credits.

5. Capital maintenance (million Yuan/km)    Routine (annual) Medium (/ 5 years) Major (/ 10 years)
       (Increase 3 % pa.)                          0.13               0.90                3.0

6.. Borrowing:     The IBRD           4.0% on 20 year maturities, LIBOR US$ based single currency
                                            including 5 years grace period.

                   The local bank     5.5%, 10 year maturities, flexible principal payment.




                                                           - 45 -

Table: 3.1: Henan Province: Highway Revenue and Expenditure (Ninth Five Year Plan)
                                                    (Yuan million)

                                                        1996     1997     1998     1999      2000      Total

Revenue
    1 Road maintenance fee                           1,572.97 1,707.25 1,710.00 1,812.60  1,921.36  8,724.18
    2 Tolls                                          1,307.23 1,439.76 1,707.30 2,070.00  2,167.50  8,691.79
    3 Surcharge on passenger                           66.95     61.00   68.00    71.40      74.97    342.32
      tickets
    4 Surcharge on freight                             84.60     83.00   89.00    93.45      98.12    448.17
    5 Vehicle purchase fee                             30.00    130.00  130.00   135.00     140.00    665.00
    6 Financial allocation                                  -        -  470.00         -         -    470.00
    7 Local financial allocation                       50.00     50.00  200.00   180.00     220.00    700.00
    8 MOC subsidy                                     444.83    398.38  544.00   600.00     900.00  2,887.21
    9 State allocation                                 45.00     45.00   71.40    80.00      80.00    321.40
   10 Enterprise bond                                       -   100.00  600.00    70.00     200.00    970.00
   11 Bank loan                                       420.00    956.00 2,490.00 3,950.00  4,341.10 12,157.10
   12 Fund-raised by enterprise                       205.00         -  210.00   300.00     250.00    965.00
   13 Other funds                                     544.00    546.00 1,000.00  560.00     565.00  3,215.00

      Total                                          4,870.58 5,516.39 9,289.70 9,922.45 10,958.05 40,557.17

Expenditure:
    1 New construction                               3,675.20 3,877.00 7,227.72 7,541.91  8,265.98 30,587.81
    2 Taxes                                            71.90    177.92  201.13   235.27     247.07    933.29
    3 Traffic safety supervision                       10.00     20.00   33.63    31.00      31.00    125.63
    4 Major maintenance                               121.30    295.60  386.00   462.00     510.30  1,775.20
    5 Medium maintenance                              112.02    176.35  262.10   276.00     310.00  1,136.47
    6 Routine maintenance                             397.86    409.63  425.30   436.61     440.23  2,109.63
    7 Administration and study                        353.38    386.69  427.10   491.76     517.26  2,176.19
    8 Repayment of interest and principle             128.92    173.20  326.72   447.90     636.21  1,712.95

      Total                                          4,870.58 5,516.39 9,289.70 9,922.45 10,958.05 40,557.17

Total Road Network (km) -(a)                           50,907   55,015   57,172   58,700    60,000   281,794
 Average annual increase                                    --    8.1%    3.9%     2.7%      2.2%      3.3%
Total maint. expenditure (million Yuan) -(b) /_1       631.18   881.58 1,073.40 1,174.61  1,260.53  5,021.30
Average unit maint. expenditure ('000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)    12.40    16.02    18.77    20.01     21.01     17.82
 Average annual increase (in %)                             --   29.2%   17.2%     6.6%      5.0%     11.1%



/_1: Sum of major, medium and routine maintenance.




                                                          - 46 -

                                                                                                       APPENDIX 1

CHINA: SECOND HENAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
     EIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC RISK ANALYSIS

Summary:
       Display Range is from 7.5% to 35.0% (%)
       Entire Range is from 7.6% to 45.3% (%)
       After 1,000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.2%

Statistics:                                    Value        Percentiles:
       Trials                                  1000
       Mean                                   19.6%                              Percentile         (%)
       Median                                 19.0%                                     0%         7.6%
       Mode                                       ---                                 10%        13.8%
       Standard Deviation                      5.0%         Low Scenario              20%        15.6%
       Variance                                0.3%                                   30%        16.7%
       Skewness                                 0.76        Most Likely               40%        17.9%
       Kurtosis                                 4.19                                  50%        19.0%
       Coeff. of Variability                    0.26        High Scenario             60%        20.3%
       Range Minimum                           7.6%                                   70%        21.7%
       Range Maximum                          45.3%                                   80%        23.7%
       Range Width                            37.7%                                   90%        26.3%
       Mean Std. Error                        0.16%                                 100%         45.3%


                                  Forecast: EIRR: The Total Project

        1,000 Trials                           Frequency Chart                              7 Outliers

             .028                                                                           28



             .021                                                                           21



             .014                                                                           14



             .007                                                                           7



             .000                                                                           0

                    7.5%            14.4%            21.3%           28.1%           35.0%

                                                       (%)


                                                 Assumptions

Traffic growth                                              VOC
Normal distribution with parameters:                        Triangular distribution with parameters:
Mean                        100.00%                         Minimum                90.00%
Standard Dev.                10.00%                         Likeliest             100.00%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity               Maximum               110.00%
Mean value in simulation was 99.94%                         Selected range is from 90.00% to 110.00%
                                                            Mean value in simulation was 99.81%




                                                      - 47 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count            Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/95                      6    TM, ES, ISTS, RS, HE, HSS
              07/95                      6    TM, ES, ISTS, RS, HE, HSS

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/95                      7    TM, ES, ISTS, RS, HE,
                                              HSS, TE
              04/96                      6    TM, ES, ISTS, RS, HE, HSS

 Supervision

              07/04/1996                 2    OO, E                               S               S
              08/08/1997                 2    HE, OA                              U               S
              07/27/1998                 3    FTM, NTM, HC                        S               S
              04/12/1999                 5    TM, 2 HE, RS, RRS                   S               S
              10/18/1999                 4    TM, RS, FMS, ES,                    S               S
              01/17/2000                 3    HE, RS, FMS                         S               S
              07/30/2000                 5    TM, E, HC, RS, ES                   S               S
              10/27/2000                 4    TM, RS, ES, DS                      S               S
              05/13/2001                 5    TM, ISTS, TE, RS, HC                S               S
              11/17/2001                 8    TM, ISTS, HMS, HC, RS, 2 ES,        S               S
                                              TE
              05/06/2002                 6    TM, HE, HMS, HC, ISTS, RS           S               S
              11/24/2002                 6    TM, HC, PS, FMS, RS, ES             S               S
              04/08/2003                 4    TM, RS, ES, ISTS                    S               S
              10/18/2003                 4    TM, ISTS, HC, RS                    S               S
              04/10/2004                 5    TM, ISTS, HE, TE, ES                S               S
              10/30/2004                 7    TM, ISTS, HE, E, RS, FMS, ES        S               S


 ICR
              10/30/2004                 7     TM, ISTS, HE, E, RS, FMS,          S               S
                                               ES

DS=Disbursement Specialist; E=Economist; ES=Environmental Specialist; FTM=Former Task Manager;
FMS=Financial Management Specialist; HC=Highway Consultant; HE=Highway Engineer;
HMS=Highway Maintenance Specialist; ISTS=Institutional Strengthening/Training Specialist; NTM=New
Task Manager; OA=Operational Assistant; OO=Operations Officer; PC=Procurement Specialist;
RS=Resettlement Specialist; RRS=Rural Roads Specialist; TE=Traffic Engineer; TM=Task Manager




                                               - 48 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            41.5                         146.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 46.0                         143.5
  Supervision                           91.5                         434.0
  ICR                                   12.0                           34.0
  Total                                191.0                         757.5




                                            - 49 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 50 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 51 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, China Second Henan Provincial Highway Project,May 1996.

World Bank, Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of IBRD to the Executive Directors on
a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$210 million to the Peoples Republic of China for Second Henan
Provincial Highway Project,May 1, 1996.

Henan Provincial Communications Department, Project Completion Report and Implementation
Assessment, April 2005.

World Bank, Supervision Mission Aide Memoires of various years.

Henan Provincial Communications Department, Second Henan Highway Project Monitoring Indicators
Report for the various years.

Wilbur Smith Associates and SNC-Lavalin International Incorporation, Henan Highway Consulting
company, Construction Supervision of the Second Henan Provincial Project ­ Luoyang-Sanmenxia
Expressway, Final Report,December 2003.

Post Evaluation Group of the Highway Bureau in Henan Communication Department and the Henan Social
Sciences Academy (Zhengzhou, Henan, P.R. China), Post Evaluation on the Poverty-Alleviation Road
Improvement Component (RIPA) of the Second Henan Provincial Highway Project Loaned by the World
Bank.

Post Evaluation Group of the Highway Bureau in Henan Communication Department and the Henan Social
Sciences Academy (Zhengzhou, Henan, P.R. China), Deepening Study Report of the Post Evaluation on
the Poverty ­Alleviation Road Improvement Component (RIPA) of the Second Henan Provincial Highway
Project Loaned by the World Bank (Comparative Study Report on Social and economic Condition
between RIPA and Sample areas),August, 2001.

PPK International Pty. Ltd. and Henan Provincial Communications Scientific Research Institute, Study of
Factors Contributing to Highway Traffic Assessments, Final Report, April 1999.

Wilbur Smith Associates and Henan Provincial Communications Scientific Research Institute, Study of
Organization, Management, and Maintenance of Toll Highway, Final Report, June 1999.




                                                 - 52 -

- 53 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 27489R
                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                              111°                               112°                           113°                     114°          To Shijiazhuang 115°                       116°    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                            I                                    117°
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                            I                                                                                               CHINA
     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                              HEBEI                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                      To Changzhi                                                                                                                                                        SECOND HENAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                I
     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I                                                PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
 36°                                                                                                                                             Anyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36°          HENAN HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I

                                                                                                                                             Hebei                    He                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                  Wei                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                        Puyang                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IGrand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I                                                         PROJECT ROAD: LUOYANG - SANMENXIA EXPRESSWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                       SHANXI                                                                                                                                                     I                                                    BANK - FINANCED EXPRESSWAY (Completed)
                                                                                                                                                           Hua Xian                                                                Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I                                              BANK - FINANCED ESPRESSWAY (Completed under Third Henan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                         JindiHe                                                           I                                                                                                Highway Project)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                      Xinxiang                                                                                                I                                        EXPRESSWAY CONSTRUCTED WITH GOVERNMENT FUNDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXPRESSWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                             Jiaozuo                                                                                                                                                   WITH GOVERNMENT FUNDS

 35°
                                                                                  Huang                                                                                                       SHANDONG                                                   35°
                                                                                                                                         107                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL ROADS
                                                                                         He                207
                                                                                            (Yellow                                                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCIAL ROADS

                                                                Sanmexia                            River)                                                                                                                                                                             RAILROADS
                                                                                                                       310                                                    Lankao
To Xian
                                         310                                 Mianchi                                                                       Kaifeng                                                                         JIANGSU                                     AIRPORTS
                                                                                         Luoyang                        ZHENGZHOU                                                                                                                                                      SELECTED TOWNS
                           Lingbao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PREFECTURE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                Weishi                                      310    Shangqiu                                                                            PROVINCE CAPITAL

                                                                  LuoHe                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                               H E N A N
 34°                                   Lushi                                                          BeiluHe              Yu Xian                                                                                                                       34°
                                                                                                                                   Xuchang                                      Taikang

                                                                      Luanchuan
                                                                                                                            Pingdingshan
                                                                                                                   Lushan

                                                                                                                                                    Luohe

                                                                                                                             Wuyang
                                                                      Xixia
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ANHUI
 33°                                                                                       207
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         33°
                                                                      Neixiang                           Nanyang                                                                                                                                                                                 RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                              Runan                                                                                                                             FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                       Zhumadian

                                                                                                                                         Queshan                                                                                                                                                                                                 HEILONGJIANG




                                                                                      Deng Xian                 Tanghe                                                                                                                                                                  MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JILIN
                                                                                                                                               107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sea of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XINJIANG                                           MONGOL                  LIAONING               Japan  JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D.P.R. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NEI     BEIJING                        KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BEIJING

                                                                                                                                                                                      Huai He                                                                                                                                HEBEI  TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REP. OF
 32°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHANXI                       Yellow    KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         32°                                                                    SHANDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Area of                           Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            QINGHAI               NINGXIA        Map
                                                                                                                                           Xinyang                                    Huangchuan                                                                                            GANSU                                       JIANGSU

                                                                  HUBEI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHAANXI     HENAN                                   East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             China
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ANHUI          SHANGHAI   Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XIZANG                                              HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SICHUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ZHEJIANG

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JIANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HUNAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GUIZHOU                               FUJIAN

          0           25           50            75            100                                                                                                                                                                                                 National Capital
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PACIFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Province           YUNNAN                                                      TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GUANGXI      GUANGDONG                                OCEAN
                              KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Boundaries

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   International
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MYANMAR                                                       HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Boundaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LAO     VIETNAM
 31°                     111°                                              112°   To Xiangfan                 113°                         114°To Wuhan                     115°                       116°                                                                             P.D.R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         31°                                                      HAINAN                                  PHILIPPINES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAY 2005

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 27490R


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                                                                        CHINA
                                           SECOND HENAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
                                                                 LUOYANG - SANMENXIA EXPRESSWAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HEILONGJIANG



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M O N G O L I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     J I L I N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                      COMPLETED LUOYANG - SANMENXIA EXPRESSWAY (LSE)                                                     209         NATIONAL ROADS                                                                                                                                          N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M                  LIAONING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                                      COMPLETED EXTENSION OF LSE TO SHAANXI BORDER                                                                   PROVINCE ROADS                                                                                                                                                                       REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NE I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHI   Beijing
                                                                      COMPLETED YANGJIA - BAIJIAZHAI CONNECTION                                                                      RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                      TAINJIN SHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HEBEI                              REP. OF
                                                                      LINKING ROAD IMPROVEMENTS                                                                                      AIRPORT                                                                                                                                                                                    KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHANXI

                                                                      EXISTING ZHENGZHOU - LUOYANG EXPRESSWAY                                                                        RIVERS                                                                                                                                                       SHANDONG         Ye l l o w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NINGXIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 QINGHAI                         Area of map                         S e a
                                                                      INTERCHANGES                                                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                        GANSU                                      JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHAANXI    HENAN
                                                                      SERVICE AREA                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ANHUI           SHANGHAI SHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HUBEI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SICHUAN                                                             E a s t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CHONGQING                                                C h i n a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XIZANG                                                 JIANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GUIZHOU                            FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                 on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                                                                   TAIWAN
                                                                           0        10          20                    30       40                                judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                     YUNNAN                           GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                                 acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                GUANGXI
                                                                                            KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MACAO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ANMAR             VIETNAM                           South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MY      LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PEOPLE'S                              China Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THAILAND            DEM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REP.                                                 PHILIPPINES




                                                                                                                      Yuncheng                                                                                                                                                 Huang

                             River)
                                                                    S H A N X I                                                                                                                                                                                                        He
                      (Yellow                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (Yellow       River)
                                                                                                                                        209                                                                                                                                                                                                                               207


                                                                                             Xiezhou
                                              Yongji                                                           P R O V I N C E
                                                                           108
                                                                                                                                                                     (Yellow River)                                                                                                                                                         Mengjin
     PROVINCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Shisi

                           eH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Changdai                                         To
                                                                                                                              Sanmenxia                                                                                         5           Contract 4   Contract 3                                                                                                         Zhengzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Contract 2                           Contract 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Contract                                 Miaotou                                                                   interchange

                                                                                                                                                                                  310                                                 Mianchi                                                                      Matun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Yima                Xinan
                       Huang                                                                                                    Contract8                                                                            Guanyintong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              He
                                                                                                                                         Canglongjian                                                                                                                     Jian
                                                                                                                                                             Contract
             SHAANXI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               310           Luoyang
                                                                                     He                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                                         Contract 6
                                                Yangjia-Baijiazhai              Huang
  Wei                                                                                                                                                      Qinglongjian
                                                   Connection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Yi He

                      He             Fenglingdu


                                                                                                                                                                       He

     310                                                                                                                                             eH                                                                                                                                                              He                             207
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H E N A N                      P R O V I N C E                                                 Luo

                             Tongguan                       He                                               He 310


    Weinan-Tongguan                                                                   Lingbao                                                                                                                                                                                        Yiyang
                    Expressway
(Second Shaanxi Provincial
    Highway Project)
                                                   Shuangqiao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Yichuan

                                                                                                Hongnongjian                                                                                                    Luoning

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAY 2005

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 34044
                           70°                             80°                             90°                                  10°                                110°                                             120°                                       130°



50°
                                                                                                                       R U S S I A N    F E D E R AT I O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         50°



                             KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tongjiang


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Manzhouli


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HEILONGJIANG



 UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HARBIN

                                            Horgas                                                                          M O N G O L I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Suifenhe
                                                    Sailimu    Kuitun

                                                                                Dahuangshan                                                                                                                                                  CHANGCHUN

                  KYRGYZ                                            URUMQI
                                                                                                                                                                                                          G  O    L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J I L I N

40°            REPUBLIC
                                                                                Turpan                                                                                                              O  N
                                                                                                                                                                                               M                                                        SHENYANG
TAJIKIST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DEM.                 40°
                                                                                                                                                                            E       I                                                       L I A O N I N G                       S e a o f
         AN                                               X I N J I A N G                                                                                                N                                                                                        PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                               Jining                                                                              J a p a n
                                                                                                                                                                         HOHHOT                                                                       Dandong      REP. OF
                                         80°                                                                                                                                                                         BEIJING                                       KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                              BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dalian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TIANJIN               ferry
      This map was produced by                                                                                                                                                                                             Tanggu

      the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                            YINCHUAN                                     SHIJIAZHUANG     HEBEI                                  Yantai                  REP. OF
      World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                    A                             TAIYUAN
      colors, denominations and                                                               Q I N G H A I                                                                                                                                                               KOREA
      any other information shown
      on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                    IXG                    Huang
      the part of The World Bank                                                                                               XINING                    N                                                       JINAN                       Qingdao
      Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                                                                                           SHANDONG
      legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                      IN                      He SHANXI                                                            Y e l l o w
      or any endorsement or                                                                                                                 LANZHOU
      a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                              Xinxiang
      boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                          Kaifeng
                                                                                                                                                                                       Luoyang                                             Lianyuang
                                                                                                                                       G A N S U             Baoji Weinan                               ZHENGZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                      Sanmenxia                              Xuzhou
                                                                                                                                                                        XI'AN        Tongguan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                            SHAANXI                       HENAN
                                                                                                                                                                                      Shiyan                                     NANJING               Nantong
                                                             X I Z A N G
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Xiangfan              HEFEI                            SHANGHAI                        30°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHANGHAI
                                            30°                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E a s t
                                                                                                                             S I C H U A N                                                                 Xiaogan             ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                      Chang         Jiang       HUBEI                              HANGZHOU
                                                                       LHASA                                                                                                                                  WUHAN                                        Ningbo       C h i n a
                                                                                                                                    CHENGDU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Jiujiang
                                                                                                                                                    CHONGQING                                                                                  Jinhua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ZHEJIANG                          S e a

                                                                                                                                                             CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                                                    H U N A N                              NANCHANG
                                                  C H I N A                                                                                                                             CHANGSHA

                                      SECOND HENAN                                                                                                 G U I Z H O U                                             JIANGXI
                  PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                         Hengyang
                                                                                                         ANMAR                                  GUIYANG                                                                         FUJIAN            FUZHOU
                                                                                                              MY

                         National Trunk Highway System (NTHS)                                                                                                                                                                                  Quanzhou


                                                                                                                                       KUNMING                                                                                         Xiamen            TAIWAN

                                                                                                                         Y U N N A N                         G U A N G X I                         G U A N G D O N G                  Zhanjzhou

                                                                                                                                                                                                           Huangpu
                                                                                                                                                                                          GUANGZHOU                              Shantou
                         MAJOR HIGHWAYS:                                  SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                                                     Tanxi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Longyang
                                                                                                                                                                                               Foshan              Shenzhen
                          WORLD BANK PROJECT                              PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                           NANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                         Beihai                                                                                                          20°
                          COMPLETED                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                             Zhuhai  MACAO
                                                                                                                ANMAR                      VIETNAM
                          UNDER CONSTRUCTION                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                        MY                                                                Zhanjiang                             0        100       200       300     400   500 MILES
                          PLANNED BEFORE 2004                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                        20°                  LAO PEOPLE'S                                               HAIKOU                               0          200          400         600    800 KILOMETERS
                          PLANNED AFTER 2004
                                                                                                                               DEM. REP.
                                                                                                        THAILAND                                                                          HAINAN                                                                PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                        100°                                                        110°                                                                   120°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAY 2005

