Page  1
July 11, 2001
Minister Xiang Huaicheng
Ministry of Finance
San Li He Lu
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Dear Minister Xiang:
RE:
Second Henan Provincial Highway Project (LN 4027-CHA)
Amendment to Loan Agreement
1.
I refer to (i) the Loan Agreement between People’s Republic of China (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
dated September 13, 1996 for the above-mentioned Project, and (ii) the Project 
Agreement between the Bank and Henan Province (Henan) dated September 13, 1996.  I 
also refer to the letter dated June 14, 2001 from Mr. Ju Kuilin, Deputy 
Director-General, International Department, Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the 
Borrower, requesting to use part of the project cost savings to finance the electrical 
and mechanical works of on the Sanmenxia-Lingbao Expressway.  
2.
I am pleased to inform you that, after due consideration
,
 the Bank concurs with 
the Borrower’s  proposal.  To give effect to such proposal, the Bank hereby agrees to 
amend the Loan Agreement as follows: 
A new paragraph (5) is added to Part A of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement to 
read as follows:
"(5)
Supply and installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical 
equipment for telecommunications, tolling and lighting facilities on the 
expressway between Sanmenxia and Lingbao at the border with Shaanxi Province."
3.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Loan 
Agreement remain in full force and effect.
4.
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the amendment set out in 
paragraph 2 above by countersigning and duly dating the corresponding form of 
confirmation set forth herein below, and by returning one fully signed original to us 
for our files.  One fully signed original should be retained by the Borrower. Upon 
receipt of the copy of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the 
representative of the Borrower; the above amendment shall become effective as of the 
date of countersignature of this letter of amendment.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Director
China Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Ju Kuilin, 
Deputy Director, 
Page  2
International Department, 
Ministry of Finance
Authorized Representative
Date:
July 11, 2001
