Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    16344
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADRAS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2846/Credit 1 822-IN)
FEBRUARY 28, 1997
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 12.29 at appraisal (December 1986)
Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.08137 at appraisal (December 1986)
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 35.00 at closing (March 1996)
Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.02857 at closing (March 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
mm           -      millimeter (0.04 inches)
cm           -      centimeter (0.39 inches)
m            -      meter (39.37 inches or 3.28 ft)
km           -      kilometer (0.62 miles)
ha           -      hectare (10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres)
sq. km       -      square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
I            -      liter (0.22 Imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lcd          -      liters per capita per day
cu. m        -      cubic meter (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
Ml           -      million liters or 1,000 cubic meters
Mld          -      million liters per day (0.220 million Imperial gallons per day or
0.264 million US gallons per day)
mgd          -      million gallons (Imperial) per day
Rs. 1 lakh   -      Rs. 100,000
Rs. 1 crore    -    Rs. 10,000,000
GOI/GOTN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERR          -      Economic Rate of Return
GOTN/GTN   -        Government of Tamil Nadu
GOI          -      Government of India
LCS          -      Low Cost Sanitation
MIS          -      Management Information System
MMWSSB    -         Madras Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board
OAP          -      Operational Action Plan
PWD          -      Public Works Department
TWAD         -      Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board
WSS          -      Water Supply and Sanitation
WTP          -      Water Treatment Plant
Vice President        Mieko Nishimizu
Director              Robert Drysdale
Division Chief        Shawki Barghouti
Staff Member          Michael Whitbread



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADRAS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2846/CREDIT 1822-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ..............................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ............................................................. ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .                                           .............................................................1
A. Project Objectives .............................................................I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ..............................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................................................3
D. Project Sustainability ..............................................................5
E. Bank Performnance ..............................................................5
F. Borrower Performance ..............................................................7
G. Assessment of Outcome .............................................................8
H. Future Operations ..............................................................8
I. Key Lessons Learned ..............................................................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .............................................................                                                          10
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ...................................................... 10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ......................................................                                             12
Table 3: Project Timetable ......................................................                                                      14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............................................... 14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ......................................................                              15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ......................................................                                    15
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ......................................................                                             16
Table 8A: Project Costs ..........................                                                                                       17
Table 8B: Project Financing ..........................                                                                                  17
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................                                                                         18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .......................... 19
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...................                                ............................ 20
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................................                                                 20
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ...............................................                                                     21
APPENDIX  A  - Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire ............................................... 23
APPENDIX B - Borrower's Evaluation ...............................................                                                                 40
MAPS: IBRD Nos. 19905, 19906, 19907
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADRAS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2846/CREDIT 1822-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Madras Water Supply and Sanitation
Project in India, for which the Loan 2846-IN and the Credit 1822-IN, in the amount of US$53.0
million equivalent and SDR12.5 million respectively, totaling US$69.0 million equivalent, were
approved on June 17, 1987 and made effective on March 17, 1988.
The Credit was fully disbursed on April 16, 1991. The Loan was closed on March 31, 1996. There
was one extension from the original closing date of December 31, 1995. Final disbursement took
place on August 19, 1996 at which time a balance of US$4.7 million equivalent was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Michael Whitbread of the Bank's Agriculture and Water Operations
Division, Country Department 2, South Asia Region. The ICR was reviewed by Mr. Shawki
Barghouti, Chief, Agriculture and Water Operations Division, Country Department 2, South Asia
Region, and Ms. Kazuko Uchimura, Project Adviser, Country Department 2, South Asia Region.
The preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's completion mission in May 1996. It is based
on mission findings and material from project files. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by
providing data and views on the project outcome and an independent evaluation, which is included
as Appendix B.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADRAS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2846/CREDIT 1822-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Madras Water Supply and Sanitation Project' was the first Bank-supported urban
water supply and sanitation (WSS) project in Madras, the capital city of the State of Tamil Nadu.
A similar project had been appraised in 1979 but was not negotiated. There had been an earlier
Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Sanitation Project which had urban WSS components covering
three cities in the State, but these did not include Madras. In India there had been eight
operations in the sector in the decade prior to Board approval on June 17, 1987. There have been
six following WSS operations in India, including the Second Madras Water Supply Project
(Ln.3907-0/6 IN) which was approved by the Board on June 20, 1995. A Third Project for
Madras is under preparation.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    The project objectives were to expand the WSS facilities for the city of Madras and
fturther strengthen the capacity for: (a) public water policy formulation; (b) implementation
capability and financial and operational performance of MMWSSB; and (c) the introduction of a
pilot low cost sanitation (LCS) program in the Madras Metropolitan Area. Project objectives (a)
and (b) were appropriate to, and consistent with, the long-term aim of the Government of Tamil
Nadu (GTN) to modernize and increase the effectiveness of the Madras Metropolitan Water
Supply and Sanitation Board (MMWSSB), a public utility which was established by statute in
1978. Madras had, at the time of identification, the lowest water supply service of any
metropolitan city in India. Objective (c) was also appropriate since provision of latrines for
households without them and demonstration of the use of LCS methods is highly desirable in
Indian cities.
3.    Project WSS physical components included: development of modest new ground-water
sources located close to the city intended to increase supplies by 35 percent, and the reliability of
supply; selective improvements and expansion to the distribution system for water in Madras;
and improvements to waste water collection and disposal. The LCS physical component
consisted of a trial of LCS alternatives, to be followed by implementation of a pilot exercise
The official name of the city changed during September 1996, after closing, from Madras to Chennai. The
former name has been used throughout this report.



involving 4,000 units. Institutional improvements were proposed over a wide range of policy,
management and, mainly, financial areas including: innovative ground-water legislation;
improved policy formulation; extensive master plan up-dates; tariff reform; improvements to
billings and collections procedures; installation of an MIS and performance-based budgeting;
computerization; training; and, a program of contracting-out important functions to the private
sector.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The total project cost was Rs 2271 million (US$91.3 million). This compares with the
appraisal estimates of Rs 1508 million (US$112.2 million). Differences are explained largely by
Rupee inflation and its devaluation against major currencies. At appraisal it was expected that
the Bank would finance 61.5 percent of total project cost with most of the balance being financed
by internal cash generation by MMWSSB, and a small percentage by loans from GTN. Actual
financing by the Bank was 71.2 percent, an increase due mainly to revised disbursement
percentages introduced by the Bank during 1991. There were lower levels of internal cash
generation by MMWSSB than were estimated at appraisal.
5.    Some of the earlier, 1979, project preparation provided input into this project.
Additionally, extensive background and feasibility studies had been completed by UNDP/WHO
prior to identification. The scope and structure of the identified project were consistent with the
Government's objective of improving the delivery of WSS services in Madras. Identification
was satisfactory.
6.    One year separated identification and appraisal and there were only two full Bank
missions, including the identification mission, prior to appraisal. The level of Bank input in
assisting a first-time Borrower was lower than is normal. As a result, appraisal was premature,
as was borne out by the subsequent slow implementation progress with water distribution and
sewerage in the early years, although the relatively straightforward groundwater source works
were implemented promptly. The Borrower's detailed engineering preparation for water
distribution and sewerage fell short of what was necessary for a smooth and rapid start.
7.    The implementation of the project has been rated as 'satisfactory'. The following
paragraphs identify some of the limitations of the implementation processes.
8.    Physical - WSS. The project failed to take off properly and progress only became
satisfactory, with lapses, after about 1992. A sequence of major droughts adversely affected
performance as management attention was diverted to dealing with the crisis. Apart from the
droughts, the main factors affecting performance were: the inadequate level of preparation of the
physical works of the project by appraisal; limited in-house engineering design capability at
MMWSSB coupled with unwillingness to use consultants, for example, for sewage pumping
2  In this ICR the term 'Borrower' refers to either or both of the joint beneficiaries of the Loan/Credit, GTN and
MMWSSB, depending on the context. 'Borrower' does not refer in this report to the Government of India.



iv
station design work; and, unacceptably slow procurement procedures, made worse by many
small contracts. Some items appraised were later dropped and others added during
implementation. The main works dropped, not started or remaining substantially incomplete at
closure were: the clearwater pumping station, pumps and other works at the Redhills Water
Treatment Plant; rehabilitation of 16 sewage pumping stations; the A-K link canal which was no
longer required as the Krishna canal served the same purpose; the Redhills to Kilpauk additional
transfer facility, which was dropped due to revisions to the alignments of the distribution system;
checkdam construction which ran into technical difficulties; and, trunk main strengthening.
9.    Additional studies and works that were completed were: leakage study for an additional
10 percent of the area (raising coverage from 10 to 20 percent); revisions to the Master Plan;
preparation of the Second Project; some additional rehabilitation and extensions to the
distribution network; extra capacity at the Redhills WTP; and, additional improvements to the
sewer system. About one additional year would have been required beyond the original closing
date to finish the approved works and studies. The Bank granted only a three months extension
to enable the transition to be made to the Second Project but agreed, in principle, that unfinished
works and studies could be included in the Second Project.
10.   MMWSSB chose not give priority to the preparation of a comprehensive plan for water
conservation including a metering program, leak detection and repair work. The Bank adopted
the position that no follow-on project would be appraised until these important issues had been
properly dealt with. Preparation of the conservation strategy was accomplished by February
1995 and implementation of the strategy is covenanted in the Second Project.
11.   Physical - LCS. MMWSSB completed the LCS trial but did not take up the challenge of
implementation of 4,000 individual latrines, arguing that LCS solutions are not appropriate to the
conditions. This position was unacceptable as far as the provision of latrines is concerned. Also,
it is inconsistent with the widespread and successful LCS experiments elsewhere in India. Public
conveniences, numbering 58, were provided in different parts of the metropolitan region.
12.  Institutional. Groundwater legislation was passed promptly. Improvements in the
policy-making, management and finances of MMWSSB took some time to commence and
proceeded slowly during the middle years of the project. For example: the workforce continued
to climb from the time of effectiveness to the peak in 1990 before stabilizing and then declining;
internal cash generation fell short of agreed targets between FY90 and FY94 before improving
substantially in FY95; audit reports were late until FY92; and, procurement for the master plan
update was delayed 18 months with no apparent justification. However, by closing all the tasks
related to institutional strengthening contained in the OAP were completed. Procurement
remained problematic, with excessively slow procedures throughout the project. MMWSSB's
procurement delegations from GTN were removed which meant that all decisions were taken by
Government, adding greatly to time taken and the scope for interference.



v
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
13.   Project objectives relating to WSS physical components fell short of full achievement at
time of closing since agreed works and studies were not all finished, despite a project period for
implementation of 8 years. The LCS objective was achieved only to a very limited extent as the
trial study of LCS needs, technical options and institutional requirements was completed and
evaluated, but there was no follow-up action to implement LCS units, other than the public
conveniences. The project's institutional objectives relating to policy, management and finance
were achieved by closing as all the actions in the Operational Action Plan (OAP) were
completed. Particularly important were the improvements in cost recovery, groundwater
legislation and the conjunctive use of water. However, these achievements were marred by slow
progress in important areas as such as timely submission of audits, control over staff costs and
performance against targets for internal cash generation. Procurement delays plagued the
project.
14.   MMWSSB commenced a program of contracting out important operations to the private
sector. Generally this approach to privatization has worked well and, following the positive
experience, is to be expanded. The Bank fully supported these initiatives.
15.   The Project improvements constitute the first phase of implementation of the WSS master
plan for Madras which is now being carried forward in the follow-on Second Project. The
institutional strengthening which was accomplished in the Project is expected to lead to
progressive and permanent improvements in MMWSSB's efficiency and performance. There
remain great challenges ahead to take forward the preliminary improvements and make them
sustainable.
16.   The main findings and lessons for further projects are as follows:
Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
(a)   where the Borrower is reluctant to undertake policy reform in certain key areas, as with
water conservation measures, it is appropriate for the Bank to seek some actions early on,
preferably prior to appraisal;
(b)   in accordance with current Bank practice, this project should have been appraised only
when fully prepared in terms of technical studies, engineering design, procurement procedures and
implementation plan to enable implementation to proceed in eamest immediately following
effectiveness;
(c)   as agreed delegations of authority to the implementing agency for procurement were later
unilaterally withdrawn by GOTN they should have been backed by covenants to ensure they
remained in place;



vi
Implementation
(d)   the Bank should have provided above-average levels of supervision support to a first-time
Borrower in the first few years of implementation to facilitate the process of learning about
procedures and methods. The high turnover of Bank Task Managers (6 in the 9 years from
identification to closing) hampered continuity and probably reduced the Bank's effectiveness;
(e)   the 8 years of implementation from effectiveness to closing, as planned at appraisal, was
possibly responsible for the development of a somewhat relaxed approach to preparation and
implementation activities, and a shorter period might have engendered a greater sense of Borrower
urgency;
(f)   an implementation plan should have been prepared with performance indicators and regular
reporting against which implementation progress could have been assessed by Bank and Borrower;
and,
(g)   the considerable institutional and policy strengthening achievements in the areas of
conjunctive use of water, groundwater legislation and, especially, cost recovery reflected the
attention given to these issues by the Bank throughout the project cycle.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADRAS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2846/CREDIT 1822-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Project Objectives
1.    The project objectives were to expand the WSS facilities for the city of Madras and
further strengthen the capacity for: (a) public water policy fonnulation; (b) implementation
capability and financial and operational performance of MMWSSB; and (c) the introduction of a
pilot low cost sanitation (LCS) program in the Madras Metropolitan Area. Project objectives (a)
and (b) were appropriate to, and consistent with, the long-term aim of the Government of Tamil
Nadu (GTN) to modernize and increase the effectiveness of the Madras Metropolitan Water
Supply and Sanitation Board (MMWSSB), a public utility which was established by statute in
1978. Objective (c) was also appropriate since provision of latrines and demonstration of the use
of LCS methods is highly desirable in Indian cities.
2.    Project WSS physical components included: development of modest new ground-water
sources located close to the city intended to increase supplies by 35 percent, and the reliability of
supply; selective improvements and expansion to the distribution system for water in Madras;
and improvements to waste water collection and disposal. The LCS physical component
consisted of a trial of LCS alternatives, to be followed by implementation of a pilot exercise
involving 4,000 units. Institutional improvements were proposed over a wide range of policy,
management and, mainly, financial areas including: innovative ground-water legislation;
improved policy formulation; extensive master plan up-dates; tariff reform; improvements to
billings and collections procedures; installation of an MIS and performance-based budgeting;
computerization; training; and, a program of contracting-out important functions to the private
sector.
3.    This was the first WSS project in the city of Madras supported by the Bank, and was the
first injection of significant sector investment funds in the city for several decades. At
identification the city had the lowest water supply service levels of the metropolitan cities in
India. (The Bank's sanitary engineer working on the project at the time reported that he had,
"...never seen such a water-short city."). The project supported a major update of the 1978 WSS
master plan for the city and the first phase of its investments. The development of new water
sources consisted of modest groundwater schemes close to the city to be used conjunctively with
the existing surface water sources. The project was not unduly risky or complex and 8 years for
implementation were ample to complete the tasks.



-2-
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives
4.    Physical objectives - WSS. During implementation some of the studies and works
which were included at appraisal were dropped and others added, in agreement with the Bank.
However, not all the agreed physical components for WSS were finished and, accordingly, some
project objectives were not fully achieved. About one additional year of implementation would
have been required to complete the agreed works and studies. MMWSSB and GTN, through the
Government of India (GOI), requested an extension of one year which was refused by the Bank.
A three-month extension was granted with agreement, in principle, to include in the follow-on
Second Madras Water Supply Project (Ln.3907-0/6 IN) the unfinished items from the First
Project.
5.    The works and studies not completed are listed in full in the Completion Mission's Aide-
Memoire (see Appendix A, Annex 1). The main works dropped, not started or remaining
substantially incomplete at closure were: the clearwater pumping station, pumps and other works
at the Redhills Water Treatment Plant; the A-K link canal which was no longer required as the
impending Krishna canal served the same purpose; the Redhills to Kilpauk additional transfer
facility, which was dropped due to revisions to the alignments of the distribution system;
rehabilitation of 16 sewage pumping stations; construction of two checkdams (a third checkdam
was not finished); and, trunk main strengthening.
6.    Additional studies and works that were completed were: leakage reduction for an
additional 10 percent of the area (raising coverage from 10 to 20 percent); revisions to the Master
Plan; preparation of the Second Project; some additional rehabilitation and extension to the
distribution network; extra capacity at the Redhills WTP; and, additional improvements to the
sewer system. Works to augment groundwater supplies to the city were completed but the
outputs fell short of expectations due to over-optimistic projections of the capacity of the
groundwater.
7.    Physical objectives - LCS. The LCS project objective was not achieved. MMWSSB
successfully carried out a trial study of LCS needs, technical options and institutional
requirements, as was required, and an evaluation was undertaken (see Appendix A for details).
This trial was intended to precede an LCS program in the Madras Metropolitan Area involving
an initial 4,000 units. However, following the evaluation of the trial, MMWSSB decided not
proceed to implement the 4,000 units. Public conveniences were constructed by local at 58
locations in the metropolitan region.
8.   Institutional objectives. The following were the main institutional elements of the OAP
on which MMWSSB took action: a tariff study and tariff reforms; billings and collections
improvements; installation of an MIS; introduction of performance-based budgeting; extensive
computerization; training, including the provision of a new training center; and, improvements to
the planning and execution of operations and maintenance functions. All these actions were
achieved by closing, although the progress was sometimes slow. High degree of Borrower



-3 -
ownership for the financial reforms and improvements was engendered during preparation, with
working teams established to sort out the most appropriate ways forward. This commitment was
maintained during implementation. Innovative groundwater legislation was implemented by
GTN3. This legislation covers all of the city and adjacent aquifers and provides for the licensing
of ground water extractors, enforcement of permitted flows linked to a system of checking, and
close monitoring of ground water levels.
9.    There was slow progress with institutional reforms, as illustrated by the following
examples, although improvements were completed by closing: (a) in the middle years, from
FY90 to FY94, internal cash generation at MMWSSB fell short of agreed targets although,
following the tariff revision on April 1, 1994, the targets were greatly exceeded in FY95 as
internal cash generation was Rs 298 million (US$8.5 million) against the appraisal target of Rs
134 million (US$3.8 million); (b) the project has assisted MMWSSB to substantially up-date its
WSS master plan and introduce planning and policy formulation capacity in the agency, although
the procurement process for the appointment of consultants took 18 months to complete; and (c)
workforce levels continued to rise until 1990 when they stabilized - thereafter, they declined
substantially.
10.   MMWSSB has commenced and expanded a program of private participation through
contracting out important functions including operations at 60 percent of the sewerage pumping
stations, one of its sewage treatment plants and the new Redhills Water Treatment Plant. This
experience has been positive and the privatization program is to be expanded in the future.
11.   Procurement was one area of substantial institutional weakness and poor performance.
Generally procedures were excessively slow and inefficient. Problems were made worse by low
delegations from GTN to MMWSSB for procurement decisions which meant time-consuming
referrals to GTN for many decisions which were not especially significant. During the course of
the project these delegations were removed altogether by GTN resulting in all decisions being
referred by MMWSSB to GTN, thereby adding to delays and the scope for interference.
12.   An economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated for the project at appraisal to be 8
percent. Using the actual project costs and benefits measured in the same way as in the original
methodology, the calculated ERR was 12 percent (see Table 9 for details; the notes to Table 9
provide a short commentarv on the methodology used).
C.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.  Implementation of policy and institutional strengthening measures mostly proceeded
smoothly although with some delay. Procurement was the exception, for which performance was
poor until the concluding stages of implementation. Financial strengthening and cost recovery
was particularly successful. Other noteworthy achievements were the policy of conjunctive use
of water, and the introduction of groundwater legislation. This good performance reflects
3 The Madras Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987.



-4 -
MMWSSB's readiness for reform. The main concern with project implementation was the very
slow progress, particularly with physical works and some key technical studies. Possible
explanations follow.
14.   Factors not subject to GTN/MMWSSB control. In several years throughout the
project period the Madras region was subject to severe droughts. These caused great distraction
for MMWSSB management and tied up engineering and other technical skills and resources to
deal with the deepening crisis. The engineers were diverted from the preparation and supervision
of the project's long-term studies and investments towards solving the short-term problems of
obtaining more water for the city (which was secured partly by transportation from great
distances by train and ship), and its equitable distribution in the city. The droughts undoubtedly
played a part in the delays in preparation and procurement of project works. Additionally, the
droughts caused Government to consider the development of a new source for Madras using
water from the Veeranam irrigation tank some 235 km. to the south. Between 1993 and 1995
this Veeranam concept was developed into the Second Project. As a consequence of the decision
to proceed with this new source of supply, redesign of the water distribution master plan for the
city was needed which also caused implementation delay. Additionally, there were project
design changes due to the evolving development of a new Krishna River source of water, to the
north.
15.   Factors subject to GTN/MMWSSB control. Apart from the delays attributable to the
drought and its consequences, there was slow progress in the preparation and procurement of
works and technical studies. For example, an 18 month delay occurred in the consultants'
contract award for the master plan update in 1991 which had further delay implications for
downstream scheme designs and contracts for works. Another example was the 12 months delay
in contract award for works at Redhills Water Treatment Plant. Low delegation levels from GTN
to MMWSSB for procurement decisions, already noted above, were partly to blame. There was
a reluctance to employ consultants even when in-house capacity was clearly inadequate, as with
the design of sewage pumping stations. There were many small contracts which added to the
administrative burdens. And, project management skills in MMWSSB were weak.
16.   Delays were not caused by many of the factors which are often found in Bank-supported
projects in India, such as unrealistic Borrower expectations at the time of appraisal, the
unavailability of counterpart funds, and project complexity, riskiness and size. Nor were there
difficulties with land acquisition. However, lack of continuity of senior staff at MMWSSB was
noted by supervision missions as a possible problem causing delays in the early stages, later
rectified.
17.  Inadequate allowance was made for the time needed for the new Borrower to become
familiar with Bank procedures and there was no additional Bank supervision effort in the early
stages to accomplish greater Borrower awareness. Around 1992 revised implementation
schedules were worked out and the implementation progress significantly improved. Had the
rate of progress in the latter stages of implementation been evident from, say, the second project
year, the project would have been completed within the original project period.



-5-
D.   Project Sustainability
18.   The institutional improvements, particularly in finance, are expected to lead to
progressive and permanent improvements in MMWSSB's efficiency and performance. It is
evident that the Project has provided a sound foundation for the institution to develop and grow.
Nevertheless, there are many areas of institutional improvement which need to be taken further to
continue the process of modernization of MMWSSB, and there will be many challenges ahead.
Follow-on project activities provide some assurance that the investments already undertaken will
be utilized and that the project benefits will be realized.
19.   An important factor in the assessment of sustainability, however, is that future operations
of MMWSSB will depend greatly on the provision of new water supply to the city. The Second
Project was intended to bring additional supplies from the Veeranam tank but in late 1996 GTN
unexpectedly decided not to proceed with the Veeranam pipeline and the equivalent Loan
amount was canceled by the Borrower. Another much larger new water source is the Krishna
River to the north which in 1996 started to flow to the city. The Krishna canal has been
developed using funds from the GTN State budget. The arrival of Krishna water provides some
assurance that the Project investments for water distribution and sewerage will be fully utilized,
but this depends, of course, on the continuing reliability of this source.
20.   On balance, and having regard to the arrival of new source of water, the project's
sustainability has been rated as 'likely'. Positive factors in the assessment include a high level of
Borrower commitment, an encouraging policy environment, and the greatly improved
effectiveness of the institution and its financial viability.
E.   Bank Performance
21.  Identification. The structure of the project was consistent with the Government's
objective of greatly improving the delivery of WSS services in the State capital city. Moreover,
there had been extensive studies for the earlier 1979 project, and by UNDP/WHO which
provided a technical underpinning for the project proposals. The identification of the project by
the Bank was satisfactory and appropriate.
22.   Preparation. There were only two full preparation missions in November 1985 and June
1986, and a small mission to check on progress in May 1986 (Table 13). The first of these
preparation missions doubled as the identification mission. Between Identification and Board
there were 82 staff-weeks utilized against a typical amount of 120 to 140 staff-weeks for a
project of this type. Judged against contemporary practices, this level of Bank input in assisting
this first-time Borrower was low. Lack of readiness was the cause of the very slow progress with
implementation of the water distribution and sewerage works in the years following
effectiveness, although the groundwater source works did proceed quickly. During preparation
the Borrower was considering development of costly new sources of supply located outside the
city catchment area. The Bank played an important role in convincing MMWSSB/GTN of the
cost savings of proceeding with the development of groundwater which would be used
conjunctively with existing surface water sources.



-6 -
23.   Task Management responsibilities for preparation and most of implementation period
were assigned to financial analysts and institutional specialists. Preparation involved
establishing working groups on financial and institutional problems and solutions. This focus
created a strong sense of Borrower ownership and may explain the generally strong performance
during implementation by GTN/MMWSSB in the areas of policy and financial reform.
24.   Appraisal. Appraisal took place in December 1986, about one year after identification.
A full complement of Bank staff and consultants' skills were represented on the appraisal
mission. There were two special conditions of appraisal: action on tariffs; and, agreement to the
enactment of groundwater legislation. The appraisal was thorough in assessing the financial,
legislative, commercial and institutional aspects of the project, which moved forward
successfully during implementation.
25.   The Borrower was not as ready to move forward with technical and engineering aspects
of the project. Evidence of readiness might have included finalization of some bid evaluations
and awards prior to negotiations, or effectiveness, as is current practice in Bank-supported
projects. It was not the Bank's practice at that time to insist on such a level of readiness.
Insufficient attention was given also to the inefficient and time-consuming nature of the decision-
taking process for procurement within GTN/MMWSSB, and during implementation major
procurement delays occurred. Overall, the Bank's performance at appraisal has been rated as
'deficient'.
26.   Supervision. Overall supervision missions took place with appropriate frequency and
commitment of resources, but proportionately greater Bank effort in the first few years would
have been beneficial to the Borrower. The two key skills of financial analysis and sanitary
engineering were, with one exception, always represented. These core skills were supplemented
from time to time with other relevant skills (see Table 13). Task Management responsibilities
changed 6 times during preparation and implementation. This turnover of Task Managers
probably reduced the Bank's effectiveness. In the early stages the reports of supervision
missions and Form 590s expressed increasing concern over the slow disbursements and poor
implementation, particularly of works and technical studies, but appeared to be unable to focus
on the principal causes of these problems of delay, nor rectify them. Not until later, around
1992, did progress pick up to a generally satisfactory level, although with lapses thereafter. The
Bank maintained pressure on the Borrower to reduce staffing levels and revise tariffs, with some
success. The supervision performance by the Bank has been rated as 'satisfactory'.
27.   The mid-term review in May 1994 was too late to be effective as over 75 percent of the
available implementation time had passed. The Form 590 ratings for implementation status were
always satisfactory. This rating appears to overstate the performance in the early years.
Development impact was sometimes rated highly satisfactory, which seems too high to be
consistent with the slow progress being made in the early years with the technical aspects of the
project, although still consistent with the financial and institutional reforms which were being
achieved. A return to a satisfactory rating for development impact after July 1993 seems to be a
more balanced assessment of the actual performance.



-7-
28.   All covenants were in compliance at closing, but some were complied with late during
implemenitation. Submissions of audits in the early years were late but slowly this aspect
improved. There were early short-falls in the cash generation against the covenanted targets but
the substantial tariff increase on April 1, 1994 enabled MMWSSB to greatly exceed the cash
generation target by closing. GTN provided appropriate levels of counterpart funding, but before
FY92, passed on the loan/credit proceeds to MMWSSB as 50 percent grant and 50 percent loan.
The grant element was contrary to the covenant requiring the pass-through to be on loan terms
acceptable to the Bank. However, the Bank was active in seeking covenant compliance when
performance fell short.
F.    Borrower performance
29.   Preparation. GTN/MMWSSB had properly prepared the broad conceptual structure of
the project and extensive studies by UNDP/WHO on which the project was based had been
completed in 1985. However, there was comparatively limited detailed engineering design
preparation work for water distribution and sewerage which mainly explained the slow project
start following effectiveness. MMWSSB was not willing to employ consultants, for example, for
sewage pumping station design, despite limited in-house capability. It is possible that there was
a reluctance by GTN to allocate sufficient funds for preparation ahead of the certainty that the
project would be financed by the Bank.
30.   Implementation. Progress with the preparation and procurement of technical studies and
works was very slow throughout the project, other than its concluding stages. Ultimately these
delays resulted in the failure to complete the project within the time allotted. Much needs to be
done by management at MMWSSB to streamline procedures and by GTN to delegate to
MMWSSB greater authority in decision taking.
31.   The implementation of policy and institutional improvements at MMWSSB was slow
initially but all the relevant elements of the OAP were completed within the project period.
Mainly for this reason, the overall implementation performance has been rated as 'satisfactory'
despite the tardy procurement of works and technical studies.
32.   MMWSSB took two years from effectiveness to commence the stabilization and
subsequent reduction of the workforce although by the close of the project the numbers
(consisting of field workers and staff combined) had fallen by 20 percent from the peak of 7,610
in 1990 to 6,317 in 1996.4
4  MMWSSB remains overstaffed. For example, the ratio of salaries and wages to total operating costs (which
excludes depreciation and interest) is about 57%. This compares with less than 40% which is typical for
industrialized countries' water utilities, despite their much higher unit labor costs.



-8 -
33.   MMWSSB proved to be an unwilling agency for the implementation of the LCS
component. No effort was given to LCS implementation following the completion of the LCS
trial and its evaluation, apart from provision of public conveniences.
34.   All covenants and other commitments were complied with by closing.
35.   Progress reporting was limited to notes prepared for the supervision missions. This is not
frequent enough. As an MIS had been implemented during the project the absence of regular
reporting to the Bank was not a reflection of inadequate data availability. In the Second Project,
agreement has been reached to improve on reporting by providing monitoring reports on a
quarterly basis.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
36.   The outcome of the project has been rated as 'satisfactory'. By completion, most of the
physical components for WSS had been implemented. Items remaining unfinished are proposed
to be financed under the Second Project. All the agreed institutional strengthening
improvements contained in the OAP were implemented. The project has made a worthwhile
improvement in WSS services in Madras city and has provided the foundation for the next
phases of implementation of the WSS master plan. The calculated ERR for the project of 12
percent exceeded the appraisal estimate of 8 percent.
37.   The LCS objectives were not achieved. Although trials were undertaken and properly
evaluated, MMWSSB decided not to proceed to implement the proposed 4,000 LCS units.
H.   Future Operations
38.   The Project provided support for the first phase of the WSS master plan implementation.
Shortly before completion, the Second Project was made effective and some components of this
project will become the second phase of the master plan. It is anticipated that operations at
MMWSSB will continue to improve, assisted by the inputs of the Bank with follow-on activities.
39.   Some of the works under the project have been in operation for some time, including
source works such as tubewells, checkdams and river linkages, and elements of the distribution
system. For these facilities, operational arrangements are in place and are satisfactory. Injection
wells for the control of saline intrusion are operational. There have been several years worth of
monitoring of saline intrusions to determine the quality of the aquifer which confirms that the
wells are operating successfully.
40.   Operational indicators are to be generated for MMWSSB as a whole and are being agreed
with the Bank for use in the Second Project.
41.   MMWSSB's search for performance improvement and efficiency continues. For
example, there is continuing downward pressure on staff numbers, and an annual tariff review.



- 9-
42.   MMWSSB commenced a program of contracting out important operations to the private
sector. Generally, this has worked well and following the positive experience is to be expanded.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
43.   During preparation:
(a)   where the Borrower is reluctant to undertake policy reform in certain key areas, as with
water conservation measures, it is appropriate for the Bank to seek some actions early on,
preferably prior to appraisal;
(b)   in accordance with current Bank practice, this project should have been appraised only
when fully prepared in terms of technical studies, engineering design, procurement procedures and
implementation plan to enable implementation to proceed in earnest immediately following
effectiveness; and,
(c)   as agreed delegations of authority to the implementing agency for procurement were later
unilaterally withdrawn by GOTN they should have been backed by covenants to ensure they
remained in place.
During implementation:
(d)   the Bank should have provided above-average levels of supervision support to a first-time
Borrower in the first few years of implementation to facilitate the process of learning about
procedures and methods. The high turnover of Bank Task Managers (6 in the 9 years from
identification to closing) hampered continuity and probably reduced the Bank's effectiveness;
(e)   the 8 years of implementation from effectiveness to closing, as planned at appraisal, was
possibly responsible for the development of a somewhat relaxed approach to preparation and
implementation activities, and a shorter period might have engendered a greater sense of Borrower
urgency;
(f)   an implementation plan should have been prepared with performance indicators and regular
reporting against which implementation progress could have been assessed by Bank and Borrower;
and,
(g)   the considerable institutional and policy strengthening achievements in the areas of
conjunctive use of water, groundwater legislation and, especially, cost recovery reflected the
attention given to these issues by the Bank throughout the project cycle.



-10-
PART H: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial   Partial     Negligible      Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                 W
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives                                        E                 [0]
Poverty Reduction                                                             W
Gender Issues                                                                 El
Other Social Objectives             ]         E            E                 [7]
Environmental Objectives            ]         E            E                    ]
Public Sector Management            ]         E            [                    ]
Private Sector Development       [            E            E                  E



Table 1. Summary of Assessments (continued)
B. Project Sustainability         Likely              Unlikely          Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                Satisfactory        Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                       Z                                     E
Preparation Assistance              El                [         |L
Appraisal                          [                    Z                 I ]
Supervision                          m                                     E
Highly
D. Borrowers Performance           Satisfactory        Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation
Implementation                       l                 E                   El
Covenant compliance                 E                  E                   E
Operation                           E                  El                  E
Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome             Satisfactory      Satisfactory         Deficient
El    El    El



- 12-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/ Credit title                   Purpose                   Year of       Status
approval
Preceding Operations
1. Second Bombay       Construct: water treatment, storage and    1979          Closed
Water Supply and       transmission works; distribution improvements;
Sewerage Project       improvements to sewage collection and
(Cr.842-IN)            conveyance systems and treatment plant
2. Punjab Water Supply  Improvements to water supply and sewerage in 8  1979    Closed
and Sewerage Project    towns. Supply specialist equipment and train
(Cr. 848-IN)           staff
3. Maharashtra Water   Construct: new and rehabilitate existing water    1979   Closed
Supply and Sewerage    treatment plants; storage facilities; transmission
Project (Cr.899-IN)    and distribution works in 5 towns and villages;
expand sewage collection and treatment
4. Rajasthan Water     Provide water supply to villages and 4 cities;  1980     Closed
Supply and Sewerage    extend sewerage in 3 cities; strengthen O&M
Project (Cr. 1046-IN)
5. Gujarat Water Supply  Provide water supply to villages; improve and  1983    Closed
and Sanitation Project    extend water and sewerage systems in urban
(Cr. 1280-IN)          areas; provide LCS in medium sized towns;
institutional improvements
6. Tamil Nadu Water    Improve water supply in large urban areas and    1984    Closed
Supply and Sanitation  selected smaller towns and rural areas; provide
Project (Cr. 1454/SF 12-   LCS in urban areas; institutional strengthening
IN)
7. Kerala Water Supply   Strengthen institutions including fnancial  1986       Closed
and Sanitation Project    management; provide water supply to rural areas
(Cr. 1622-IN)          and upgrade and extend water distribution in one
urban area; provide LCS in 10 urban and
selected rural areas
8. Third Bombay Water   Construct water treatment plant; storage  1987       Closed - ICR
Supply and Sewerage    facilities; transmission pipelines; sewers, and       in preparation
Project                sewage pumping facilities, LCS
(Cr.1750/Ln.2769-IN)
Following Operations
1. Hyderabad Water     Expand water supply to city; rehabilitate and  1990     Ongoing
Supply and Sanitation  strengthen water and sewage systems; provide
Project                LCS; institutional strengthening
(Cr.2115/Ln.3 181-IN)



- 13 -
2. Maharashtra Rural    Provide water supply and environmental      1991         Ongoing
Water Supply and        sanitation facilities to rural communities; health
Environmental           awareness programs; institutional strengthening
Sanitation Project
(Cr.2234-IN)
3. Karnataka Rural      Provide water supply and environmental      1993         Ongoing
Water Supply and        sanitation facilities to rural communities; health
Environmental           awareness programs; institutional strengthening
Sanitation Project
(Cr.2483-IN)
4. Second Madras Water  Provide source works, transmission and      1995         Ongoing
Supply Project (Ln.3907-  treatment facilities for new water supply to city;
0/6 IN)                 continue program of water distribution and
conservation improvements, technical assistance
5. Bombay Sewage        Construct 2 marine tunnel outfall sewers, and  1996      Ongoing
Disposal Project        sewage pumping and treatment facilities;
(Cr.2764/Ln.3923-IN)    rehabilitation and improvements to sewerage
facilities and systems; LCS in slums
6. Uttar Pradesh Rural    Support to policy reforms in State Government;  1996   Ongoing
Water Supply and        construct water supply and enviromnental
Environmental           sanitation schemes in rural areas; undertake
Sanitation Project      studies and awareness campaigns
(Ln.4056-IN)
NQI=i Table 2 shows up to 10 years of preceding operations. Year of approval is Bank fiscal year.



-14-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                 Date planned         Date actual
Identification                                                                Nov-85
Preparation                                                                   Dec-85
Appraisal                                                  Jul-86             Dec-86
Negotiations                                               Nov-86            05-May-87
Board presentation                                         Jan-87            17-Jun-87
Signing                                                                      21-Dec-87
Effectiveness                                                                17-Mar-88
Mid-term review                                                               May-94
Project completion                                        30-Jun-95          31-Mar-96
Credit closing                                           31 -Dec-95          31-Mar-96
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS million)
FY      1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Appraisal
Estimate
Total:         7.3   18.5   31.4   42.8   52.9   60.9   66.5   68.4   69.0   69.0
Actual
Credit      3.5    7.4   12.3   16.7   16.7   16.7   16.7   16.7   16.7   16.7
Loan       0.0    0.0    0.0    6.3    14.5   20.0   28.7   35.7   35.7   48.3
Total:         3.5    7.4   12.3   23.0   31.2   36.7   45.4   52.4   52.4   65.0
Actual as
Percentage
of Estimate:    47.9   40.0   39.2   53.7   59.0   60.3   68.3   76.6   76.0   94.2
Effectiveness date:           17-Mar-88
Date of final disbursement:    19-Aug-96



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators                      Estimated                         Actual
(from SAR)
1. Internal generation of funds.                Rs 134 million                   Rs 298 million
2. Cost of water (includes depreciation
and debt service)                           Rs 5.40 per cu m supplied        Rs 6.77 per cu m supplied
3. Quantity of water supplied                       246 Mld                          304 Mld
4. Collections performance (arrears and
current demand combined)
(a) Charges                                      90                               72
(b) Tax                                          90                               54
5. Number of consumer connections                   163,000                          179,000
Table 5 records a selection of project implementation indicators. All data are for 1994/95, which is the last year for which
estimates were presented in the SAR.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
L Key Operating Indicators                        Estimated                         Actual\a
1. Intemal generation of funds.            17.2% of capital investment
2. Cost of water (includes depreciation
and debt service) in year 2000.                 Rs 10.7 per cu m
3. Quantity of water supplied in year
2000.                                              1400 Mld
4. Average tariff increase.                         10% pa
\a  No key indicators of project operation were defined in the SAR, nor subsequently during implementation. However, the
SAR of the Second Madras Water Supply Project, dated May 26, 1995, at Annex 5, identifies agreed monitoring indicators.
While some of the Second Project indicators are project specific and relate to construction activity, water conservation measures
etc., others relate to the overall operations of MMWSSB and are de facto indicators of the First Project operation. Some of these
Second Project indicators are shown in Table 6. There are no "actual" data to date.



- 16-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study              at appraisal          Status             Impact of study
Reduction in         Assess nature and scale   Completed    Program prepared - to be
unaccounted-for-water  of problems and prepare             implemented under the Second
a work program                        Project
Water supply and     Update to reflect       Completed     Essential basic document
sewerage Master Plan   modernization and                   underpinning all investment
update               impact of receiving                   planning and design work by
Krishna and other water               MMWSSB
Revision to Master   Revised during project    Completed   Necessary revision to Master Plan
Plan                 implementation to reflect             reflecting impending arrival of new
decision taken post-                  water
appraisal to bring
Veeranam water to
Madras in Second
Project
Assessment of low    To assist with planning    Completed  Report of limited impact
cost sanitation (LCS)   of LCS
alternatives
Tariff reform        To provide sound factual  Completed   Very useful source of information
basis for water demand:              for planning and evaluation
quantity, sources, use                purposes
and affordability of
water. Also to
recommend tariff policy
Financial management  To improve quantity and  Completed    Essential study, providing the basis
and MIS              quality of financial data             for financial reform and
within MMWSSB                         modernization. Useful computer
model produced and up-and-
running for corporate planning
purposes
Operations and       Studies to identify     Completed     Modest impact
maintenance          efficiency improvements
consultancies        and make
recommendations
Design for Veeranam    Preparation for the   Unfinished at   Essential for the preparation of
pipeline and related  Second Project         Closure        additional water supplies. Work
works                                                       continuing under Second Project



-17-
Table 8A: Project Costs
<------- Rs Million ---------> <----- US$ Million ----->
Item                      Details                    Appraisal         Actual  Appraisal          Actual
Estimate                   Estimate
I       Augmentation of water supply                      904.5          875.6         67.3          35.2
II      lmprovements to water distribution system         212.7         451.2           15.8         18.2
III     Improvements to sewerage system                   246.3          692.3          18.3         27.8
IV      Institutional strengthening                       139.3          252.3          10.3         10.1
V       Land                                                5.3            0.0           0.4          0.0
Total                                           1508.0        2271.4          112.2         91.3
Appraisal estimates are those of the First Review mission of July 1988 and include physical and price contingencies.
Details of local/foreign breakdown are not available. Accordingly, totals only are shown.
Institutional strengthening in this table includes engineering supervision and engineering consultancies.
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Source                         Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
IDA Cr. 1822-IN                                             16.0                          16.7
(14.3%)                      (18.3%)
IBRD Ln.2846-IN                                             53.0                         48.3
(47.2%)                      (52.9%)
MMWSSB Internal Cash Generation                             39.0                         26.3
(34.8%)                      (28.8%)
GTN Grant/Loans                                              4.2                           n/a
(3.0%)
Total Project Cost                                         112.2                         91.3
(100.0%)                     (100.0%)
For Actuals, MMWSSB's internal cash generation and the grant/loan contributions from GTN are combined as the contributions
of the two parts to project financing cannot be distinguished. However, it is evident that the internal cash generation was much
lower than appraisal estimates, due to two factors: (a) the failure by MMWSSB to achieve its financial targets over much of the
project period linked to a willingness by GTN, in the early years especially, to increase its own contributions relative to the
appraisal estimates to compensate for this MMWSSB failure; and, (b) increases in the Bank disbursement percentages introduced
during 1991.



- 18 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
SAR Estimates                                          Actual
Year       Capital  Operatng   Total Incremental Incremental       Capital  Operatng     Total Incremental Incremental
Costa     Costs  Costs   Revnues   Revenues            Costs      Costs    Costa  Revenues  Revenues
Gross        Net                                         Gross        Net
1986/87      95.0       12.9  107.9       19.7       -88.2
1987/88     194.9       15.5  210.4       49.8      -160.6          62.4       20.4      82.8        0.0     -82.8
1988/89     254.4       20.5  274.9       23.1      -251.8           81.9      44.1    126.1        64.7      -61.4
1989/90     237.8       27.7  265.5       56.5      -209.0          102.6      59.3    161.8        87.4     -74.4
1990/91     148.2       26.6  174.8       62.9      -111.9          263.2      83.1    346.2       180.6    -165.7
1991/92     144.0       27.2  171.2       89.4       -81.8          213.5     110.2    323.7       195.0    -128.7
1992/93     120.0       37.2  165.4      160.8        -4.6          151.4     149.8    301.2       190.7    -110.5
1993/94      91.5       47.1  138.6      144.1         5.5         213.0      140.4    353.4       233.4    -120.0
1994/95                 56.7   56.7      163.9       107.2          163.1     140.4    303.5       180.7    -122.8
1995/96                 56.7   56.7      163.9       107.2         230.9      194.7    425.5       374.0     -51.6
1996/97                 56.7   56.7      163.9       107.2                    194.7    194.7       374.0     179.3
2027/28                 56.7   56.7      163.9       107.2                    194.7    194.7       374.0      179.3
2028129                                                                       194.7    194.7       374.0      179.3
ERR  = 8%
ERR    = 12%
The economic analysis of the actual project employed the same methodology as was used in the SAR (Annex 13). In brief, an
economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated on the differences between project capital and entity incremental O&M costs, and
incremental revenues before receipt of GTN subsidies, all expressed in constant (1986/87) prices. The project period from start
of implementation was assumed the same. The start of the actual project was delayed by a year relative to appraisal. In Table 9,
all annual values between 1996/97 and the terminal year are identical and for compactness of presentation are not shown for the
intervening period.
At 12%, the ERR for the actual project exceeded the SAR estimates of 8%. This result was obtained despite the delays in
implementation and hence deferment of benefits, and higher O&M and capitl costs, all of which imply a lower than expected
ERR. This anomalous result was due to the higher benefits as measured in the actual case compared with appraisal. In the SAR,
the benefits were measured as the product of tariffs at the time of appraisal (projected forward at a constant real rate) and water
sold. However, the substantial actual tariff increase in 1994/95, coupled with the high sales resulting from ending the drought in
1995/96, when projected forward gave much higher measured benefits than at appraisal.



-19-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant   Present  fulfillment  fulfillment         Description of
Agreement   Section  type        status    date       date                   Covenant                   Comments
PROJECT    2.01      10          C                                MMWSSB to carry out project in    OAP last updated Jan-95
AGRT.                                                              accordance with Operating Action
Plan (OAP), subject to annual
review and amendmnent, as
necessary, by IDA and MMWSSB
3.04(b)  5          C                                 MMWSSB to restrict recruitment   In compliance
to essential personnel
4.01(b)   I         C                                 MMWSSB to have its accounts    In compliance at Closure
audited and furnish copies of the    following late
audit reports not later than nine  submissions in early
months after year end          years
4.02(a)  2          C                                 MMWSSB to take necessary       In compliance at Closure
measures to provide sufficient  after substantial tariff
internal cash generation for capital  increase on 01-Apr-94.
expenditures, as per the OAP   There were shortfalls in
some earlier years
TAMIL       2.01(b)  3           C                                GTN to on-lined Loan/Credit     In compliance at Closure.
NADU                                                              proceeds under terms and        GTN passed on some
AGRT.                                                             conditions approved by IDA      funds as grant in the early
years, contrary to
covenant
2.01(c)  4          C                                 GTN to ensure funds representing   After FY92 funds being
not less that 64% of annual capital  passed on under IDA
expenditure of the project are  approved terms and
made available on same terms and   conditions
conditions as 2.01 (b) above
Covenant type:                                                                  Status:
1. Accounts/Audit                                                               C - Complied with
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries                    CD - Compliance after Delay
3. Flow and utilization of Project funds                                        NC - Not Complied with
4. Counterpart funding                                                          CP - Complied with Partially
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntar resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/istitutional action
13. Other



- 20 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of               Planned                 Revised                 Actual
project cycle         Weeks    US$000    Weeks    US$000    Weeks    US$000
Through Appraisal       n/a         n/a         n/a        n/a        47.6        122.5
Appraisal - Board       n/a        n/a         n/a         n/a        34.3        88.2
Board - Effectiveness    n/a         n/a         n/a        n/a         12.0        30.3
Supervision          n/a         n/a        n/a         n/a        101.7       281.8
Completion          22.0        40.0                                18.0       35.7
TOTAL               n/a         n/a        n/a         n/a        213.6      558.5
Table indicates n/a where information is not available from the Bank's MIS.
Completion Actuals are final estimates.



-21 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of     Month/   Number  Days  Specialized   Implemen-  Develo-   Types of problems
Project      Year      of        in     staff skills   tation    pment
Cycle                  Persons  Field  represented  status       impact
Through      Nov-85       3       18   FA, SE, Ec
appraisal
May-86       1       3    FA
Jun-86       3      n/k   FA, SE
Appraisal    Dec-86       6       12   FA, SE, LO,
through                                 L, O&M
Board
approval     _                                            _
Board        Mar-88       1        5    SE                                 2 special conditions of
approval                                                                   appraisal were action on
through                                                                    tariffs/revenues and
effectiveness                                                              groundwater legislation.
Supervision   Jul-88      3       11   SE, FA, Ec        2           2     Slow start. Financial
(part)                             performance weak and
below covenanted targets.
Increases in staff nos.
Apr-89       2       8    FA, Ec (part)     2          2      Concern over financial
weakness and institutional
aspects, including GTN
on-lending terms, staffing
Jul-89       2       18   FA, SE            2          2      Sharp drop in project
expenditures and very
slow disbursements.
Financial and institutional
weaknesses. GTN on-
lending terms
Apr-90       6       22   FA, SE,           2          1      Some redesign due to
Proc, Train                        changes in scope of
project. Implementation
progress appears to be
picking up for works
Jan-91       7       7    DC, FA, SE,       2          1      Re-occurrence of slow
L, LCS                             implementation progress
for works, due partly to
design changes. Concem
over poor construction
quality



- 22 -
Jun-92        5       14   FA, SE,            2           1      Pace of implementation
LCS, Inst                            quickened. Some
procurement problems
remain. Shortfall on
revenue covenant. On-
lending (GTN to
MMWSSB) not in
compliance
Jul-93       2        14   FA, SE             2           2      Implementation pace
slowed again
Jan-94       3        5    FA, SE             2           2      Continuing procurement
problems. Redesign to
reflect new source of
supply (Veeranam)
May-94       3        11   FA, SE             S           S      Implementation
(Mid-                                                            progressing reasonably
term                                                             well but due to slow start
Review)                                                          some works will remain
unfinished. Sharp
deterioration in financial
performance due to
drought
Dec-94       2        12   FA, SE             S           S      Slowing pace of
implementation. Very
slow on leak detection
and repair
Sep-95       3        12   FA, SE,            S           S      Implications of request
R&R                                  for one-year extension
considered
Completion   May-96        3        8    FA, SE, LCS        _           _
Key to specialized staff skills: FA - Financial Analyst; SE - Sanitary Engineer; Ec - Economist; LO - Loan Officer; L - Lawyer;
O&M - Operations and Maintenance specialist; Proc - Procurement specialist; Train - Training specialist; LCS - Low Cost
Sanitation specialist; R&R - Relocation and Rehabilitation specialist; Inst - Institutional specialist; DC - Division Chief



-23 -
APPENDIX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADRAS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Ln. 2846/Cr.1822-IN)
COMPLETION MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
(May 11-19, 1996)
I     Background
1.    A World Bank Mission visited Madras between 11 and 19-May-96 to review the project
status at the completion of the project. The mission members were Messrs. Michael Whitbread
(SA2AW), G.V.Abhyankar (SA2NA) and V.R. Iyer (Consultant). Mr. Whitbread (Financial
Analyst and Project Task Manager) acted as mission leader and he and Mr. Abhyankar (Sanitary
Engineer) remained in Madras for the mission's duration. Mr. Iyer (Low Cost Sanitation (LCS)
expert) participated in the mission for the first week.
2.    The original closing date for the Loan/Credit was 31-Dec-95. The Bank granted a short
extension up to 31 -Mar-96 in order to ease the transition of works and studies between the
project closing and the start of the Second Madras Water Supply Project (Ln.3907-IN) which
became effective on 14-Feb-96. The completion mission focused on the collection of
information necessary for the preparation of the project's Implementation Completion Report
(ICR). The purpose of the ICR is to review the implementation progress of the project and draw
out lesson for future lending in the sector. During the final supervision of the project in Sep-95
the mission briefed project officials on ICR contents and provided relevant documentation
including another project's ICR, as an example.
3.    The mission objectives were to: (a) identify and assemble, and otherwise request, data
and written contributions from the Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) and the Madras
Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (MMWSSB); (b) review the physical progress
and performance of the project; (c) review the progress and achievements for the introduction of
LCS; (d) review the project's institutional strengthening achievements; (e) review the status of
studies and consultant assignments; (f) identify the unfinished works and studies for which the
Borrower will seek the agreement of the Bank for inclusion in the Second Project; (g) alert the
Borrower to the remaining obligations under the legal agreements in the post-closure period; and
(h) draw out specific lessons of experience for application in framing the proposed Third Madras
Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project, which is under preparation.



- 24 -
Appendix A
4.    The mission held discussions with the officials of MMWSSB and GOTN (list of persons
met is at Annex 2). Field visits were made to the saline intrusion barrier at Minjur wellfield,
developed under the project, and to two sewage pumping stations in the city. The mission also
visited the sites of the trial LCS facilities. All mission members wish to record their appreciation
of the courtesies extended to them and for the cordial and cooperative spirit which prevailed
through-out the mission. The mission appreciated the organizational difficulties for officials
arising from the mission timing which coincided with the installation of a new Government
following elections held earlier in the month. A wrap-up meeting was held in Delhi at the
Ministry of Urban Affairs and Employment, with the Department of Economic Affairs
participating, on 14-Jun-96.
Summarv of main findings
5.    Works. Most physical works for augmentation of water supply and improvements to
water supply and sewerage envisaged at appraisal have been completed. The most important
exceptions were that two of the original five checkdams and improvements to 14 of the 16
sewage pumping stations were not undertaken. A few other works were not completed but were
at an advanced stage of construction at closure on 31-Mar-96. Master plan preparation (1991)
and the proposal to develop a new source of supply at Veeranam (1993) necessitated capacity
and design changes in the water treatment and distribution works and in sewage pumping
stations. MMWSSB carried out these design changes prior to their construction. Because of
these changes, the physical achievements have, in some cases, exceeded expectations at
appraisal. However, because of delays in revising the designs and in procurement, some works
were awarded close to the time of closure and are amongst those not finished. It is essential that
these unfinished works are completed as they constitute integral elements of the city's
comprehensive and long-term water supply and sewerage development program. The Borrower
proposes to request the Bank to finance most of the unfinished works and studies under the
Second Project (see Section IV below).
6.   Institutional strengthening. Virtually all institutional strengthening objectives of the
project have been achieved, and in many cases exceeded, and MMWSSB has been transformed
into a more efficient and financially viable public utility. The project has assisted MMWSSB to
develop its plans and planning capacity to address medium and long-term water supply and
sanitation needs in Madras. Financial performance has greatly improved due to tariff reforms,
improved billing and collections and cost reductions arising from greater operational efficiency,
and all financial covenants under the project have been met. There is improved policy
formulation. MMWSSB has commenced a program of privatization through contracting out of
its functions (see para 36). Pilot studies of alternative LCS solutions were completed and
evaluated although progress with subsequent implementation of a pilot LCS program of
individual latrines has fallen short of the expectations at the time of appraisal. Overall
improvements to management, personnel and finance were achieved during a period which
witnessed several years of severe drought, during which time management's attention was
greatly distracted. Nevertheless, despite good progress with institutional strengthening, as with
works, there is still much to do and the program of improvements will continue with the Second
Project.



-25 -
Appendix A
II    Summary of Agreed Actions
No.   A-M                     Agreed Action                  By Whom    By When
para
1        23  Approach DEA to make a formal request to Bank  MMWSSB,   15-Jun-96
for amendment to Legal Agreements of Second    liaising with
Project, and for selective retroactive financing  GOTN
2        34 Undertake LCS monitoring                      MMWSSB        Quarterly
3        35  Provide operational indicators to Bank, as   MMWSSB    Quarterly,
required in accordance with Second Project                     or as
Agreements                                                   agreed
4     38 (a) Submit the balance of withdrawal applications to   MMWSSB  31-Jul-96
Bank
5     38 (b) Submit audits of SOEs for fiscal year 1995/96 to   MMWSSB    31-Dec-96
Bank
6     38 (c) Submit annual audited accounts to Bank       MMWSSB    31 -Dec-96
and
annually
7     38 (d) Comply with covenants for period of Loan     MMWSSB   Continuous
8     38 (e) Assist with preparation of ICR by providing  MMWSSB    30-Jun-96
and 39 required information to Bank
9        39 Bank to circulate draft ICR to GOTN/MMWSSB   Bank          31-Aug-96
for coniment
10        39  Comments on draft ICR forwarded to Bank     MMWSSB,   Within 14
liaising with   days of
GOTN            receipt
11        39 Borrowers' Evaluation forwarded to Bank      MMWSSB    14-Sep-96
12        39  Draft final ICR sent to Bank management for  Bank         14-Oct-96
review



- 26 -
Appendix A
III   Status of Project at Closure
Works and studies
7.    The main works and studies that have been included in the project and which have not
been completed as of the Loan Closing date of 31 -Mar-96 are listed below (see Annex 1 for
further details).
8.    Works/studies in progress. One checkdam; works at Tamaripakkam anicut (by PWD);
clear water reservoir at Redhills Water Treatment Plant; mechanical sludge dewatering works at
Redhills (bowl centrifuge); Archemedian screw pump at Koyambedu sewage treatment plant
(STP); 16 sewage pumping stations; study of water distribution network analyses (Anna
University); and, consultants' assignment for Veeranam transmission design.
9.    Works awarded but not yet started. Clear water pumping station and pumps at Redhills
(these works are subject to litigation).
10.   Works/studies not yet awarded. Consultancy assignment for leak detection and repairs
Phase 3 (15% of distribution system); study for design and detailed engineering for expansion
and upgrading of Perungudi STP; a new checkdam at Minjur wellfields (through PWD, for
which the Bank's no objection has not been obtained); and ancillary works at Redhills WTP (also
through PWD, again for which the Bank's no objection has not been obtained).
11.   The implementation status of these major works and studies is summarized below:
(a)   Checkdams: The work at the third unfinished check dam at Melchembedu is
scheduled for completion in Jun-96.
(b)   Works at Tamarippakkam anicut. MMWSSB had paid in advance 100 % of the
estimated cost to PWD (in 3 installments between Jan - Sep 95). The works are in
progress.
(c)   Clear water reservoir at Redhills. The work is at an advanced stage of
construction and is scheduled for completion in Jul-96. The work is being
executed under 2 contracts. Also, MMWSSB has completed twin raw water
rising mains for pumping Redhills water to the Redhills WTP (1200 mm mains,
1.25 km each). This work was included in the Second Project as a priority work
for retroactive financing. Since the work was completed prior to 31-Mar-96,
MMWSSB have requested that its financing may be included under the First
Project. This request is being considered by the Bank.
(d)   Mechanical sludge dewatering at Redhills. In Mar-96, MMWSSB awarded this
work to M/s Enkem Engineers, India (under ICB). A mobilization advance has
been paid and physical works are about to commence. The Bank has agreed to
finance the remaining work under the Second Project.



- 27 -
Appefidix A
(e)   Archemedian screw pump at Koyambedu STP. In Mar-96, MMWSSB awarded
the contract to M/s Spaan Babcock, Netherlands. The supply and installation work
is scheduled for completion by Sep-96.
(f)   16 sewage pumping stations. In Mar-96, MMWSSB awarded the work to MWs
Botliboi Co. The contract period is 18 months. Physical works have just
commenced at two of the stations.
(g)   Network analyses. MMWSSB awarded the consultancy to Anna University in
Jun-94. Anna University has completed the design of the water transmission
system and water distribution system for 4 zones. Since the time of the previous
mission in Sep-95, the consultants have furnished draft design reports for 3 more
distribution zones. Designs for all the 16 zones are scheduled for completion by
Sep-96. These preliminary designs are being used as inputs by detailed
engineering design consultants recently employed by MMWSSB under the
Second Project.
(h)   Veeranam transmission system design, bid documents. The consultants (M/s
ACER/Shah) employed by TWAD have completed the designs and prepared the
bid documents. The bidding process is underway. The consultants will prepare
bid evaluation reports.
(i)   Clear water pumping station at Redhills. In Mar-96, MMWSSB awarded the
work to M/s IRCON. However, one of the other bidders has approached the High
Court against the award and the Court has stayed execution of the contract.
MMWSSB hopes to obtain the Court's clearance and commence the execution of
the work by Jul-96. Although the outcome remains uncertain, MMWSSB has
installed temporary pumpsets to start using the new treatment plant which
currently is undergoing trials.
(j)   Leak detection and repairs (Phase 3). The Bank has given its no objection to
award the consultancy. MMWSSB is now awaiting GOTN approval. The
duration of the consultancy will be 15 months. The leak detection and repairs
work is a high priority in MMWSSB's water conservation program. The mission
expressed its concern regarding the delay in award that has taken place and
expects that the GOTN will approve and MMWSSB will award the consultancy
without any further delay. The Sep-95 mission was assured that the next leak
detection consultancy study (Phase 4, covering 30% of the distribution system), to
be financed under the Second Project, would also be invited by Jan-96. This has
not been done. MMWSSB now proposes to invite proposals before Jul-96.
(k)   Perungudi STP expansion and up-grading. This study is now proposed to be
financed under the Second Project. The evaluation of proposals is underway and
MMWSSB expects to award the consultancy by Jul-96.



-28 -
-28                            Appendix A
(1)   Additional checkdam. The Sep-95 mission was informed that MMWSSB would
complete the third of the five original checkdams (item (a) above), after which
MMWSSB did not intend to take up the construction of additional checkdams
under the project. However, this closure mission was informed that MMWSSB
has decided to construct one more checkdam across Kortaliar River in the Minjur
wellfields and, moreover, in Mar-96 had deposited the full amount of the
estimated cost (Rs 29 million) with the PWD. MMWSSB did not seek nor obtain
the Bank's no objection to proceeding prior to the Closing date. The mission
could not agree to MMWSSB's request to finance the advance paid to PWD under
the project. However, the mission indicated that the Bank management might be
willing to consider financing this work under the Second Project, if a request is
made. Consideration by the Bank would be subject to confirmnation of the
technical feasibility, and clarification of the R&R position with dwellers along the
river bank near the site and issues of submergence and illegal sand extraction
occurring nearby and, of course, adherence to Bank procurement guidelines.
Justification for the investment in the light of Krishna water arrival in the near
future would also be required.
(m)  Ancillary works at Redhills. In Mar-96, MMWSSB paid an advance of 100% of
the estimated cost of providing ancillary works at the Redhills WTP to PWD.
These works include a compound wall, internal roads and an office building.
Since MMWSSB did not seek nor obtain the Bank's no objection prior to the
Closing date, the mission could not agree to financing of the advance paid to
PWD from the project funds. However, the mission indicated that the Bank
management may be willing to consider financing the work under the Second
Project, if a request is made, but is concerned to emphasize the importance of
adherence to Bank procurement guidelines.
Institutional Strengthening
12.   Through provision of training and technical assistance, and agreed policy and procedural
reforms, the project was intended to strengthen MMWSSB and improve its performance as a
public utility, and to improve the policy-making process for water supply and sanitation in the
city generally. The major part of the agreed Operational Action Plan (OAP) was devoted to
institutional strengthening. The original OAP was provided in Annex 12 of the SAR and, in
accordance with the Agreements, was updated during the project; the final version was dated Jan-
95.
13.   Almost all actions which were related to financial and institutional strengthening which
were contained in the original OAP, or otherwise were intended to be undertaken, were carried
out including: tariff reforms; billings and collections improvements; installation of an MIS;
performance based budgeting; computerization, and improved operations and maintenance. The
following are the exceptions: (a) the post of Controller of Finance and Management Information
(original OAP para 9) was filled, although at Deputy level; (b) GOTN has not paid to



-29 -
Appendix A
MMWSSB the standpipe dues for MMC and TNSCB since 1992/93, (original OAP para 8); (c)
the number of working meters (SAR para 7.03(f)) has probably fallen, contrary to intentions -
this matter has been taken up under the Second Project whereby steps will be taken to introduce
full meter coverage; (d) training of Board members has not been undertaken (SAR para 4.19)
although, as the Board now contains only officials as members, it was agreed during the project
that this item could be dropped from the OAP; (e) a rehabilitation fund (SAR para 5.17 and
original OAP para 13) was not established, although there is no shortage of funds for
rehabilitation and replacement purposes because of the much-improved finances of MMWSSB,
and in consequence this item was also dropped from the OAP.
Low Cost Sanitation
14.   MMWSSB carried out a study of LCS needs, technical options and institutional
requirements which was intended to precede the initiation of an LCS program in the Madras
Metropolitan Area (MMA). A pilot program of 4,000 units was to follow the study to test the
recommendations and to develop an expanded LCS program in the MMA. The study was
undertaken by consultants (Consulting Engineering Services (CES) in association with Sulabh
International) and a report, Low Cost Sanitation Alternatives for Madras City, was produced in
Sep-91. The following LCS alternatives were considered and trial units constructed at selected
sites within the city to assess their performance:
(a)   pour-flush waterseal household latrine with twin leach pits (28 households);
(b)   soak-pit for sullage disposal (6);
(c)   three types of waste disposal system for conimunity toilet complexes: septic tank
and soak pit; septic tank and upflow filter; and holding tank with a pump to lift
sewage to the nearest manhole; and
(d)   a small-bore sewer system for a community of 265 people.
15.   The mission made field visits to: six household latrines in various locations; two
community toilet complexes; and the site of the small-bore sewer system. The visits revealed that:
the household latrines, constructed five years ago, were functioning well; the households fully
utilized the facility and the women in particular valued the privacy provided by the facility; the
upflow filter on one of the community latrines presented maintenance problems and was therefore
abandoned in favor of the conventional disposal system; and the small-bore system was replaced by
a conventional sewer following complaints from the people about frequent blockages in the system.
Blockages were caused by the presence of solids, which in turn were caused by illegal connections
to the small bore sewers which were made directly (instead of through the septic tanks) by some
householders.
16.   The consultants proposed an extended LCS program for the MMA, including the city.
MMWSSB however considers that the technology of pour-flush latrines with leach pits is not
suitable for unsewered pockets within the city, mainly for two reasons. First, there is insufficient



- 30-
Appendix A
space for the construction of these latrines. Second, latrines are designed to dispose of human
excreta and not sullage, the disposal of which MMWSSB regards as equally crucial. MMWSSB
has therefore decided not to adopt the latrines with leach pits technology, but to extend the sewer
system. At the time of the study these small pockets numbered 342 in all, but 180 have been
sewered subsequent to the study, and in another 30 works to provide sewers are in progress.
Designs are ready to sewer the remaining 132.
17.   Community latrines will continue to be supported in the city and elsewhere by MMWSSB
where people do not have space for constructing latrine cubicles. It is proposed that these latrines
will be constructed by the local bodies and will be connected to the sewer system laid by
MMWSSB. MMWSSB regarded the experiment with small-bore sewers a failure and is not
planning to continue with this solution.
18.   MMWSSB's basic sanitation strategy for the city is therefore to provide sewers. MMWSSB
has further concluded that LCS would not be appropriate for the adjacent urban areas also, and did
not proceed to implement the pilot program of 4,000 LCS units envisaged at appraisal (SAR para
4.13). Instead, MMWSSB provided the funds for the construction of 58 additional public latrines
to local bodies in the MMA. The total expenditure incurred by MMWSSB for the LCS program
(including the 58 additional public latrines) was Rs 13.35 million against the budget of Rs 13.84
million. The financing was made from grant funds as envisaged at appraisal (SAR para 3.08). No
contributions from the beneficiaries were sought by MMWSSB, contrary to the accepted practice of
LCS programs elsewhere in India.
Covenant compliance
19.   Covenants include the special requirement that MMWSSB carries out the project in
accordance with the updated OAP. The last agreed update of the OAP was Jan-95. No items of
this Jan-95 OAP remained outstanding at Closure. With compliance of this OAP covenant, all
covenants were in compliance at Closure although over the project period several covenants had
been complied with late.
Project costs and disbursements
20.   The total project costs including contingencies at the time of appraisal were estimated at
Rs 1508.0 million (US$112.2 million). At Closure the actual project cost was Rs 2271.4 million.
The Rupee value of the total project cost has increased over the period due to the effects of
inflation and its devaluation against the Dollar.
21.   The Loan amount was US$53.0 million, and the Credit amount SDR 12.5 million
(US$16.0 million equivalent), totaling US$69.0 million equivalent. Disbursements of the Loan
as of 29-Apr-96 were US$35.7 million, while the Credit was fully disbursed by 1991 to the value
of SDR 12.5 million (US$16.7 million equivalent), totaling US$ 52.4 million. US$17.3 million
of the Loan remained undisbursed at that date. Consistent with normal procedure, the Bank has
agreed to process withdrawal applications received in the four month period following Closure
for eligible expenditures incurred up to the Closing date. It is anticipated that further



-31 -
Appendix A
disbursements, including those which will arise from withdrawal applications made in the period
up to 31-Jul-96, will be US$8.1 million. Thus, overall savings of the Loan/Credit are expected to
be about US$9.2 million (US$17.3 less US$8.1 million).
IV    Unfinished Works and Studies Proposed to be Included in the Second Project
22.   Before the mission, MMWSSB had requested the Bank to finance some of the unfinished
expenditure items under the Second Project. The Bank has accepted that those items which are
within the Second Project Description may, in principle, be financed under the Second Project on
the understanding that no additional funds can be made available. These unfinished items are for
water distribution works, and studies.
23.   However, certain of the unfinished items do not fall within the Description of the Second
Project and, for these, an amendment to the Legal Agreements of the Second Project would be
required before the Bank could consider financing them. These items are for water source works
and sewerage (as set out below). During the mission MMWSSB and GOTN expressed the desire
to have these unfinished expenditures included within the Second Project and propose to make a
request to DEA to take up with the Bank an amendment to the Legal Agreements to change the
Project Description. There will also need to be a request by DEA to the Bank to permit the
associated retroactive financing for the expenditures which need a change in the Description
where they were incurred, at the Borrowers' risk, after 01-Apr-96 and prior to an amendment
being made. The DEA would need to make a formal request to the Bank for the amendment and
associated retroactive financing. The expenditure items for which MMWSSB proposes to
request financing under the Second Project are as follows (see Annex 1 for further details):



- 32 -
Appendix A
No.    Description        Category         Estimated           Remarks
expenditure
post 01-Apr-96
(Rs million)
1    Third checkdam    Water supply               6.49 Requires a change in
at Melchembedu   source                           Second Project Description
2    Works at Redhills  Water distribution       191.35
3    Improvements to   Water distribution        85.79
water distribution
system
4    Improvements to  Sewage collection,        442.10 Requires a change in
sewerage system   conveyance and                  Second Project Description
treatment
5    Studies          Leak detection,            104.58
Veeranam pipeline,
network analysis,
Perungudi STP
Total  830.31
24.   The estimated post 01-Apr-96 expenditures which are proposed to be financed by the
Second Project total Rs 830.31 million. To this figure should be added the following in order to
reconcile with the grand total of required budget of Rs 833.63 million given in Annex 1:
expenditures incurred under the project for which First Project funds remain to be claimed,
which are Rs 1.79 million (these are for public fountains and R&R studies); and, expenditures of
Rs 1.53 million which were contemplated under the project but were not undertaken for the
lining of Poondi channel, which MMWSSB will now finance from its own funds.
V     Implementation Performance
Views of the mission
25.   Works. The implementation experience of the project was mixed, with the achievement
of objectives being exceeded in some areas and falling short in others. Some works were not
finished at Closure despite the project period of nearly ten years and in important areas progress
was very slow, although it picked up as the project progressed.



- 33 -
Appendix A
26.   Where the works implementation progress was slow the reasons seemed to fall into two
main categories. First, delays were experienced because of the need to redesign or reconsider
certain facilities following the preparation of the master plan in 1991. This caused some
amendments to the size/capacity of facilities. Additionally, the progress made with the
Veeranam scheme subsequent to the appraisal of the project caused design changes, for example
at Redhills and with parts of the water distribution system. Second, there were procedural
delays, procurement delays and, initially, low priority given by MMWSSB to parts of the
program, such as leak detection. Generally, once approvals had been given to the expenditures
for which there were preparation delays, the implementation of the works proceeded without
delay. Poor performance of contractors was also a reason for delay of some works such as the
transmission mains to Manali and the third checkdam.
27.   Initially MMWSSB wanted to undertake design work in-house and not to contract out,
for example for the water distribution system and sewage pumping stations, which caused delays.
Eventually this work was put out to consultants.
28.   Institutional Strengthening. Virtually all the institutional strengthening parts of the
project were executed before Closure. Examples include Finance, which achieved all its main
targets, with all financial covenants in compliance and many important improvements
undertaken. MMWSSB has pursued contracting out of some of its operation and maintenance
functions (see para 36).
29.   Both MMWSSB and GOTN addressed the important issue of ground water utilization at
an early stage of the project and pioneering legislation was introduced. MMWSSB has
continued to monitor the effects of groundwater legislation on the quality and location of the
aquifers. This innovative legislation may form the basis for State-wide coverage, and could be
studied by other cities and states in India.
30.   Overall the institutional strengthening performance was good and MMWSSB has
emerged from the project as a significantly improved public utility.
31.   LCS. The LCS program initially required an assessment of needs, technology and
requirements. A trial study was carried out in a satisfactory manner at an early stage and an
evaluation was undertaken of the experiment. The recommendation of the consultants to
undertake a pilot program of latrine construction was not adopted by MMWSSB. However,
MMWSSB did provide a total of 58 further community latrines and as a result the budgeted
funds of over Rs.13 million for LCS under the project were utilized. Generally, for MMWSSB,
the provision of individual LCS latrines was a reluctant endeavor. This finding has important
implications for the preparation of the Third Project which contains a substantial LCS
component.



- 34 -
Appendix A
Views of the Borrower
32.   MMWSSB and GOTN indicated that they would reserve their judgment on the
implementation performance under the project until the production of the Borrower's Evaluation
for the ICR.
VI   Operational Plan, Privatization and Sustainability
33.   Some of the works under the project have been completed and in operation for some time.
These include, for water supply, source works such as tubewells and checkdams at the
wellfields, river linkages and elements of the distribution system. They also include some
sewage collection and treatment. For these facilities, operational arrangements are already in
place and are satisfactory. For works not completed such as the Redhills treatment plant and
some sewage pumping stations, MMWSSB is proposing operational arrangements which are
satisfactory to the mission which include contracting out to the private sector (see para 36
below). Injection wells are operational, and monitoring of saline intrusions is already being
undertaken to determine the quality of the aquifer at selected locations.
34.   MMWSSB is not currently monitoring the functioning of the LCS public latrines, and had
expected the local bodies concerned to be primarily responsible. However, since the construction
of these latrines was financed from Project, MMWSSB agreed to monitor their performance
according to formats developed for this purpose by the consultants (Annex 12.2, Vol.II of the
report, LCS Alternatives for Madras City).
35.   Operational Indicators. In view of the highly integrated nature of the investments
provided under the project, individual operational indicators are of limited value. For example,
the output of the Redhills treatment plant can readily be measured by treated water quantity but
without knowledge of the conjunctive output of the Kilpauk plant these data have limited
meaning. Accordingly, it is proposed that operational indicators would be generated for
MMWSSB as a whole, including both physical and financial indicators. Indicators have been
agreed with the Bank for the Second Project and these would be the basis for the on-going
monitoring of MMWSSB's performance.
36.   Privatization. MMWSSB have a program of contracting-out the operations of certain
facilities to the private sector. 60% of the sewerage pumping stations' operations and one small
sewage treatment plant (STP) have been privatized. MMWSSB have endeavored to secure
private operators for other STPs although without success. These are all operations and
maintenance contracts, not involving the private operators in any direct revenue collection. The
efficiency gains and cost savings to the MMWSSB are significant. Some of the facilities
provided under the project will be operated by the private sector under similar arrangements.
Included in these proposals are the sewage treatment plants and the Redhills water treatment
plant. The mission welcomed these initiatives by MMWSSB.



-35 -
Appendix A
37.   Sustainabiity. Financial sustainability is anticipated due to the sound financial
performance of MMWSSB achieved by the time of Closure. This performance is likely to be
further improved under the implementation of the Second Project which has financial
performance covenants which are developed from those of the First Project. The technical
capability of MMWSSB is now much improved. The additional facilities will present the entity
with no serious difficulties in operations and maintenance. In any event, the active pursuit of
privatization solutions for operation and maintenance of some of these facilities also gives
confidence that the operations phase will continue in an orderly and efficient manner. Again, the
Second Project, and later if implemented, the Third Project which is under preparation, will
continue the Bank's support for the MMWSSB ensuring that continued emphasis is placed on
sound management of the entity. Overall, therefore, the prospects for sustainability of the
investments made are good.
VII  Follow-up Actions in the Post-closure Period
38.   The mission reminded the Borrower of the project obligations which remain, including
those entered into under the Agreements, during the post-closure period. These are:
(a)   all withdrawal applications should be submitted to the Bank for eligible
expenditures incurred up to 31-Mar-96 by 31-Jul-96;
(b)   audits of SOEs for the fiscal year 1995/96 should be submitted in accordance with
the audit covenant by 31-Dec-96;
(c)   additionally, the audited accounts will continue to be required to be submitted to
the Bank in forthcoming years, although this is also a requirement of the
Agreements of the Second Project;
(d)   as the Loan is repayable in 20 years, in accordance with the Agreements the
Borrower is obliged to comply with covenants, as appropriate, during this period;
and,
(e)   the Borrower will continue to assist with the preparation of the ICR in accordance
with the agreements reached with the mission (see Section VIII below) and,
additionally, the Borrower should prepare its own Evaluation of the project for
inclusion in the ICR which was agreed to be submitted to the Bank by 14-Sep-96.



-36 -
Appendix A
VIII Program for ICR Preparation
39.   The following program for ICR preparation was agreed:
Agreed Action                      By Whom         By When
Data requested by the mission and not supplied at the   MMWSSB         30-Jun-96
time of the mission, including a map showing schemes
implemented, to be forwarded to Bank.
Draft of ICR (Bank portion including tables) to be           Bank     31-Aug-96
forwarded to Borrower for comment.
Comments on draft ICR to be forwarded to Bank.   MMWSSB, liaising      Within 14
with GOTN days of receipt
of draft ICR
Borrower's Evaluation to be sent to Bank.               MMWSSB         14-Sep-96
Final draft of ICR (complete version including               Bank      14-Oct-96
Borrower's Evaluation) to Bank management for review.



-37 -
Appendix A
Annex 1
Impmenatlon Completion Status 1 Physical & FInancisi                                                                                                                                     All Amounts in Rs. Millon
BLNo.                      Deschption                                               Physcal Prorness                                 Financial Prosgrss
% Completion        Estimated                Cost Estimate                                   Budget                      Proposed FlnancigV
Mar-96        Compi. Date       SAR         Revised        Actual          As           Required           Word Bank              GOTN /
#2         Mar46         31-Mar-6 9M-i                                              NF2        MUWSSB
I      AwmenntationofWtrSrdSvb____
1.1 Conssudln of tube wefit  30 nos)                                               100           Competed        113.18       113.34         113.34          100%
1.2 TransfgssDun mah fromtubewebito a pont nmarRedhils t.35Km)                     100           Completed       17S.07       120.43         120.43          100%
1.3 Transmlsslon mate: Redhil9-Kipauk 114W0mmn dia, L- 11.8 kml                    100           Dropped         51.34         0.00           0.00            NA
2.1 Construction of Check dams- S Nt[ C u2, UC =1, Dmpped 925 S                                   Sep-08          87.8i        50.49          44.00           t7%           8.49                        4.15         2.34
2.2 Atrni Kortoiar Lhik  EBy P5WO                                                   0             DOropped       100.48         0.00          0.00            NA
Oothukottat anslut                                                          100           Compieted                     15.33          15.33          100%
Outlet from Kirsna canal i rajan Odai                                       aS             Jun-90                       6.12           6.12           100%
Rehab of Tsmartpakkano anclut                                                0             Oer,96                       31.00          31.00          100%
Rehab of uppersupply channel                                                100          Completed                      4.19           4.19           100%
3.1 LlIg Poondi Charaet [ Lenrth of requimd irg educedu                             65            Mar-07          59.44         6.00          4.65            75%           1.53                        0.00         1.53
3.2 Redhils : Water Teatmrent Plant                                                100          Completd          96.45        326.30        303.19           93%           23.11                      14.79         8.32
:Clearwatermseiroor (2nosX13MQ                                        aS             Jul-96                      69.50          36.04           52%           33.04                      21.47         12.07
:ClearwaterPumping stan & pumps # 1                                   0            Dec-97                        111.78          0.00            0%           111.78                     71.04         40.24
Mechanical sludge Dewatering (Bowl conlrlfate)                       0             Oct-96                       24.86           1.94            8%           22.92                      22.92         0.00
Raw Water Maies (2X1200m, L=1.25 Km)                                              completd                      27.10          27.10           100%
3.3 Transmission male to Manali amea ( 1000 mmPSc, L= 5.2Km)                        95             Jul-96         26.91        36.40          28.93           79%            7.47                       4.7S         2.69
3.4 strengthening the eclOsig welitields                                          100           Completed        73.69        102.06         102.06          100%
3.5 Provirtiro a banier against Saline irtnusbon                                   100           Completed       107.55        14.55          14.55           100%
3.6 Upgrading the new Well fields                                                  100           Completed        22.59        22.61          22.81           100%
Sub Total 1                                                      904.49       1092.42        675.58           S1%          206.04         0.00        13,965        67.19
r Improvemnts lo water DLstribution system
1.1 Addi. UGT at KPS and KK Nagar(lotal cap= 14.5 MU                               100           Completed        17.63        21.65          21.65           100%
1.2 Pumping Station at KPS and KK Nagar                                            100           Completed        22.05        1G.58          15.58           100%
2.1 Laying 750 mm Cl maln fmm KPSl oKKNagarlL-12.5km(                              100           Completed        55.50        43.16          43.16           100%
3.1 Trans maln: KK Nagarto Virugambakkam, Salgrarnaom                              100           Completed        4.95          3.51           3.51           100%
3.2 Rehab of Dist. Network [ Replacing old 100 S 150 mm pipes, L=-379Km)            96            Jun-96          67.05        242.02         207.72          86%           3510                       22.46         12.64
3.3 Etoenslons to Dist system  100mm & 150 mm pipes,L=141 Km)                      70             JAu-96         10.42        90.81          64.59           71%           26.22                      16.7          9.44
3.4 Providirg Public funtains [ 1000nosJ, Rehabof Steeltanks, IM-II HPs            100           Completed        3.68          5.37           3.70           69%            1.67         1.67                       0.00
3.5 Stmngthening of tonk mains[ secondary trans& local dist . L= 12.1 Km)           94             Jul-96         29.35        107.31         90.31            4%           1700                       10.SS            2
Sub-Total 2                                                                  531.21         451.22          85%           7999           .7          5012         2920
# 1 = work not yet awarded (due to High Court Stay)
# 2 = SAR estimate updated by First mview Misshon [ July 19881 and incimdes physical and price conlingenoces.                                                  Dhsbursement % for M-2 are  Works= 64,  (Assumed)
Goods and Studis- 100.



-38 -
Appendix A
Annex 1
lmplnntation Completon Status  Physical & Finsacial                                                                                                                          All Amounts in Rs. Million
SlI.No.                  Description                                           Physical Progress                           Financial Progress
% Competn          Estimated                Cost Estimate                               Budget                  Proposed Finandng
* Mar.96      Cormp Date       SAR        Revised        Actual         As %        Required           World Bank         GOTi/
# 2        Mar.96      31-Mar-96                                   M-1          M-2      MMWSSB
III   imr mvements to sewerere system
1 Inmproveents to sewagoe cotiedion a treatment systenms                     90            Dec-96        163.48      594.00        541.61          93%          52.39                    33.53        18.86
( hidudes item Vt I
- Archinedin screw pump at Koyambedu STP                                           Dec-96         0.00         9.44          0.00           0%           9.44                     9.44         0.00
* Pemngiudai STP, ConsulUnt sturdy (Tahal+TaU) t 1                                 Dec-96         0.00        14.60          0.00           0%          14.60                     14.60        0.00
2 lImprovementstoseletewagepumopingstations(l8NosI                            0            Sep-97        33.82       427.00         48.73          11%          380.27                   243.37       136.90
OtlerWorks :Sadapet tomce main, Shoit teml , Consulancy 16SPS            100         Completed                    40.64         40.64         100%
3 Saigarmam:Coection system, SPS and Force mai                               100         Compltted       42.28        56.56         56.6           IOD%
4 Low lyrin areas: CoHedbin. transmissin, disposala nsgements                100         Completed   |   6.73          6.75         6.75           198%
Sub -Total 3                                                            1148.99       692.29         61%          456.70        0.00        300.94      155.76
IV    Institutinnal strengthening                                          |      100     |  Completed   1   139.28       225.97        192.80          85%
(Inrludes Pilot Leek detedtion 10 % Dist systeml                                               I
Leakdetecbon & replrsI Phase 2: 10 % Dist. systeml                   100          Completed                    33.10         33.10         100%          0.00                                  0.00
Leak detectlon & repairs I Phase 3:15 % DMt. system]                  0            Dec-97                      80.00         0.00           0%           80.00                    80.00        0.00
(STCIACER top ranked.  Award proposal pendit wilh GTi,
Addibond Engineering Consuitancies                                                                    0.00
Veeranam: Feasibity trans. system, R &R [ Tata, Econ.Perspe.J           100         Completed                     9.82          9.82          100%
Veerenanm: Detailed Engg Trans. pipeline I TWAD, ACER/Shahl             70            Jul-96                     23.75         14.35          60%           9.40                     9.40         0.00
Madras Cby Water Trans, & Dist. Network aenalyses( Annal                50            Sep-96                      1.69          1.11          66%           0.58                     0.s8        0o.0
Madras Ill: R&R [ConsumerAction Group]                                  100         Completed                     0.59          0.47          S0%           0.12         0.12                     0.00
Flood Water Conservatbin storage [Mott MacDonald[                       100         Completed                     0.62          0.62          100%
Land                                                                       100         Completed        5.29        0.00          0.00
V     Addtiional Works [ Later merged in tem 111(1) abovel                                                     0.00        0.00          0.00
Sub - Total 4                                                144.64       375.54        252.27         67%          90.10         0.12        89.98        0.00
Grand Total                                                 1508.03      3138.16       2271.36         73%         833.63        1.79        580.70      251.14
I             I_
t 1 - work not yet awarded
#2  SAR eslinate updated by Frist review Missin IJuly 19891 and indLudes physical and price contingencies.                                           Disbursement % ior M-2 are: Works= 64,  (Assumed)
Goods and studies= 100.



-39 -
Appendix A
Annex 2
List of Key Persons Met
GOTN
Secretary, Municipal Administration and Water Supply - Mrs. S. Malathi
MMWSSB
Chairperson and Managing Director - Ms. Shantha Sheela Nair
Executive Director - Dr. T.V.Somanathan
Finance Director - Mr. P. Shanmugamn
Chief Engineer, Resource Planning - Mr. R.M. Gandhi
Officer on Special Duty, World Bank Projects -Mr. Nambi Ayyadurai
Comptroller of Finance - Mr. V. Venkateswaran



- 40 -
APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S EVALUATION
(This Appendix contains the Evaluation by CMWSSB and the GOTN. Although retyped, it has been included here unedited
apart from the corrections to a few minor typing errors in the original. The evaluation was received by the Bank on January 10,
1997.)
EVALUATION REPORT OF METROWATER ON
INDIA: CHENNAI (EARLIER MADRAS) WATER SUPPLY
& SANITATION PROJECT
(Ln.2846/Cr.1822-IN)
1.    Project Formulation & Appraisal
Based on the UNDP/UNTACD aided Hydrogeological and Artificial Recharge studies
carried out in 1974-85 and the Master Plan for management of water supply and waste water in
Chennai city prepared in 1978, the Madras Water Supply and Sanitation project was formulated
with the following objectives:
(a)   increase water supply by about 35% and improve reliability
(b)   improve and extend water supply distribution
(c)   improve and extend sewage collection and treatment systems
1.1   This Project was posed to the World Bank for fund assistance in 1985. Preparation
missions of the World Bank evaluated this Project and subsequently the Project was finalized
including the following further objectives -
(a)   make better use of existing resources and to develop a plan which addresses the
medium and long term water supply and sewerage;
(b)   improve billing and collection, increased tariffs;
(c)   strengthen CMWSSB's institutional capacity; and
(d)   initiate a program for low cost sanitation.
1.2   This Project was appraised by the Bank in December 1986; negotiations were completed
in May 1987; agreement was signed in December 1987; and it was made effective in March
1988.
2.0   Project Cost and Financing: The Project cost at appraisal was Rs. 1508.0 million or
US$112.2 million. A credit in the amount of SDR 12.5 million (equivalent to US$16.0 million)
and loan of US$53.0 million were approved by the Bank. Remaining cost was to be met by
internal cash generation to the extent of US$39.0 million and GOTN grant/loan of US$4.2
million.



-41 -
APPENDIX B
3.0  Implementation: This Project was scheduled to be implemented over a period of 8 years
through 1987-95. Three months extension was given beyond December 31, 1995 and the Project
was closed on March 31, 1996.
3.1   On closing the expenditure of the project was Rs. 2464.2 million. Credit to the amount of
SDR 12.5 million (equivalent to US$16.0 million) was fully utilized; final disbursement took
place on August 19, 1996; and total loan amounting to Rs. 1761.94 million equivalent to
US$48.3 millions was disbursed; and US$4.7 million remained undisbursed.
3.2   All works and studies were completed either as contemplated at appraisal or updated in
subsequent mission's visit; except the work of improvements to 16 sewage pumping stations
which had a delayed start awaiting completion of Master plan update and subsequently another
revision to detailed engineering including expected additional flows consequent on augmentation
of water supply to the city with Veeranam tank as source and delay in clearance of bid document
by Bank by nearly 6 months. An expenditure of Rs. 2464.2 million which exceeded the appraisal
estimate by Rs. 964.2 million or 64% was completed resulting in implementation of more
quantities under works and studies. Details are furnished in Annex-l of the Completion Mission
Aide-Memoire.
4.0   Achievements through the Project
4.1   Three new well fields were developed, pumps and pipeline grids provided to deliver
ground water to city; and flood flow of Araniar River was diverted to city storage reservoir. City
water supply was augmented by 83 mld as against envisaged 102 mld; the shortfall was due to
conjunctive use of surface and ground water sources which was expected to save about 20 mld of
water lost to evaporation and which was found not feasible due to recurring drought and
unpredictable monsoons. Water consolidation measures were initiated by completing 2 check
dams, with the third one 80% completed. Two more check dams could not be taken up because
in one location the site was found unsuitable for construction due to illicit sand quarrying and in
the other location site is likely to be submerged when a new reservoir is constructed at
Thirukandalam to store Krishna water. These check dams have enabled stabilization of yield
from four well fields.
4.2   All works under Improvements to water distribution system were completed and as
against 35 km length envisaged at appraisal, 430 km. was actually completed.
4.3   All works under improvements to sewerage system were completed with the exception of
improvements to 16 select sewage pumping stations. As against 61 km. length of sewers
proposed at appraisal, 290 km was actually completed. With concurrence from World Bank's
Mission, operational efficiency of existing sewerage systems was improved. Performance of
sewage treatment plants were improved; operational constraints in sewage pumping stations and
pumping mains removed; and mechanized desilting of sewers carried out with procurement of 10
drag bucket machines and 6 jet rodding machines.



-42 -
APPENDIX B
4.4   All studies envisaged at appraisal were completed. Consultancy study on "Low Cost
Sanitation Alternatives" was completed; design criteria developed and tested in the field by
constructing demonstration units and monitoring performance over a year; however, with the
concurrence of World Bank's supervision mission instead of constructing 4,000 toilets in
individual premises, all public conveniences were constructed with grant money to develop an
expanded LCS program in MMA. Additionally 9 more studies were completed.
4.5   As such works and studies which remained incomplete (except improvements to 16
sewage pumping stations) on closing date are actually additional works or increased quantities
not envisaged at appraisal.
5.0   Policy Initiatives
5.1   Water consolidation by implementing innovative rain water harvesting measures to
recharge ground water in the plot of premises was commissioned. Planning regulation were
revised incorporating rain harvesting arrangements without which new multistoried or
commercial complexes cannot be con'structed now. All Central Air Conditioned buildings have
been asked to use renovative sewage for cooling purposes.
5.2  In this project period, importance was given to extend sewer to most parts of the city.
About 576 km. length of sewers were added which increased the total length of sewers in the city
by 44%. The direct benefit was a marked reduction in water borne diseases such as cholera etc.
5.3   A quality control system was introduced and strengthened. The work of the Organization
was extended beyond merely providing water mains and sewers to address consumer needs. A
Superintending Engineer was appointed exclusively to monitor the quality control aspects.
5.4   Contract management of services such as operation and maintenance of sewage pumping
stations, well fields, effecting sewer connections, and billing and collections were initiated and
expanded. It is proposed to extend this further to operation and maintenance of a new water
treatment plant at Redhills.
5.5   The Organization has moved from a typical Government type organization to
commercially oriented public sector organization which is self-supporting, responsive and
accountable for the quality of its services. This emphasis on customer orientation has been a part
of our response to growing consumerism.
5.6   A Training Center was commissioned and training was made an integral part of the
human resources development strategy.
5.7  Improvements carried out in the sewage treatment plants under the Bank Project inspired
the concept of treating sewage as a resource and the possibility of recycling it for supply to
industries. This concept has been expanded by taking up a project to supply 100 mld of
renovated sewage to industries in Manali area.



-43 -
APPENDIX B
6.0  Institutional Capability
6.1   Metrowater has build up considerable technical capability and expertise during the
project period. Metrowater is now approached by other organizations for technical advice and
taking up consultancies. GOTN has permitted Metrowater to extend its activity to taking up
consultancies. Already two consultancies were completed.
6.2   Technical wing was trained to prepare and implement large projects with external fund
assistance. Consultancy services are also now offered with the built up expertise.
6.3   The organization was able to build a base for strong financial management with improved
billing and collections, consequent to rationalization of tariff structure.
6.4   Computer literacy was improved and a full fledged data processing unit was established
with a Data Processing Manager in charge.
6.5   The operation and maintenance of water supply and sewer system has been further
improved by mechanizing the cleaning operations. The institution made a strategic move from
large dependence on human labor to extensive mechanization of operations.
6.6   Human resources development was given special priority. A unique medical welfare
fund was created to advance financial assistance to the labor to avail the best possible medical
facilities in specialty hospitals which proved helpful in promoting cordial industrial relations. A
post of Industrial Relations Manager was created. Temporary employment or employing casual
laborers were completely dispensed with.
6.7   Organization has moved forward from supporting a large labor force for operations to
greater mechanization with reduced labor force. Metrowater is now managing a bigger system
with a reduced staff. The personnel cost as a ratio of the total operating cost has reduced
significantly from 62% in 1987-88 to 44% in 95-96. The staff productivity index (SPI) has
registered a sharp decline from 61/'000 connection in 1987-88 to 26/'000 connection in 1996.
7.0   Key Lessons Learnt
7.1   Procurement of Works
7.1.1  The Bank's policy and guidelines on procurement keep changing as do the perception on
the procurement guidelines. At least in the case of improvements to 16 sewage pumping stations
such changes contributed to a delay of about 6 months in clearing bid documents by the Bank.
We need guidelines which are clear simple and easy to understand.



- 44 -
APPENDIX B
7.2   Procurement of consultants
7.2.1 The present policy of the Bank lacks clarity on what occasions demand a consultancy and
what not. Besides, there are some lacunae in the guidelines which make it difficult to deal with
nonadherence to the prescribed schedule. This has led to delays in many consultancies. The
Bank should recommend clear-cut methods to deal with errant consultants which can help build
in greater accountability in consultancies.
7.2.2 On the one hand the Bank expects the borrower to furnish detailed justification on the
need for giving sole source procurement of consultancy for a study while on the other hand the
missions during their visit recommend awarding additional work to an ongoing consultant for
amounts which normally will require invitation of competitive bids. This poses problems in
compliance.
7.2.3 There are several consultants who get shortlisted by Metrowater but do not get even a
single contract. It would be helpful if the Bank shared its own evaluation of the performance of
consultancy firms worldwide and kept borrowers informed on the capabilities of the individual
consultants engaged in similar studies which can be used by the borrower for shortlisting.
7.3   Continuity in Task Managers and other members on the team will further the cause of
consistency in assessment of alternatives and hence speedy implementation. As noted by the
Bank, high turnover of task managers did result in a lack of continuity on the Bank's stand on
certain policy issues.
7.4   The timing and number of missions' visits should be synchronized in such a way that the
bulk of the policy issues can be cleared during mission visits. Sometimes major policy
clearances get bogged down in protracted correspondence with the Bank.
8.   Information Sharing
8.1   The Bank may share information on performance of other similar projects with the
borrowers including successes and failure. The Bank may consider sharing this information
through a periodical bulletin.
8.2   The Bank can be a nodal authority for information sharing the project management
worldwide by implementing agencies.
8.3   As the Bank is handling massive projects internationally, it can plan a vital role in
creating a forum for water utility organisations to come together and share their thoughts and
experiences.



-45 -
APPENDIX B
9.    Composition of Missions
9.1   The Bank may include a member from other implementing agencies in the missions
which will engender a more meaningful exchange between different executing agencies.
9.2   The Bank may also consider complementing the missions with persons who have actual
field experience of implementing similar projects in developing countries.



IBRD 19905
PABITTA~~~~)            BANGLADESHIND A
I N D I A                                                                                                                                                                                             MADRAS WATER SUPPLY
AND SANITATION PROJECT
TA / r  rONAIIG,.\   T=GAAALA,PAA.AL    ->                   &  f   T                                WATER   SUPPLY  AND
BRO0,Atpdr7                                                                                                      l                                                       o                                 SEWERAGE FACILITIES
KANNIGAIPER
10'~~~~~ /o E--- BK B.                                                                                                                                                                                                    WELLS
SRI LANKAIN                                                                                              S
4#                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROLECT FEATURES
IjjWELL F ELDS
*  WELLS
o  RECHARGE WELLS
di                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WATER TRANSMBISSOF. MEAINS
,o                                                              :<  X + ~\MANALI t                                             NEW CANALS
NDUR ASTAL                                                  AUGRADEG CHANNEL
WATER TREATMEENT PLAN4T
BOOSTER PUMPING STATIONS
-      CHECK DANMS
Rd HrSom  /EXISTNG FEATURES.
T,:.,_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7WELL F,ELDS
P.. ~~~~~~~~~E*WELLS
WATER TRANSMISSION MAIN.S
WATER TREATMENT PLANT
      BOOSTER PUMPING STAT ONS
-  ANICUTS
RESERYOIRS AND TANKS
RIVERS
T. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,k--  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      *      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANTS
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
4                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
---ERAILROIADS
o    SELECTED VILLAGE
*M~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~MADRAS URBAN AREA
AREEASPRE - HE9
AREAS ADDED IN S978
*--MAGRAS METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT AREA LIMT
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARES
H ILOM EES R
T.   W ,AI.,A,                                                                   T D   . 
MARCH U9H7



IBRD 19906
PAKISTAN      B 
I N  D  I A                                                             To G-mm,dipoo.di                           BANGLADESH_
MADRAS WATER SUPPLY                                                                                               -20   INDIA
AND SANITATION PROJECT
MAIN COMPONENTS OF WATER                                                                                                        Madras
SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
L4;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
\'        SRI LANKA
T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NO.-MDA  U8N  RA
To Ark-o,,,
T. Ar                                                                              I
PROJECT COMPONENTS:
/X =.=! AREA OF REHABILATATION OF
DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS
AREA OF NEW DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
WATER TRANSMISSION MAINS
---   NBOOSTER PUMPING STATIONS
EXISTING WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM:
'I                        ~~~~~~~WATER TREATMENT PLANTS
WATER TRANSMISSION MAINS
j            ~~~BOOSTER PUMPING STATIONS
IF                                                         I                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELEVATED RESERVIORS
To Tt-hlrcirrppoll
[                                                                   -NATIO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AINAL HIGHWAYS
____MAIN ROADS
-I-i   RAILROADS
MADRAS URBAN AREA:
AREA PRE-197B
- AREAS ADDED IN 1978
-- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
To Tiropor-
r mt n 0h. o80 dab. .0,08.
0        1        2         3
KILOMETERS                                                                           MRH18
1 me calweb 1/_        To T u o~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARH  98



IBRD 19907
I N  D  I A                                                                     To                            P4KI,dspoooo,  PAOS:Ar'
MADRAS WATER SUPPLY                                                                                 /                         -20    INDIA   205
AND SANITATION PROJECT
SEWE RAGE SYSTEMO'.  
'-         ;nS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mdo
-100                       0
70    SRI LANKA
To Vellur
TO Ve--ur                                                                                                             PROJECT COMPONENTS,
* \ \    SEWAGE PUMPING STATIONS
TO BE REHABIL TATED
FORCE MAINS
AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENTS TO EXISTING
SEWERAGE COLLECTION SYSTEM
i\'    AREA FOR NEW  SEWERAGE COLLECTION
-/  SYSYEM
EXISTING SEWERAGE COMPONENTS
SEWAGE PUMPING STATIONS
A                               //                                      -.   ARSEWAGE TREATMENT PLANTS
T. /T-chASADDDFORCE MAINS
GRAVITY MAINS
-. r-ITNATIONAL HIGHWAYS
MAIN ROADS
--     RAILROADS
MADRAS URBAN AREA
-> AREA PRE - 1978
AREAS ADDED IN 1978
Tp0e m0, Ns lLeWr S                                                    or      
T:14711   I :11, -11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
T. TThhpo;-r
pNdo/  Wold Sn aSU 
0lmloS0  FnA0c, COW0'fl0                      0         1         2          3
Z,oor oo l,eO                                            K L OMETERS
MARCH 1987



