OFFTICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1822 IN
LOAN NUMBER 2846 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Madras Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      b4   A, 6  / te  , 198


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1822 IN
LOAN NUMBER 2846 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       4mC,mA 1^  C0          , 198Th between
INDIA, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing
to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent   to  fifty   three   million  dollars   ($53,000,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made;
(D) by an agreement of even date herewith among the
Association, the Bank and the Madras Metropolitan Water Supply
and Sewerage Board (hereinafter called MMWSSB), MMWSSB has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out
of the Project;
(E) by an agreement of even date herewith among the
Association, the Bank and the State of Tamil Nadu, acting by its
Governor (hereinafter called Tamil Nadu), Tamil Nadu has agreed,
inter alia, to assist MMWSSB in the carrying out of the Project;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association,
the Bank and MMWSSB, and in the Tamil Nadu Agreement of even date
herewith among the Association, the Bank and Tamil Nadu;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Tamil Nadu" means the State of Tamil Nadu, a State of
India, acting by its Governor;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association, the Bank and MKWSSB of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to
such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Loan Agreement;
(d) "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agree-
ment;
(e) "Tamil Nadu Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association, the Bank and Tamil Nadu of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Tamil Nadu
Agreement;
(f) "Act" means the Madras Metropolitan Water Supply and
Sewerage Act of June 22, 1978, as amended from time to time;
(g) "MMWSSB" means the Madras Metropolitan Water Supply and
Sewerage Board, a statutory organization established under the
Act; and


﻿-3-
(h)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 12,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special account in the Reserve
Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in


﻿-4-
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1997, and ending
February 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2007 shall be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause Tamil Nadu and MMWSSB to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Agreement and
the Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Tamil Nadu and MMWSSB to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.


﻿- 5 -
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Tamil Nadu in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of
India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall* otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
shall be carried out by MMWSSB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders, in-
voices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until at
least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
and
(iii) enable   the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for


﻿-6-
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved
in  their preparation, can be     relied upon   to
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Tamil Nadu shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Tamil Nadu Agreement.
(b) MMWSSB shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(c) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
Tamil Nadu or MMWSSB will be able to perform their obligations
under  the  Tamil Nadu    Agreement  or  the  Project  Agreement,
respectively.
(d) The Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of MMWSSB to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.


﻿-7-
(e) Tamil Nadu or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of MMWSSB or for the suspension of its operations.
(f) Tamil Nadu is unable to regulate the exploitation and
use of groundwater in the Madras Metropolitan Area by June 30,
1988.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and Tamil Nadu or MMWSSB, as
the case may be; and
(b) the event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) or (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by MMWSSB, and is legally binding upon MMWSSB in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Tamil Nadu Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by Tamil Nadu and is legally binding upon Tamil Nadu
in accordance with its terms.


﻿-8-
Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.01 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on the date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary and Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India
Cable address:                     Telex:
ECOFAIRS                          953-313546
New Delhi, India
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDIA
By (
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
d LRegional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the Credit and the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of item to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of the Credit and the Loan to each Category
and the percent of expenditures for items so to be financed in
each Category:
Amount of     Amount of
the Credit    the Loan
Allocated     Allocated
(Expressed    (Expressed      % of
in SDR       in Dollar    Expenditures
Cateaory          Equivalent)  Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Equipment and
materials:
(a) procured         5,170,000   19,700,000  100% of foreign
under inter-                            expenditues,
national                                100% of local
competitive                             expenditures
bidding                                 (ex-factory
cost)
(b) procured            23,000    1,100,000 60%
under local
competitive
bidding
(2) Turnkey works        1,400,000    5,300,000 75%
procured under
international
competitive
bidding
(3) Civil works         5,300,000    20,200,000 60%


﻿- 11 -
Amount of     Amount of
the Credit    the Loan
Allocated     Allocated
(Expressed    (Expressed      % of
in SDR       in Dollar    Expenditures
Category          Equivalent)  Equivalent) to be Financed
(4) Consulting            400,000     1,500,000  100%
services,
technical
assistance,
and training
(5) Unallocated          ------       5,200,000
TOTAL         12,500,000    53,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 320,000 may be made on account of payments made for expendi-
tures before that date but after December 3, 1986.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to expand the water
supply and sewerage facilities for the City of Madras and further
sLrengthen the capacity for: (a) public water policy formulation;
(b) implementation capability and financial and operational
performance of MMWSSB; and (c) the introduction of a pilot low
cost sanitation program in the Madras Metropolitan Area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Augmentation of Water Supply Sources
The development of 3 new well fields in the Kortaliar basin,
construction check dams across the Kortaliar River to retain the
seasonal floods and increase ground water recharge, provide a
barrier against salt water intrusion and seasonal transfer of
flood waters from the Arani River into the Kortaliar River by
linking them with a canal.
Part B:   Improvements to the Water Supply and Distribution
System
The construction of transmission mains, ground level storage
and pumping stations to distribute the additional water and
strengthen the existing distribution network.
Part C:   Improvements to the Sewerage System
The laying of new and replacement sewers, improving of about
10 sewage pumping stations, and provision of collection, trans-
mission and disposal arrangements for sewage in low lying areas
and slums.
Part D:   Institutional Strengthening
The strengthening of the productivity of MMWSSB in key areas
of policy and operational activity through provision of te hnical
assistance, training, civil works, equipment, and an equipment
renovation and replacement fund, and special studies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the .edit
Account or the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Lcount
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as
shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts
not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special


﻿- 14 -
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement, and Article V
of the General Conditions applicable thereto; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories, minus
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association or the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 15 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
No further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount for
crediting to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case
may be.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


