IUhHCIiAL1
LOAN NUMBER 2846 IN
CREDIT NUMBER 1822 IN
Loan Agreement
(Madras Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated        4e,     ,4,/   c-1       198y


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2846 IN
CREDIT NUMBER 1822 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        LocQU>& -/   cU       , 198, between
INDIA, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the
International Development Association (the Association) of even
date herewith (the Development Credit Agreement), has requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association to
provide additional financial assistance towards the financing
of the Project, and by the Development Credit Agreement the
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to twelve million five
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,500,000);
(C) the   Borrower and the Bank     intend, to   the  extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the credit provided for in the
Development Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of expen-
ditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for in this Agreement are made;
(D) by an agreement of even date herewith among the
Association, the Bank and the Madras Metropolitan Water Supply
and Sanitation Board (hereinafter called MMWSSB), MMWSSB has
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the
carrying out of the Project;
(E) by an agreement of even date herewith among the
Association, the Bank and the State of Tamil Nadu, acting by its
Governor (hereinafter called Tamil Nadu), Tamil Nadu has agreed,
inter alia, to assist MMWSSB in the carrying out of the Project;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank
and MXWSSB and in the Tamil Nadu Agreement of even date herewith
among the Association, the Bank and Tamil Nadu;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: (a) paragraph 11
of Section 2.01 is deleted and the following is substituted
therefor:
"11. the term "Project" means the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Madras Water
Supply and Sewerage Project) between the Borrower and the
Association of even date with the Loan Agreement and as the
description thereof may be amended from time to time by
agreement among the Borrower, the Bank and the Association."
(b) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions, and in the
Preamble to this Agreement, and in paragraphs (a) through (j) of
Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement (as hereinafter
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Dev-
elopment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agree-
ments supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b) "Credit"   means  the   credit  provided  for  in   the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty
three million dollars ($53,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement among the Borrower, the
Association, and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project described in Sched-
ule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special account in the Reserve
Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"  means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.


﻿-4-
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per
annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
(iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Articles III and IV of the Development
Credit Agreement and Schedules 1, 2 and 3 thereto, as such
Articles and Schedules may be amended from time to time, are
hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein; provided, however,
that for the purposes of this Agreement: (i) the reference to the
Credit in said Articles shall be deemed to be a reference to the
Loan; (ii) the reference to the Development Credit Agreement in
said Articles shall be deemed to be a reference to this Agree-
ment; (iii) the reference to the Sections of the General
Conditions in Section 3.03 shall be deemed as reference to the
following Sections of the General Conditions Applicable to the
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated January 1, 1985:
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09.
Section 3.02. As long as any part of the Credit shall remain
unwithdrawn or outstanding and unless the Borrower has been
notified otherwise by the Bank, all information furnished by the
Borrower to the Association pursuant to the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be furnished to
both the Association and the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to Tamil Nadu in accordance with the Borrower's
standard procedures for development assistance to the States of
India.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that any event speci-
fied in Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement shall
occur.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof: (a) the events specified in
paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower and Tamil Nadu or MMWSSB, as the case may be; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (d), (e) or (f) of Section
5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement have been
fulfilled, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
prior to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement referred to in this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect among the Borrower, the
Association and the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary and Under Secretary of the


﻿- 6 -
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India
Cable address:                    Telex:
ECOFAIRS                         953-313546
New Delhi, India
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDIA
By t
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By               ' ,
1AX et   Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (Expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1993
through   February 15, 2007               1,765,000
On August 15, 2007                             1,815,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿-9-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                        0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                        0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                       0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                        1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


