Document of
FILE COPY                         The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2300a-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMDCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
POWER PROJECT
IN
WADI HADRAMOUT
June 1, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                           Yemeni Dinar (YD)
YD 1.0 - 1,000 fils
US$ 1                       -           YD 0.345
YD  1                       -           US$ 2.90
YD  1,000                   -           US$ 2,900
YD  1,000,000               -           US$ 2,900,000
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31 (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31 (1975)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1976)
MEASURES
kW                      -           kilowatt
MW (Megawatt)           -           1,000 kW
kWh                                 kilowatt hour
CWh (Gigawatt hour)    -            1,000,000 kWh
kV (kilovolt)          -            1,000 volts
kVA                     -           kilovolt ampere
MVA                     -           1,000 kVA
kgce                    -           kilogram standard coal equivalent
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CBA                     -           Central Board of Audit
MAAR                    -           Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform
PCEP                    -           Public Corporation for Electric
Power
PPF                     -           Project Preparation Facility



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI HADRAMOUT POWER PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Beneficiary:         Public Corporation for Electric Power (PCEP)
Amount:              US$5.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    The Borrower would onlend the entire proceeds of the
credit to PCEP for 20 years including five years of
grace, roughly equivalent to the construction period,
at an interest rate of 7.50 percent per annum.
Droject              The project would provide an impetus to agricultural
Description:        development in Wadi Hadramout by electrifying all irri-
gation water pumping in the Wadi through the erection
of a 16-MW diesel generating plant and the construction
of about 1,000 km of related transmission and distribution
networks. The plant would replace the four inadequate
existing power facilities and by using less-expensive
heavy grade oil would provide significant savings in fuel
costs. As the first stage of an electrification scheme,
it would also supply power for the first time to many of
the major population centers, reaching by 1983 about
80,000 consumers or about 40 percent of the total popu-
lation in the Wadi, and to small industrial consumers.
Institution building objectives would be achieved through
technical assistance comprising training abroad of PCEP's
personnel, and consultants' services for a tariff study,
and a power development study. The project faces no
special risks but implementation delays could result
because of the remoteness of the project site and its
generally low level of development.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1i -
Estimated Cost:
US$ Thousands
Local    Foreign    Total
A.   Power Plant                                 1,450      10,281   11,731
B.   Transmission & Distribution                 1,221      10,092   11,313
C.   Training                                      -           427       427
D.   Studies                                       -           368       368
E.   Physical Contingencies                        135       1,056    1,191
F.   Price Contingencies                           438       2,790    3,228
Total                                       3,244      25,014   28,258
Financing Plan:
US$ Thousands Equivalent
Local      Foreign
Currency    Currency    Total
IDA proposed                                    -           5,000      5,000
Other external sources                                     20,014    20,014
Government                                    3,244          -         3,244
Total                                      3,244        25,014    28,258
Estimated
Disbursements:                                       US$ Thousands
IDA FY     1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Annual                              1,871   1,552       796     570      211
Cumulative                          1,871   3,423   4,219   4,789   5,000
Rate of Return:      15 percent
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2002a-YDR dated May 26, 1978
Regional Projects Department, EMENA



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A POWER PROJECT IN WADI HADRAMOUT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of $5.0 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to
the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), to help finance a power
project in Wadi Hadramout. The proceeds of the credit would be onlent to
the Public Corporation for Electric Power (PCEP) at an interest rate of not
less than 7.50 percent per annum repayable over a period of 20 years,
including five years grace. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Develop-
ment has expressed, in principle, its interest in considering the provision
of about $14.5 million equivalent under parallel financing arrangements.
The Government is exploring with the Islamic Development Bank the provision
of another $5.5 million equivalent towards the total cost of the project.
PART I - ECONOMY
2.         A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economic Position and Pros-
pects of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (1231a-YDR) dated October
11, 1976 was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 29, 1976.
An updating mission visited the country in February/March 1978 and its report
is under preparation. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Development Objectives and Constraints
3.         PDRY became independent in 1967.  Establishing effective government
administration, particularly in the outlying regions where central authority
had traditionally been weak, and reviving a severely depressed economy became
principal objectives of the new regime in the short term. The sudden loss of
expatriate administrators, the termination of British budgetary support and
the closure of the Suez Canal, made these tasks extremely difficult. As the
Government succeeded in overcoming the immediate problems of administration
and economic consolidation, it set out to broaden its economic and social
objectives aimed at diversifying the narrow base of the economy, strengthening
the national cohesion of a traditional tribal society, satisfying basic needs
of the population, and achieving a more equitable distribution of income.
4.         The Government decided to achieve its objectives through increasingly
comprehensive economic and social planning, consistent with its socialist
objectives. This approach was supported by major structural and institu-
tional reforms, the key element of which was the establishment of a strong
and effective public sector. The reforms were initiated with the nationali-
zation of foreign properties in 1969 which brought the bulk of the modern



- 2 -
service sector in and around Aden (banking, insurance, shipping, trading)
under government control. Subsequent investment in manufacturing, power
and mineral exploration has given the public sector a dominant influence
over industrial activities. Two agrarian reform laws enacted in 1968 and
1970 respectively have fundamentally changed the land tenure conditions.
Sharecropping and absenteeism of privileged landowners, which had been the
main features of the area's traditional feudal system, were abolished and
individual ownership of land was limited to a maximum of 8 ha in irrigated
and 16 ha in rainfed areas. Simultaneously, new farm organizations - pro-
duction cooperatives and state farms - were created to facilitate the intro-
duction of modern cultivation and marketing techniques.
5.        Private enterprises were allowed to exist, mainly in trade, handi-
craft and to some extent in manufacturing. But the private sector was given
a subsidiary role and private entrepreneurs were expected to follow the lead
of the public sector. Cooperation between public and private enterprises is
encouraged in some areas, such as light industries, and a limited number of
joint ventures are now active. Foreign private investors have been encouraged
to participate in oil and mineral exploration.
6.        In 1971 the Government launched its first development plan, covering
the three-year period of 1971/72-1973/74. The strategy of that plan reflected
the priorities spelled out above by focussing on (a) employment creation
through a major public spending program; (b) diversification of the economic
structure by investing in the commodity producing sectors, i.e. agriculture,
fishing and industry; (c) strengthening the country's national and economic
cohesion through establishing a basic road network; (d) providing urgently
needed education and health services to all population groups; and (e) redress-
ing a skewed income distribution by improving the living conditions of the
rural and urban poor while at the same time rigorously limiting higher incomes.
The current Five-Year Plan (1974/75-1978) pursues similar objectives as the
first plan, giving even greater emphasis to investment in agriculture, industry
and the social sectors.
7.        In pursuing its development objectives the Government faces formid-
able constraints, the most important ones being limited natural resources,
shortage of foreign exchange, and insufficient technical and managerial skills.
A harsh climate severely limits the area available for cultivation, although
substantial increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher
yields, and by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The
narrow domestic market and few known raw materials limit the scope for indus-
trial development. These constraints are compounded by the rugged topography
which creates severe difficulties for internal communications resulting in
increased domestic transport cost. Returns on investment will therefore not
come easily and will require considerable effort and human skills.
8.        Lack of adequately trained manpower is another major constraint.
Before independence, the country depended largely on expatriate technicians
and managers most of whom left after independence. The Government has tried



- 3 -
to fill the gap with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, including
UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY. In addition, again with foreign
assistance (including IDA), a large education and training program was launched
and in recent years has become increasingly technically oriented. Supported
by scholarships for higher education abroad, the country is now generating
a growing flow of technically trained people who could gradually reduce the
shortage of skilled manpower.
9.        PDRY's economy is heavily dependent on imports.  Having little in-
dustry of its own and a limited agricultural potential, all capital goods,
most intermediate products and a large amount of foodstuffs and other consumer
goods have to be purchased abroad. Its own exchange earnings - mostly from
workers' remittances and services - cover only part of the import bill (average
of 65 percent during 1976-77), the difference being financed largely through
foreign aid. As the economy continues to develop, import requirements are
likely to grow further notwithstanding a certain amount of import substitution.
Increasing the country's exchange earnings thus becomes an urgent need.
Government Expenditure and Financing
10.       The withdrawal of British forces in 1967 and the closure of the Suez
Canal in the same year, left the modern service-oriented economy in and around
Aden with an approximately 30 percent smaller regional income, an extremely
low level of investment (about 3 percent of GNP) and roughly 20,000 people
unemployed (about one fourth of the urban labor force). Foreign exchange
earnings fell by two-fifths while the discontinuation of British budgetary
support reduced government revenue by more than half.
11.       To revive the depressed economy the Government relied primarily on
public spending. Through its Three-Year Plan and the current Five-Year Plan
public investments were increased from US$4 million in 1970 to an estimated
US$113 million in 1976. 1/ In relative terms they rose from about 2 percent
of GNP in 1970 to 24 percent in 1976. The allocation of investment funds was
determined by the above-mentioned priorities (paragraph 6) and appears to
have been well chosen: more than half of all public sector investments during
the current Plan period (1974/75-77) went to the commodity producing sectors
with agriculture and fishing receiving 37 percent, industry 13 percent and
mineral exploration 7 percent. A large share (25 percent) was invested in
transport and communication facilities (mainly roads) while the remaining 18
percent was spent for social services. The sharp increase in public invest-
ment was accompanied by a major expansion of current government spending on
education, health and other public services which, during the first half of
the 1970s, more than doubled in real terms.
12.       To sustain the massive increase in public spending the Government
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. With the low
1/   Preliminary data from the Ministry of Planning indicates that public
sector investment expenditures increased further to about US$165 million
in 1977.



-4
per capita income and little real growth during the earlier part of this
decade, there were definite limitations on raising domestic resources even
though rigorous austerity measures were taken to contain personal incomes and
consumption.
13.       The principal instrument used in mobilizing domestic resources was
taxation and containment of Government employee salaries. New taxes were in-
troduced and tax collection improved. As a result, total government receipts 1/
rose from a level of 12 percent of GNP in 1969/70 to 20 percent in 1976. In
a country with a large subsistence sector and a per capita income of about
$280 in 1976, this would have been difficult to exceed. Government employee
salaries were reduced twice, in 1968/69 and in 1972/73. Notwithstanding
these efforts, domestic resources remained insufficient to cover all public
expenditures.
14.       To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries, and more
recently by Arab nations. In addition, PDRY received support from regional
and international organizations, including IDA and the IMF. The exact amount
of all foreign resources put at the disposal of the country is not known since
some of the commodity aid has not been recorded either in the budget or in the
balance of payments. But, on the basis of identifiable aid, it is estimated
that aggregate disbursements rose from an average level of some $8 million per
annum during 1969/70-1971/72 to about US$150 million in 1977.
Economic Growth
15.       Public investment and current government spending had a large impact
on the level of economic activity. Urban unemployment, a major problem after
independence, has been virtually eliminated. As private per capita consumption
was rigidly contained by severe austerity measures, much of the increase in
public sector demand benefited the poorer population groups in the form of
additional incomes through employment.
16.       Overall growth, although slow in the initial years, accelerated sig-
nificantly towards the mid 1970s. Social and institutional changes slowed
down domestic production during the early 1970s. Private sector activity in
trade and other services which provided a major share of GDP at the time of
independence, declined perceptively as the Government gave priority to the
development of a strong public sector. In addition, growth was also held back
by the time lag between investment and output in the public sector. These
difficulties have, however, been overcome and the average growth rate of GDP
at constant prices increased from about 3 percent per annum during 1970-73 to
an average of about 6 percent during 1974-76.
1/   Including current and development revenues and self-financing of public
enterprises.



17.       Agriculture (including fisheries) is still the most important sector
in PDRY's economy employing about 45 percent of the labor force and contri-
buting 22 percent to the GDP in 1976. Growth in this sector has averaged some
4-6 percent p.a. during 1970-76 largely because of the vigorous expansion
in fish production (over 10 percent p.a.). The fisheries subsector was
stimulated by export opportunities and new investments - partly financed by
IDA - in modern boats, fishing gear and storage facilities. Agricultural crop
output has grown more slowly although major gains were made in the production
of vegetables and fodder crops. The livestock subsector has grown much more
rapidly with the introduction of modern poultry and dairy production. How-
ever, agriculture and fisheries still offer considerable scope for further
expansion and the Government is determined to utilize the potential of the
sector.
18.       Substantial economic growth has been experienced in other sectors,
e.g. manufacturing, construction and transport. The manufacturing sector
(excluding Aden refinery) is still small - less than 7 percent of GDP in 1976
- but has been growing at a rate of 10 percent p.a. since 1969. Import
substitution has been the main thrust of the Government's industrialization
policy with emphasis being given to food processing, textiles and construc-
tion materials. In May 1977, the Government reached agreement with British
Petroleum (BP) to take over the large Aden refinery which had been operating
at only a fraction of its capacity. Technical assistance is being provided by
BP and the refinery has started to process, on a commission basis, crude from
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Libya and other oil countries. Throughput is expected
to expand substantially which should give a major boost to PDRY's industrial
production. Another growth sector has been construction; its share in GDP
rose from 1 percent in 1969 to 9 percent in 1976 as public investments revived
the local construction industry which had suffered severely after independence.
The reopening of the Suez Canal in 1975 has led to a sharp increase of activity
in the Port of Aden which also benefitted from the congestion in the Ports of
Hodeidah in YAR and Jeddah in Saudi Arabia. As a result, a substantial volume
of cargo is now being unloaded at Aden and transported mostly by land to YAR,
and by sea on traditional crafts to Saudi Arabia and the Gulf.
Foreign Payments and External Debts
19.       The rapid expansion of the public sector, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. This trend
was, however, partly offset by austerity measures which sharply curtailed
imports of non-essential consumer goods. In addition, the increase in local
production of foodstuffs and manufactured goods has apparently permitted a
certain amount of import substitution. The volume of imports appears, there-
fore, to have grown relatively slowly until the mid-1970s. Notwithstanding
the constraint on the volume of imports, there has been a rapid increase in
import value, due to the sharp rise in international prices, especially during
1974. The value of imports has more than trebled since the beginning of the
decade from an average of US$89 million per annum during 1970/71 to an estimated
US$346 million in 1977. Besides the devaluation of the US Dollar, this mainly
reflects price increases for foodstuffs and petroleum products and the growing
capital goods imports necessitated by the country's ambitious development



- 6 -
program. The growth in import value has placed a heavy burden on PDRY's
foreign exchange budget, all the more so as the country exports relatively
little and thus benefits only marginally from price rises in the world markets.
20.       Indigenous exports have been able to cover only a minor share of
the import bill. In 1977 they were estimated to be about US$29 million or
some 8 percent of commodity imports. More important than commodity exports
are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by workers' remittances.
The latter declined sharply in the early 1970s but are recovering rapidly -
they increased from US$56 million in 1975 to US$115 million in 1976 and an
estimated US$180 million in 1977. This has been due mainly to rising labor
demand and wage levels in the oil surplus countries, but also been influenced
by a change in Government policy which offers higher interest rates to non-
resident depositors in PDRY's banks and allows private ownership of dwellings
for the use of the owner and his family.
21.       Rising import prices have, however, created a serious shortfall in
PDRY's exchange balance. Total exchange earnings, which in 1969 and 1970 were
still adequate to pay for all imports, covered only about 60 percent of the
import bill in the last three years. As a consequence, the balance on goods
and services showed a rising deficit which amounted to US$114 million in 1977.
A large part of the growing current deficit was financed by foreign aid. As a
result of recent changes in Government policy workers' remittances could
potentially grow further in the future thus helping to ease PDRY's chronic
foreign exchange shortage.
22.       The heavy inflow of foreign resources led to a rapid accumulation
of PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was given in grant
form. Total debt outstanding including undisbursed as of end 1977 amounted
to US$432 million, of which US$241 million was disbursed. Bilateral sources
account for 80 percent of total external debt, with Arab Governments and Funds
providing the bulk (US$125 million), followed by USSR (US$97 million), China
(US$60 million), and other (largely Eastern Bloc) countries (US$57 million).
Multinational aid came from the Arab Fund (US$55 million) and IDA (US$38
million). The terms of these loans are concessionary with an average weighted
interest rate of 1.5 percent, grace period of 6 years, and maturity of 24
years, giving a grant element of more than 60 percent.
23.       The soft terms and the recent nature of PDRY's external debt resulted
in relatively small service obligations so far. Debt service payments at the
end of 1977 were only US$1.5 million, about 0.7 percent of total exports of
goods and services (including workers' remittances). However, PDRY's debt
service obligations are projected to increase steadily through 1983.  This
will exert additional pressure on the already strained balance of payments.
Therefore, in view of the above and the limited resources of the country, the
Bank's assistance to PDRY should continue to be on IDA terms. For the same
reasons, local cost financing by IDA is justified.
24.       In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government national-
ized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (mainly banks, insurance companies
and port services), but not the refinery and bunkering facilities in the port.



- 7 -
This Law provided for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds
bearing interest of 2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits
of all these nationalized companies were to be used for servicing these bonds.
In response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze substan-
tial Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Immediately after the
promulgation of Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of account-
ants of international repute to audit the accounts of all the nationalized
companies and evaluate their assets. The audit report was submitted to the
Government in September 1971. Settlements have since been reached with three
of the foreign companies involved, and contacts with others have been main-
tained with a view to reaching mutually acceptable settlements. The Govern-
ment has indicated to the former owners of nationalized oil companies that in
reaching settlement on their claims it was willing to consider the possibility
of accelerating the redemption of bonds to be issued as compensation. Further-
more, it has invited them to invest in exploring ventures in PDRY. Dialogue
with debtors have, however, been very slow since they have only recently re-
sponded to the Government's efforts to settle claims. The Government professes
its desire to reach a mutually satisfactory solution with all claimant compa-
nies, and has expressed its willingness to consider such settlement outside
the terms of the 1969 Nationalization Law. It is also considering becoming
a member of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
25.       The proposed credit for the first power project would be the Asso-
ciation's ninth operation in PDRY, bringing total IDA commitments to US$48
million. PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member
of IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971 and after a hiatus of about two
years (February 1976 to February 1978) because IDA funds allocated to PDRY for
this period had been committed more rapidly than envisaged, resumed again in
1978. Of the present total IDA commitment, about 47 percent (US$20.3 million)
was for assistance in building up physical infrastructure and strengthening
institutions in the transportation sector, through the provision of three
highway credits and a credit for the rehabilitation and modernization of the
Aden port. One of the highway projects was successfully completed in December
1975. An engineering credit was refinanced under the credit for the Second
Highways (Mukalla-Saywun road) project now under way. Agriculture (including
fisheries) employs about 45 percent of PDRY's labor force and contributed
about 22 percent to the country's GDP in 1976. Although the cultivable area
is severely limited by difficult terrain and harsh climatic conditions, the
potential for increasing agricultural output through use of improved inputs
and modern practices is considerable. IDA has assisted in the development
of agriculture and fisheries through the provision of four credits amounting
to US$17.3 million or about 40 percent of total commitments. The first
fisheries project was beset by cost overruns and as a result a supplementary
credit was approved in FY75 to provide the additional financing needs. Two
agricultural credits approved in FY76 and FY78 respectively focus primarily
on increasing yield through the introduction of modern inputs and cultural



-8-
practices in Wadi Hadramout and Wadi Tuban. An IDA credit of US$5.4 million
approved in FY75 for an education project will assist in alleviating the prob-
lems of inadequate facilities and shortage of suitably qualified teachers.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA Credits as of April 30, 1978, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
26.       The Association's lending program in PDRY aims mainly at supporting
the Government's long-range economic objective of broadening the base of a
service-oriented economy centered around Aden, by developing the productive
capacity of the other sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the
outlying regions. Efforts have been directed towards projects in the trans-
port sector, which would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of
PDRY, but, more importantly, link production areas with the main markets.
Other sectors where the Association has assisted and will continue to assist,
are in the fields of education and training and in agriculture, including the
key fisheries subsector. Technical assistance and institution-building will
continue to be an integral feature in the Association's projects in PDRY.
27.       Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.
A follow-up Agricultural project in Wadi Hadramout is expected to result from
an ongoing study by consultants financed under the first Wadi Hadramout
project. A Second Fisheries project (based in a remote region of PDRY) is
also being prepared for possible lending in future years. Studies to prepare
a Third Highway project are included under the ongoing Second Highway project.
As in the recent past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substan-
tially higher than the funds the Association can provide to PDRY. Therefore,
efforts will be continued to encourage other development agencies to join the
Association in the financing of suitable projects. The Association has, be-
tween FY71 and FY78, successfully played a catalytic role through its projects
in securing about $35.7 million of cofinancing (excluding the $20 million co-
financing expected for this project - para. 50) from other aid donors (UNDP
$0.7 million; Kuwait Fund $15.3 million; and the Arab Fund $19.4 million).
In this manner, IDA projects would assist in increasing the inflow of develop-
ment aid to the country.
PART III - THE POWER AND ENERGY SECTOR
28.       A Bank sector mission which visited PDRY in May 1976 provided the
first detailed description of the sector, highlighted some of the key con-
straints affecting development and identified the priority needs for devel-
opment. A report entitled "Memorandum on Power and Energy sector, People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen" (No. 1263b-YDR) dated April 22, 1977 was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors in May, 1977.
Energy and Power Resources
29.       The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) has no known
indigenous energy resources other than Lraditional fuels, such as firewood,
vegetable waste and animal dung, and is dependent largely on imported oil



- 9 -
for its total energy requirements. While exploration activities have been
under way for sometime, the results to date have not been very promising. On
a per capita basis, PDRY's energy consumption is one of the lowest in the
world and is below -the average for all developing countries. In 1974, for
which the most reliable data are available, its per capita energy consump-
tion was 360 kg standard coal equivalent (kgce) compared to the developing
countries' average of 394 kgce and is at the bottom range for all countries
(12 - 19,500 kgce per capita). The Government-owned Aden Refinery, built in
1954, supplies all the petroleum products refined from the imported crude.
The Yemen National Oil Company, also Government-owned, is responsible for
the marketing and distribution of the refined products.
30.       PDRY's power generation is limited to the Aden area and to a few
municipalities along the coast and in the interior relying mainly on small
isolated diesel plants. The country's total installed capacity is about
90 MW, of which about 80 MW (including the Aden Refinery's 20 MW) is located
in Aden, comprising mostly steam and diesel units. The steam units are,
however, old and have been steadily losing efficiency since 1965. Greater
reliance is placed on the diesel units, particularly the new Khormaksar plant
in Aden completed in 1975. This plant is able to operate on heavy fuel oil,
and thus has the lowest operating cost. The municipalities outside Aden
operate a multitude of diesel units with a wide range of ratings and origins.
This has resulted in expensive and unreliable operation and a growing shortage
of supply. Of the areas served by electricity, only four towns outside Aden
have continuous 24-hour service and the rest are limited to a few hours at
night and by special arrangement at other times. In 1976 only a small pro-
portion of the population, about 22 percent of the 1.7 million people had
access to electricity.
Organization
31.       Up to December 1969 no single entity was responsible for the supply
of public electricity in PDRY. Besides the Aden Electricity Corporation,
an autonomous undertaking established in 1963, there were some 30 small utili-
ties of mixed ownership - municipal, private, and Governmental - scattered
throughout the country and providing limited service to an equal number of
communities. Recognizing the need to consolidate the existing disparate
systems into a unified whole under a single organization capable of meeting
the growing demands for power, the Government, in 1969, established the Public
Corporation for Electric Power (PCEP). A program of gradual takeover of all
public power facilities was initiated immediately thereafter. So far, PCEP
has assumed direct control in Aden, Abyan, Mukalla, Saywun (see map), and in
most of the remaining larger municipalities, and provides supervisory service
and assistance to the others.
32.       PCEP is a Government-owned company run by a seven man board reporting
to the Minister of Industries. In addition to the Executive Chairman, the
members are PCEP's Chief Engineer, Chief Electrical Inspector, Chief Accountant,
two workers' representatives (the first secretary of the ruling party from
among the members of the PCEP staff, and PCEP's trade union secretary), and
the Director of Projects from the Ministry of Industries. As is common for



- 10 -
other public sector enterprises in PDRY, PCEP's Board resembles a self-
management arrangement. The charter creating PCEP has conferred on the
Board all necessary powers to run a public utility efficiently, except that
in all matters affecting other sectors of the economy the Board's proposals
would require ministerial consent.
33.       With almost 90 percent of PCEP's total generating capacity located
in Aden, the majority of its total work force of 1,540 is concentrated in
this area. Without exception, senior positions in the engineering, accounting,
planning, administrative and consumer-relations departments are filled by
qualified, experienced and dedicated persons, but some of these managers could
benefit from short retraining exposure in utilities abroad (para. 48). As
a result of conscientious management, PCEP has performed commendably in
operating and maintaining the plant and equipment it inherited after inde-
pendence. It has specialized crews for maintenance, repair and installation
of networks, including extensions of the power system. Since 1972, its staff,
without any external assistance, has completed through force account in Aden
and its vicinity, some 1,000 km of transmission and distribution lines and
erected transformer stations with a total capacity of about 160 MVA. In spite
of its existing capabilities, the most urgent problem facing PCEP is the
comparative dearth of qualified personnel gravitating upwards towards posi-
tions of departmental responsibility. The gap between present departmental
heads and their support staff is very wide, due to recruitment difficulties
imposed by the limitations of the local educational system and the stiff
competition for the few selected individuals who travel abroad annually for
higher education and training. The problem of manpower shortage is expected
to intensify over the next five years during which additional plants are
expected to be commissioned to meet the growing power needs of the country.
The training component included in the project is designed to alleviate this
problem.
Power Market
34.       Following independence in 1967, there was a sharp decline in peak
demand for power in Aden, the largest market in the country, from about 33 MW
in 1966 to about 24 MW in 1970 due to the departure of the sizeable community
of expatriates. Electricity sales also declined well below pre-independence
levels from 145 GWh 1/ in 1965 to 114 GWh in 1975 because of official Government
policy which has restricted air conditioning and other convenience loads under
an austerity program. As such, domestic consumption, the single largest cate-
gory, accounting for about 35 percent of the Aden market, has remained rela-
tively unchanged since 1969. The industrial load remained steady around 27
percent until 1975 but declined in the following year to about 11 percent due
to the reclassification of some industrial consumers into the new agro-
industries category, the most rapidly growing of all. As a result of the
Government's priority objective of developing agriculture, the most promising
of its few known meagre resources, agro-industries received strong encourage-
ment and its share rose from 7 percent of electricity sales in 1975, when
1/   Gigawatt hour (GWh) = 1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)



- 11 -
this category was introduced, to 20 percent in 1976. For the areas outside
Aden, accounting for about 14 percent of the country's installed generating
capacity, no sales data are available prior to 1974. However, from that
year to the present, consumption of electricity has steadily increased in
Mukalla, the second largest city in PDRY, registering an increase of about
60 percent in 1977 over the 1974 figures.
35.       Based on preliminary figures for 1977, it is likely that power con-
sumption in 1978 will reach pre-independence levels with increasing economic
activity, and continue to grow thereafter. Detailed forecasts available for
the Aden system indicate an average annual growth rate for electricity sales
of about 13 percent over the next five years, increasing from about 130 GWh
in 1977 to about 270 GWh in 1983. Agro-industries are expected to claim the
bulk of the increase. Electricity sales in Mukalla are expected to grow at
the rate of 27 percent per annum, increasing from about 5.3 GWh in 1977 to
about 23 GWh in 1983. Most of the additional demand will be from the new fish
meal plant, a fish-canning factory, cold storage installations, one of which
is being constructed under the IDA-financed Fisheries credit (No 370-YDR),
and several other new projects. In Wadi Hadramout, the largest agricultural
region in the country (para. 40), electricity sales are expected to grow from
an estimated 1.5 GWh in 1977 to about 38 GWh in 1983, largely as a result of
the planned electrification of irrigation pumping systems and of the major
towns and villages in the area.
Sector Development Strategy and Investment
36.       Following its establishment, PCEP decided upon a policy of en-
couraging electrification of villages to improve living conditions so as to
forestall the drift of rural population to the towns. But financial stringency
has prevented it from implementing this policy. Following the oil price
increases of 1973 and 1974, the Government was forced into rearranging its
priorities for the development of the power subsector. It adopted in 1975
a more pragmatic strategy with the main objective of ensuring the adequate
expansion of power supplies for productive purposes, especially in connection
with planned industrial and agricultural development. Provision of electricity
for essentially amenity purpos.es (e.g. domestic use) is accordingly given
low priority. Future rural and village electrification is, therefore, likely
to take place only in association with agro-industrial development.
37.       Development planning at the national level has formally existed in
PDRY since its independence. However, the development of the power subsector
is not based on long-term plans (15-20 years) resulting from least-cost studies,
but rather on ad hoc measures aimed at covering immediate needs, especially in
the few areas with electricity supply. This is the result of the obvious needs
of the subsector and the lack of sufficient numbers of qualified staff to under-
take the planning task. A master electrification plan for the entire country,
with a first priority for the Aden area, covering the First, Second and Third
Governorates, is urgently needed to prevent haphazard expansion and consequent
waste of resources. Preparation of this development plan, which will require
services of outside consultants, has been included in the Project (para. 43).



- 12 -
38.       Total investment for power by PCEP in the period 1972-1976 was some
YD6.9 ($20) million or about 11 percent of total public investments for the
same period. Compared to this, the investment for 1978-1983 is expected to be
YD 44.4 ($129) milLion. About 65 percent of the investment will be for the
expansion of the Aden system with nearly all the balance earmarked for the
establishment of the new Wadi Hadramout system (Part IV below). The Saudi
Fund and the Abu Dhabi Fund together approved about $100 million in 1977 for
the construction in Aden of a 60 MW diesel plant, expected to be commissioned
in 1980, and for the development of networks to provide for the growth in
demand.
Tariffs
39.       Tariffs are fixed by the Government through decision of the Council
of Ministers acting upon PCEP's tariff proposals. Tariffs in the Aden area
are broadly classified into four categories with agricultural load being
charged the lowest, the next highest is for Yemeni domestic consumers, the
third is for Government, municipalities and bulk supplies and the highest
for temporary supplies. During 1976 the average cost of electricity sold was
22.3 fils (6.47 USE) per kWh and the average revenue was 21 fils (6.21 USE)
per kWh. Agricultural load accounted for over 20 percent of total demand but
yielded only 8.6 percent of total revenue. In Wadi Hadramout, current tariffs
are 50 fils (14.5 USO) per kWh for lighting and fans and 25 fils (7.25 USi)
per kWh for pumps and refrigerators (both commercial and domestic). In
setting lower tariffs for the agricultural load, the Government hopes to
encourage a more rapid development of agriculture and its ancilliary agro-
industries. However, this policy of charging less than marginal cost may
introduce economic distortions, and also does not allow PCEP to operate on a
commercial basis, preventing it from generating a surplus to help cover its
investment needs. The result is heavy reliance for its expansion program on
external assistance and on Government budgetary allocations for which there
are competing demands from other sectors. Revision of its tariff structure
taking into account marginal costing principles is, therefore, recommended.
This will be done on the basis of a tariff study to be financed under the
project. The Government has agreed to complete the study by December 31,
1979, with the assistance of consultants, employed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association and to take all action to promptly implement
the revised tariff system (Section 3.03(a), Development Credit Agreement).
Project Area - Wadi Hadramout
40.       The Wadi Hadramout (see map) with an area of about 1,200 sq km and
some 200,000 inhabitants (13 percent of the country's population) is the
largest agricultural region in PDRY and is also the center of an ancient and
well-preserved civilization. It is situated in the central and isolated part
of the country at a distance of about 500 km by air and 950 km by road from
Aden. About one-third of the Wadi area is cultivable and is primarily
dependent upon spate waters and groundwater for irrigation. Groundwater is
extracted from some 2,000 open and 100 deep wells with the use of diesel pumps,
most of which are old, subject to frequent breakdowns and badly in need



- 13 -
of replacement. Significant savings could be realized by electrifying the
pumps through power supplied from a central generating station. In pursuing
its national objective of according high priority to the development of
agriculture, the Government has undertaken several projects in the Wadi with
financial assistance from IDA, UNDP, the Kuwait Fund and other bilateral
sources. Some of the more important of these are the IDA and Kuwait Fund
financed Second Highways Project (Credit 560-YDR) which would link Mukalla on
the coast with Saywun and other important towns in the Wadi by end 1979,
thereby providing the means to mobilize a large share of the country's agri-
cultural resources; the IDA financed Wadi Hadramout Agricultural project
(Credit 615-YDR), the primary objective of which is to increase agricultural
output through the introduction of improved practices and modern inputs; and
the establishment, through bilateral assistance of State farms to take the
lead in adopting new methods and function as demonstration farms. The Gov-
ernment also has plans of starting in the near future, new agro-industry
projects including a date packing and processing factory, a tomato paste and
vegetable canning factory, and prefabricated and building materials factories.
41.       The tempo of activities envisaged for the development of the Wadi
in the coming years would significantly boost the demand for power (para. 34).
Of the total installed capacity in the Wadi of about 3.5 MW, only the power
plant in Saywun, with a capacity of about 1 MW belongs to PCEP. The present
system of generation and supply of electricity in the Wadi is less than
satisfactory since 24 hour service which is subject to frequent interruptions,
is available only in Saywun, reaching about 5 percent of the total Wadi
population. Also, power is supplied by several small and dispersed diesel
units, most of which are inefficient because of age and rarely perform up
to their full rated capacity.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The project was identified by the Bank energy sector mission (para.
28) and was prepared by the Government and a British firm of consultants,
Preece, Cardew and Rider, who were financed by an advance from the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). The project is based on the findings of the
appraisal mission of November 1977 and on the discussions of February 1978
between the Government, the Arab Fund, a likely major cofinancier, and the
Bank. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1978. PDRY's delegation
was headed by Mr. Jaffer Hamed, Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Plan-
ning and included representatives of PCEP. A staff appraisal report entitled
"Appraisal of Wadi Hadramout Power Project" (No. 2002a-YDR), dated May 26,
1978, is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. A map of
the Aden system and one of the project area are attached to this report.
Project Description
43.       In order to facilitate agricultural development in Wadi Hadramout,
the Government has launched a program to replace the existing 2,000 open
wells on the cooperative farms now run mostly by dilapidated diesel pumps,



- 14 -
with tube wells that could reach lower aquifers for water with a lower salt
content. The project aims at electrifying all future water pumping in the
Wadi by erecting a central generating plant using mainly less-expensive heavy
grade oil and thereby effecting significant savings of fuel and operating
costs. It is the first stage of an electrification scheme which would also
supply power for the first time to many of the major population centers and
to the small industrial consumers. The project, which would be completed by
1983, includes a 16-MW (4x4 MW) diesel power plant at Qaraw (see map), about
1,000 km of transmission and distribution network, three substations, one
each at Qaraw, Al Qatn in the West and Al Ghuraf in the East of the Wadi,
about 500 transformers, meters and service connections for about 7,500 new
consumers and drilling equipment for the erection of overhead lines. The
project also includes provisions for training material and about twenty
man-years of training for PCEP personnel as well as technical assistance
comprising about 197 man-months of consultants' services for construction
supervision, a tariff study (para. 39), and a power development study. The
average cost per man-month of consultants' services, including subsistence and
transportation, is estimated at about $8,000. Provision has also been made in
the project to refinance the advance from the PPF (para. 42).
44.       It is envisaged that the second stage of the electrification scheme
(not included in the project) would comprise the addition to the power plant
of another 4 MW diesel unit, a new substation at Tarim, and the extension of
the distribution networks. These additional works would be implemented after
1983 if the development of water pumping in Wadi Hadramout proceeds according
to present expectations. A firm of French consultants, financed under the IDA
Wadi Hadramout Agricultural Credit (No. 615-YDR) is now carrying out a study,
part of which will be concerned with the determination of additional ground-
water potential that can be safely used for irrigation. The start of work on
the second stage would depend upon the outcome of the study confirming that
additional groundwater extraction would be possible.
Project Execution
45.       Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of PCEP
(para. 31), which would be assisted by an engineering consultant for the
detailed design. The consultant would also provide guidance in project exe-
cution. With this assistance, PCEP would be fully capable of undertaking the
construction, through force account, of the network components of the project.
No major problems are anticipated in this regard since PCEP has specialized
crews and has, in the past, successfully undertaken similar works in the Aden
area. The appointment of an engineering consultant acceptable to the Associa-
tion will be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(d), Development
Credit Agreement). PCEP has also agreed to have the networks designed and
costed in detail prior to construction. The construction of the power plant
and the supply and installation of equipment would, however, be carried out
by experienced foreign contractors. Suitable port facilities are available
both at Aden and Mukalla for the off-loading of imported materials and equip-
ment. An asphalt road from Aden to Mukalla has recently been completed and



- 15 -
an all-weather 300 km long road is now being constructed from Mukalla to
Saywun in the Wadi (para. 40). Its completion, which is expected by December
1979, would greatly facilitate the transportation of heavy equipment, since it
passes by Qaraw, the site of the power plant, and would also greatly reduce
the risk of damage to the equipment in transit. The power plant is scheduled
to be commissioned in the period October 1980 to May 1981.
46.       Since about 90 percent of PCEP's installed capacity is in the Aden
area, almost all its qualified and experienced staff are stationed there. How-
ever, in order to undertake the surveying, designing, costing and construction
of the networks, PCEP would require adequate staff with appropriate qualifica-
tions based in the Wadi for the duration of the construction period. The
establishment of an adequately staffed project unit headed by a qualified
full-time engineer will be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
5.01(e), Development Credit Agreement). In constructing these networks, it
is essential that PCEP properly coordinate its activities with the tube well
drilling program (para. 43) being implemented in the Wadi by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR). To ensure this, the Government has
agreed to assign by December 31, 1978, a senior representative of PCEP to the
local Advisory Committee for the Hadramout Project Organization, a new unit
created by and responsible to MAAR to implement the IDA financed Agricultural
Project (Credit 615-YDR) (Section 3.02, Development Credit Agreement). For
the operation and maintenance of the completed project, PCEP has agreed to set
up by June 30, 1980 an operating unit in Wadi Hadramout under such management
and operational procedures as shall be acceptable to the Association. The
structure and responsibilities of the new unit would be proposed to the
Association by PCEP by December 31, 1979 (Section 3.04(c), Project Agreement).
Training
47.       Normal attrition of manpower, movements to the small private sector,
and the implications of the planned expansion in the five-year period 1979-
1983, point to the need for an additional 400 skilled workers, 100 technicians
and supervisors and 20 management-level staff by 1983. PCEP operates a small
training center adjacent to the existing steam generating station at Aden,
with two engineers working full-time conducting courses for newly recruited
and existing staff. These programs are largely theoretical as virtually no
training equipment exists. The management of PCEP intends to create a new
and better equipped training center at the site of the planned 60 MW diesel
station in Aden (Mansoura) to be financed by the Saudi and Abu Dhabi Funds,
to provide needed back-up training on the maintenance of specialized plant
used by PCEP. Once the new diesel station is constructed, and the PCEP train-
ing center moved to its new site, training equipment and audio visual training
programs will be necessary for the center to carry out its function of provid-
ing in-service part-time training for staff from the generation, operation
and transmission/distribution departments. PCEP will be responsible for
implementing the training program. The proposed credit would provide about
$150,000 to cover the foreign exchange cost of the training hardware and
software.



- 16 -
48.       To retrain and equip some of its present managers with updated tech-
niques and to fill its future managerial needs, the project also provides for
about twenty man-years of training abroad. The Director of Planning has
had little experience in planning techniques and would be attached from
six to nine months to a medium-sized utility abroad to gain such experience.
Similarly, the Chief Accountant would be given the opportunity of updating
his skills by a period of overseas assignment. Training would also be given
to future deputy departmental managers to enable them to assume greater
responsibility; and higher education and training have also been provided
for newly-recruited secondary school leavers of high calibre in preparation
for the future careers up to middle and upper management. PCEP has agreed to
submit to the Association before December 31, 1978 qualifications and proposed
programs for individuals selected for training abroad (Section 2.03, Project
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The total cost of the project exclusive of taxes is estimated at
$28.26 million including contingencies; the foreign exchange component is
$25.01 million (88 percent). Major items of expenditure are $11.73 million
for the power plant, $11.31 million for the transmission and distribution
networks, $0.80 million for training and the tariff and power master plan
studies, and $4.42 million for contingencies.
50.       The IDA credit of $5.0 million (about 18 percent of total cost)
would finance the foreign costs of materials and equipment required for the
transmission and distribution networks (except the overhead lines), line
construction equipment, engineering for the proposed networks, the training of
PCEP personnel, the tariff study, and the repayment of the PPF advance. The
remaining components would be financed by the Government and other external
cofinanciers. The Government's contribution of about $3.24 million (12
percent of total cost) would cover the entire local cost component. The Arab
Fund has indicated in principle its interest in participating in the project
under parallel financing arragements with an equivalent of some $14.5 million
and has already completed appraisal. The Government is continuing its discus-
sions with the Islamic Development Bank for the provision of about $5.5 mil-
lion under parallel financing arrangements to cover the balance of the finan-
cing requirements. The signing of loan agreements between the Government and
external cofinanciers will be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
5.01(c), Development Credit Agreement).
Onlending
51.       The Government would onlend the entire proceeds of the credit to
PCEP for 20 years including five years of grace, roughly equivalent to the
construction period, at an interest rate of 7.50 percent per annum. The
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and PCEP will
be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b), Development Credit
Agreement). The exchange rate variations would be borne by the Borrower.
It is expected that the Arab Fund loan to the Government would also be onlent
to PCEP on terms similar to those proposed above while that of the Islamic



- 17 -
Development Bank would be passed on by the Government to PCEP at the original
terms which have been taken as 20 years amortization, including five years
grace, at an interest rate of 2 percent per annum. The Government contribution
would, however, be in the nature of equity capital.
Financial Aspects
52.       Since its formation, PCEP's revenues have not matched its operating
expenses except in fiscal year 1975 when it had a small operating surplus.
Losses have been subsidized by the Government from its "Equalizing Fund
Account" which is funded from an equalizing tax payable by all corporations
at five percent of the income taxes due. Largely because of slow payment of
electricity bills by the Government, PCEP's receivables for electricity sales
have been high, averaging about 200 days' sales each year. About two-thirds
of the receivables are accounted for by some eight-year old bills unpaid by
the Government and amounting to about YDl.0 ($2.9) million. Inventories have
been maintained at high levels ranging between 8 to 14 months supply and its
management also needs improving. An additional problem is the unrealistically
high depreciation rates PCEP has been charging on its various categories of
assets (average depreciation rate in 1976 was 8 percent) resulting in high
depreciation expenses with corresponding adverse impact on income. Discus-
sions on all these matters have already been initiated with PCEP and the
Government, and the latter has agreed to take immediate action to off-set its
electricity dues against the Corporation's debts to it totalling YD1.3 ($3.77)
million. PCEP has confirmed that it has already initiated measures to improve
its billing system and inventory management and has acquired and installed a
computer in April 1978 for these purposes. With regard to the use of appro-
priate depreciation rates, PCEP has undertaken to commence using average rates
of about 4.5 percent conforming to normal utility practices, effective with
the accounting year starting in 1978.
53.       In view of PCEP's enormous capital requirements estimated at YD44.4
($128) million for the years 1978-1983 (present fixed assets, including work
in progress - YD6.2 ($18.0) million), and the limited Government resources,
PCEP's present financial objective, as laid down in the law creating PCEP, of
generating enough revenue to cover expenses including interest, is no longer
realistic. It would be more desirable for PCEP to have as its objective
the generation of a reasonable proportion of its capital expansion requirement.
Considering the magnitude of these requirements, and the level of tariff ad-
justments necessary to reach the objective, a rate of return of 8 percent on
realistically valued assets would seem an adequate ultimate objective. To
avoid imposing an immediate financial burden on PCEP's customers, it is pro-
posed to achieve this objective in stages starting with PCEP breaking even
in its operations in 1980, achieving a rate of return of 2 percent in 1981,
and steadily increasing thereafter to reach 8 percent in 1985 and in suc-
ceeding years. In order to do this, PCEP would need to increase its average
tariffs effective January 1, 1980, by about 20 percent, and to further increase
average tariffs from time to time. Most of these increases would, however,
be to offset the effects of inflation. With the proposed increases, PCEP
would generate about 22 percent of its estimated investment requirements in
1980, about 34 percent, 25 percent and 44 percent in 1981, 1982 and 1983,



- 18 -
respectively, which are considered adequate. The figures for the outer years
may, however, be overestimated since PCEP's future investment program is not
well defined. This problem will be addressed by the power development study
(para. 43). The intermediate financial targets for the years 1982, 1983
and 1984 will be agreed with the Association by December 31, 1981. Agreement
was reached with PCEP on the above financial objective (Section 4.03, Project
Agreement). It was also agreed that by December 31, 1979, PCEP would submit
for the Association's comments its methods for revaluing assets and promptly
thereafter incorporate changes in its methods as shall be agreed with the
Association (Section 4.03(c) (vi), Project Agreement). Also, since the finan-
cial performance is extremely sensitive to fuel costs, the Government has
agreed to allow PCEP to adjust its tariffs taking into account changes in its
fuel costs through a suitable fuel cost adjustment provision in the tariffs
(Section 3.03(b), Development Credit Agreement).
54.       As required by law, PCEP's accounts are audited by the Central Board
of Audit (CBA) which has a resident audit group permanently assigned to conduct
a concurrent audit. In addition, it also performs the normal year-end audits.
The Board satisfies the criterion of independent auditors and is acceptable to
the Association. PCEP has agreed to furnish to the Association its audited
accounts within a period of five months after the close of the fiscal year
(Section 4.02, Project Agreement).
55.       In order to ensure that PCEP does not assume heavy debt service
burdens which would jeopardize its financial viability, it has agreed not to
incur additional long-term debts after January 1, 1979, without the Associa-
tion's concurrence if its net revenue before depreciation and interest for
the fiscal year next proceeding such borrowing, or for a later 12 month
period ending prior to such borrowing, is less than 1.5 times the maximum
debt service requirements, including those on the debt to be incurred (Section
4.04, Project Agreement). To monitor its financial and operating performance,
PCEP has agreed to adopt suitable performance indicators by June 30, 1979
(Section 3.04(a), Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Procurement for items financed by the Association would be through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits except that items valued
below $20,000 and aggregating to not more than $200,000 will be procured in
accordance with international shopping procedures which are acceptable to the
Association. For items financed by other external agencies, procurement would
be in accordance with their guidelines. Disbursements from the proceeds of
the credit will be for 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for equipment
and materials for substations, transformer stations and line construction
equipment, consultants' services relating to networks, tariff and feasibility
studies, training equipment and training abroad of PCEP personnel.
Benefits and Risks
57.       The project would make a significant contribution both to the PDRY
power sector and to the development of Wadi Hadramout. In terms of the sector,



- 19 -
it would provide for the strengthening of PCEP's financial base through a
program of tariff restructuring. This would enable PCEP to finance an increas-
ingly larger share of its investment requirements rising from almost nothing
in 1977 to about 20 percent in 1980 and 44 percent in 1983. The tariff study
would provide additional data to PCEP to further review and set its tariffs on
a sound basis consistent with its investment objectives. The power development
study would determine the least cost development program for meeting the future
power requirements of the entire country and thereby prevent haphazard expansion
and consequent waste of resources. PCEP management would be strengthened
through appropriate training abroad of its personnel and would thus be able to
play a more dynamic role in the future development of the sector.
58.       The implementation of the project would give an added impetus to
the development process already underway in Wadi Hadramout, one of the few
areas with agricultural resource potential and upon which heavy reliance is
placed by the Government for the overall future development of the country.
The erection of a central generating plant would replace the four inadequate
existing facilities and result in substantial savings in fuel costs through
the use of less expensive heavy oil. Savings would also be realized in fuel
transportation costs since the 2,000 diesel pumps operating the open wells
would be electrified and supplied with power from a central plant, thus elim-
inating the need for innumerable trips to refuel the pumps. A social benefit
of the project would be the improvement in the quality of life for some 80,000
people (about 40 percent of the total population in Wadi Hadramout) who would
be supplied with electricity by 1983. An additional benefit is the increased
potential for the initiation of small cottage industries with employment
potential that could stem rural migration. The project is not expected to
have any adverse impact on the environment.
59.       The risks of the project from the technical standpoint are no
greater than those normal for projects of this type. Although PCEP has had
previous experience in performing work similar to that to be undertaken as
part of the project and is well qualified for the task, there is some risk
of delay in implementation because of the remoteness of the project area and
its generally low level of development.
60.       As a basis for estimating the benefits of the project, the current
price of electricity paid by the ultimate consumers and the savings in fuel
costs due to the use of cheaper fuel by the central power plant, and the
savings in the cost of transporting fuel to the Wadi to one central plant
instead of the existing four locations, were used. The costs of the project
consist of the investment and operating and maintenance costs and the economic
cost of fuel.  Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return on the
project investment is estimated at about 15 percent. Sensitivity analysis
shows that this rate of return would exceed 10 percent should the cost of the
project increase by 20 percent.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Demo-
cratic Republic of Yemen and the Association, the Project Agreement between
the Public Corporation for Electric Power and the Association, and the Recom-
mendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section I(d) of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
62.       Features of special interest in the draft Credit Agreement are
listed in Section III of Annex III. The following are additional conditions
of effectiveness: (i) the ratification of the Project Agreement by all
necessary Governmental and corporate action (Section 5.01(a), Development
Credit Agreement); (ii) the execution of the subsidiary loan agreement be-
tween the Borrower and PCEP (Section 5.01(b), Development Credit Agreement);
(iii) the signing of loan agreements between the Borrower and the external
co-financiers for an amount of about $20 million (Section 5.01(c), Develop-
ment Credit Agreement); (iv) the appointment of an engineering consultant
for the project (Section 5.01(d), Development Credit Agreement); and (v)
the establishment of the Project Unit (Section 5.01(e), Development Credit
Agreement).
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 1, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PEOPLES OEM  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET             Pag   1  o
LAND AREA '(THOU KM2)                               ---                          
---------------                                   YEMEN PEOPLES DEM REP                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       338.1                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.         1.1**                    1960       1970   ESTIMATE           SUDAN          EGYPT          SYRIAN ARAB REP.***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                        ,,/a   240.0/a*   280.O/a*             160.C *   170.0*        450.0 *
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             11         1.5        1 7 /a            14.0        33.3          6.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         3.0        4.0        5. t/a             6.0        33.0        34.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           ..   1364.0   1545.07a                 46.0      1172.0        56.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          50.8       50.2       49.6               48.9        42.1        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE l/THOU,AV)           30.7       24.4       20.6               20.2        17.0         16.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           ..         ..      40.0                   *       116.0        93.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY At BIRTH (YRS)        37.2       42.3      44.8                46.1        49.9        53.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 .-        3.5        3.5                3.4         3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                             3.4        2.7/b              2.2/a       2.6         3.3
URBAN                                   ..         ..         ..                5.5         3.6          5.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)             ..         ..       35.3                11.8       42.1        43.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                          ,,       39.8      47.3                45.0        44.0        46.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                          ,,       55.6      47.6                52.0        52.0        50.8
65 YEARS AND OVER                       ..        4.6        5.1                3.0         4.0         3.2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      ..        0.6        1.1                 0.9         0.9         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ..        1.6 /b     2.0/C               1.s/b       1.7         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..         ..         ..                  ..      488.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..                 ..           .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)           300.0      400.0     440.0             4500.0       8300. o/a b 1500.o/a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          71.0       62.0      42.9               80.0         53.0ot    49.o/a
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            9.0         ..         ..                            3.0         6.4
INCOME DISTR;BUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                 ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..               49.2 /C
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               .,         ,.         .                 5.1 7        ..
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..        i. 14.5 7                       ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
------------------------------
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..   32380.0  10750.0               14200.0      1910.0      3860.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                                                  14.          600C 23
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                     1980.      0                   1740 0      1840.0/C   2730.0/b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)                     84.0      86.0                91.0        94.O       102.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY).                         56.0      57.0                63.0        66.0        70.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            .       37. 0 /c       *               240/e       16.0        18.0/C
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         .     .                       ..          ..         4.1
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       13.0       61.0       79.0                33.0        69.0        89.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       5.0      10.0       19.0                 7.0        33.0        39.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECONO LEVEL)              13.0      12.0/d    12.0                 12.0        12.0        12,0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                             3. 0/d    2.                  1.0/f      19.0         3.0/d
10.0                             ..        40,0o
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT                                                        2.5 /e       *
PIPED WATER (3)
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                            36.0 /e,g
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED                                    22.0/d              26.0 /e,g
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         ..       1.6/d
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)            .       24.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                                                               137 0      2/4.0.0 2 0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              7. 133.0            7.0/e               2.0         4.0         5.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                        1330         0.0                          228.0       1510.
SEE-NOTES-AND-DEFINITIONS -ON      E  RE    ,.                                      02          1.O         0.2
SEE   NOTES   AND   DEFINITIONs   ON   REVERSE ------------------                 -----------------



-22-
ANNEX I
NOTES                                                    Page 2 of 4 pages
Unless scheruiee noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Most Recent Estinate between
1973 and 1975.
GNPi per capita date are based on the World Bank  tlas  nethodulogy (1974-76 basic).
ta Ecti ated productiVe agricultrtal land.
*0*   Syria's similarity in arid climate with itr  heavy reliance on rainfall for agricultural production, the inportence of cotton as a major enport
crop, aod the dussinant role of the goverenent in the economy, a11 provide useful poinrt  of cnparfuon with Y-enen PeopIes De,  Rep.
YEMEN PEOPLES DEMl REP.    1960    /a  Under reviion.
1970    /s  Tentative data;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 aid oyer to total labor force;    /c  1964-66;
/d Between 1965 and 1970, the duration of eecondary education was reduced fro 7 to 6 yeare.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  1976 (GNiP dtat  are tentative World Bank eati.stae);    /b  Due to ecigration, growth rate is
lower than raei  of natural increase;    /0  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
total labor force;    /d  Data refer to population;    /e  1972.
SDMAN                         1970    Ia  Due to eouigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increano;    /b  Ratio  of populntion
under 15 end 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  1967-68;    /d  Gover-sont hospital eateblishnento;
/e 1964-66; /f Beginning 1970, the duration of general secondary education woo rednced fron 8 to 6 yeari;
/g Urban only.
EGYPT                         1970    /s  1966;    /b  Relates to 12 to 64 years of age;    /c  Registered, not  11 practicing in the country.
SYRIAN ARAB REP.              1970    Is  Syrian population only;    /b  Including o'dwives, assistant midwives and usnistant nursesi;    I   1964-66;
/d  Including UNRWA  bcools.
R4, D.ece.obr 28, 1977
DEPIIITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lund Are-  (thod   Rn2                                                                      Population per nursing person - Population divided by sumbor of practiclf
Total - Total ssrface urea conprising lend ares and inland waters.                            nale and female graduate nurses, "troined" or "certified" nurses, and
Aric. - Must recemt estinato of agricoltural area used tenporarily or perra-                  asusiliary personnel with training or eperience.
nently for crops, pusturts, orest & kitchen gardens or to lie follo.                      Population per hospital bed - Populotion divided by nuober of huepital beds
available in public and private general usd upeciali.ed hospital and
GNP per caPira (USS) - GNP per -apita esctistes at current narkot prices,                     rehabilitation centers; eucludde  ournieg hones and establislh.ent  for
calculated by sare conversiu  method as World Banh atlas (1973-75 basei);                   custodial end preventive cares
1960; 1970 and 1975 daa.                                                                  Por c..it eUpply of calories (% of requir-meniel - computed from  energy
equivalent of net food *upplis av-ailable in country per capits per day;
Puoulation and vital stacistic                                                                available supplies comprius domestic production, irports less eports, and
Population (mid-your million)   As of July fires   if not available, average                  chasges in stoch; net supplien exclude animal feed, seeds, quancities ued
of tWO cud-your ostinut.s; 1'60, 1970 od 1975 data.                                         in food processing and 10.ess  in distribution; reqsirenenst were esctiu-ted
by PAO based on physiolegical needs for -ornal activity and health consid-
Population density - per  qunsre kr  - Mid-year population per squsre kilaneter               ering enwirosnental temperetire, body weights, age *nd ass distribstions of
(100 hecteres) of total area                                                                population, and allowing 101 for waste at household level
.Ponlatton density - pcr sgare h  of soric. lcd - Cmputed as above for                     Per canina suppl of protein farcPs per dty) - Pro              aci contest of per capita
gricultur-l land only.                                                                      nt supply of fond per day; net supply of food is defined as above; requirp-
nests for a11 .onotries established by USDA EconoMic Research Service-
Vital statistics                                                                              provide for a minimuas allas nce of 60 grara of total protein per day, end
Crode birth rasp per thousand. avera.t     - Annual lion births per thousand of               20 gra  of acimal and pulse protein, of uhich 10 gra   should b-aninal
.id-year population; ten-year erithasetic ave-gee ending in 1960 and 1970,                  protein; these standards are lseer than those of 75 grass of sotal prostic
aod five-year averago ending in 1975 for nest recent estimate                               and 23 grams of animal protein as *naverage for the world, proposed by F,C'
Crude deth rate par thoand. averaRe - Annul deaths per thouand of nid-year                    in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year orithletio average- ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                Per taplta proteis supply from animl and polas  - Protein supply of food
year average ending is 1975 for nos recent estimate                                         derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.
Infant norcaliiy rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age              Death rate C/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thouand in ago group 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                   years, to children in this age group; suggested as as indicator of
Life esp-c.cnoy at birth (yr.) - Aversge ossober of years of life re,aining at                 alnutrition.
birth; usually five-year aeragea ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for deyelop-
ing cuscrie.                                                                              Educati-o
Grous reproduction rte - uverage number of live daughters a woman will bear                 Adlu-ted enrollment ratio - pe,a,ry school - Enrollment of a11 agee as per-
in her no. .l reproductive period if she e-periences present age-specific                   centage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 yeers
fertility  ra .t; usu ally five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 but adjuted for different lengths of primary education; for coustries if.
for developiug countries.                                                                   u         Iiveral education, enrol-lent may seeped 1007 since come pupils are bieso
Population or_oth rpte 0%) - total - compound annual growth pates of mid-Year                 or shove the official school Sg.
population for 1950-60, 1960-71 and 1970-75.                                              Adijted enrollment ratio - secondary *chool - C-p.uted as  bove; secondary
PoRulation orouth noto 0%) - orbus - computed like growth rase of total                       educatio  requires an lest r four yours of approved primary insotuctico;
population; different definitions of orbio  areas may affect comparability of               provides general, vocational or teacher training instrucrinn  for pupils
data onong couctries.                                                                       of 12  o 17 years of age, correspondence conrses are generally ecluded.
Urbas onrulotion C( of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different               Tears of suhoolmo provided (first end second levels) - Total years of
definitiona of urban areas may affect comparability of data among countrisa.                ashooling; at esondary level, vocational inatr.ction may be partially or
completely secluded.
Aee struciure (percons) - Children (0-14 years), working-ago (15-64 years),                 Vonati-ona enrollment (% of secondary) - Vocationai institution  inlde
and recired  06(  years and over) as pe-rrntag.s  of rid-year population.                   techoica1, indusir1 o  other program  with opouc  tndepscdsntL  on
Age depeodo.cy ratio - Ratio of population uoder 15 and 65 and over to those                   dspartmenet of secondary institution.
of ugos I) thresgi 64.                                                                     AduIt literacy rate M%) - Literate adults (able to read asd write) as por-
Ecuomoic dependency ra tic - Ratil of population under 15 snd 65 asd over to                   ..stagg  of total adult Populatio  aged 15 yeas   eand over.
tbe labor force ic age group of 15-64 years.
i" ily plannis.g  o sccors (c. mulative  thou) - Cuulative conber of a.ceptcer             flowing
of birth-control devices under auspices of notional family planning progear                Penrona per room  (urban) - Average nuber of persone par coon ir occupied
since incPticn                                                                              conventional dellisga in urban areas; dwellings  exclade non-peroanens
Farily plannisgs- users% of rarried women) - Percencages of married women of                   strucftunes *d unonnupied parts.
child-eoaring age  (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to all married             Occupied dwellings without piped water (') - Occupied contestion1 dwelling 
woren it, some ago group.                                                                    in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped outer facilities
DP       t                                                                                            ..as  percentage  -f al oncupied dwellings.
ferlovusect                                                                                  Autacsh-to elactrI'ityll0% of al   vlis)-Convent-Ionldwelinswt
local labor fence Osbousand) - Economically autive persona, including areed                    electricity in living quarters as perct.  tof totel dwellings ine urbatnnd
foceand unamployed but ..oluding hosev              tudenis, etc.; definitions               rena  areas.
In osnoss counrrtie  are not comparabl.                                                    rural dwellinns s netad to electririny   ) -opted as abo   for rural
Labor force in auriculcure 0t     - A% ricuitoral labor force (is fareing, forestry,           dwelings only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
ynem.loyed f7 of labor torso) - fUempl,yed are usuIly defined as persons who                 consumption
are ahle and willing to tahe a job, out of a job on a given day, remained out              Radle receivers (pr thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a Job, ssd seeking work for a spcified minimum period not exceeding one                  to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed receivers
weesk may not be comparable between countries duo to different definitions                   in countries and i  years when registration of radio sets ..   i.   affect;
of onenployed asd  osorcc of data, e.g., amployret office statistios, sample                 data far racest years may sot be comparable since most countries abolished
sur_eys, compulory unomploynent inorancc.                                                   licensing.
Passenger cars (per thou pop) - Passenger oars comprise motor cars esting
Intone ditrnibstiec - Percentage of private income (both io cash and kind)                     less then sight persons; ecludes ambulances, hearses and military
rec- ved by richest 5%, richest 207, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                  vehicles.
holds.                                                                                     fleetnicity (kwh/yr per tep) - Annual consumption of industrial, c-Aercial.
public and private electricity in kilewatt hours per capits, generally
Dpittlibrion of Ilad  nerabipr- Percentagea  of land  anad by ve-lthiect 10%                   based on productiog data, without allowance for losses in grids bht allow-
and poorest 107 of land ownerst lrg for imparts and exports of slectricity.
Haewh drins 0kw/yr per gas) - Per capita annual conaumption in kilogra
oe-lth sod Nsutrition                                                                          estimated from domqestic production plus net imports of newsprint.
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing
physioians qualified from a medical school at  niversity level.



ANNEX I
- 23 -                              Page 3 of 4
PDRY: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1976
US$ mln    %
GNP at market prices                       470     100
Gross Domestic Investment                 148       31
Gross National Savings                      11       2
Exports of goods & NFS                      91      19      Annual Rate of Growth (X)
Imports of goods & NFS                    325       69      (constant 1974 prices)
1970/73            1974/76
GDP at factor cost                         326     100         3                  6
of which
Agriculture & fishing                  71       22         4                  6
Industry_l/                            27        8        14                  .2/
Trade, Transport, Finance             117       36        -6                  7
Other services                        111       34         5                  5
GOVERMENT FINANCE                                                      Prelim. Est.
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)             1974/75_/   1975        1976      1977
Total receipts 4 /                       24          17         32         40
Current expenditures                     28          25         39         45
Revenue deficit                          -4          -8         -7         -5
Development expenditures                 21          19         39         57
Overall deficit                         -25         -27        -46        -62
Borrowing from Banking System            12          10         17         18
Other Assets and Accounts5f                           2          1          1
External Financing                       13          15         28         43
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                 1973        1974       1975       1976      1977
(million Y.D. Outstanding end Period)
Money and quasi-money                     49         55         67         98      140
Bank credit to Government                17          24         37         62        73
Bank credit to non-Gov't Sector          10          19         24         31       49
1/ Includes petroleum refining
2/ The overall negligible growth of the industrial sector is due to the decline
in Aden Refinery production from 2.8 million tons in 1973 to1.6 million tons
in 1976--the non-petroleum industrial sector grew at an estimated rate of about
10 percent per annum between 1974-76.
3/  The fiscal year was April 1-March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became April
1-December 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis.
4/  Includes current & development revenues and self-financing of public enterprises.
5/  Net operations of special funds (martyr's fund, stabilization fund, etc.).
{/ Includes public sector agencies



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
- 24 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million)         1973        1974       1975       1976      1977-/
Domestic Exports, f.o.b.2/                14           8          8         26        29
Retained Imports, c.i.f.lY              -120        -179       -171       -267     -346
Trade Deficit                             -106        -171       -163       -241      -317
Invisibles, net                             54          70         76        145       203
Workers' Remittances                      33          41         56        115      180
Others, net                               21          29         20         30       23
Balance on Goods and Services              -52        -101        -87        -95     -114
Official Transfers                                       1         10         46        55
Official M & LT Capital, net                25          48         31         58        92
Gross Disbursement                        25          48         32         60       94
Repayments                               -           -           -1         -2       -2
Miscellaneous Capital, net3/                23          18         21        -21         6
Overall Balance                             -4         -34        -24        -13        39
Net Foreign Assets, of Which:               74          40         16          3        42
Bank of Yemen's gross reserves            76          63         53         82      101
Use of IMF Credit                        ..          -11        -27        -43      -45
Commercial Bank                           -2         -12        -10        -36      -14
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS                                      Average 1975-76
US$ Million Percent
Fish & Fish Products                                    8.8        52
Cotton                                                  5.9        35
Others                                                  2.2        13
TOTAL                 16.9       100
EXTERNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1977)
US$ Million
External Public Debt Outstanding                      431.5
Of which:  Disbursed                               240.7
Debt Service Payments 1977                              1.5
Ratio of Debt Service to 1977 Exports of Goods
and Services, Including Remittances              0.7 percent
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to December 1971          As of December 1971       As of February 1973
US$1.00 = YD 0.42               US$1.00 = YD 0.38         US$1.00 = 0.34
YD 1.00 = US$2.40               YD 1.00 = US$2.61         YD 1.00 = US$2.90
1/ Preliminary Estimate
2/ Net of re-exports
3/  Including errors and ommissions                                  Mav 26, lQ7R



- 25 -                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN'THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of April 30, 1978)
-US$ Million--------
Credit                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.    Year   Borrower            Purpose           IDA              Undisbursed
Credit 240 YDR fully disbursed                        1.6                   -
370-YDR  1973      PDRY        Fisheries 1/           5.1                  0.8
494-YDR  1975      PDRY        Education              5.4                  4.7
560-YDR  1975      PDRY        Highways II 2/        15.5                  6.4
584-YDR  1976      PDRY        Aden Port Rehab.       3.2                  2.0
615-YDR  1976      PDRY        Wadi Hadramout         7.0                  5.7
768-YDR  1978      PDRY        Wadi Tuban 3/          5.2                  5.2
Total                                          43.0                  24.8
of which has been repaid                         -                     -
Total now held by IDA                          37.8
Total undisbursed                                                    24.8
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of April 30, 1978)
PDRY is not a member of IFC.
1/   Including Supplementary Credit of $1.6 million of February 6, 1975.
2/   Including US$0.6 million of Credit S12-YDR of November 17, 1972 refinanced
under Credit 560-YDR.
3/   Approved February 14, 1978; Credit not yet effective.
NOTE: Exchange adjustment not included.



- 26 -                  ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C.   Projects in Execution
Cr. No. 370-YDR - Fisheries Project: US$3.5 Million Credit of April 12, 1973;
Effective Date: February 14, 1974; and $1.6 Million Supplementary Credit of
February 6, 1975; Effectiveness Date: April 29, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1978.
Due to delays in finding a suitable Project Manager, the original
credit became effective only on February 12, 1974. Since then, project imple-
mentation on the whole has been proceeding satisfactorily. A supervision mis-
sion in June 1974 reported that price and physical contingencies included in
the project were insufficient to cover increases in project cost, which were
mainly due to both foreign and domestic inflation. Since the scope of the
project could not reasonably be reduced and no other sources of financing were
available, the Association agreed to a supplementary credit of $1.6 million to
cover the increased foreign cost of the project. Civil works on the construc-
tion of shore facilities at Mukalla and Shihr are nearing completion and in-
stallation of refrigeration and processing equipment has begun. Fifty-three
of the 100 fishing boats financed under the credit have been completed in
local shipyards and contracts for the remaining forty-seven have been placed.
Twenty-six completed boats have been retained by PCFW and the rest delivered
to fishing cooperatives.
Cr. No. 494-YDR - Education Project: US$5.4 Million Credit of July 12, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: February 5, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
This credit will assist the Government in making qualitative improve-
ments in the educational system and meet priority manpower needs. Implementa-
tion is proceeding satisfactorily but is about 18 months behind appraisal
estimate due to (i) initial delays in declaring the credit effective and in
the negotiations of contracts with UNESCO and the consultant architects and
(ii) more recent delays arising from curricula revisions affecting design
completion. Contracts for civil works have been signed and construction of
the school buildings are expected to begin soon.
Cr. No. 560-YDR - Second Highway Project: US$15.5 Million Credit of June 20,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This project, financed jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Eco-
nomic Development, comprises (a) construction of 358 km of roads between the
Wadi Hadramout agricultural area and the coast, which were prepared under
Credit 240 and Engineering Credit S-12; (b) economic and engineering studies
for 320 km of roads (Nagabah-Ataq-Nissab-Beihan-Alayn); (c) purchase of main-
tenance equipment and spares; (d) technical assistance to the MPW, including
fellowships for MPW staff abroad; and (e) re-financing of Engineering Credit
S-12. Since international competitive bidding for the construction element
of the project did not lead to an acceptable bid, arrangements have been made
for the works to be carried out by a government construction unit which is
assisted by the UK Crown Agents. Construction and road maintenance equipment



- 27 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
have been procured and construction of the Mukalla-Ashir-Sayun roads (358 km)
started in March 1976 is making satisfactory progress with over a third of
the civil works completed. Consultants to implement the technical assistance
component have been appointed and the overseas training program is about to
begin with the placement of 4 Yemeni engineers in a British university
and fellowship for another in West Germany.
Cr. No. 584-YDR - Aden Port Rehabilitation Project: US$3.2 Million Credit
of September 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 3, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979.
The project which is being cofinanced by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development will assist the PDRY Government in rehabilitating the
port of Aden to reattract traffic passing through the reopened Suez Canal.
The Project provides for (a) floating equipment; (b) cargo-handling equipment;
(c) workshop equipment, spares and stocks; (d) diving team equipment; (e)
navigation, mooring and communications equipment; and (f) technical assis-
tance. The procurement consultant provided under the technical assistance
component of the project has completed the preparation of the tender documents
and orders for equipment financed under the Credit have been placed. Those
financed under the Arab Fund are now being reviewed. The two cost accountants,
a marine engineer and a training advisor are in the process of being recruited.
Cr. No. 615-YDR - Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project: US$7.0 Million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 8100
ha of irrigated land in the Wadi through the adoption of improved cultural
practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, construc-
tion of feeder roads and extension services. It also includes provision of
a date packaging plant and a rural water supply component. Progress on the
project has been slow because of the difficulties encountered in locating
suitable expatriate candidates for the position of Project Manager, Irrigation
Engineer and an Extensionist. The Project Manager and the Irrigation Engineer
have been appointed and are now on site. The appointment of the Extensionist
is expected soon. Orders for agricultural machinery have been placed and
tender documents are being prepared for agricultural supplies.
Cr. No. 768-YDR - Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project: US$5.2 Million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 20, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project seeks to increase water use efficiency and raise agri-
cultural production and farm income in Wadi Tuban through the use of modern
inputs and improved practices. It provides for credit to cooperatives and
state farms, construction of feeder roads, a village water supply scheme
and improved irrigation system; a water management study; an agricultural
policies study; and technical assistance and training. The expatriate
project manager financed under the project has been appointed and is now
in the field. The Government has substantially completed negotiations with
the Arab Fund which is cofinancing this project for an amount of $6.2 million.
The Credit is not yet effective.



- 28 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI HADRAMOUT POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                March 1977 to December 1977
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                Public Corporation for Electric
Power (PCEP) and Consultants
(c)  Project first presented to IDA:               May 1976
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:    February 1977
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:               November 1977
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                  May 12, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:               November 15, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.         The following are special conditions of effectiveness of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement:
(a) Signing of loan agreements between the Borrower and other co-
financiers for an amount of about $20 million (paragraph 50);
(b) Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
PCEP (paragraph 51);
(c) Appointment of an engineering consultant for the project (para-
graph 45); and
(d) Establishment of the Project Unit (paragraph 46).
2.         Measures to be taken by the Borrower include:
(a) assigning by not later than December 31, 1978, a senior repre-
sentative of PCEP, to the local Advisory Committee of the
Hadramout Project Unit (paragraph 46);



- 29 -                      ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(b) completing a tariff study, with the help of consultants,
by December 31, 1979, under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association (paragraph 39); and
(c) allowi1ng PCEP to adjust tariffs taking into account changes
in its fuel costs through a suitable fuel adjustment provision
in the tariffs (paragraph 53).
3.        Measures to be taken by PCEP include:
(a) not incurring additional long-term debt after January 1, 1979,
without the Association's concurrence unless PCEP's net reve-
nues before depreciation, and interest for the fiscal year
next preceding such borrowing, shall be at least 1.5 times the
maximum debt to be incurred (paragraph 55);
(b) adopting by June 30, 1979 suitable performance indicators
(paragraph 55);
(c) earning revenues sufficient to cover operating costs including
depreciation and interest, in its operation in 1980, and achiev-
ing a rate of return of at least 2 percent in 1981, increasing
steadily to 8 percent in 1985 and thereafter on realistically
valued assets (paragraph 53);
(d) submitting by December 31, 1979 its methods for revaluing assets
for the Association's comments and promptly thereafter incorporat-
ing changes in its methods as shall be agreed with the Association
(paragraph 53); and
(e) proposing to the Association by December 31, 1979 the structure
and responsibilities of an operating unit in Wadi Hadramout to
run and maintain the completed project and establishing by
June 30, 1980 such a unit under management and operating proce-
dures acceptable to the Association (paragraph 46).






(40                   ,                60-
BAHRA?,.
QATAR
., 5,    o   SSAUDI ARABIA     I
UNITED ARAE
EMIRATE,      OMAN6
-20          .     PRD.R YEMEN             20-
SUDAN          YEMEN _ -
ARAO RE'_
40hOPI    \   SOLI                   6 0'
PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
N                                        WADI HADRAMOUT ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PROJECT
33 KV Overhead Transmission Line
> > X 0  4    E     12   Ih        20                         _                       33 KV Overhead TrOnsmission Line, Intially operated at 11 KV
KILOMETERS                                11 KV OTerhead fronsm;saT Lne
U      Proposed Diesel Power Plant
EXISTING FEATURES           0      Proposed 33/11 KV Substations                                                      >
0      Towns                           Proposed NeW  State Forms                             Fr
. . ...... ..                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~W.d i          S      State Porms                                                                          '
bound nes shoum on dhss map do nof lmplK on the pa! o1 the Wo/ld SmmE md t5  ^- ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~0






IBRD 13399R
44055.  Th                            RV'SS                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL1978
000~~~~  3  ~~.. ~44%S5'                                                                   445/4`0
ThAL,-
~~~'   '~~~~~~'~~~ ~PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                                            /LCRCSRIC  VIAL
/          0      EXI~~~POPSEIN  132KV SUBRSTATIONS
ADEN  POWER  SYSTEMEXSIG3KSUTAON
-IF   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____PROPOSED 33KV OVERHEAD TRANSMISSION LI
D~~~r SOVd ~~~~~EXISTING 33KV OVERHEAD TRANSMISSION LES,
EN    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------PROPOSED 33KV UONERGROLINOCABILES
J-I    .WEXISTNT  3KV,E,hR,RO"I                                                                                                                                                                                  CBLES/
'-'~~~~~ER~~~  9W                                                                                                                            PROPOSES 132KV OVERHEAD TRANSMI ION LiNES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POPSED11 K OERIADIO Lhe
___________U                                                                                                                                                                 PROPOSED POWER STATIONS
-  EXISTING ROWER STATIONS
/  N  A                                                                                                                         WO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARICULTURAL AREAS
OMAN  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V "' BUJILT UPAREA
/  N                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARY ROADS
SAUDI                                               PRIMARY ROADS UNSEX C9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R3TRUOTPIMRYRADIUDR0NFurro
ARA~~~~~~I  .  6                                                                            7                       .......,.,XA                        -  -  -  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 Ml  ISTR CT BOUNDARY
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..
ARAIA                                                                                                                                                                                        5 ........ 0NRNRAE  SLN.  IS NDNUSNf
YEMEN/  ~~~~                                                                                                                                                8                             -~ ,        /NAIOA'.RE
YEE/
ARAB~' 
V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 
REPES
B3~~~~~~~~~~'45  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ i13045R-
by *
IE M iwo m S
RRW~~BN~P,~,~HP ~~ WRRR~ BR  .RRRBABIPBR R4B



