CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 829 YDR
Project Agreement
(Wadi Hadramout Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PUBLIC CORPORATION FOR ELECTRIC POWER
Dated July 14, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 829 YDR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and PUBLIC
CORPORATION FOR ELECTRIC POWER (hereinafter called PCEP).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (herein-
after called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that PCEP agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set
forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PCEP, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to PCEP on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PCEP, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PCEP shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. For the implementation of Part B.2 of the
Project, PCEP shall: (a) establish and thereafter maintain until
the completion of Part B.2 of the Project, an adequately staffed
Project unit to be headed by a full-time engineer with adequate
experience in electricity network construction. Said unit shall
prepare the design, work schedules and financial plans for, and
supervise the execution of, Part B.2 of the Project; (b) employ an
engineering consultant whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associ-
ation in order to assist said unit in its activities under Part
B.2 of the Project; and (c) introduce such operational procedures
as shall ensure that work to be carried out by force account will
be designed and its cost estimated in sufficient time before the
carrying out of such work.
Section 2.03, For the implementation of the training program
provided under PLrt C.2 of the Project, PCEP shall prepare and
furnish to the Association, not later than December 31, 1978, a
detailed training program for its staff, including the qualifi-
cations of candidates and the proposed locations for training, and
shall, after reviewing the Association's comments thereon, carry
out such program.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) PCEP undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by PCEP to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, PCEP
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) PCEP shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the


﻿-3-
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) PCEP: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular itervals all such infovmation as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between PCEP and the
Association, PCEP shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in a2h detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by PCEP and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) PCEP shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of PCEP and any relevant records and
documents,
Section 2.07. PCEP shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, PCEP shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any pro-
vision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) PCEP shall at the request of the Associ-
ation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations


﻿under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) PCEP shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by PCEP of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PCEP
Section 3.01. PCEP shall at all times continue to manage its
affairs, plan its future expansion and carry out its operations,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering, administrative,
financial and public utility practices, under the supervision of
experienced and competent management.
Section 3.02. PCEP shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, equipment and property and promptly make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate
engineering and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. PCEP 5hall, not later than June 30, 1979: (a)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice; or (b) insure against such risks, to the satis-
faction of the Association, through other arrangements, including
Governmental guarantee.
Section 3.04. PCEP undertakes:
(a) to introduce, not later than June 30, 1979, operational
procedures adequate to monitor, in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Association: (i) the trend of electricity demand
for domestic, industrial and agricultural purposes; (ii) PCEP's
operational efficiency and quality of services; and (iii) the
financial position of PCEP;
(b) to appoint, not later than December 31, 1978, or such
other date as may be agreed between the Association and PCEP, a
suitably qualified and experienced person for its vacant position
of deputy chief accountant; and


﻿-5-
(c) to provide the Association by December 31, 1979 with
a proposal for establishing an operation unit to be responsible,
upon the completion of the Project, for managing, operating
and maintaining the electric system in Wadi Hadramout, and to
establish said unit not later than June 30, 1980, under such
management and operational procedures as shall be acceptable to
the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PCEP shall maintain records, including separate
records for its activities under the Project, adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PCEP shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than five months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited,
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, and (C) conformed copies of said financial state-
ments and auditor's report in English; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of PCEP and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, PCEP shall take from time to time all such measures (in-
cluding but not limited to adjustments of its tariffs) as shall be
required to provide it for its 1980 fiscal year with revenues
sufficient to cover its operating costs including depreciation and
to meet interest expenses. For this purpose, PCEP shall prepare
with the approval of the Borrower, and submit to the Association,
not later than September 1, 1979 the measures proposed to be taken
in order to provide PCEP with such revenues. PCEP shall thereafter
but not later than December 31, 1979 take all actions required
for the implementation of such measures.


﻿-6-
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, PCEP
shall take all measures necessary to ensure that it shall earn
an annual rate of return of not less than 2% for PCEP's 1981
fiscal year and to ensure that such rate of return shall steadily
increase so as to be not less than 8% for PCEP's 1985 and the
succeeding fiscal years, of the current net value of PCEP's fixed
assets in operation properly valued and revalued in accordance
with methods satisfactory to the Association.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year by dividing PCEP's net
operating income for that year by the average of
the current net values of PCEP's fixed assets in
operation at the beginning and at the end of that
year;
(ii) the term "PCEP's net operating income" means all
PCEP's operating revenues less all its operating
expenses;
(iii)  the term "operating expenses" means all operation,
administration, overhead and adequate maintenance
expenses, straight-line depreciation based on the
useful life of the assets, taxes, but does not
include interest and other charges on debt;
(iv) the term "czurrent net value of fixed assets in
operation" means the current gross value of fixed
assets in operation less the accumulated depreci-
ation, all as determined in accordance with methods
of valuation and revaluation acceptable to the
Association;
(v) in order to ensure steady increases in the rates
of return achieved by PCEP from its 1981 through
its 1985 fiscal years, PCEP shall submit to the
Association, upon the approval of the Borrower,
and not later than September 1, 1981, specific
rate of return targets for PCEP's 1982, 1983
and 1984 fiscal years and shall *hereafter, but
not later than December 31, 1981, establish such
targets for such fiscal years as shall be satis-
factory to the Association; and


﻿-7-
(vi) PCEP's methods of valuation and revaluation of
assets shall be submitted to the Association for
its comments not later than December 31, 1979,
and PCEP shall promptly thereafter incorporate
such changes in such methods as shall be agreed
with the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, PCEP shall not incur any debt after December 31, 1978
unless PCEP's net revenues before depreciation and interest
for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ending prior to such incurrence, whichever
revenues are the greater, shall exceed by not less than 50% the
greatest debt service (including the debt to be incurred) for
any succeeding fiscal year.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is origin-
ally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of a contract, loan
agreement or guarantee agreement providing for
such debt;
(iii) the term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of
PCEP's tariffs in effect at the time of the incur-
rence of debt even though such tariffs were not
in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-month
period to which such revenues relate, less all
operating and administrative expenses adjusted to
reflect the level of employment and fuel cost in
effect at the time of the incurrence of the debt,
if any, but before provision covering depreciation
and interest and other charges on debt;
(iv) the term "debt service" shall mean the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund
payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and


﻿-8-
(v) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Yemeni Dinars
debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation
shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by PCEP for the
purposes of servicing such debt.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of PCEP thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
PCEP of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the .isociation:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For PCEP:
Hedjuff, Maalla
Aden
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Cable address:                     Telex:
ADENLEC                            275 ADENLEC
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of PCEP may be taken or executed by
its Executive Chairman or such other person or persons as the
Executive Chairman shall designate in writing, and PCEP shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
PUBLIC CORPORATION FOR ELECTRIC POWER
By /s/ Abdalla Al-Ashtal
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, PCEP shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender documents relating thereto a general procurement
notice, in such B>rm and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. PCEP shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be ., rcluded; and (iii) the cost to PCEP of inland freight and
oth,.,r expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
placu of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Goods estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of
$20,000 per contract and $200,000 in the aggregate may be procured


﻿- 12 -
through international shopping pursuant to procedures acceptable
to the Association.
C.   Review of Invitations to Bid and of Proposed Awards
and Final Contracts
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $20,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PCEP shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PCEP
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform PCEP and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, PCEP shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of


﻿- 13 -
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
reco,3mendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform PCEP and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract, PCEP shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform PCEP and state
the reasons for its determination.


