Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18641
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
IPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2079-LA)
November 30, 1998
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kip
US$1.00 = LAK 550 (at appraisal in July 1989)
= LAK 3382.5 (at Credit closing in June 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)  =  2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)  =  0.98 long ton
I kilometer (km)  =  0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)  =  2.47 acres
1 cubic meter per sec (m3/sec)  =  35.3147 cubic feet per sec
1 liter per sec (1/sec)  =  0.0353 cubic foot per sec
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD      - Agence Francaise de Developpement     IRRI   - International Rice Research Institute
APB      - Agriculture Promotion Bank           MAF   - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
AIDAB   - Australian International Development  MOF   - Ministry of Finance
Assistance Bureau                     MCTPC - Ministry of Communication, Transport,
AusAID  - Australian Agency for International             Post and Construction
Development                          NARC  - National Agricultural Research Center
BCEL    - Lao Bank for External Trade           NPCC  - National Project Coordination Committe
CFD      - Caisse Francaise de Developpement    NUCRC - Northern Upland Crops Research Center
CIMMYT - International Center for Improvement of   O&M   - Operations and Maintenance
Maize and Wheat                      OPEC  - Organization of Petroleum Exporting
DCTPC   - Department of Communication, Transport,         Countries
Post and Construction                PCU    - Project Coordination Unit
DAFSO   - Development of Agriculture and Forestry   PIS    - Provincial Irrigation Service
Services                             TFMC  - Tha-Ngone Feed Mill Corporation
ERR      - Economic Rate of Return              UADP  - Upland Agriculture Development Projec
HHS      - Hin Heup Station                     UNICEF- United Nations Children's Fund
ICR      - Implementation Completion Report      VEW   - Village Extension Worker
IDA      - International Development Association  WUA   - Water User Association
IFAD    - International Fund for Agricultural
Development
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director: Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager: Geoffrey B. Fox
Task Team Leader: Rapeepun Jaisaard



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ..........................................................                                                                     i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................... ii
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..........................................................                                           1
A. Project Objectives and Description ...........................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ..........................................................  2
C. Implementing Experience ..........................................................                                      2
D. Project Imlpact ..........................................................5 
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project ........................                         ..................................  6
F. Project Sustainability ..........................................................                                       8
G. Bank Performance ..........................................................                                             8
H. Borrower Performance ..........................................................                                         9
I. Assessment of Outcome ..........................................................                                        9
J. Future Operation ..........................................................                                            10
K. Key Lessons Leamed ..........................................................  10
PART II: STATIST'ICAL TABLES ..........................................................                                               12
Table 1: Surnmary of Assessment ..........................................................                                12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................................................                            13
Table 3: Project Timetable ..........................................................                                     14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................... 14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................................... 15
Table 6: Studies Included in Project ..........................................................                           16
Table 7A: Project Costs ..........................................................                                        17
Table 7B: Project Financing ..........................................................                                    18
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................................                           19
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................................                            20
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............... ......................... 22
Table 11: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs                              ........................................... 22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................................                            23
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE ..........................................................                                       24
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............................................ 33
ANNEX C: PHOTOGRAPHS OF PROJECT AREAS .......................................................... 37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorizaition.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
UPLAN:D AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 2079-LA
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Upland Agriculture Development
Project in Lao PDR for which Credit 2079-LA in the amount of SDR 15.9 million (US$20.2 million
equivalent) was approved on December 21, 1989 and made effective on May 2, 1990.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date of December
31, 1995. On August 19, 1996, and January 31, 1997, amounts of SDR 1.37 million (US$1.8 million
equivalent) and SDR 1.425 million (US$2.0 million equivalent) were cancelled from the Credit. Final
disbursement took place on October 31, 1998 , at which time a balance of SDR 2.04 million (US$2.8
equivalent) was cancelled. Co-financing of the project was provided by the governments of Australia and
France.
The ICR was prepared by Rapeepun Jaisaard, Task Manager, Rural Development & Natural
Resources Sector Unit, with the assistance of Jan Pruntel (Consultant) and Finn Nielsen (Sr. Operations
Officer) of the East Asia and Pacific Region, and reviewed by Geoffrey B. Fox, Manager, EASRD. The
borrower provided comments that are included in Annex B of the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission,
August 24 to September 3, 1998. It is based on materials in the project files, discussions with staff and
stakeholders involved with the project and data provided by the implementing agencies and co-financiers.
The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution and initial preparation with comments on the draft ICR.



ii
IJPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2079-LA)
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The project objectives were to reduce rural poverty, expand export earnings, improve food
security, control soil erosion and strengthen key agricultural institutions in upland farming areas. This
would be achievecl through an integrated series of development activities: rehabilitation of past
investments in irrigation, coffee plantations, a feed mill, and feeder roads, the development, transfer and
adoption of improved technology, and the provision of essential inputs and support services. The
objectives were clear and important for the sector and the country. They were in accordance with the
Bank's sector and the country assistance strategies, and the project was designed to meet these objectives.
However, it was too ambitious considering the capacity of the implementing agencies. The physical
targets were unrealistic, the geographical coverage was too wide, and there were too many diverse
components. Consequently, significant modifications had to be made during project implementation to
adjust the targets to levels compatible with the institutional capacity and physical ability of the agencies
involved.
Implementation Exiperience and Results
2.    The project had a slow and difficult start in the early project years in all components. The slow
start of the project was mainly due to (a) complex project design, (b) inexperienced project management
and technical staff, (c) changes in the govemment's administration system and policies, (d) security
problems, which inhibited travelling to the project areas, and (e) inadequate coordination among the three
co-financiers and the borrower. Implementation performance improved considerably after the project
was restructured in 1992 and again in 1995; the project achieved or surpassed the targets set after the
1995 restructuring.
3.    The project achieved full SAR targets for coffee development and partially achieved the SAR
targets for the other components. Measured by the revised targets set after restructuring in 1995, these
latter components a,chieved or exceeded their targets. The coffee development component has been the
most successful cornponent of the project, with new plantings of 9,067 ha compared to the SAR estimate
of 5,000 ha (181%). The road rehabilitation component completed 400 km compared to the 362-km
target set in 1995. Three irrigation schemes were constructed and are providing reliable water for 924 ha,
as set in the target of 1995. Because of their effective design and implementation, the development
activities under the project could be used as models for future development. For example, in the
irrigation component, the involvement of the community in scheme operation and maintenance has been
successful and has had substantial impact. Likewise, the linking of research, training and extension in the
coffee development component has also proved to be effective in improving farmer technology.



iii
4.    Bank performance in project preparation was satisfactory and was consistent with the Bank's and
the borrower's development strategy. However, during the appraisal, it failed to recognize the limited
capacity of the implementation agencies. Supervision efforts during the early project years were undercut
by the slow start up of the project, the lack of continuity in task management and poor cooperation with
the other co-financiers.  Bank supervision improved after project restructuring, as did project
management, disbursement and procurement and coordination with co-financiers.
5.    The performance of the borrower was satisfactory in complying with the major covenants of the
Credit Agreement. However, the performance was affected by lack of experienced staff, implementation
delays, frequent changes in agency responsibilities and staffing, and late release of counterpart funds.
These aspects of performance improved after project restructuring in 1995. In particular, its contribution
to the impressive performance of the road and coffee components after that date was quite satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
6.    Overall Findings. The project's overall outcome, measured using the revised targets, is viewed
as satisfactory. The overall economic rate of return has been re-estimated at 27.7 percent which is a little
lower than the SAR estimate of 28.7 percent. The objectives of raising farmers' incomes and improving
food security were generally achieved in the areas where the irrigation schemes were completed. Coffee
development in the southern provinces has contributed to both increased farmers' incomes and export
earnings. Export earnings are expected to continue to increase each year as the plantings mature (only
68% of the planted area is now in production). The stations at Ban Itou and Hin Heup have been
strengthened so as to provide linkages among research, extension and training, with corresponding
benefits to farmers.
7.    Project Impact. The project has already had an impact on increasing farmers' incomes and
employment in the project areas in both the irrigation and coffee development components. Famnily
income has doubled in the irrigated area and tripled in the coffee production areas. The demand for
family labor and hired labor has doubled since farmers now plant more coffee and dry-season crops. In
addition, more labor is needed for processing and post-harvest activities. The project resulted in poverty
reduction. Households in the project area were generally poor, with average annual income below
US$50. By growing more rice, dry season crops and coffee under the project, their income has
substantially increased. Farmers in the coffee-growing area have begun to reap substantial benefits from
coffee production, and this will continue for many years. Doubled and tripled income has enabled them
to improve their standard of living. It should be noted that a large number of farmers on theBolovene
Plateau are from minority tribes and are among the poorest of the poor.
8.    The project has had a substantial demonstration effect, especially in the coffee-growing area.
Farmers have developed an estimated 9,500 ha by themselves outside the project. The project has given
farmers an alternative to traditional slash-and-burn farming. With a reliable supply of irrigation water,
farmers now concentrate on irrigated agriculture, which is more profitable than the slash-and-burn
farming. Coffee and other fruit trees will also improve soil fertility, reduce soil erosion and reduce the
risk of forest fires. Roads constructed under the project are facilitating transportation of inputs and
outputs from production to market areas.



iv
9.     The project has had major positive institutional-strengthening impacts. Perhaps the project's
biggest achievemeni. has been in gaining acceptance of bottom-up planning processes and recognition of
group strategies for effective delivery with limited resources. In particular, water user organizations and
women's groups, w]hich were formed, have participated and continue to participate in the planning and
implementation of their programs. In other dimensions of positive institutional development, rice banks
have helped poor armners bridge the consumption gap until the next harvest, and DCTPCs in the
provinces have gained considerable experience in contracting, contract administration and construction
supervision.
10.    Sustainabiliity. The project is "Likely Sustainable". Coffee production is likely to be sustainable
unless the international price drops to levels below operating costs (inclusive of the cost of imported
inputs). It currently provides high incomes to farmers and tax revenues to the provincial government.
Coffee farmers will probably continue to improve production technologies, assisted by the government's
research and extension activities, although the latter may be subject to budgetary squeeze. The
sustainability of high coffee yields also depends on the availability and use of inputs. The sustainability
of the irrigation schemes is likely, as they have been turned over to the water-user organizations, who are
enthusiastic about irrigated agriculture and have accepted the need to pay increased water user fees and
provide voluntary latbor for routine maintenance. A potential threat to sustainability is that the schemes
are likely to require technical and financial assistance from government when major emergency repairs
become necessary, but funding for this remains uncertain. The sustainability of feeder roads is likely
since the government has assured sufficient maintenance funds.
11.    Future Operations. Future operations will need to concentrate on making full use of and
maintaining the facilities constructed under the project, such as irrigation works, training facilities and
roads. Responsibility for water allocation and operation and maintenance are now with theWUAs, and
their future operational requirements are to make sure that water is allocated equitably, facilities are
maintained, and the water fee is set so as to cover the maintenance cost of the system. The training
centers at both Hin Heup and Ban Itou, which will continue to provide training to extension agents and
farmers, need to draw up annual training plans in order to request budgetary support from their provincial
governments. FinarLcial support will continue to be needed from the government in order to maintain the
roads, or a system of user fees should be initiated to collect funds for road maintenance.
12.   Lessons Learned. The key lessons learned include: (a) simple and realistic project design in line
with the borrower's institutional strength and implementation capacity is required; (b) the capacity of staff
for project implementation should be evaluated and training should given before the project's
implementation period; (c) weak capacity in procurement of the project staff and delay in fund and
budget disbursement caused major delay in project implementation; (d) decentralization of project
implementation to the provincial rather than central level can be successful, provided that all parties are
flexible in adjusting targets in line with institutional capacity; (e) agreement on the responsibilities of
implementation agencies and co-financiers should be reached before project start-up, and joint
supervision missions should be fielded to ensure consistency in achieving targets and objectives; (f)
sufficient time should be allotted under the participatory approach for project preparation and design,
slow physical progress and modest project targets; (g) agricultural projects should continue to be
designed in a holistic manner, integrating technological innovations with social realities and market
opportunities; (h) training programs and on-the-job training are essential elements for achieving good
results during project implementation; (i) it is very risky not to make specific, credible arrangements for
the maintenance of Igravel roads as an integral part of a road construction project; (j) design and technical
specifications should be prepared by adequately qualified professional; and (k) it is essential that farm
inputs, including credit, are available at the right time, if improved farm practices are to be taken up and
sustained.



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2079-LA)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    The project, objectives were to reduce rural poverty, expand export earnings, improve food
security, control soil erosion and strengthen key agricultural institutions in upland farming areas. This
would be achieved through an integrated series of development activities: rehabilitation of past
investments in irrigation, coffee plantations, a feed mill, and feeder roads, the development, transfer and
adoption of improved technology, and the provision of essential inputs and support services.
2.    The main features of the project were:
(a)       intensification of upland crop production, mainly of coffee, soybeans and other cash
crops and valley-floor irrigated crop production of rice and other food crops through
the provision of equipment, inputs and support services, and the development and
transfer of improved and environmentally safe technologies;
(b)       rehabilitation of existing small-scale gravity irrigation schemes and establishment of
pilot operation and maintenance (O&M) arrangements based on adequate cost
recovery from beneficiaries;
(c)       feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance and improvement of village water supply;
and
(d)       technical assistance and training.
3.    The objectives were clear and important for the sector and the country. They were in accordance
with the Bank's sector and the country assistance strategies. The project was comprehensively designed
to meet these objectives. However, it was too ambitious considering the capacity of the implementing
agencies. The physical targets were unrealistic, the geographical coverage was too wide, and there were
too many diverse components. Consequently, significant modifications had to be made during project
implementation to adjust the targets to levels compatible with the institutional capacity and physical
ability of the agenclies involved. One activity intended for the project was not carried out due to changes
in Government pol:iciest, and three others were financed by other sources2. After a slow and difficult
start in the early project years, implementation performance improved considerably after project
restructuring in 1995, and the project achieved or surpassed the targets set after the restructuring.
I     The Tha-Ngone Feed Mill Corporation (see para. 15 of the Aide-Memoire).
2     Support facilii:ies at NARC, strengthen an existing agricultural school (para. 17 of the Aide-Memoire), and village
water supply program was shifted to UNICEF (para. 39 of the Aide-Memoire).



2
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.     The project has generally exceeded full SAR targets for coffee development and partially
achieved the SAR targets for the other components. Measured by the revised targets set after
restructuring, these latter components achieved or exceeded their targets. The coffee development
component is the most successful component of the project, with new plantings of 9,067 ha compared to
the SAR estimate of 5,000 ha (181%)3. The road rehabilitation component completed 400 km compared
to the 362 km target set in 19954. Three irrigation schemes were constructed and are providing reliable
water for 924 ha, as set in the target of 1995.5 Because of their effective design and implementation, the
development activities under the project could be used as models for future development. For example,
in the irrigation component, the involvement of the community in scheme operation and maintenance has
been successful and has had substantial impact. Likewise, the linking of research, training and extension
in the coffee development component has also proved to be effective.
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
5.     Coffee development. The coffee component has had substantial impact, as reflected by the
strong interest of coffee growers in participating in the extension activities of the project. The targets
were largely achieved by 1998. The area under the project is estimated to be 15,345 ha with over 5,700
ha rehabilitated, 622 ha destumped and infilled, and 9,067 ha newly planted. In the early years, uptake of
new practices was slow mainly because of: (a) the use of less qualified extension agents; (b) the
uncertain and irregular availability of inputs, particularly fertilizer; and (c) gaps in funding due to
complex project financing procedures. After completion of the training facilities and extensive training
by the French technical assistance, extension agents are now working well with fanners. The quality of
seed has improved under the project by field testing and selection of superior varieties from abroad.
Improved seedlings have been sold to farmers (although there is still substantial unmet demand). With
the very attractive price of coffee, which more than doubled in the last year, farmers are now very
enthusiastic about expanding the area. Companies are interested in coffee production for export, and
there has been a rapid expansion of the area under new coffee plantations. The feeder road component
contributed to the success of the coffee development.
6.     Other Upland Crops. Other than coffee development, upland crop development has been
negligible. Although the development approach was sound, it was poorly implemented due to: (a) lack of
suitable varieties and technologies; (b) the lack of supervision for the complex crop trials and
demonstrations; (c) lack of markets for inputs and outputs and (d) lack of impact evaluation. After
completion of Australian aid, the effort to develop these crops has been further reduced because of lack
of funding.
3      The area for new plantings of 9,067 ha compared to the SAR estimate of 5,000 ha (181%), destumping is 622 ha
compared to the estimate of 3,500 ha (18%) and the rehabilitation of old trees is 5,700 ha compared to the estimate of
4,000 ha (143%). The lower-than-estimated destumping was due to lack of credit. Farmers were afraid of losing income
during the replanting period.
4      A target for road rehabilitation was revised twice from 740 km to 497 in 1992 and to 362 km in 1995.
5      In 1992, project targets were reviewed and reduced to five schemes covering 2,160 ha. In 1995, the project was
restructured and scaled down to activities that could be successfully implemented within a two-year extension period,
resulting in a target of three schemes covering about 924 ha (wet season).



3
7.     Agricultural Research and Extension Development. The project financed the two upland crop
research and extension training centers at Hin Heup and Ban Itou6. The slow initial progress made at
both centers was due to changes in government policy toward research and the slow assumption of local
responsibility following administrative decentralization. Among other factors causing slow progress
were a significant delay in construction of the training buildings, a reduction in budgetary support for
research inputs and operations, and lack of suitable personnel.
8.     The Hin Heup Center has a number of physical constraints that limit its suitability as a research
station: steep slopes, extreme soil variability and limited water supply. For these reasons, the center's
role was limited in 1994 to (a) testing of plant varieties and development of plant propagation capacity
and (b) training of farmers and officials. After completion of Australian technical assistance in 1996, the
center has had very limited use. The government now plans to develop the center for training and to
provide the necessary facilities and operating funds.
9.    In contrast, the Ban Itou Center has continued to carry out research and plant propagation and has
had substantial impact on the coffee component through these activities. The center was assisted by
French technical assistants and concentrated on technology and variety development. It introduced new
varieties to farmers through the existing extension system and now produces about one million seedlings
per year, as planned at appraisal.
10.    Small Scale Irrigation Scheme Rehabilitation. The SAR identified 13 schemes as potentially
viable, covering a command area of about 5,020 ha (wet season) and designed the rehabilitation to
include community participation and farmer-managed schemes in planning, construction, operation and
maintenance. This turned out to be an ambitious undertaking and would have been a major project in its
own right, rather than just one component of a larger project. Moreover, there was not sufficient
hydrological and soils data to justify the SAR estimates, and the Provincial Irrigation Service (PIS) did
not have the capability to design and implement so many schemes in such a short time. In 1992, project
targets were reviewed and reduced to five schemes covering 2,160 ha. In 1995, the project was
restructured and again further scaled down to activities that could be successfully implemented within a
two-year extension period. The target was reduced to three schemes covering about 924 ha, or about one
fifth of the original SAR target. Although the original SAR physical target was only partially achieved,
the objective of involving the community in scheme operation and maintenance has been achieved.
11.    The three schemes were rehabilitated with community participation, using voluntary village labor
for the construction of the diversion weirs and spillways, and with technical support from PIS and
materials supplied Iby the project. The main, secondary and some tertiary canals were constructed by
contract, and work on all three was substantially completed by mid-1996, in time for the main wet season
rice crop. Once in operation, it became clear that all three schemes suffered from a number of planning,
design and operational deficiencies, and a review was carried out in 1996. This resulted in the design and
construction of substantial remedial works, which were completed by June, 1998. The schemes are now
operating in a satisfactory manner.
6      Due to limited government budget, the plan to support the other research and training facilities including the
agricultural school identified at appraisal, did not materialize. These facilities, however, received support from other
sources.



4
12.   Emphasis of technical assistance has been on the formation and strengthening of the Water User
Associations (WUAs), and training sessions were organized covering financial management, collection of
O&M  fees, and preparing the WUAs for taking over responsibility for O&M.  The necessary
documentation was prepared and the schemes were officially handed over in June 1998. PIS is to give
technical support for an additional two years, and the government has agreed to provide assistance in the
event of major repairs being required. Farmers seem to accept the responsibilities now resting upon them
and are prepared to increase water user fees and to contribute voluntary labor for routine maintenance.
13.   Feeder Road Rehabilitation. The SAR provided for the rehabilitation of 740 km of road to be
implemented on force account by provincial state enterprises under MAF responsibility. By the end of
1994, the feeder road component was in serious distress with little progress. There were overpayments
due to collusion between the supervising engineering firm and some contractors. The contracts were
terminated and the component was transferred to MCTPC, which was better equipped to do the work. By
that time, about 110 km had been completed under MAF responsibility. The program under MCTPC was
established at 199 km to be implemented before December 19967, mainly in the coffee-growing areas in
the south. With the extension of the project by five months, another 48 km were added. Following the
decision to implement through the provincial DCTPCs, progress has been very positive, with 290 km
finished in two construction seasons. The physical parameters were adjusted to low traffic volume and
rolling terrain.  Overall, implementation arrangements during the second phase have been very
successful. The quality of construction is good.
14.   The total length of feeder roads constructed under the project is about 400 km (including 20
bridges) at a cost of US$9.6 million. The average cost of feeder roads is thus about US$24,000 per km
against an appraisal unrealistic cost estimate of US$7,000 per km. The higher than expected unit cost can
be attributed to: (a) reconstruction including profile alignments and widening, rather than simple
rehabilitation as provided under the SAR, and (b) implementation on contract rather than force account.
Although the physical objective was only partially achieved, the project contributed to the development
of appropriate design parameters and institutional arrangements.
15.   The project design did not deal with road maintenance and no requirements for maintenance
budget were included in the Credit covenants. If past experience in Laos is to be taken as an indication, it
is unlikely that the roads will be adequately maintained.
16.   Village Water Supply. Improvements in village water supply were intended to free family labor
for application to other activities. In the SAR the project provided funding in the amount of US$400,000
for materials and civil works, with AusAID  supplying technical assistance and training.  This
arrangement was altered in 1992, US$360,000 would be spent on materials, AusAID would identify the
schemes, and actual implementation would be done under UNICEF's program. In the event, UNICEF
provided the funding for materials as well (under a US$20 million grant program), and no disbursements
from the Credit were made.
17.   Rural Credit. The original SAR design did not include a credit component delivered through the
banking sector, but expected to channel inputs through the Tha-Ngone Feed Mill corporation (TFMC) on
a credit basis to farmers. However, when the project came on stream, government was embarking on a
7     Design contract documents were prepared for 300 km to ensure that sufficient documents were ready for an expected
extension of the project. When the extension was considered in late 1996, it was apparent that the 199 km target could be
exceeded before the end of 1996/97 construction season (May/June 1997) and it was agreed that MCTP should contract a
total of 250 km.



5
privatization campaign, and the TFMC was identified as one of the enterprises to be divested. The
government requesited, and the Bank agreed, that the Credit Agreement should be appropriately amended,
and in January 1992, a formal credit component for crop production was introduced. In July 1994, after
considerable implementation delay, a subsidiary loan in the amount of US$1.0 million was on-lent as a
pilot program to the Agriculture Promotion Bank (APB). Two tranches totaling US$800,000 were
disbursed in 1994 amd 1996 out of this loan for sub-loans to farmer groups, and these have been largely
recovered and are being relent on a revolving-fund basis. A review mission in 1996 found that: (a) the
Bank of Laos maintains an interest structure for the agricultural production sector that is negative in real
terms, and (b) the APB's operations are constrained by its limited power to mobilize funds and lack of
authority to set interest rates. As the Bank was unable to engage the government in an effective dialogue
on these issues, the rural credit component, along with the US$ 2 million balance, was cancelled in
January 1997.
18.   Technical Assistance and Training. As noted earlier, technical assistance and training were
mainly funded by grants from the governments of Australia (US$8.5 million) and France (US$3.1
million). However during restructuring of the project in 1995 and termination of the grant funding (as
scheduled, during 1995-1996) it was agreed to partially finance technical assistance from the Credit for
the design and supervision of the irrigation and feeder-road components. Performance of technical
assistance and training was constrained due to many factors including: (a) the complexity of the original
project design; (b) security problems in Vientiane Province in the early project years, which prevented
staff from visiting the field for a full year; and (c) insufficient responsibility given to the consultants in
the decision making process. When they were able to work, most consultants performed well (although
there were exceptions - para. 27). The total cost for technical assistance and training was about US$11.6
million and exceecded the appraisal estimate by about 10 percent. This is due to an increase in IDA
financed T.A. of US$1.56 million, after the project restructuring.
D. PROJECT IMPACTS
19.   Increasing Income and Employment. The irrigation component is expected to substantially
increase household income and employment. Farm income will increase because of the expansion of the
cropped area, increased cropping intensity and improved cultural practices. With irrigation, farmers
changed from rainfed to irrigated agriculture (86 ha in Nam Pang and 254 ha in Nam Quang) and
developed new land for agriculture (43 ha in Namn Mone). With reliable water supplies, the area under
dry season crops expanded, and the cropping intensity index increased from 110 to 146. Rice production
also increased due to the adoption of better cultural practices and more reliable water supplies. Farm
households in the three irrigation schemes plant more rice, peanuts, watermelons and vegetables. Farm
household analysis carried out during the ICR mission shows that family income has increased by Kip
2.12 million ($560) in Nam Mone, Kip 2.3 million ($610) in Nam Pang and Kip 3.4 million( $890) in
Nam Quang. Net income per man-day increased from Kip 9,060 ($2.4) to Kip 2,836 (US$18.3) in Nam
Mone, Kip 8,910 ($2.4) to Kip 17,830 ($4.8) in Nam Pang and Kip 9,910 ($2.4) to K15,660 ($4.1) in
Nam Quang. In the coffee growing area, project farmers will earn incremental income of Kip 1 to 3
million/ha ($260 to $790/ha) at full development, depending on the growing practices they adopted.
20.   The demand for family labor and hired labor has doubled since farmers now plant more dry
season crops and coffee. In addition, more labor is needed for processing and post-harvest activities.
Additional demand for labor will likely generate more employment for the rural areas.



6
21.   Poverty Reduction. Households in the project area are generally poor, with average annual
income below US$50. By growing more rice, dry season crops and coffee under the project, their income
has substantially increased. Farmers in the coffee-growing area have begun to reap the benefits of coffee
production, and this will continue for many years. Additional income has enabled them to improve their
standards of living8. It should be noted that a large number of farmers on the Bolovene Plateau are from
minority tribes, who are among the poorest of the poor.
22.   Demonstration Effect. The project has had a substantial demonstration effect, especially in the
coffee-growing area. Farmers have developed an estimated 9,500 ha by themselves outside the project.
These non-project farmers learn from neighbors who are beneficiaries of the project and purchase and
plant coffee seedlings by themselves. From the discussions the mission had with Ban Itou Station and the
Agriculture Promotion Bank (APB) staff, coffee seeds are being sold to farmers outside the project, and
the APB is also lending to coffee farmers outside the project.
23.   Environmental Impact. One of the project's objectives was to initiate a process that would help
farmers move away from swidden (slash and burn) farming to a more sustainable farming system.
Although limited in scale, the number of swidden farmers in one of the irrigation schemes' watersheds
was reduced by almost 80 percent. With the supply of irrigation water, farmers concentrate on irrigated
agriculture, which is more profitable than the traditional swidden farming. Coffee and other fruit trees
will also improve soil fertility, reduce soil erosion and reduce the risk of forest fires.
24.   Feeder Roads. Roads constructed under the project are facilitating transportation of inputs and
outputs from production to market areas. Farmers served by the roads can use them for that purpose
themselves or buy from and sell to traders who do likewise and who bring in market demand information.
With roads, other development, such as electricity and the growth of market towns, tends to follow. The
stimulating effect of the roads built under the project can already be seen in the coffee producing area.
25.   Institutional Development. The project has had major positive institutional-strengthening
impacts. Perhaps the project's biggest achievement has been in gaining acceptance of the bottom-up
planning process and recognition of the group strategy for effective delivery with limited resources. In
particular, water user organizations, which were strengthened, and women's groups, which were formed,
have participated and continue to participate in the planning and implementation of their programs.
Women's groups are also now active in developing income-generating activities for themselves and in
helping each other through non-formal credit programs. Along other dimensions of positive institutional
development, rice banks have helped poor farmers bridge the consumption gap until the next harvest, and
DCTPCs in the provinces have gained considerable experience in contracting, contract administration and
construction supervision.
26.   Economic Re-evaluation. The economic rate of return (ERR) has been re-estimated at 27.7
percent, which is a little lower than the SAR estimate of 28.7 percent. The coffee component and the
irrigation development components have been re-estimated at 29% and 13 % respectively (compared to
the SAR at 34% and 16%).
E. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
8     They have used their additional income to build new houses and buy motor cycles, trucks and consumer goods.



7
27.   Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control.  Several factors beyond the
government's control adversely affected or will adversely affect the project's performnance or its
sustainability. First, security problems in Vientiane Province caused the project to start late, since
technical advisors could not travel to some of the project sites. Second, several changes had to be made
during the course of the project due to under-performance of individual consultants, which negatively
impacted on several project components, including agricultural research and extension, feeder roads and
irrigation. In particular for the irrigation component this caused shortcomings in the operation of the
schemes and necessitated the review of designs and implementation of remedial works. Third, the three
co-financiers each had their own financial and administrative systems; this caused difficulties for the
local administrative staff and resulted in delays in contract awards and disbursements. Fourth, different
implementation documents, the SAR and AusAID's Project Implementation Document, existed in
parallel, and the two were never reconciled, causing confusion for project staff and consultants. Fifth, on
the bright side, the present high commodity prices for export has had a favorable impact on coffee
production. Finally, the ongoing Asian financial crisis and the recent sharp devaluation of the Kip,
which occurred near the end of the project period and had therefore little effect on project
implementation, nevertheless has undoubtedly harmed the country's general financial and economic
prospects and could undercut the sustainability of project impacts in the future. For example, the
increased cost of farm inputs will have a negative impact on agricultural production, while anticipated
budget cutbacks could reduce the government's ability to finance maintenance of the feeder roads and its
contribution to research.
28.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. Several factors generally under the
govermment's control adversely affected the project. First, the roles and responsibilities of provincial and
central authorities were subject to significant changes during the first three project years, resulting in
delays in project implementation. Progress improved when the responsibility for implementation reverted
to the provinces. (Coordination between center and provinces remained difficult until the final stages of
the project. Second, severe shortages of government funds and late budget releases were a major
constraint over most of the project's life. Finally, the weak institutional capacity of implementing
agencies, which was not properly assessed in project design, was a very severe impediment to overall
project progress. COne particularly serious example of this was MAF's lack of expertise and experience in
implementing the large rural roads program initially assigned to it.
29.   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency ControL Inadequate supervision and
procurement difficulties were serious problem areas that should have been under the control of the project
office. Inadequate supervision resulted in lack of coordination, failure to catch problems during
implementation and inadequate monitoring and evaluation. The latter has made it difficult to assess
project impact, as information on costs and benefits are incomplete. One example of poor supervision
concerns poor control of equipment, which in one case delayed the construction of one irrigation scheme
by several months. An example of failure to follow procurement guidelines was that until the project was
reorganized in 199:5, companies owned by MAF or its affiliated organizations tended to secure contracts.
After the reorgani2ation in 1995, the Bank insisted that procurement follow the Bank's procedures, and
bidding became more transparent and fair. This coincided with the Government's decentralization of
responsibility for implementation to the provinces. Pre-qualification of contractors was introduced,
which facilitated decisions in the bid evaluation committees. As a result, procurement in both irrigation
and feeder-roads component improved.
30.   Project Costs and Disbursement. Due to reduced project scope, actual project costs were
US$28.5 million, or about 84 percent of the total estimated project cost of US$34.0 million in the SAR.
About US$11.6 million of the expenditure was for technical assistance, and about US$8.8 million for



8
feeder roads and irrigation rehabilitation. Expenditures for coffee rehabilitation was US$5.1 million,
extension and training was US$ 1.8 million, pilot credit program was US$ I million and 0.2 million for
project coordination (Table 8 A). The total disbursement from IDA credit was SDR 11.06 million or 70%
of SDR 15.9 million estimated during appraisal. Total SDR 4.84 million was cancelled (SDR 1.37
million in 1996, SDR 1.425 million in 1997, and SDR 2.04 million at closing date of October 31, 1998).
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
31.   Coffee production is likely to be sustainable, unless the international price drops to levels below
operating costs, including the cost of imported inputs. It currently provides high income to farmers and
tax revenue to the province. Farmers will probably continue to improve production technologies, assisted
by the government's research and extension activities, although the latter may be subject to budgetary
squeeze. The sustainability of high coffee yields also depends on the availability and use of inputs.
32.   The sustainability of the irrigation schemes is likely, as they have been turned over to the water
user organizations, who are enthusiastic about irrigated agriculture and seem to accept the need to pay
increased water user fees and provide voluntary labor for routine maintenance. A potential threat to
sustainability is that the schemes are likely to require technical and financial assistance from government
when major emergency repairs become necessary and funding for this remains uncertain.
33.   The project's dry season cropping is likely to be sustainable. The new irrigation schemes provide
reliability of water supply. Inputs (fertilizer and better seeds) are available though at higher Kip prices
due to the devaluation. The Government is promoting the use of inputs and provides credit through the
Agricultural Promotion Bank. Rice yields could be increased substantially, if high yielding varieties and
production inputs were used, and these increased yields would pay for the use of the inputs. Cash crops,
in addition to rice, are cultivable under irrigation and can generate additional income for farmers. The
Vientiane Provincial Government plans to support the activities of Hin Heup Station to improve the
extension programs set up under the project.
34.   The activities of coffee research and extension at Ban Itou are likely to be sustainable. It has a
stock of new varieties of coffee, which are higher yielding and have shorter bushes than the local
varieties (easier for harvesting). Staff are well trained and motivated and work closely with the extension
unit to pass on new and improved cultural practices to farmers. The Champasak Provincial Government
is enthusiastic about coffee production and has been providing funds for research and extension activities.
Foreign donors will also continue to provide funds for these activities.
35.   The sustainability of feeder roads is very much dependent on govermment provision of sufficient
maintenance funding. As the government's budget is constrained during the financial crisis, providing
sufficient maintenance funding will be a challenge. Past experience in Laos is that roads have been
poorly maintained. However, thinking on the maintenance issue has changed, and the Bank's Third
Highway Improvement Project directly addresses this issue. In FY98, routine and periodic maintenance
was implemented for the first time. The government budget for road maintenance under this project is
attached in Annex B.
G. BANK PERFORMANCE
36.   Bank performance in project preparation was satisfactory and was consistent with the Bank's and
the borrower's development strategy. However, during the appraisal, it failed to recognize the limited



9
capacity of the implementation agencies. Supervision efforts during the early project years were undercut
by the slow start up of the project, the lack of continuity in task management and poor cooperation with
the other co-financiers.  Bank supervision improved after project restructuring, as did project
management, disbursement and procurement and coordination with cofinanciers.   Concerning
procurement, bidding became more transparent and fair. Nevertheless, despite the general improvement,
supervision tendedl to be concentrated on the civil works, with little attention given to the coffee and
upland-crop components.
37.   Between September 1990 and August 1998, the Bank fielded 16 supervision missions and a final
supervision/ICR mission. A mid-term review was conducted in December 1992 and resulted in revised
targets for individual project components. Agreement at that time was reached to shift from construction
of civil works mainrtly by force account and to construction mainly by contract. Following a supervision
mission in Novemlber 1995, the government and the Bank agreed to scale down the project to activities
that could successfully be implemented within a two-year extension period.
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.   The borrower complied with the major covenants of the Credit Agreement. However, because
the borrower agreed on the unrealistic project design, it shares responsibility for the resulting problems.
Other borrower-side problems were large implementation delays, frequent changes in agency
responsibilities and staffing, and late release of counterpart funds. Borrower performance improved after
project restructuring in 1995. In particular, its contribution to the impressive performance of the road and
coffee components after that date was quite satisfactory. The DCTPCs now have sufficient experience in
handling civil works by local competitive bidding and in supervising works undertaken by private
contractors. The Ban Itou Research Station continues to work on improved technologies for coffee
production. The government's decision to hand over the irrigation facilities and responsibility for O&M
to the WUAs is significant and quite advanced by international standards. Recent problems with
borrower performance include insufficient monitoring of significant aspects of the project, including lack
of household data on the rate of adoption of recommended agricultural practices. The borrower also has
failed to date to produce an operational plan as requested by several Bank supervision missions. The lack
of an operational plan makes proper evaluation of project results difficult. Even at this time, an
operational plan would provide a useful framework to help sustain project activities following project
completion.
I. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
39.   The projeclt's overall outcome, measured using the revised targets, is viewed as satisfactory. The
overall economic rate of return is about the same as the appraisal estimate. The objectives of raising
farmers' incomes amd improving food security are generally achieved in the areas where the irrigation
schemes were com,pleted. The coffee development in the southern provinces has contributed to both
increased farmers' incomes and export earning. The project area is producing about 15,400 tons of
coffee beans, of which 13-14,000 tons were exported during the last two years. This has generated about
US$21 million per year of foreign exchange. Export earnings are expected to increase each year as the
plantings mature (only 68% of the planted area is now in production). The stations at Ban Itou andHin
Heup were strengihened so as to provide linkages between research and extension and training to
farmers.
40.   One possible risk is natural disasters, such as drought or flood. Drought could limit the amount



10
of water supply for dry season crops. Heavy floods could damage the structure of the weirs and the
distribution canals, which then would need additional financial support for repair from the government,
because it would be beyond the capability of the WUAs. The govermment is aware of this possibility and
has agreed to assist the WUAs if this situation occurs. Another risk is a drop in export earnings due to
price declines in international coffee markets. The farmers in the project have minimized this risk by
planting better quality varieties in order to ensure access to the high end of the market. The larger profits
from higher quality varieties will tend to cushion price declines.
J. FUTURE OPERATIONS
41.   Future operations will need to concentrate on making full use of and maintaining the facilities
constructed under the project, such as irrigation and training facilities and roads. Responsibility for water
allocation and operation and maintenance are now with the WUAs, and their future operational
requirements are to make sure that water is allocated equitably, facilities are maintained, and the water
fee is set so as to cover the maintenance cost of the system. The training centers at bothHin Heup and
Ban Itou, which will continue to provide training to extension agents and farmers, need to draw up
training plans annually in order to request budgetary support from the provincial governments. Financial
support will be needed from the government in order to maintain the roads or a system of user fees should
be initiated to collect funds for road maintenance.
42.   Future operational requirements of coffee plantings are to maintain coffee trees and introduce
improved post harvest and processing techniques. The Ban Itou Station could oversee and perform these
activities in cooperation with the extension agency. Coffee in the project area will continue to expand
due to its high benefits and also through another agricultural development financed by the French
Government.
K KEY LESSONS LEARNED
43.   The Bank and the Borrower have learned a number of key lessons, which include:
(a)    Project design should be simple and realistic and in line with the borrower's institutional
strengths and implementation capacity;
(b)    Evaluation of the capacity of staff for project implementation should be made and
training should given before the project's implementation period;
(c)    Decentralization of project implementation to the provincial rather than central level can
be successful, provided that all parties are flexible in adjusting targets in line with
institutional capacity. Effective decentralization requires total delegation to the provinces
in both control of personnel, financial support and supervision of the technical assistance;
(d)    Weak capacity in procurement of the project staff and delay in fund and budget
disbursement caused major delay in project implementation;
(e)    Projects with a large number of co-financiers and implementing institutions take a long
time to gather momentum for effective implementation. Agreement between agencies
should be reached before project start-up and joint supervision missions should be fielded
to ensure consistency in achieving targets and objectives. Responsibilities of all parties



11
should be clearly spelled out to avoid confusion;
(f)    Participatory agricultural development is a long term process and sufficient time should
be allotted to project preparation and design, thus accepting slow physical progress (and
correspondingly modest project targets) in the early project implementation years;
(g)    Agricultural projects in particular should continue to be designed in a holistic manner,
inlegrating technological innovations with social realities and market opportunities;
(h)    Training programs and on-the-job training are essential elements for achieving good
results during project implementation;
(i)    It is very risky not to make specific, credible arrangements for the maintenance of gravel
roads as an integral part of a road construction project;
(j)    Design and technical specifications should be prepared by adequately qualified
professional; and
(k)    It is essential that farm inputs, including credit, are available at the right time if improved
farm practices are to be taken up and sustained.



12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
(/)       ~(1)              (if)              (1)
Macro Policies                      a              o                o                 E
Sector Policies                    E3              0                0                 0
Financial Objectives                al                      El -    o
Institutional Development          E3l             0l               0                 0
Physical Objectives                 al              El              E o
Poverty Reduction                   O              El               0                 0
Gender Issues                       O                       El      O                 O
Other Social Objectives             E3             0                El                0
Environmental Objectives            Ol              El              [El
Public Sector Management            al             E                E                 El
Private Sector Development                          E               E                 El
Other (specify)                      l             E                E                 E
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
(V)                      (1)                       (1)
Highly
C.         Bank Performance             satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                     (e)                       (/)
Identification                      El                      [El                        E
Preparation Assistance              E                        [E                        0
Appraisal                           0                                                 [El
Supervision                         El                       [3                        0
Highly
D.         Borrower Performance               satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
(e)            (1)             (1)
Preparation                           E               [E             0
Inplementation                        E               E l3
Covenant Compliance                   E               [E             0
Operation (if applicable)              l              E              E
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory  Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
El             El               El                El



13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit No.               Purpose                  Year of        Status
lTitle                                            Approval
Preceding operaj(ions
1. Agricultural Production Support   To increase agricultural  FY83         Closed
Project (Cr. 1395-LA)           production, particularly rice,              12/31/89
animal feed, and sugar, and
thereby reducing imports, by the
expansion and strengthening of
agricultural productive capacity
and in the maintenance of existing
support infrastructure. In
addition, the project would
alleviate key institutional and
technical constraints. Credit
closed - 12/31/89 PCR scheduled
- FY91
2. Forest Management and        To assist GOL to implement new   FY94       Active
Conservation Project (Cr. 2586-LA)  forest resource management
systems to better achieve the
sustainable management and
conservation of the country's
forest resources. The integrated
project will (a) develop a legal,
policy, and organizational
framework for sustainable forest
management and conservation;
(b) institute sustainable village-
based forest management system
for production forests; (c) support
the establishment of a integrated
conservation and development
(ICAD) management system for
priority national bio-diversity
conservation areas (NBCA); and
(d) build local capacity to
implement these new management
systems.
Following operations
1. none



14
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned           Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)          n.a.                 3/16/88
Preparation                                         n.a.                  n.a.
Appraisal                                           5/89                06/01/89
Negotiations                                        6/89                 10/12/89
Board Presentation                                  7/89                12/21/89
Signing                                             7/89                02/23/90
Effectiveness                                     FFY91                 05/02/90
Midterm review (if applicable)                    12/31/92               12/31/92
Project Completion                                06/30/95              06/30/98
Loan Closing                                      12/31/95              06/30/98
TABLE 4: LoAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(USS thousands)
FY91 FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95 FY96  FY97  FY98 FY99
Appraisal Estimate         2.9   7.2   11.0  14.5   18.2  20.2
Actual                      1.4   2.6   2.8   3.3    4.5   6.1   9.5   14.6  15.4
Actualas%ofEstimate       65.5  36.1  25.5  22.7  24.7  30.2  47.0  71.5  75.7
Date of Final Disbursement   October 31, 1998



15
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION a/
I. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/       Estimated (after restructured in          Actual
President's Report        1995)
1. None set in SAR
Il. Modified Indicators (retrofit
in FY96)
1. Completion of irrigation             3 schemes                     3 schemes
schemes.
2. Completion of road
construction and rehabilitation.  at least 200 ki, plus 26 bridges   400 km, plus 21 bridges
3. Completion of agriculture  2 stations                    2 stations
extension and b-aining stations.
III. Other Indicators (if
applicable)_
1. Sufficiently strengthen the                              Tra.iing sessions in water
organization of community                                   resource management, financial
participated water user groups                              management and fee collection
to take over the operation andmagentndfeclcio
maintoetake over thefation and                              were carried out to prepare the
maintenance of irrigation                                 WUAs to take over the O&M
facilities.                                                 responsibilities.
2. Increased cropping         at least 50% to double cultivation  With irrigation, farmers changed
cultivation in irrigated areas.                             from rain-fed to irrigated
agriculture. The areas under dry
season crop expanded. The
cropping intensity index
increased from 110 to 146. It is
expected that in the next few
years, the CII will surpass 150.
3. DCTPC's improved capacity                                DTCPs in the Provinces have
for contract supervision of the                             gained considerable experience
four project provinces.                                     in contracting, contract
administration and contraction
supervision.
4. Strengthen tha agriculture                               The agriculture extension staff
extension and training capability                           received both formal and on the
of staff working with the two                               job training and they are now
extension stations.                                         working well with farmers.
al Key indicators were retrofitted after project was restructured in 1995.



16
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as Defined
Study          at Appraisal/Redefined       Status          Impact of Study
1. Production and    - assess opportunities and   Completed in July  - identified crops
Marketing Potentials    constraints, identify  1993               which have domestic
and Constraints for  potential domestic and                       and export potentials.
Agricultural         regional export markets for
Commodities in Area    crop that could be
Supported by the     produced in the project
UADP.                areas
- collect information on                    - used information in
production practices, credit                developing
and input supply                            technologies and
- analysis of current market                planning of trials and
linkages and outlets for
crop grown and identify                     the project
measures which could be
addressed under the project
2. Farm Model and    - to collect farm input and   Completed in 1992  - used for planning of
Gross Margin Analysis  output data to develop                     cropping patterns for
farm budget and gross                       the project
margin analysis
- to evaluate the proposed
croppmg pattern under the                   pused
project to evaluate its                     purposes
impact to family income
3. Village Self-     - to assess socio-economic  Completed in     - helped to understand
evaluation Social    of farmers in the project    February 1995   farmers better
Survey Data,         area
Comn*                                                         - community
Development          - to gain information on                     development
what are needed under the                   programs were
project                                     designed based on this
- to learn from past                        study
experience of farmers in
this area



17
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)      Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Percentage
Item                  Costs   Costs             Costs   Costs
Coffee Rehabilitation      0.7      4.1      4.8     2.5      2.6      5.1        106
Irrigation Rehabilitation  1.4      2.2      3.5     0.7      1.2      1.9        54
Upland Crop Intensification    0.6  2.8      3.4     0.2      0.8       1.0       29
Rural Roads Rehabilitation  1.3     3.8      5.1     1.6      5.3      6.9        135
Agricultural Research      0.6      0.9      1.5     0.5      0.8       1.3       87
Extension Training         0.7      0.6      1.3     0.3      0.2      0.5        38
Agricultural School        0.1      0.3      0.4
Project Coordination       0.0      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.2       200
Technical Assistance &     0.1      8.6      8.8     0.2      11.4     11.6      132
Training
Physical Contingencies     0.2      0.5      0.7
Price Contingencies        1.2      3.2      4.4
TOTAL                     7.0      27.0    34.0    6.1       22.4     28.5       84



18
TABLE 7B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)       Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Percentage
Source                  Costs    Costs              Costs   Costs
IBRD/IDA                    3.0      17.2      20.2     2.1      12.5     14.6       72
AIDAB (AusAID)              0.1       6.8      6.9      0.1      6.9      7.0        101
France                      0.1       3.0      3.1      0.1      3.0      3.1        100
Domestic Contribution       3.8       0.0      3.8      3.8      0.0      3.8        100
TOTAL                      7.0      27.0      34.0     6.1      20.4     28.5       84



19
TABLE 8: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS a/
Project /Component              Appraisal Estimates                    ICR Estimate
Economic NPV         ERR           Economic NPV          ERR
('OOOKip)          (%)           ('OOQ,OOOKip)         (%)
Project as a Whole                 25,758         28.72         100, 562             27.72
Coffee Development                  19,960        34.32         101,130              28.89
Irrigation Development              1,702         15.68             417              13.07
al The detailed analysis are contained in the project files and will be available upon request.



20
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-            Original   Revised
Agree-                   nant   Present  fulfillment fulfillment
ment      Section       Class  Status       date      date    Description of Covenant
CREDIT    2.01(b)         03      C                             Open special account at BCEL
3.01(a)        10     C                             Provide funds, facilities, services and
other resources equipped for the
project.
3.02           12     C                             Vientiane Province to enter into an
agreement with beneficiaries providing
for the regulation of O&M activities
and for the payment of O&M fee.
4.01(a)       01      C                             Project agencies to maintain
appropriate records and accounts.
4.01(b)(i)    01     C                              Project records and accounts and the
Special Account for each fiscal year to
be audited and certified copy of audit
report submitted to IDA.
4.01(c)(i)    01    C                              Maintain records and accounts to
reflect statements of expenditure
(SOE).
4.01(c)(ii)    01    C                              Retain all records evidencing the
SOEs.
4.01(c)(iv)    01    C                              Ensure records and accounts for SOEs
included in annual audit and issue a
separate opinion on the SOEs.
5.0(a)        10     C                             The AIDAB Grant Agreement and the
French Grant Agreement shall have
become effective.
Schedule 4(a)  05    C                             Finalize appointment of members of
NPCC, establish PCU and define
NPCC and PCU's responsibilities.
Schedule 4(b)  09    C                             Submit a proposal for setting up a
Project monitoring and evaluation
system.
Schedule 4(c)  09    C                             NPCC to carry out a mid-term
implementation review.



21
Cove-            Original   Revised
Agree-                    nant   Present  fulfillment fulfillment
ment      Section        Class  Status      date       date    Description of Covenant
Schedule 4(d)  05    C                              Submit first year's annual work plan
(AWP).
Schedule 4(d)  05    C                              Submit subsequent annual work plans.
Schedule 4(e)  09    C                              Submit semi-annual reports.
Schedule 4(f)  10    C                              Carry out a study for the formulation
of pricing and marketing strategy for
upland crops.
Covenant Class:
I = Accounts/audits
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds
4 = coumterpart funding
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resources allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13 = Olher
Status:
C = covenant complied with



22
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
No specific provision of the Operational Manual Statements was involved during project implementation.
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                Planned               Revised               Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks       US$'000      Weeks    US$'000   Weeks   US$'000
Through Appraisal                                                       45.8       121.5
Appraisal-Board                                                         18.4        55.6
Board-Effectiveness                                                      1.1         3.3
Supervision                26.0*       69.0*      26.0*      69.0*     186.5      617.3
Completion                   3.0         6.7         3.0       6.7       6.9        18.4
TOTAL                      29.0        75.7       29.0       75.7     258.7       816.1
* From FY96 when task budgeting was in effect.



23
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Number  Days   Specialized           Implement-  Develop-
Stage of    Month/    of    in         Staff Skills          ation       ment    Types of
Project Cycle    Year   Persons  Field  Represented            Status    Objectives  Problems
Through         02/88    3         2      AG, 2 HY                 _           _
Appraisal        09/88    1        6      AG
12/88    2        14    AG, RE
02/89    4        18    AG, CS, EC, RE
Appraisal       05/89    3         14    AG, CS, RE                _           _
through Board    09/89    2        3      AG, ES
Approval        .
Board Approval                                                     _           _
through
Effectiveness
Supervision     09/90    4                AG, CP, IE, RE           2           1
02/91    3               AG, IE, RE                3          2
07/91    1               AG                       2           2
10/91    4               AG, CP, FA, RE           2           2
04/92    3               AG, EC, RE               2           2
11/92    5               AG, EC, FA, IE, RE       3           2
07/93    4               AG, 2 EC,, EN            2           2
02/94    4               AG, CS, EC, EN           2           2
08/94    4               AG., EC, EN, RE          U           S
02/95    5               DC, 2 EC, IE, RE        HU          HU
07/95    4               CE, CS, IE, RE           U          HU
12/95    3               CE, EC, RE               U           U
05/96    5               CE, EC, IE, RE, PA       S           S
01/97    3        10    CE, EC, RE                S           S
06/97    4        4      CE, EC, IE, RE           S           S
12/97    3        6      CE, EC, PA               S           S
Completion      8/98      3               CE, EC, IE               S           S 
AG = Agriculturist                CE = Civil Engineer
CP = Coffee Processing Specialist  CS = Credit Specialist
DC = Division Chief               EC = Economist
EN = Engineer                     ES = Environmental Specialist
FA= Financial knalyst             HY = Hydrologist
IE = Irrigation E,ngineer         PA = Program Assistant
RE = Rural Engineer



24
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
A. Introduction
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Rapeepun Jaisaard (Task Manager/Sr. Agric Economist),
Finn Nielsen (Sr. Operations Officer) and Jan Pruntel (Rural Engineer/ Consultant), visited Lao-PDR
from August 24 to September 3, 1998 to evaluate project status at completion and to collect information
for the preparation of the project implementation completion report (ICR). The mission worked closely
with government staff at both central and provincial levels and interacted with the project's co-financiers
Australia (AusAID /AIDAB) and France (Agence Francaise de Developpement). The mission visited
two small scale irrigation schemes (Nam Pang and Nam Mone) and the Hin Heup station in Vientiane
province and Ban Itou research station in Pakse, Champassak Province and held discussions with project
beneficiaries and staff. The mission would like to express its gratitude for the support and cooperation it
received.
2.    This Aide-Memoire is mainly based on information from the project appraisal report (SAR),
government, consultant and co-financier implementation reports, observations in the field, and
discussions with staff concerned with the project.  The information available on file and the
recommendations made in the many reports reviewed have been synthesized in this Aide-Memoire.
Reference should be made to the original reports for further details on conclusions and recommendations.
3.    A wrap-up meeting, chaired by Mr. Phouvieng Latdavong, DG Cabinet of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry was held at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) on September 3,
1998 to record the views of the Bank, co-financiers, the Borrower, and implementing agencies on project
preparation, implementation and operation. During the wrap-up meeting, the mission discussed the status
of the project at completion, major factors affecting the project and changes that took place. It also
presented analysis on whether the project's objectives were met and whether the components are
sustainable. A summary of these discussions follows:
B. The Project
4.    Objectives: The project was designed to reduce rural poverty, expand export earnings, improve
food security, control soil erosion and strengthen key agricultural institutions in upland farming areas.
This was expected to be achieved through an integrated series of development activities: rehabilitation of
irrigation systems and investment in a feed mill, coffee plantations and feeder roads, development,
transfer and adoption of improved technology and provision of essential inputs and services. The project
covered Champassak, Saravane and Sekong Provinces, on the Bolovene Plateau in the south, and
Vientiane Municipality and Province, in the north.
5.    Components. The main project components, as described in the SAR, were:
(a)   intensification of upland crop production, mainly coffee, soybeans and other cash crops,
and valley-floor irrigated production of rice and other food crops, through the provision
of equipment inputs and support services and the development and transfer of improved
and environmentally safe technologies;



25
(b)   rehabilitation of existing small-scale gravity irrigation schemes and establishment of pilot
irrigation operation and maintenance (O&M) arrangements based on adequate cost
recovery from beneficiaries;
(c)   feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance and improvement of village water supply; and
(d)   technical assistance and training, and
(e)    a rural credit component, which was added subsequently.
6.    In the SAR, the total estimated project cost of US$34.0 million was to be financed primarily by
an IDA credit of US$20.2 million, mainly for civil works, road construction equipment and farm inputs.
The governments of Australia and France financed technical assistance and training, with contributions of
US$6.9 million and US$3.1 million respectively. The remaining, local-currency portion of the financial
package, equivalent to US$3.8 million, was to be financed by GoL. About 29,000 families, living at or
below the poverty line, would benefit directly from the project through improved farm incomes and food
security. The project was extended four times (Dec. 95, Jan. 96, Jan. 97 and June 98). It was closed in
June 30, 1998. The actual project costs and expenditures are under review by the government. They are
estimated to be about US$25.0 million. Of the Credit, about US$ 6 million was cancelled. The project's
implementation achievements are summarized by component as follows:
Upland Crop Production
7.    This cormponent can be described in three sub-components: (a) coffee development, (b) soybeans
and other crops, and (c) research and extension development.
(a)    Coffee Development
8.    This sub-component aims to increase the quantity and improve the quality of coffee in
Charnpassak, Saravane and Sekong Provinces of the Bolovene Plateau. Coffee production is increased
by improvement of existing plantings, rehabilitation of old trees and development of new land for coffee
production. The quality of coffee is improved by the introduction of new varieties and improvement in
post harvesting practices and processing. According to the SAR, the project aimed to rehabilitate 4,000
ha of existing coffee plantings, stump and replant 3,500 ha of old existing plantings, and plant 5,500 ha of
new coffee. With improved husbandry, including pruning, fertilizing and weeding, it was expected that
yield in the rehabilitated plantings would increase from 200 kg/ha to 650 kg/ha. Yield from the new areas
was expected to be about 800 kg/ha.
9.    The project was designed to provide support to farmers through: (a) technology and variety
development; and (b) extension and training. A credit programn was added in 1992 to allow farmers to
invest in new and rehabilitated plantings and to purchase production inputs. The support to technology
and variety development is being carried out by the Station at Ban Itou, Champassak province.
10.   Achievement of objectives. The data from the French TA reports9 indicates that the areas under
rehabilitation wELs 16.5 ha, and new planting were 828.3 ha, respectively, in 1995. The total coffee area
in the three provinces in 1997/98 is estimated to be 36,321 ha, with 24,800 ha under production. The area
9     Rapport D'Activite, 1995-Projet LUADP, Planteau des Bolevene, Loas, February 1996.



26
under the project is estimated to be 15,389 ha, of which 9,067 ha is newly planted. Stumping is 622 ha,
and rehabilitation 5,700 ha. Coffee production started to pick up very quickly after 1994, when the price
of coffee commenced a steady increase.10 Farmers are now very enthusiastic about improving and
rehabilitating their existing coffee plantings and planting new ones. The price of coffee this year isKip
3,000-5,000/kg which is more than double the price of Kip 2,500 last year. Yields from new plantings
are higher than estimated in the SAR. A farmer interviewed realized 2,000-2,200 kg/ha in Year 4
compared to the SAR estimates of 800 kg/ha in that year.
11.   The newly planted areas now total 9,067 ha compared to the SAR estimates at full development
of 5,000 ha (181%); the area for destumping is 622 ha compared to the estimate of 3,500 ha (18%) and
the rehabilitation of older trees is 5,700 ha compared to the estimate of 4,000 ha (143%). The lower-
than-estimated destumping was due to lack of credit. Farmers were afraid of losing income during the
replanting period.
12.   Sustainability. Coffee production is likely to be continued and expanded. Coffee farmers are
supported by the Itou Research Center and its extension system (para. 25). Since coffee is a commercial
crop providing high income to farmers and tax revenue to the province, farmers will continue to improve
production technologies, and the government will be interested in providing funds for operating the
research and extension activities1 1.
13.   The sustainability of high coffee yields in farmer's fields will depend on the availability and use
of inputs. Since production at present is based on low inputs and is often not according to agricultural-
extension recommendations; the high yield of new orchards on virgin land may therefore not be
sustainable. The market for coffee is currently strong, resulting in higher prices to farmers. However, the
quality of Laos coffee, including that from the project provinces, is not rated high, and is sold at
substantial discount below the world market price. Quality improvement could be achieved through more
area being put under new improved varieties, through better cultivation practices and through training of
farmers in improved post-harvesting and processing techniques.
(b)    Soybean and Other Upland-Crop Development
14.   According to the SAR, the project would provide inputs and support services for upland crop
intensification in 11,000 ha in Vientiane, Saravane, Champassak and Sekong Provinces. In Vientiane,
development was planned for rice, legume and maize rotation on slopes up to 35 degrees. In other
provinces (Bolovene Plateau), soybeans was the main crop planned. Other high-value crops to be
promoted were cardamom, pepper and fruit.
15.   The project planned to provide upland cropping technologies through research stations and
extension services and the provide inputs through a revolving fund established at the Tha-Ngone Feed
Mill Corporation (TFMC). The company planned to purchase corn, soybeans and other upland crops
from farmers as raw materials for its feed mill. However, the government changed its policy and made
private companies ineligible for obtaining credit from public sources. This made TFMC ineligible for
project funding. The corporation then found difficulties in obtaining sufficient working capital from
private commercial sources and could not purchase crops from farmers, who in turn did not have
10    From Kip 400/kg in 1994 to Kip 3,000-5,000/kg in 1998.
1 1    Champassak provincial Government provided Kip 9.5, 15.6 and 13.4 million for salary and operating costs of Ban Itou
in 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively.



27
alternative markets for their production. A formal rural credit component was introduced in 1992
(para.40), however, it was mainly lent for livestock production in the north and coffee production in the
south.
16.   Upland Crop Development has not been implemented as planned, and during implementation,
this component did not receive funding. Along the way, the emphasis changed toward investments in
irrigation, roads and credit for other crops.
(c)    Agriculitural Research and Extension Development
17.    The project planned to: (a) assist in establishing two upland crop research and extension training
centers, Hin Heup Station and Ban Itou Station; (b) support the facilities at NARC built under APSP in
Vientiane and upgrade training facilities at Pak Chieng Lowland Crop Research Station in Vientiane
Province; (c) support applied research and the links among research, extension and farmers, strengthen
training-and-visit programs and demonstration plots; and (d) strengthen the existing Agricultural School
at Km 6 in Champassak Province (which trains middle level agricultural technicians to serve the
provinces on the Bolovene Plateau). Only (a) and (c) were carried out under project financing; (b) and
(d) were financed using other sources.
18.    The Hini Heup Station (HHS) was established in 1990 to: (a) provide applied research; (b) test
improved variefies of upland crops; (c) introduce cost-effective soil conservation methods on land with
up to a 35% slope; and (d) demonstrate stable land-use systems on land with more than a 35% slope.
19.   IDA financed the development of nurseries and mother tree gardens, the construction of a
training center and related facilities (dormitory and staff housing), the purchase of inputs for the
production of seedlings, and the equipping of offices and training centers (including vehicles). The
Government of Australia through AusAID, provided experts under its Technical Assistance, who worked
closely with the research station and extension offices in order to: (a) establish research infrastructure
facilities and training equipment; (b) train staff; and (c) assist in the planning, design, implementation and
evaluation of station trials, on-farm trials, program testing and provision of new technology.
20.   Initial progress made was slow due to changes in government policy toward the research12 and
administrative systems1 , lack of suitable personnel and an inadequate operating budget. Security
problems in Vientiane Province have also impeded traveling to the project sites by technical assistants. In
1994, the Australian team reviewed the roles and work plan of HHS and recommended that the station
roles be limited to: (a) testing plant varieties and developing plant propagation capacity and (b) training
farmers and offi cials. The government, during the mid-term review agreed to limited roles for the station
and agreed to provide adequate operational budget for the next two years. The construction of the
training center and other facilities at the research station started late; however, they are now completed.
The AusAID TA experts completed their assignment in 199614.
12     The training buildings were not constructed, being deemed unnecessary, and an initial reduction in inputs caused a
delay in other construction.
13     During 1991-95, the responsibility for implementation moved from the provinces to the center and back to the
provinces again. The provinces are currently responsible for project implementation.
14     Project Completion Report, ACIL Australia Pty, Ltd. April 1996.



28
21.    AusAID TA assisted the stations in developing community development approaches to crop
research and extension. This included setting up of Water User Associations, Women's Groups, Saving
Groups and Rice Bank Groups. On-farm trials and demonstration programs were set up, with several
field days, to promote the project. The fruit tree development programs included fruits other than
coffee15 and were established in nurseries 20 km from Ban Itou Station and in HHS. A total of 116
training programs were conducted for staff. Topics included grain and cash crops, fruit tree propagation,
agro-forestry, fish-raising, animal husbandry, extension methodology, community organization, and data
collection and analysis. Training was in the form of formal training sessions, practical and on the job-
training, on-farm trials and demonstrations, and domestic and international study tours.
22.    In order to keep the above activities going after the end of AusAID financing,16 IDA recruited a
local agricultural extension specialist (under the Royds Contract) to work with a government community
development specialist on irrigated and upland agriculture activities. A total of 12 demonstration plots
about 0.5 ha each have been established in the three irrigation schemes during the wet season for high
yielding rice varieties, fertilizer application and pest control. The horticulture programs included
improved seedlings for coffee and fruit trees. The community development program included home
chicken production and fish-raising. These programs were completed in June 1998.
23.    Sustainability: HHS carried out several training sessions, on-farm trials and demonstrations for
rice and other dry season crops. The station was active during the period when the Australian technical
assistants were involved. After the jurisdiction of the station was assigned to the Provincial Department
of Agriculture, however, the activities carried out are not well documented, and the results are hard to
evaluate. The mission requested a report of the activities carried out after 1996.
24.    The sustainability of irrigated dry season cropping will depend on the reliability of the water
supply, the use of inputs (fertilizer and better seeds) and the markets for cash crops. Rice yields could be
increased substantially, if appropriate high yield varieties and production inputs are used. Other cash
crops could also generate more incomes to farners. There is a need to support the activities ofHin Heup
Station to continue the extension programs set up under the project. This would need adequate fnancial
support from the provincial government budget for extension programs. The mission recommended that
the director of the station prepare work plans including budget estimates to be presented to the
govemment. This might help to ensure that the programs initiated under the project will be continued.
25.    Ban Itou Station. Under the project, IDA has financed the development of nurseries and mother
tree gardens, the construction of a training center and related facilities (dormitory and canteen), the
purchase of inputs for the production of seedlings, and the equipping of offices and training centers
(including vehicles). The Government of France through CFD provided experts under French Technical
Assistance, who worked with the research station and extension offices in order to select and propagate
new varieties and develop coffee production practices for extension to farmers. For similar reasons as at
HHS, the construction of the training center and facilities at the research station started late; however,
they are now complete. The French TA experts completed their assignment in 199617.
15     Mango, sweet tamarind, lime and tangerine at HHS and durian, longan, rumbutan, lime, grapefruit and pepper at Km
20 of Ban Itou.
16     The root cause of the need for continuing these activities was the delay in completion of irrigation construction. Since
farmers did not have irrigation available, dry season demonstration programs, using irrigation, were either not
implemented or were not effective in teaching farmers proper use of irrigation.
17     There is not much information about implementation of the coffee component from 1991-96, since it was implemented



29
26.    The mission visited the research station and had discussions with the director of the station and
his staff. The construction of the training center and related facilities has been completed and appears to
be of good quality. However, there are several facilities planned for the new project which were not
constructed in lime before project completion, i.e., a drying yard for coffee, a road inside the station,
electric poles and a related transformer, a fence and guard house, a parking area and a guest house. The
mission recommended that priority should be set for items that are important for the center (e.g.,
electricity connection) and suggested that the director make a request to the Central Government for its
support.
27.    The staition has developed coffee variety selection programs, field-tested superior Robusta and
Arabica coffee varieties from abroad, and introduced the new varieties to farmers through the existing
extension system. The coffee research and extension activities at Ban Itou had good results propagating
new varieties of coffeel8, which are higher yielding and have shorter bushes than the local varieties
(making them easier to harvest). The station has selected seven varieties out of 46 for demonstration and
extension to farmers. Seedlings and seeds from the station, however, suffered from being a mixture of
varieties and co:ntaining seeds with a low germination rate. An effort has been made recently to improve
the quality of seeds. It is expected that one million seedlings will be produced each year.
28.    Based on the experience of this project, AFD is preparing an agricultural development project
concentrated on crop intensification and diversification in this area19. AFD staff mentioned positive
impacts of the project as follows: (a) new varieties of seedlings produced under the project are of good
quality but not sufficient in quantity to satisfy farmer demand; (b) extension agents trained under the
project worked well with farmers, and the new project has engaged some of them; (c) feeder roads have
benefited farmers to transport agricultural produce to markets; and (d) the training center is an essential
facility for training extension agents, technicians and farmers.
29.    Sustainability: It would depend on: (a) the ability of staff to maintain the quality of seeds, (b)
the ability to work closely with the extension unit to pass on new and improved cultural practices, (c) the
government's mnaintaining its interest in providing funds for operating research and extension activities,
and (d) the interest of foreign donors in providing assistance.20
Rehabilitation Of Small-Scale Irrigation Schemes
30.    The SAR identified 13 schemes as potentially viable. Existing small scale irrigation schemes in
Vientiane Province, mainly based on temporary farmer-built brushwood diversion weirs, were to be
rehabilitated and upgraded, covering a total command area of about 5,021 ha (wet season). A general
approach aimed at fostering community participation and farmer-managed schemes in planning,
independently, and little coverage was given in supervision reports.
18     The seven varieties are Catimore, P86, P88, P90, TS175, SJ 133 and B02.
1 9    This will "nclude other cash crops than coffee, such as tea, bell peppers, peanuts, soybeans, potatoes and cabbage.
20     AFD further assisted the station by providing new varieties (T 8667, arabica coffee) for trials and demonstration and
the German Government provided assistance in horticulture crops.



30
construction, operation and maintenance was to be introduced. This approach turned out to be ambitious
and constitutes a major project in its own right rather than just one component of an "integrated project".
Moreover, there was never adequate hydrologic data to justify the estimates, and the Provincial Irrigation
Service (PIS) did not have the capability to design and implement so many schemes in such a short time
frame. In 1992, project targets were reviewed, resulting in a final irrigation program covering five
schemes and 2,160 ha (wet season). In 1995, the project was restructured again and scaled down to
activities that could be successfully implemented within a two-year extension period, with the result that
the scope was further reduced to three schemes, covering about 900 ha (wet season).
31.   The three schemes finally included in the project (Nam Mone, Nam Pang and Nam Quang I)
were rehabilitated using voluntary village labor for the construction of concrete diversion weirs and
spillways. PIS provided technical support, and materials were supplied by the project. The main and
secondary and some tertiary canals were constructed by contract, and work on all three was substantially
completed by mid-1996, in time for the main wet season rice crop. However, all three systems have
suffered from a number of planning, design and operational deficiencies, as evidenced by overtopping of
the earth embankments of Nam Mone and Nam Quang in August 1995. Other problems identified were
inadequate cross-drainage provision, inadequate provision for removal of surplus water in the main
canals, and difficulties in water management caused by lack of control on field outlets.
32.   Realization of these problems led to the engagement of new consultancy services financed under
the Credit in August 1996, to carry out a design review of the three projects, with particular emphasis on
the hydrology, to supervise any design modifications of canals and structures, and to assist with planning
and supervision of the necessary remedial works. Another important aspect of these consultancy services
was concentration on community development work with the Water User Groups and Associations of the
three irrigation schemes, as well as agricultural extension. After some delay, mainly caused by late
payment to contractors, which resulted in cash-flow problems, all remedial civil works were completed
by June, 1998, before the start of the main wet season cropping season. The mission visited two of the
schemes (Nam Mone and Nam Quang) and found that the schemes are now operating in a satisfactory
manner.
33.   During the first phase of assistance to the Water User Associations (WUAs) in 1996/97,
emphasis was on reforming the WUAs and strengthening them through training. Training sessions
included financial management and system maintenance, and assistance was given to the WUAs on
collection of water use fees. During the second phase of assistance to the WUAs, starting in February
1998, the focus was shifted to preparing the WUAs for taking over responsibility for scheme operation
and maintenance, including preparation of the necessary documentation. The schemes were officially
handed over to the WUAs in June 1998, requiring the them to take over routine O&M. DAFSO staff will
continue to provide part time assistance for the next two years of. In addition, the government agreed to
provide assistance in the event that major repairs are required.
34.   Sustainability. The mission held discussions with WUAs in the schemes visited and observed
that there is a keen interest to expand irrigation both in the wet and the dry seasons. In particular in the
Nam Mone and Nam Pang schemes, cropping intensities and yields have increased considerably.
Fanners seem to accept the responsibilities now resting upon them, are willing to increase the water user
fee (from Kip 2,500 to 5,000/ha for wet season rice and from Kip 3,000 to Kip 6,000 for dry season rice),
and are prepared to contribute voluntary labor for routine grass cutting and sediment removal. Provided
that the fee collection rate is high, this should be sufficient to maintain the schemes under normal
conditions. Although too early to assess, the first impression is that farmers' interest is sufficient to
ensure a sustainable operation. However, in case of a major disaster, in particular serious damage to the



31
weir and intake, the government's commitment and ability to assist in its repair remains in question.
Feeder Road Rehabilitation and Village Water Supply
35.   The rehabilitation and regular maintenance by provincial administrations of key feeder roads was
to support the intensification of agricultural production by facilitating input supply, providing access to
markets, improving communication and allowing access to services. The SAR provided for the
rehabilitation of 740 km of road to be implemented by provincial state enterprises under MAF
responsibility. A revised target of 497 km, which was established in 1992, was again revised downward
in 1995 to 362 km. By the end of 1994, the feeder road component was in serious stress with little
progress, overpayments and collusion among the supervising engineering firm and some contractors. The
contracts were terminated and the responsibility for the feeder roads was transferred to MCTPC. By that
time, about 11 0 km had been completed under MAF responsibility at a cost of US$ 6.9 million.
36.   The program by MCTPC was established at 199 km to be implemented before December 1996.
With the extension of the Credit by a year, 48 km were added. Following the decision to implement
through the provincial DCTPCs, progress has been very positive and 290 km have been finished in two
construction seasons under 42 contracts in four provinces. The physical parameters were adjusted to the
low traffic volume and rolling terrain. The quality of construction has been good.
37.   The feeder roads constructed under the project were about 390 km in length and included
construction of 20 bridges, at a cost of US$6.9 million (Kip 11,105 million at average exchange rate of
2,500 - to be discussed or checked -plus US$2.08 million for supply of bridges and TA - plus DKK 2.3
million = US$ 0.34 million). The average cost of the feeder roads were US$ 23,700 per km, against an
appraisal estimate of about US$7,000 per km. The higher than estimated unit cost can be attributed to:
(a) implementation on contract rather than on force account; (b) possibly higher physical standards than
anticipated; and (c) under-estimation of cost at appraisal.
38.   The Sustainability of feeder roads is very much dependent on the government's ability to
provide sufficient funding for maintenance.  The mission requested MCTPC to work out the
Government's plan and document the government's commitment to road maintenance. Maintenance
requirements and budget are to be provided by MCTPC.
39.   Village Water Supply: Improvements to village domestic water supplies were intended to free
family labor for other activities. The SAR provided funding to an amount of US$400,000 for materials
and civil works, with AusAID supplying technical assistance and training. This was revised in 1992 to
US$360,000 for materials and civil works, while AusAID was to provide US$110,000 for technical
assistance and training. Subsequently it was decided that AusAID would identify the schemes to be
implemented, while the actual implementation would be done under UNICEF's program. Because
UNICEF obtained a US$20 million grant for its program, interest in the funding from the IDA Credit
vanished, and no disbursements were made.
40.   Technical Assistance and Training: Technical assistance was mainly funded by grants from
AusAID and the government of France. However, during the restructuring of the project in 1995, it was
agreed to partially finance technical assistance from the Credit for the design and supervision of the
irrigation and feeder roads components. Performance was constrained due to many factors, including:
(a) the complexity of the original project design, (b) security problems in particular in Vientiane
Province, which prevented field work in the early project years and (c) the demobilization and subsequent
remobilization of new advisors six months later. Although advisors performed well in general, several



32
changes were made during the course of the project due to the under-performance of certain individuals,
which negatively impacted on several project components, including agricultural research and extension,
feeder roads and irrigation. In particular, this caused shortcomings in the operation of the irrigation
schemes and necessitated the review of designs and implementation of remedial works. The total cost for
technical assistance was about US$10 million, which is somewhat higher than the appraisal estimate.
Rural Credit
41.   The original SAR design did not include a credit component delivered through the banking
sector, but expected to channel inputs through the Tha-Ngone Feed Mill Corporation (TFMC) on a credit
basis to farmers. However, the project came on stream when the government was embarking on a
privatization campaign, and TFMC was identified as an enterprise to be divested. The government
requested that the Credit agreement be amended to compensate for this, so a formal rural credit
component for crop production (about US$ 6 million) was introduced in January 1992 to replace the
credit function that had been planned through TFMC. In July 1994, after considerable implementation
delay, a subsidiary loan to the amount of US$1.0 million was on-lent to the Agriculture Promotion Bank
(APM). Out of this loan, two tranches have been disbursed: one amounting to US$200,000 (Kip 143
million) in November, 1994 and one of US$681,000 (Kip 630 million) in January/February, 1996. The
proceeds of the loan have been used for subloans to farmer groups in the provinces of Vientiane,
Saravane, Sekong and Champassak. A review mission in July 1996 found that: (a) the Bank of Laos
maintains an interest structure for the agricultural production sub-sector that is negative in real terms and
(b) the APM's operations are constrained by its limited power to mobilize funds and its lack of authority
to set its interest rates. As the Bank was unable to engage the government in an effective dialogue on
these issues, the rural credit component was cancelled in January 1997.
Operational Plan
42.   The Government is now preparing an operational plan, which is expected to be sent to IDA by
the end of September 1998.
Follow-up
43.   The World Bank team undertaking the ICR mission will prepare a draft ICR for submission to the
World Bank by end-September 1998. The Bank will submit the draft report to the borrower for comment
by mid-October. The borrower should complete its final evaluation of project implementation and
operations experience and transmit it to the Bank with a summary by end-October. A summary or the full
unedited text, totaling not more than ten pages, will be attached to the final ICR.
Guidance on Government Contribution to the ICR
44.   The government's own final evaluation of project implementation is an important part of the ICR.
It can be selective in its coverage but should address issues and lessons learned in project implementation
from the borrower's perspective. Topics covered can be the same as in the Bank's part of the ICR,
namely, project design, appraisal, implementation and results. At each stage of the project, the
contribution should comment on both World Bank's and borrower's performances, with observations,
where possible, supported by evidence or reasoned argument. The previous supervision mission in
December 1997 provided documents laying out official Bank policy on and guidelines for government
contributions to the ICR.



33
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Peace Independence Democracy Unity Prosperity
Ministry of Agriculture & Forestry
Department of Agriculture & Extension
Tel/Fax 856 21 412349
November 11, 1998
Mr. Geoffrey B. Fox
Manager, Rural Development and Natural Resources
Sector Ulnit
East Asia and Pacific Region
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Geoffrey,
Comments on your draft ICR (Lao Upland Agriculture
Development Project (Cr-2079/LA)
Thank you for your draft ICR sent to us for review and comments on this draft
report.
In principle we are agreed up on the majority of the contents of this draft
Implementation Completion Report. However we have some comments as follows:
1. In paragraphe 2 of Summary, last sentence : "One activity intended in the
project was not carried out due to changes in Government policies , and three others
were financed by other sources "Need to be indicated which activity was not carried
out.
2. In paragraphe 18, Lessons learned need to be added:
- Weak capacity in procurement of the project management staffs
- Delays in fund and budget disbursement reflected delays in project implementation
3. Paragraphe 30 Project cost
In this it is difficult and uncertain to calculgre the final actual total project cost
because the Lao project managemnent could not know the real expenditure and
accounting of other cofinanciers except IDA finance. Only an estimate cost can be
done.
Hoping that our comments will be useful for the ICR preparation.
Sincerey yo s
Monitry S.ANAMONGKHiOIIN
11ADP Project Coordinator



34
C:\Chanh to RAD\prequaldoc\HEADING FOR RURAL ROAD.doc  9:39 AM  10118!9S
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ II
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Peace Independence Democracy Unity Prosperity
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATION TRANSPORT POST AND
CONSTRUCTION
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATION, TRANSPORT, POST
AND CONSTRUCTION
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
PROGRAMME FY1998/99
RURAL ROAD
IN
VIENTIANE, CHAMPASACK, XEKONG
AND SALAVAN PROVINCES



35
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATION, TRANSPORT, POST AND CONSTRUCTION
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATION, TRANSPORT, POST AND CONSTRUCTION
SUMMARY OF BUDGET FOR ROUTINE MAINTENANCE PROGPAMME 1998199
FOR RURAL ROAD
PROVINCE:                                       WIENTIANE, CHAMPASACK XEKONG & SALA VAN
ROAD    :                                       RURAL ROAD
LENGTH (PKM):                                     290.32          OR                290,320 m
SURFACE TYPE:                                   GRAVEL ROAD
ITEM         DESCRIPTION (ROAD NAME)             LENGTH      LOCAL FUND         TOTAL       REMARI
.____ _____ ____ _____ __ _   OF PROJECT           caP)
I   -         IENT1ANE PRO WNCE                    7.00        318,371,900     318,371,900
2  NAhION NEUA - NAMON TAI                           3.70       15,298,390      15,298,390
3  HIHIEURP STATION                                 2.30        13,644,510      13,644,510   -
4  MOUANG MOUN - SANAKHAM                           70.00      289,429,000     289,429,000    -
11          CHAM1PASACK PROEfCE                   105.80       437,451,260    437,451,260
5  NONGKAU - HOUICHAIT                              17.80       73,597,660      73,597,660
6  HOIJIXAN - BANMAI                                17.30       71,530,310      71,530,310
7  KM :36 - 8aKHOTNHAi                               8.40       34,731,480      34,731,480
8  KM :36 - BAN BANGUENG                             7.10       29,356,370      29,356,370
9  PAIKKHOUDNOI - BANKNOUTNKAI                      10.80       44,654,760      44,654,760
10  KH0TNHAl - KENGLOU                              23.00       95,098,100       95,098,100
1   BANIPAKXONG - NONGLOUANG                        13.00       53,751,100       53,751,100
12 BAi KAPER - PHOUTORD                              4.00       16,538,800       16,38,800
13  KM 35 - ITOU STATION                             4.40       18,192,680       18,192,680
III            XEKXONG PROWVICE                     74.02     3N,0,4.00         3
14  ROAD 16 - BAN TOMNHOR                            2.40        9,923,280        9,923,280
15  ROAD 16- BAN NONGNOK                             3.40       14,057,980       14,057,980
16  ROAID 16 - BAN PA.ENGTAJ                         2.60       10,750,220       10,750,220
17 BAN HOUILANG - BANSATOU                           3.20       13,231,040       13,231,0"6
18 BAN KAFE - BAN TORKSAMING                        10.80       44,654,760       44,654,760
19  BAN KAFE - BANTONNOI                             2.70        11,163,690      11,183,690
20  BAN TAPOUD - BAN PALAI                           4.50        18,606,150      18,808,150
21  BAN CHAKHAMNHAI - BAN NHOKTHONG                  7.40        30,596,780      30,598,780
22  BAN KOUB- BAN SATOUA TA                         13.00        53,751,100      53,751,100
23  ROAD 16- MOUNMAI                                11 J9        4920,930        49,202,930
24  BANI KONGTAYOUN - BAN THONGVAI - DONZA          12.12        50,112,564      50,112,564
IV             SALAVANP VI "                                    11427.15                    -
25  NOINGKER-DONGXOUANG                              9.90        40,933,530      40,933,530
26  SANGTHONG - NAPORN                              12.20        50,443,340      50,443,340
27  NONGCHOUA - PHOUDIN                              9.10        37,625,770      37,625,770
28  BA14HMA NAMBENG                                  330         13,64,510       13,644,510
TOTAL (KM                      290.32      1,520,804    1,2",520,0         7



36
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATION, TRANSPORT, POST AND CONSTRUCTION
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATION, TRANSPORT, POST AND CONSTRUCTION
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE PROGPAMME 1998199 FOR RURAL ROAD
PROVINCE:                                     VIENTIANE, CHAMPASACK, XEKONG & SALAVAN
ROAD
LENGTH (KM):                                   290.32      OR             290,320 m
SURFACE TYPE:
ITEM  CODE       DESCRIPTION OF WORKS          UNIT    QUANTITY       UNIT COST       COST (KIP)
(KIP)
1    117 GRADING OF SHOULDERS                 m2           29,032        2.100.00        60,967,200
2    122 LIGHT GRADING                        m2            43,548       1,400.00        60,967,200
3    124 FILLING OF POTHOLES                   m3           14,516      14,556.00       211,294,896
4    131 CLEARING OF DITCHES BY HAND TOOLS   m2             14,516       6,088.00        88,373,408
5    133 CLEARING OF CULVERTS                 ML            20,322      15,000.00       304,836,000
8    135 REPAIR OF EROSION DAMAGE             m3            5,806       70,000.00       406,448,000
7    161 GRASS CUTTING                        m2            87.096         40.00          3,483,840
8    163  BUSH CUTTING (THICK VEGETATION)     m2           914,508         70.00         64,015,560
TOTAL (KIP)                      1,200,386,104



I!Ak uo!sVS!Ml auoyV IURN OU.L
Cf11 _



38
g ~  ~       ~      ~      L             A. -.- .   Id      ...
W    +X
A sign put up by the Nam Mone Water User Association
p~~       ~   ~   ~   ~                       : 
A sample of feeder roads built under the project



39
*Ss-
* * | | I | . , *-
| | | | l l | | l l
SE    :0004  il:                                         i
lLUgH000Q000002 MSu !                                    t
l
lj E I g
l S
S
| - -
l
! ;
SX -
= p :
S- = E
=
--
: - -
- 
i
1
_r
One ofthe laterals of Nam Mone Weir (August, 1998)



40
Or,,
tS' ~~ smlhle coffee proucio



41
fiffffi:ffff:00 ff:ff f 0XC: i: ::0000000:00j00000:S000 ! 
v S EI | I | I a I 
r j F11 i !l l l i * | S9!! | -
illul
l - i11 _l
=._..J= _ __ -
_= _ _
_
-
1 1
__
Ban Itou Uplalld Crops Research and Training Stations



