Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
c       e  At     7  f    -L 4            Report No. 8003-LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 7, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Region
Tbis document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipenes only in the perfonnance of
their officfil duties. Its contents my not othenrise be disclosed witout World mank authizaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(July 1, 1989)
Kip 1.00 = $0.0018
Kips 550 = $1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                  =  2.20 lb
1 metric ton (m ton)             =  0.98 long ton
1 kilometer (km)                 =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                   =  2.47 acres
I1 cubic meter per sec (m3/sec)  =  35.3147 cubic feet per sec
1 liter per sec (1/sec)          =  0.0353 cubic foot per sec
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      - Asian Development Bank
AIDAB    - Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
ARDP I   - Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project I (Cr 760-LA)
ARDP II  - Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project II (Cr 924-LA)
ARDP III - Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project III (Cr 1021-LA)
APSP     - Agricultural Production Support Project (Cr 1395-LA)
BCEL     - Lao Bank for External Trade
CIN-vT   -  International Center for Improvement of Maize and Wheat
DOMC     - District Operations and Maintenance Coordinator
ERR      - Economic Rate of Return
ETC      -  Extension Training Center
FAO      -  Food and Agriculture Organization
GOL      -  Government of Lao PDR
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -  International Development Association
IFAD     -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRRI     -  International Rice Research Institute
ISNAR    -  International Service for National Agricultural Research
LCB      - Local Competitive Bidding
Lao PDR  - Lao People's Democratic Republic
MAF      - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MEPF     - Ministry of Economy, Plan and Finance
NARC     -  National Agricultural Research Center
NPCC     - National Project Coordination Committee
NUCRC    - Northern Upland Crops Research Center
O&M      -  Operations and Maintenance
OPEC     -  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCU      -  Project Coordination Unit
SLIE     -  Societe Lao Import-Export
SUCRC    -  Southern Upland Crops Research Center
TFAP     -  Tropical Forestry Action Plan
TFMC     -  Tha-Ngone Feed Mill Corporation
T&V      -  Training and Visit Extension System
UADP     - Upland Agriculture Development Project
UNDP     - United Nations Development Program
VCA      - Village Canal Attendant
VEW      - Village Extension Worker



A..._
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Lao PDR
Beneficiaries:              Rural   Smallholders;   Provinces   of  Vientiane,
Champassak,   Saravane   and   Sekong;   Vientiane
Municipality; Tha-Ngone Feed Mill Corporation
Amount:                      SDR 15.9 million (US$20.2 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms with 40 years' maturity
Project Description.        The five-year project would support the Government
of Lao PDR's efforts to reduce rural poverty,
expand export earnings and improve food security,
control   soil   erosion    and   strengthen   key
agricultural  institutions.      It  would  cover
Champassak, Saravane and Sekong Provinces on the
Bolovens Plateau in the south, and Vientiane
Municipality and Province in the north. Project
activities would concentrate on upland cropping
systems,   with   the   exception   of  irrigation
rehabilitation  in  valley   floors  in  Vientiane
Province.     Specifically,   the   project  would
support: (a) upland crop production, mainly of
coffee, soybeans and other cash crops, and valley
floor irrigated production of rice and other cash
crops, through the provision of equipment, inputs
and support services, and the development wid
transfer of improved and environmentally safe crop
production technologies; (b) rehabilitation of
existing small scale gravity irrigation schemes
and establishment of pilot irrigation operations
and maintenance   (O&M)   arrangements  based  on
adequate cost recovery from beneficiaries; (c)
feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance; and
(d) technical assistance and training, to be co-
finance'i by grants from AIDAB and France.
Benefits and Risks:         About 29,000 smallholders, living  at or below the
relative poverty line, would benefit directly from
the project through improved farm incomes and food
security.    The  project would  expand    annual
production of coffee, soybeans, maize and paddy;
generate incremental foreign exchange earnings;
and increase the productivity of essential rural
infrastructure and agro-processing plant capacity.
Soil erosion from slash and burn cultivation on
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
slopes would be  reduced.   Research and extension
entities   and   other   provincial   agricultural
institutions   would   lay   the   foundation  for
agricultural diversification and growth. Pilot
sustainable irrigation operation and maintenance
arrangements  would  be   tested  for  replication
countrywide. The main risks would be slower than
expected   adoption   of   measures   for   coffee
rehabilitation,     improved      husbandry      and
conservation  cropping   systems;   reluctance  of
farmers to pay irrigation service fees; unexpected
changes in Government agricultural pricing policy;
and   a   substantial   wo.sening   of   long-term
international soybean and co,fee prices below
current forecasts.   However,  these risks are not
considered  serious.    Projected  farmer adoption
rates  of   improved   technology   are  based  on
experience gained under  more  recent IDA projects
in  LAO  PDR.     Benefits  from  sustained  water
delivery far outweigh the level of irrigation
service fees and would present a strong incentive
for  water    user    participation.        Village
participation in project rehabilitation activities
would  be  conditional   on   their  prior  foimal
agreement  to  contribute  to   O&M  costs.    The
Government of Lao PDR is strongly committed to the
implementation of agricultural pricing and trade
reforms,  for which   additional  safeguards  are
provided  under  the   IDA  Structural  Adjustment
Credit.   Long-term  coffee  price>,  both  in the
international market and under barter arrangements
wiLh Socialist  bloc  countrics,  are  expected to
constitute   adequate   incentives   to   growers.
Finally, project development activities would be
supported by intensive technical assistance and
training.
Estimated Costs: la
Local Foreign Total
----(US$ million)----
Coffee Reh.bilitation                               0.7      4.1      4.8
Irrigation Rehabilitation                           1.4      2.2      3.5
Upland Crop Intensification                         0.6      2.8      3.4
Rural Roads Rehabilitation                          1.3      3.8      5.1
Agricultural Research                               0.6      0.9      1.5
Extension Training                                  0.7      0.6      1.3
Agricultural School                                 0.1      0.3      0.4
Project Coordination                                3.0      0.1      0.1
Technical Assistance and Training                   0.1      8.6      8.8
Base Costs                                     5.5     23.4    28.9
Physical Contirgencies                              0.2      0.5      0.7
Price Contingencies                                 1.2      3.2      4.4
Total Project Costs                            7.0     27.0    34.0
la  The project is exempt from taxes and duties.  Figures have been rounded.



- iii -
Local Foreign Total
_-_-(US$ million)----
Financing Plan,
Government                               3.8       0.0    3.8
AIDAB (Grant)                            0.1       6.8    6.9
France (Grant)                           0.1       3.0    3.1
IDA                                      3.0      17.2   20.2
Total                            7.0     27.0   34.0
Estimated Credit Disbursements:
IDA FY                1991   1992    1993    1994    1995   1996
----------------(US$ million)-------------
Annual                2.9      4.3     3.8      3.5     3.7    2.0
Cumulative            2.9      7.2    11.0    14.5    18.2   20.2
Economic Rate
of Returnt                    29Z



- iv -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary                    ...                      i-lii
I. RECTORAL BACKGROUND                       . . .                           1
General   ..............................................            1
Agriculture in thte National Economy ......................          3
Government Objectives. Policies and Strategies
for Agricultural Development ............................         4
IDA Agricultural Lending Strategy .........................         6
II.  THE PROJECT ...................................................          8
Project Objectives and Description            ..       .    .       8
Rationale for IDA Involvement .............................         8
Detailed Features ......................... ......                  9
Coffee Development                   ..             .             9
Soybeans and Other Upland Crops Development        .     .       10
Valley Floor Irrigation Rehabilitation          .      .         11
Agricultural Research and Extension Development .........        12
Feeder Road Rehabilitation and Village Water Supply .....        14
Technical Assistance and Training             ..                 15
III.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .......          ... .........................  17
Project Coordination                    ..                         17
Implementation Arrangements                ..          .           17
Monitoring, Evaluation anid Reporting              .      .        20
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ...................................         21
Project Costs                      . ...  21
Financing .................................................        22
Procurement                       ....   23
Disbursement         .......              ... .......... .         24
Accounts and Audits ................................. .. .. .      25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Laos from May 27 to June 8,  1989.   The mission comprised Messrs. Y. Wong You
Cheong (Mission Leader), R. Limbrey (Rural Engineer, Consultant), and M.
Rossin  (Coffee  Specialist,  Consultant).    Mr.  Maxwell  Brown  (Economist)
assisted the mission's work from Headquarters.



- v -
Pase No.
V.  PRODUCTION, PRICING AND MARKETING, AND COST RECOVERY ..........    26
Production ........... ........   26
Pricing and Marketing .................                         27
Cost Recovery                    ......  28
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .............................    30
Beniefits ................................................ . .  30
Environmental Impact      . . .........................           31
Role of Women ....                .     .......       .......   31
Ethnic Groups    .       ......              .     .... ..... .    32
Justification    .      .................    32
Project Risks   .     ............. . . .                       33
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECO*MENDATION .................................   35
ANNEXES
1. Detailed Cost Estimates
2. Economic Evaluation: Economic Parameters, Costs and Benefits Streams
3. Farm Models
4. Irrigation Rehabilitation
5. The Coffee Subsector
6. Tha-Ngone Feed Mill Corporation
7. Feeder Roads
8. Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
9. Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursements
10. Government Cash Flow
11. Supervision Schedule
12. Documents in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Project Linkages
2. Implementation Schedule
3. Organization Chart of Ministry of Agriculture
4. Organization Chart of Provincial Services
MAPS
1. Lao People's Democratic Republic (IBRD No. 21375R)
2. Northern Project Area (IBRD No. 21376R)
3. Southern Project Area (IBRD No. 21377R)



UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
General
1.1      Location and  Topography.    The  Lao  PDR  is  a  landlocked country
bordered by China and Myanmar to the northwest, Viet Nam to the nor'h and
east, Democratic Kampuchea to the south, and Thailand to the west. Virtually
all of the country is in the watershed of the Mekong River, which forms about
half of the western border with Thailand. Up to 75Z of the land area is hilly
to mountainous, predominantly in the northern  and eastern regions,  while the
central and southern regions are occupied by the low-lying plains of the
Mekong River and its  tributaries.    Gently undulating uplands are associated
with these flood-prone riverine plains, which are the more intensively
cultivated and populated areas in the country.
1.2      Climate  and  Soil.    The  climate  is  tropical,  dominated  by the
southwest monsoon from May to October which brings high rainfall, temperatures
and humidity. Three-fourths of annual rainfall, ranging from over 3,700 mm at
high elevations in the south to less than 1,300 mm in the northern valleys, is
brought by the monsoon.   The  rest  of  the  year is relatively dry and cool.
Frost occurs in some mountainous areas from November through January. Annual
and seasonal rainfall variabilities are high, with periods of severe flooding
or drought not uncommon during the monsoon season and occasional thunderstorms
during the dry season.   The  generally  poor  soils in the lowlands are acid,
hydromorphic and low in organic matter and nutrients, but they are moderately
well-suited  to  rice  production.    On moderate  slopes,  most  soils  have
sustainable agricultural potential provided they are well-managed to protect
against erosion. More fertile basaltic soils, high in organic matter and with
good physical properties, are found on the Bolovens Plateau in the south. The
combination of good soils, high elevations (up to 1,200 m) and rainfall (up to
3,000 mm annually) makes this Plateau one of the most fertile regions in the
country. In mountainous areas, shallow and poor podzolic and lateritic soils
predominate.
1.3      Land Use.   With  a  total  area  of  236,000  sq km, the country is
relatively well-endowed with natural resources. Forests, mineral deposits and
much of the estimated hydropower potential are still unexploited. Land use
intensity is low, as only about 32 (700,000 ha) of total land area is
regularly cultivated, against about 8? considered cultivable. Of this, some
400,000 ha is devoted to lowland paddy fields, of which about 50,000 ha is
reported to benefit from some form of supplemental wet season irrigation.
Another 250,000 ha is under shifting cultivation, with upland rice as the
major crop. Other upland annual and perennial crops make up the remaining
cultivated area. Due to a three to five-year bush-fallow cycle, the actual
area deforested through slash-and-burn probably exceeds 1 million ha. As flat
land is scarce, pressure for subsistence cropping leads to cultivation of
extremely steep hillsides.   Soil  erosion,  increased  run-off and silt laden
stream flows are evident in those areas in the wet season.



- 2 -
1.4      Altogether, rice accounts for  852  of total annually cultivated crop
land and virtually all of the lowland area. Other important annual crops are
maize (42), pulses (61) and root crops (22). Coffee (about 20,000 ha yielding
out of a total estimated area of about 23,000 ha) and other perennial tree
crops occupy the reiuainder (32) of total cropped area. Temporary regrowth of
low quality grasses, primarily Imperata cylindrica, on slash-and-burn areas
provides livestock pasture.    Total  forest  area  has  been  estimated at 11
million ha (46Z of total land area), of which 5 to 6 million ha is considered
to be commercially exploitable for timber.
1.5      Farming Systems.  The annual wet  season traditional rice crop is the
main agricultural activity; except for  the very small areas under irrigation,
there  is  little  dry  season   cropping.    Livestock  husbandry,  including
buffaloes, cattle, pig, and poultry, is also traditional. Crop production
systems make little or no use of powered machinery and other modern inputs.
In lowland and relatively flat upland areas, land preparation is by animal
traction. On steeply sloping land, there is no ploughing; plots are rough
cleared and burned as required each year, and seed is broadcast or dibbled in
the residue. Planting, weeding, harvesting and threshing are done manually.
Seeds of improved varieties are used on only about 52 of cultivated land.
Chemical fertilizer use has been very limited, averaging about 2 kg per ha,
applied almost exclusively to rice  nurseries.   Some insecticides are used on
rice, but herbicides are rarely  applied.   Under such extensive systems, crop
yields are among the lowest in Asia. I' slash-and-burn areas, productivity is
declining due to depletion of nutrients, soil erosion and shortened fallow
periods.
1.6      Infrastructure.  Laos' infrastructure  base  is  weak.   Lack of all-
weather main roads limits inter-regional traffic during the rainy season,
while the poor state of feeder roads also affects access to rural areas,
reducing movement of goods and agricultural products and provision of
services. Transport on the Mekong River is possible during the rainy season,
but the presence of rapids limits navigation in the dry season. Only major
centers are supplied with electricity.    Drinking  water is available to only
the larger towns, but  supply  is  erratic.    Health services and educational
facilities are limited.
1.7      Irrigation  development  is   minimal   relative  to  the  600,000 ha
potential estimated by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAP). About
30,000 ha of irrigated area has improved primary and secondary distribution
systems providing relatively reliable water supply and some degree of water
control. However, only about 10,000 ha have been cropped during recent dry
seasons, due to incomplete tertiary system development and the lack of an
effective organizational structure for operations and maintenance (O&M). The
bulk of irrigation investment has been for construction of large pump schemes
near Vientiane.    In  upland  areas  it  is  traditional  to  build temporary
brushwood diversion weirs.
1.8      Population and Labor Force.  The  population of Laos was estimated in
1988 at 3.8 million (610,000 families), growing annually at 2.52. The
population density of 16 persons per sq km and 4.9 per ha of cultivated land
is amongst the lowest in Asia. About 602 of the population is concentrated in



Vientiane Municipality and the provinces of Vientiane, Savannakhet, Champassak
and Saravane. Average family size is 6 persond. Rural inhabitants of some
11,000 villages comprise about 852 of the total population. About 80Z of the
active labor force, or some 1.3 million persons, work in agriculture, with
women   . slightly greater numbers than  men.  WJith present cropping practices,
estimated labor use ranges from about 60 days per ha for mungbeans to 90 days
for maize and 160 days per ha for rice. Overall labor intensity, about 1.5
labor years per cultivated ha, is quite high in comparison with traditional
rice-based agriculture in other developing countries.
Agriculture in the National Economy
1.9      Agricultural Output and Exports.  With  a per capita GNP of US$183 in
1988, Lao PDR is one of the least developed nations in the world. Agriculture
dominates the economy, contributing about 602 of GNP in 1988 and 302 of export
earnings between 1982-87, and directly supporting over 852 of the population.
Rice production is the principal agricultural activity, while forestry
products and coffee account for the bulk of agricultural export earnings.
Coffee  exports  stabilized  between   1982   qnd  1987,  amounting  to  about
US$8-9 million in 1987.    Forestry  products  became  the predominant foreign
exchange earner in 1987, increasing from US$8 million in 1986 to about US$32
million in 1.987.
1.10     Total  annual  rice  production,  over  852  of which  is glutinous,
amounted to about 1.45 million tons in 1986 and was consumed locally. About
502 is lowland rice, supplied by the central and southern regions; another 302
is upland rice from the northern and eaEtern regions. Non-rice crops, except
coffee, are produced mainly for family consumption. Coffee production, most
of which is exported, is estimated at 4,000 - 5,000 tons in 1987. Livestock,
both cattle and small livestock, is traditionally kept as family capital and
is not usually marketed. About 30,000 tons of fish are caught annually from
rivers, lalkes, fish ponds and swamps.
1.11     Prospects for rapidly expand} .  agricultural  exports in the short to
medium -term are limited.  Due  to Rt  ::onmental concerns, logging is recently
being  de-emphasized  in  favor  of   ;.estry  resource  conservation  and  no
expansion of forestry products is envisaged until the forestry resource
assessment is completed and new policies for the subsector formulated under
the upcoming  Tropical  Forestry  Action  Plan  (TFAP).    In  the  absence of
substantial economically viable agricultural export alternatives, coffee
exports will remain the most important source of foreign exchange earnings for
the agricultural sector for some time to come. However, the coffee subsector
is run down and needs to be rehabilitated.
1.12     Agricultural Institutions.  The  Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAF) is the central institutiun for the agricultural sector. Its juris-
diction has covered research and extension, seed multiplication, input supply,
irrigation, veterinary services and livestock production, fisheries, forestry
and soil conservation.    Until  recently,  MAF  was  also responsible for the
development of cooperatives and supervision of state farms and a number of
serA-autonomous   production,   marketing   and   agroprocessing  parastatals.
Constrained by limited trained manpower  and an insufficient operating badget,



MAF had difficulty managing  this  wide  range  of  activities.   In 1988, the
Government announced a major reform of MAF's organization and functions, aimed
at rationalizing and decentralizing MAF by merging departments, reducing
centrally-based staff through transfer to provinces and parastatals, and
strengthening provincial and dis-rict agricultural services. MAF's production
responsibilities  were  reassigne, to   provincial  agencies  and  autonomous
parastatals, and its role redefined to focus on sectoral planning and coor-
dination, provision of technical assistance to provincial and district
agricultural services, and such core activities as research development.
1.13     Heretofore, agricultural research and  extension development has been
constrained by lack of clear policies, inadequate investment and operating
funds, and a shortage of trained personnel. However, a National Agricultural
Research Center (NARC), partly financed by the OPEC Fund under the IDA-
suppor.:ed Agricultural Production Support Project (APSP) and by UNDP, has been
established at Na  Phok  in  Vientiane  Municipality.    Satellite stations at
Salakham  and  Hat   Dok   Heo   comprise   the  remaining  national  research
infrastructure.    More  recently,  provincial  research  stations  are  being
established and    Government  is  now  assigning higher priority to obtaining
external assistance for agricultural research.    UNDP, jointly with ISNAR, is
preparing a long-term research development  plan.      IRRI and CIMHYT are also
proposing to initiate cooperative research programs for Lao PDR. Technology
transfer remains a problem, as an effective extension structure has yet to be
developed. The preparation of a national plan for agricultural extension has
been proposed under an ADB Agricultural Program Loan scheduled to begin
implementation in 1989.
Government Objectives, Policies and Strategies for Agricultural Development
1.14     When  the  present  Government  came  to  office  in  1975,  its main
objective was to establish a socialist republic based on state ownership of
property and control of the means of producticn and distribution. Planning
and administration were centralized and Government control of the economy was
enfor^ed through the creation of state enterprises to manage the main sectors,
including  industry,  transport,  and  domestic   and  external  trade.    For
agriculture, the objective was to collectivize production and establish state
farms. To encourage farmers to form cooperatives, incentives were provided by
giving cooperative organizations priority access to institutional credit,
subsidized inputs and support  services.    Marketing parastatals were created
and given monopolies over procurement and distribution of agricultural
products. An administered pricing system was adopted, based on an official
price for rice; arbitrarily set prices were generally below production costs.
1.15     The primary goals for  the  agricultural sector were self-sufficiency
in  food  (mainly  rice)   and  maintenance   of  adequate  security  stocks;
agricultural diversification through expansion of the production of non-rice
crops, livestock and fish foL domestic consumption and export; increased
forest exploitation and conservation, with emphasis on control and gradual
reduction of slash-and-burn agriculture; and expansion of collectivized
agriculture. Sectoral growth targets were 7.35Z for the First Five-Year Plan
(FFYP, 1980-85) and 9.85Z for the Second Five-Year Plan (SPYP, 1986-90). To
achieve these targets, some 18-192 of total public investments were allocated
to support agriculture. Under the FFYP, subsectoral resource allocation was



- 5 -
as follows: 45Z to irrigation, 11 to forestry, and 44X to other subsectors.
Under the SFYP, relatively more importance (30Z) was given to forestry
development, with the balance to irrigation (401), and other subsectors (302).
1.16     Sectoral Performance.    Sector  invetuzzents  under  both  plans were
slightly below target, but agricultural GDP reportedly grew by aboet 62 p.a.
in real terms in 1982-85 and about 52 in 1986-1987. Agriculture accounted for
about 662 of total output growth in 1982-85, with rice representing about 472
of the increase in gross  material  product.    Rice production is reported to
have increased from 1.09 million tons in 1982 to 1.45 m'llion tons in 1986,
but dropped to 1.18 million tons in 1987 due to a severe drought in the north.
A similar drought which occurred in the south in 1988 again affected rice
production.
1.17     Despite  the  significant  increases  reported  for  rice production,
output of most cash crops stagnated during the two plan periods. Sectoral
performance  over  the  past  decade   was  characterized  by  low  investment
productivity,  poor  crop  yields   and  continued  -eversion  to  subsistence
agriculture. An important factor has been aa unbalanced a:location of actual
investments, not in accordance with plan statements. Irrigation construction
received a large share of capital expenditures, but scant funds were allocated
for operations and maintenance (O&M).   Schemes were left incomplete and often
inoperable, resulting in irrigated rice yields hardly superior to those of
rainfed rice. Investments to improve the productivity of rainfed rice were
inadequate despite its relative economic importance. Inefficient state farms
received large budgetary allocations at the expense of the rest of the sector.
Research and extension were not developed for lack of a clear commitment and
investment funds. A network of seed multiplication centers was established,
but it was under-utilized due to the absence of a policy and plan for improved
seed distribution. Fertilizers and other chemical inputs were unavailable, as
priority was given to the concept of organic manuring. Institutional credit
was provided only to cooperatives, which represented a small fraction of the
farming community. Low official procurement prices and poor access to markets
also discouraged major production increases.
1.18     Other constraining  factors  included  an  overvalued  currency which
decreased the competitiveness of Laos' agricultural exports and favored
imports.    Interregional  trade  barriers  created  localized  areas  of food
surpluses and deficits, accentuated by poor communications and deteriorating
road infrastructure.    The  low  priority  given  to  education  and training
iesulted in a shortage of trained technical and managerial personnel.
1.19     Recent Policy Reforms.  Sweeping  policy reforms have been introduced
since 1986 under under the New System of Economic Management (NSEM), which is
aimed at creating a market economy and dismantling centralized planning and
controls. Thus, exchange rates have been unified and aligned to the free
market rate; prices and trade of most commodities, except for ustrategic"
goods, have been deregulated; a commercial banking and credit system has been
established; the private sector has been allowed to operate; and a fiscal
reform has been introduced.



- 6 -
1.20     Specific reforms for  the  agricultural  sector were consolidated and
endorsed at the National Agriculture Conference in 1988. The collectivization
of farm holdings has been abandoned and tha private farmer now has improved
access to institutional credit, farm inputs and support services, while
subsidies for farm inputs have  been  eliminated.    Land tenure is to be made
more secure through proposed legalization of permanent tenurial rights to
families. Procurement prices of rice and other crops have been deregulated.
Trade barriers have been dismantled and emphasis is now placed on regional
specialization based  on  comparative  advantage.    Key institutional reforms
include the decentralization of authority to give financial and management
autonomy to parastatals and provincial agencies, and elimination of central
agencies' production responsibilities.    IDA  and  the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) are supporting the reform process through a Structural Adjustment
Credit under implementation and a Structural Adjustment Facility due for
implementation, respectively. In addition, an ADB Agricultural Program Loan
(para. 1.13) would address agricultural sector policies relating to manpower
development, research, extension, irrigation and improved seed multiplication.
IDA Agricultural Lending Strategy
1.21     Experience  with  Past  Agricultural  Projects.    To  date,  IDA has
supported  four  agricultural  projects.       The   First,  Second  and  Third
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Projects, supported by IDA Credits
Nos. 760-LA (US$8.2 million),  924-LA  (US$14.4  million) and 1021-LA (US$13.4
million), respectively, closed in 1986, 1987  and 1988.  Sums of US$39,942 and
US$29,437 were cancelled under the first two credits, while the third credit
was fully disbursed.    A  fourth  project  (IDA  Credit No. 1395-LA) is still
under im,rementation:  the  Agricultural  Production  Support Project (SDR 5.4
million), cofinanced by IFAD  and  OPEC.    ARDP  I supported irrigation, rice
intensification and pig multiplication.   ARDP II supported the development of
improved seed and feedgrain production and rice intensification. ARDP III
included the expansion of rice milling and mechanical workshop capacities,
coffee development and rice intensification.    Components of the cagoing APSP
support small-scale gravity irrigation and crop development, construction of a
micro-sugar factory, storage and transportation of construction materials and
fuels, and  rural  road  repair  and maintenance.    Technical assistance and
training are also provided.
1.22     The performance of the four  previous  projects must be viewed in the
context of the political and socio-economic environment at the time they were
identified and appraised, as well as the changing conditions experienced
during their  implementation.    At  the  time  the  first  two  proiects were
appraised (1977-78), the country was still emerging from a period of
intermittent warfare culminating in the installation of a totally new
political system.   Consequently,  as  illustrated  by  the Project Completion
Report for ARDP I, these earlier projects were constrained by a weak
institutional framework, unclear or inappropriate sectoral priorities, lack of
production incentives and poor project preparation. Construction targets were
eventually attained, but project impact has been mixed since policies relating
to wages, pricing, marketing, subsidies and other incentives, research and
extension, needed to ensure their successful performance, were slow to
develop. The later projects, ARDP III and APSP, were more self-supporting in



- 7 -
design and, for some components at least, can be seen to have had a more
positive productive impact.   They  have  also benefitted from improvements in
communications and the experience acquired by implementing agencies in project
execution. Recommendations derived from past project performance include the
need for a sharper focus on development objectives and priorities, and
supportive policies such as  those  now  emerging for agricultural pticing and
marketing, sectoral management, research and extension, input and credit
supply, and irrigation O&M.
1.23     Current IDA Sector Strategy.    IDA's  strategy in Lao PDR has been to
support  Government  efforts   to   achieve  food  self-sufficiency,  diversify
agricultural production for increased utilization of domestic processing
capacity and for export, and strengthen key sectoral institutions. However,
more emphasis was placed on reaching the immediate goals of self-sufficiency in
rice and meat through the development of agricultural production zapacity and
infrastructure. Thus, simple and clearly defined projects, which were easy to
implement and likely to yield immediate returns, were selected. In line with
Government policies, investments were targeted to cooperatives, state farms ¶nd
parastatal agencies and supported by technical assistance and training which
were an important element  of  the  strategy.    Current strategy is to support
Government in its reorientation towards market-based agriculture through the
private  small  farmer,  the   reduction   of  environmental  degradation,  and
development of a technology base and transfer mechanism to support this
reorientation. The main thrusts of the proposed Upland Agriculture Development
Project (UADP) would be concentration on bringing past investments in coffee
plantations, irrigation, feed mills and rural roads into more productive use;
as well as support for development of the technological foundations for future
agricultural diversification and growth, control of slash-and-burn cultivation
and development of trained personnel.



- 8 -
II. THE PROJECT
Prolect Obiectives and Description
2.1      The project aims at reducing rural poverty, expanding export earnings,
and improving food security, controlling soil erosion and strengthening key
agricultural institutions in upland farming areas. The central strategy of the
project is to achieve productivity gains through an integrated series of
development initiatives, from rehabilitation of past investments in irrigation,
livestock feedmill, coffee plantations and feeder roads, to the development,
transfer and adoption of improved technology and the provision of essential
inputs and support  services.    The  principal  beneficiaries would be farming
families  currently  involved   in  highland   coffee  production  and  upland
subsistence farming and slash-and-burn cultivation.
2.2      The main project components are:
(a) intensification of upland crop production, mainly of coffee, soybeans
and other cash crops, and valley floor irrigated production of rice
and other food crops through the provision of eqtipment, inputs and
support services, and the development and transfer of improved and
environmentally safe technologies;
(b) rehabilitation of existing small scale gravity irrigation schemes and
establishment of pilot irrigation operation and maintenance (O&M)
arrangements based on adequate cost recovery from beneficiaries;
(c) feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance, and improvement of
vi7lage water supply; and
(d) technical assistance and training.
2.3      The five-year project  would  cover  Champassak,  Saravane and Sekong
Provinces on the Bolovens Plateau in the south, and Vientiane Municipality and
Province in the north. Project activities would extend mainly over the higher
elevations of the project areas (from 200 to over 1,200 m), concentrating on
upland cropping systems, with the exception of irrigation rehabilitation in
the valley floors in Vientiane Province.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.4      The proposed project would support IDA's current development strategy
for Lao PDR by assl-sting in implementation of important sectoral reforms
(para. 1.20). During project preparation, IDA played an important role in
focussing attention on the relevant technical and institutional issues
constraining the development of coffee and other crops for domestic processing
and export; on the critical measures needed to improve capacity utilization of
existing agricultural and rural infrastructure; and on the development of
practical means to address concerns over environmev'lal degradation in the
uplands.  As the main external donor in the agriculture sector to date (Credit



Nos. 760-LA, 924-LA, 1021-LA and 1395-LA). IDA is especially well-placed to
work with the principal sectoral agencies in designing realistic targets and
implementation arrangements and closely supervising their execution.
2.5      With regards  to  IDA's  support  for  coffee  development  under the
project, Laos is one of the poorest countries in the world and has no major
agricultural export alternatives to coffee at this time, other than forestry
products. For environmental reasons, new Government policies formulated in
1989 de-emphasize logging in  favor  of  forest  conservation.   As the coffee
plantations established several decades ago continue to degrade, there are no
economically significant investment alternatives in the coffee growing areas.
Presently, almost the whole of Laotian coffee production is sold to the Soviet
Union and Eastern European countries under barter arrangements. It is likely
that incremental production under the project would be easily absorbed b) this
market in which Laos presently has difficulty meeting demand. The quantity
involved would represent only about 0.1Z and 0.2Z of world production and
exports, respectively, and therefore would not affect world prices even if
sold on the international market.
Detailed Features
2.6      Coffee Development.  Both the  quantity  and quality of coffee on the
Bolovens Plateau would be improved under the project. Production increases
would be achieved early into the project through the application of well-known
improved agricultural techniques and by the rehabilitation of older trees.
These improved  techniques,  including  pruning,  fertilizing,  and weeding on
trees not earmarked for ujrooting or stumping, and the replacement of missing
trees, would increase yields from 200 to at least 450 kg/ha over some 4,000 ha
at  full  development,   producing   an   immediate   increase  in  income  to
participating growers, at low risk.   Other  trees which are not very old, but
which have few productive branches, covering an estimated area of 3,500 ha at
full development, would be  stumped  and  infilled.   With improved husbandry,
such trees should respond rapidly, producing a yield increase from 200 to 650
kg in  about  three  years.    Proper  planning  of  the  stumping  program in
conjunction with better husbandry should minimize risks to farmers and ensure
that they suffer no significant drop in income while the stumped trees return
to full bearing. The stumping technique was introduced under a previous IDA
project (ARDP III) and is already being adopted by leading growers. The
project would provide tools, fertilizers and other farm inputs on credit.
2.7      About 5,500  ha  of new  coffee  plantinRs  would  be established in
addition to infilling the existing  areas.   They would replace slash-and-burn
cultivation on relatively flat areas of secondary forest. Land clearing would
be done largely by traditional manual methods, using wheeled tractors only
where intercropping with rice  or  soybeans  is  required.   Selection of good
parent stock and use of clonal propagation methods for robusta coffee would
give estimated yields of  800  kg/ha.    New  planting  would be restricted to
relatively small areas until seedlings from the clonal propagation program
(para. 2.8) become available in adequate quantities. Also, closer examination
of market requirements will provide a guide to the pace of expansion of
robusta plantings. Possibilities of expanding the area planted to arabica
coffee would be explored with introduction of rust-tolerant varieties and
technology for rust control.    The  project  would provide equipment, such as
4-wheel tractors for land preparation and 2-wheel tractors for inter-row



- 10 -
cultivation, fuel, tools, fertilizers and other farm inputs on credit.
2.8      The genetic improvement  program  would  include the introduction and
field testing of superior robusta and arabica coffees from abroad to ensure
optimal development of the industry in the long term. Immediate gains would
be possible, however, from selection of high yielding robusta trees among the
existing population on the  Bolovens  Plateau.    A clonal propagation program
would be implemented for  robusta  coffee  to  achieve  an  annual target of 1
million plants per year (sufficient for 700-800 ha) by project year 3.
2.9      Coffee  quality  improvement   would   be   achieved  through  better
processing  and  grading.    Re-introduction  of wet  processing  methods  in
conjunction with improved drying techniques would eusure cleaner coffee with
lower p'.cessing losses. In the most important production area in each of the
provinces of Champassak anl Saravane the project would provide a complete wet
processing plant with a capacity of 300-500 tons of green coffee per year.
These two units would produce top quality clean, dry, graded and bagged
coffee. In the less concentrated production area the project would provide
small hand pulpers and hullers with an average capacity of 300-500 kglhr. The
project would provide processing equipment such as wet treatment stations,
pulpers, hullers and grading machinery.
2.10     Soybean and  Other  Upland  Crops  Development.    The  project would
provide inputs and support services for upland crop intensification on a total
area of about 11,000 ha, mainly in Vientiane, Saravane, Champassak and Sekong
Provinces. In Vientiane, rice cultivation under slash-and-burn methods would
be gradually replaced by maize and soybean production, organized by the Tha-
Ngone Feed Hill Corporation (TFMC) under environmentally safe methods. On
slopes of up to 352, improved, sustainable cropping systems involving
rice-legume-maize rotations between contour hedges of Vetiver (Vetiveria
zizanioides) and other plant species would be tested and adapted for
extension.    The  main  objectives  would   be  to  improve  soil  and water
conservation, generate cash income and restore soil fertility. For slopes
steeper than 35Z, trials would be carried out on management systems including
suitable trees and other perennial crops. Conservation efforts would focus on
low-cost, farm level vegetative  methods.    In  other provinces mostly on the
elevated Bolovens Plateau, soybeans would be the main crop grown. High-value
crops with export potential, such as cardamom, pepper and fruit trees, would
be promoted.    Marketing  for  the major  crops  would  be  handled by TFMC.
Increases in home consumption of grain legumes to improve the protein content
of family diets would be encouraged through the extension program. In
addition to assisting provincial implementing agencies to acquire land
preparation and crop processing equipment, farm inputs and support services,
the project would increase   the  capital  of  TFMC by US$2 million, including
about US$1.5 million for the purchase of land preparation and crop processing
equipment and vehicles, and US$0.5 million as a revolving fund for the
procurement of fertilizers  and  other  inputs.    These  would  be offered to
farmers for cash, or on credit under production contracts.



- 11 -
2.11     Valley  Floor  Irrigation  Rehabilitation.    Existing  small gravity
irrigation schemes in Vientiane Province, based mainly on diversion weirs,
would be rehabilitated and upgraded to improve supplies to a total command
area of about 5,000 ha.   As  a  result, the average annual cropping intensity
would increase from 1061 to 1382, the extent for each scheme depending upon
the dry season crop mix and available streamflow. While paddy would remain
the major wet season crop, non-rice crops, particularly soybeans, would be
promoted itl the dry season to increase cropping intensity. Civil works would
include the c,Oantruction or repair of concrete weirs, sluices and headgates,
stilling basins and downstream  bank  protection.    Canal construction or re-
alignment would be undertaken only in  the interests of major scheme expansion
or connection of new areas. To overcome the identified shortage of provincial
construction capacity, civil works would be carried out by turnkey contracts
let by  international  competitive  bidding.    Irrigation beneficiaries would
contribute to the improvement of canal and drainage systems and other on-farm
works.
2.12     Implementation would commence with site investigations to confirm the
suitability of weir foundation designs.    Construction would start with three
or four schemes in Vang Vieng and Kasi Districts, dependent on completed site
investigation and final design work.   In  parallel with the contract for weir
construction, village teams would commence canal rehabilitation. Nam Mon and
Nam Koang 1 in Vang Vieng District and Nam Kay and Nam Pang in Kasi District
have been selected as suitable for early treatment under the project. Further
schemes have been identified, and will  be  reviewed and ranked in accordance
with agreed technical and socio-economic criteria as the project progresses.
While priority will remain with the above two districts, in which the best dry
season stream flow conditions are reported to exist, schemes in Muang Fueng
and Sanakham Districts will also be reviewed and stream flows measured for
possible inclusion later in the project.
2.13     The improved water supply in both  wet and dry seasons resulting from
irrigation rehabilitation will enable more intensive cropping systems to be
introduced. Farm inputs and supply services would help to optimize irrigation
benefits and increase yields. Where dry season stream flows or residual soil
moisture permit, additional crops of mungbeans before paddy and soybeans after
the paddy crop could give up to three crops per year. These grain legumes
would be grown in addition to more intense paddy cultivation to decrease
pressure for foodcrops on associated upland areas. High-value cash crops such
as vegetables would also be promoted for dry season cultivation to increase
cropping intensity and cash incomes.    In addition, areas under paddy outside
the project-specific rehabilitation schemes could be intensified with these
cropping systems, with the support of extension services to be developed under
the project, in order to further enhance food production in the valleys and
decrease pressure on the hillsides.
2.14     The project would support the  formation  of water user groups in the
rehabilitated areas, giving training at all levels in the most efficient and
effective systems of  O&M  and water  management.   Through consultation with
provincial and district authorities and water users, systems for financing
permanent O&M activities, including material supplies and the appointment of
full-time Village Canal Attendants (VCA), would be developed on a sustainable



- 12 -
basis through collection of irrigation service fees. Fee levels would be kept
to a minimum, but adequate, level  by  formal   agreement with water users who
would undertake all minor works.    Institutional arrangements for water user
groups, fee collection, administration and utilization would be established
for each scheme before the start of works.   In view of the lack of tradition
for irrigation cost recovery, this activity would be continually monitored
under  the  project  and   specific  short-term  technical  assistance  inputs
provided, when necessary, to strengthen institutional arrangements and ensure
sustainability. Training in O&M would be carried out at village level from
the district project headquarters with support from the Extension Training
Center (ETC). Sets of small tools and equipment would be held at district
project offices for hire by the village schemes for maintenance purposes.
2.15     Agricultural Research and Extension  Development.   The project would
support the establishment of two upland crop research and extension training
centers under the responsibility of MAP which would provide staff and
operating budgets. The Northern Upland Crops Research Center (NUCRC) would be
located at Hin Heup on Route 13 North, approximately 20 km north of Vientiane
Province's capital at Phon Hong, and would specialize in upland crops. The
Southern  Upland  Crops  Research   Center  (SUCRC),  specializing  in  coffee
research, would be sited at Ban Itou, 35 km from Pakse in Champassak Province.
At an altitude of 900 m, the latter site is suitable for research on both
arabica and robusta coffees. Support would also be provided to complete the
physical facilities at NARC in Vientiane Municipality, the first phase of
which was built under APSP, and to upgrade training facilities at Pak Chieng
Lowland Crop Research Station in Vientiane Province. These stations would:
(a) carry out applied research into all aspects of improved farm
management practices;
(b) introduce and test improved varieties of soybeans, maize and other
upland crops in permanent, rainfed conservation farming systems;
(c) introduce, test and demonstrate low cost vegetative soil conservation
measures as part of the upland farming systems on land up to 35Z
slope deemed suitable for agriculture;
(d)  select  and  demonstrate  integrated   soil  and water  conservation
technologies, embracing permanent upland cropping systems and the use
of tree crops, woodlets and forestry, as appropriate, on slopes above
352;
(e)  improve   the   pedigree   of   coffee   planting   material  through
introduction, selection and breeding for both robusta and arabica
species;
(f) develop, evaluate and demonstrate packages of improved cost-effective
husbandry techniques for coffee growers including disease and pest
control, fertilizer application, soil and water conservation, and
irrigation; and



- 13 -
(g) advise on the establishment of quality improvement techniques for
coffee processing to achieve export standards.
The proposed project would provide US$600,000 for construction and furnishing,
vehicles and equipment for each of the research stations in Vientiane and
Champassak Provinces, US$400,000 for the phase II buildings at NARC; and
US$50,000 to build training  facilities  at  Pak  Chieng Lowland Crop Research
Station. The construction of research facilities would commence immediately
on project effectiveness, based on ptysical master plans and detailed designs
compiled through a pre-project preparation facility.
2.16     Crops research would include a wide  range  of legumes to be used in
rotation with traditional staples, such as rice, maize and cassava, to enhance
soil fertility, increase crop yields and improve diets. Various combinations
of grain legumes,  green  manure  crops,  modem  rice varieties and different
agricultural practices would be evaluated on the research stations and at
village level. To improve the cost effectiveness of research, breeding work
would  be  limited.    Cooperation  with  international  agricultural research
centers and national systems in neighboring countries would be strengthened to
promote the introduction of improved genetic material and technology for
testing and  adaptation.    Research  would  be  problem-oriented, focusing on
specific needs, such as the control of local pests and diseases, correction of
nutritional problems, supplementary irrigatian for coffee, the need for shade
trees and clonal propagation methods.
2.17     Given the long lead time  needed  for agricultural research, the main
production impact of developing new improved technology will likely occur only
after several years. However, appropriate rainfed conservation technology and
farming systems are already available for immediate application in the upland
slash-and-burn agricultural areas  of  Lao  PDR.   Specifically, the low-cost,
permanent conservation farming systems developed during the past five years by
the IDAIAIDAB-funded Northern Agricultural Development Project in the uplands
and highlands of Northern  Thailand  are  highly  relevant  to the problems of
forest  destruction,  slash-and-burn  agriculture,   and  the  resultant  land
degradation now widely recognized in LPDR.   The introduction of Vetiver grass
for contour strips would be an important element of the conservation package.
2.18     Providing the  essential,  but  presently  non-existent, link between
research and the farmer would be a provincial responsibility. Existing or new
village extension workers (VEWs) for each project province would be trained at
two Extension Training Centers (ETCs) to be constructed under the project, one
in the north and one in the south, and owned and operated by MAF. To reduce
costs and promote the integration of agricultural support activities, the ETCs
would be sited adjacent to each of the northern and southern research
stations.  The northern ETC would initially concentrate cn traiing extension
workers for Vientiane Province, while the southern ETC would provide training
for the provinces of Champassak, Saravane and Sekong. After project year 4,
once the methodology has been successfully established, training at these
centers would be opened to other provinces in the two regions. The project
would contribute US$500,000 towards the cost of construction and furnishing,
and plant, equipment and vehicles for each of the two centers.



- 14 -
2.19     Provincial extension services would  be  strengthened, initially on a
pilot scale, modelled on the continuous training and visit (T&V) system, to
ensure the most rapid and effective transfer of technology to the farming
community and adequate feedback of information on problems and rates of
adoption. After following a basic training course, VEWs would continue in-
service training in improved technology and extension methods and would work
closely with researchers in joint activities, such as demonstration plots and
farm trials relating to project objectives. Training would be integrated with
the VEWs' farm visit schedules, and effectiveness would be monitored through
feedback on resultant adoption rates and productivity improvements, from the
project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system (para 3.13).
2.20     The project would  also  support  the  strengthening  of the existing
Agricultural School at km 6 in Champassak, by the construction of a Coffee and
Upland Crops Section within the SUCRS/ETC complex at Ban Itou. The School
trains middle level agricultural technicians to serve all provinces on the
Bolovens Plateau. The Coffee and Upland Crops Section would serve second and
third year students who would receive subsequent training as VEWs specializing
in these crops. The project would assist current plans to double the present
annual student intake to 100, and priority would be given to increasing the
enrollment of women. Since no courses are currently offered in coffee and
upland or highland crop production at the school, such courses would be
introduced and would include soil and water conservation technology and
appropriate upland farming systems.   The project would contribute US$$400,000
to the establishment of the Coffee and Upland Crops Section.
2.21     Feeder Road Rehabilitation and Village  Water Supply.  Support to the
intensification of agricultural production and, in particular, to the input
supply, communication and marketing objectives of the project, would be
provided  by  the  rehabilitation   and   regular  maintenance  by  provincial
administrations of key feeder roads in project areas, including about 240 km
in Vientiane Province, 160 km in Vientiane Municipality, 140 km in Champassak
Province and 200 km in Saravane and Sekong Provinces. The project would, in
effect, continue and extend the successful programs completed at a cost of
about US$3,000 per km excluding labor, under the earlier ARDP III and ASPS
projects. The roads would be repaired and maintained to all weather standards
similar to those applied under these earlier projects. Each rehabilitation
unit is expected to repair and maintain about 30 km of laterite road per year.
One new unit would be equipped under the project in Champassak Province. In
Vientiane Province, additional equipment and materials would be added for
bridging streams and to cope with the conditions in more mountainous areas.
In Saravane Province, additional equipment wotld be provided to cover
execution in both Saravane Province itself and in Sekong Province. In Sekong
Province, where the program is too small to warrant the investment in a unit
of its own, basic equipment for periodic maintenance would be provided. Also
parts would be provided to recondition equipment procured under the earlier
IPA projects, so that it may be fully utilized under the new project. Short-
term technical assistance would be provided under the project for the
supervision of road construction and maintenance.



- 15 -
2.22     Improvements to village water supplies under the project are intended
to free family labor currently devoted to water carrying frrm distant sources,
in order to devote more time for agricultural activities, which is essential
in a relatively labor-scarce economy  like  Lao  PDR.    They irould also raise
standards of living and health in the project villages. Other agencies,
particularly UNICEF, have developed simple systems where clean water is
brought by polyethylene pipe from suitable streams to village standpipes. The
project would repeat these successful methods in villages involved in other
aspects of the project. In some cases this water would be used for irrigation
of coffee on a trial basis during periods of acute moisture stress. The
project would provide about US$400,000 for this activity in Vientiane,
Champassak, Saravane and Sekong Provinces.
2.23     Technical Assistance and Training.   Technical assistance, both long-
and short-term, would be co-financed by AIDAB and French bilateral assistance
to support project agencies in implemrentation and to improve technical and
management skills of local staff at different levels. AIDAB assistance would
cover overall project coordination, planning, programming, monitoring and
evaluation, in addition to all development activities in the northern project
area  including  irrigation  rehabilitation.   research,  extension  and  crop
production. It would also support development of upland crops other than
coffee in the southern project area.   French technical assistance would focus
on coffee development in the south, including research, extension, production,
processing and marketing.    Training would  cover planning, finance, project
accounting and data  processing,  and  pr    ement,  as  well as the technical
areas of crop husbandry, research and extension, irrigation construction and
O&M, coffee pricing and marketing, nutrition, and others to be specified
during project implementation. Long-term technical assistance would include:
(a)  Administration and Management.   5.5 person-years for consultant team
leadership and project coordination, supported by 2 person-years of
additional  assistance  for   planning,  monitoring  and  evaluation,
finance, project accounting, electronic data processing, and progress
reporting.
(b)  Crop  Intensification.    5  person-years  for  conservation  farming
research and 10 person-years for extension to introduce, adapt. test,
demonstrate   and   extend   technologies   for   permanent,  rainfed
conservation cropping systems, and irrigation and unirrigated lowland
paddy in Vientiane Province.
(c)  Irrigation Rehabilitation.  5 person-years for engineering design and
construction, and 5 person-years for the development of an O&M
organization and cost recovery system.
(d)  Coffee.    5 person-years  for  research  and  10  person-years  for
extension relating to varietal improvement, improved husbandry, tree
rehabilitation, new planting development, and processing in the
province's of Champassak, Saravane, and Sekong.



- 16 -
2.24     An additional  60  person-months  of  short-term technical assistance
would be provided for ad hoc training requirements in coffee processing and
marketing, crop production, and special studies of the coffee subsector,
forestry, revolving fund administration, agricultural economics, rural road
construction, village water supply and nutrition. Technical assistance would
support both specific short-term courses and hands-on training during project
implementation.    Since  the  project  aims  to  introduce  a  number  of new
technologies, some of the short-term courses would be open to non-project
staff from the Ministry of Economy, Plan and Finance (MEPF), MAF, Ministry of
Transport and other Minihtries, provincial agencias and TFMC.



- 17 -
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination
3.1      Under the  guidance  of  a  National  Project  Coordination Committee
(NPCC), the Ministry of Economy, Plan and *'inance (MEPF) would be responsible
for project coordination. NPCC, to be chaired by MEPF and including about
8-10 representatives of concerned Ministries, provinces and entities would
oversee general project administration.   Meeting  about  two to three times a
year, it would be the main forum for consultation on project policies and
directions, and for conducting implementation reviews. MEPF would establish a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which would serve as a full-time secretariat
to NPCC. PCU would be headed by a National Project Coordinator, whose duties
would include the review of annual work plans and project accounts, project
monitoring activities, support to project agencies in the financial aspects of
the project, procurement, disbursement, audits and liaison for all project-
related matters.    Line  project  agencies  would  retain  full authority for
project execution. It was agreed at negotiations that the appointment of NPCC
and the establishment of PCU at MEPF would be a condition of effectiveness.
Implementation Arrangements
3.2      Project  implementation  would  be  carried  out  by  seven  discrete
entities: (a) Vientiane Provincial Administration; (b) Vientiane Municipality
Administration;   (c) Champassak   Provincial   Administration;   (d) Saravane
Provincial  Administration;  (e) Sekong   Provincial  Administration;  (f) The
Nati'nal Agricultural Research Center (NARC); and (g) the Tha-Ngone Feed Kill
Corporation (TFMC).
3.3      National/State EntitieR.  As  indicated  above (para. 3.1), PCU would
coordinate project  implementation  nationally.    NARC  in MAF would have a
mandate to manage and operate all National Research Stations in Lao PDR and to
provide protocols and guidelines for all Regional Research Stations. HAF has
agreed to extend NARC's mandate to all research stations receiving funds from
UADP. NAF, which is responsible nationally for administration and funding of
agricultural schools, would implement project activities relating to the
school to be strengthened in Champassak. TFMC is an affiliated agency of MAP,
which operates nationally; it is an autonomous enterprise accountable foz its
own funding and commercial viability, and is specifically involved in
supporting agricultural production and marketing operations in t6ie project
area.  TFMC has been an effective enterprise that has suctessfully implemented
an upland crop production component under APSP.
3.4      Provincial and Municipal Level  Entities.  Provincial/Municipal level
entities operate within a Province and the Municipality of Vientiane. The
organizational structure of each Provincial/Municipal Government is very
similar  and  basically  comprises:       a   Party  office,  a  President,  an
Administrative Committee,  a  series  of  services,  and  a  varying number of
enterprises and  projects.    The number  of  services  in  each  of the five
provinces in which UADP would be  operating varies  from  7 to 14. The names
vary according to province, but can be listed under a common set of functional
headings which would include either all or variously grouped subsets of the



_ 18 -
following:    Planning  and  Finances Agriculture,  Forestry,  Irrigation and
Cooperatives: Roads and Communications; Industry and Trade; Education and
.;ulture; P.oiuic Health and Social Welfare; Information and Mass Media;
Administration; Justice; Party Organization; and, Defense and Security. The
Agriculture, Forestry, Irrigation and Cooperative Service (hereaf%er referred
to as the Agricultural Service) typically includes several departments:
Administration;   Crop    Production;    .ivestock;    Forestry;   Irrigation;
Cooperatives; and Meteorology.   At  the  province or municipality level, UADP
would be implemented primarily through the Agricultural Service, the Roads and
Communications Service, and the Health and Social Welfare Service.
3.5      Program Development.  The responsibility for formulating, organizing,
budgeting, implementing, monitoring and evaluating the UADP program and
linking it within che PCU and all other project implementing entities,
activities would be vested in a provincial/municipal level Project Manager and
Deputy 2roject Manager to be nominated as full-time UADP personnel within the
Administrative Department of the Agriculture Service of each province.
Additional provincial technical personnel would be nominated to work full-time
on that province's UADP program, with the precise numbers and technical
disciplines being dependent on each province's particular program. In all
cases, several Crop Production Specialists would be required. After initial
training these would be responsible for organizing and executing agricultural
extension programs. In Vientiane Province, irrigation specialists would also
be required. Part-time rural road specialists would need to be nominated from
within the Roads and Communications Service to implement all province and
municipality road programs.
3.6      With regard to  agricultural  technology, contact between specialists
and farmers would be through VEWs.   The rate at which improved technology can
be extended would be directly linked to the rate at which these VEWs and the
Crop  Production  Specialists,  both  of whom   are  in  the  employ  of  the
Agricultural Service, can be trained, deployed, and provided with appropriate
extension information, logistical facilities, supplies of the associated
inputs and output  markets.    Under  the  T&V  methodology,  %VEWs would be in
constant contact with their villages and through village level meetings, would
solicit the main farmer problems and preferred solutions. At the same time,
they would receive continuous training on topical agricultural activities,
with emphasis on problem-solving. This is a slow, bottom-up, process, but it
is expected that relevant development priorities will progressively be built
into provincial programs which can be aggregated into a national UADP program
ultimately becoming the UADP Annual Workplan.
3.7      Village,  provincial   and   national-level   workshops  involved  in
producing village, provincial and national annual workplans are the fora
through which it will be possible to identify the research, marketing, finan-
cial and any other demands that need to be met to ensure project interventions
will be accepted and remain within the absorptive capacity of the targeted
beneficiaries.
3.8      Research and Extension Training Center Management.  Both the Northern
and Southern Upland Crops Research and Extension Training Centers would be
administered by a Management Committee, chaired by center directors as
representatives of MAF. These committees would comprise representatives from



- 19 _
provincial administrations and other entities concerned with the project, as
required and judged  appropriate  by  MAP.   They  would review and recommend
policies for administration and finance aimed at ensuring full management and
financial autonomy for the centers, and formulate objectives and strategies.
3.9      Irrigation Works and O&M.   Construction of major structures, such as
weirs, for irrigation rehabilitation would be subcontracted by the Provincial
Agricultural Service, Irrigation Section, through competitive bidding to
private or provincial irrigation construction enterprises. The work would be
supervised by the Irrigation Section. Canal improvement would be carried out,
at the same time, by participating or nearby villages on a self-help basis.
3.10     While the weir is under construction, a Village Canal Attendant (VCA)
would be appointed by the benefiting villages and a District Operation and
Maintenance  Coordinator  (DOMC)   would   be   nominated  by  the  provincial
authorities. The VCA vould be paid for by the beneficiaries of the scheme
through a fund collected by a water users committee appointed by the involved
village chiefs. This fund would be geared, also, to cover any cash costs that
may be incurred in the O&M of the scheme through the need, for example, to
hire equipment or buy materials.   Such  needs would be identified by the DOMC
who would also arrange for the required machinery and materials to be procured
and delivered on-site in time for the repair to be effected. The VCA would be
responsible for organizing the benefiting farmers into groups based on the
common use of a tertiary canal.   This would be done in the course of setting
out the canal layout ready for construction and would need to be finalized by
the time weir  construction  activities  were  complete.    The VCA would then
organize the self-help labor needed to construct the canals and thereafter
would be responsible for water distribution management.
3.11     Throughout this  process,  a  VEW would  proceed with his responsi-
bilities to each of the villages involved in the scheme (one VEW per scheme)
and would ensure that any natural agronomic features or cropping patterns
within the command area of the scheme, which could influence the final canal
lay-out, are  adequately  taken  into  account.    Once  the  scheme  is fully
operational, the VEW and the VCA would be able to pursue their individual
responsibilities interacting where necessary on a day-to-day basis and
resolving all common problems through the village organizational hierarchy.
3.12     Feeder Road Rehabilitation and Village Wcter Supply.  The UADP feeder
road  rehabilitation work  would   be   undertaken  by  the  provincial  road
construction enterprise, with unskilled labor provided by the province from
local villages near the site of the contracted roadworks. Where the road
involved is an access track to an irrigation scheme, this labor would be
provided on a self-help basis from the benefiting villages. Any subsequent
maintenance requiring inputs that need to be procured or hired would also be
identified by the VCA and reported to DOMC for action as an O&M function. A
comprehensive approach to rural road maintenance issues is being addressed
under a Transport Sector Study to be supported by IDA and other donors.
Village  water  supply  installations  would  be  carried  out  by beneficiary
villages themselves assisted by provincial health and social welfare services
which would provide technical guidance.



- 20-
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
3.13     All project activities would  be  closely  monitored.  The monitoring
function would start at the provincial level, where the project manager would
establish and manage a project monitoring system designed to provide prompt
and up-to-date  management  information  for  decision-making.    PCU would be
responsible for monitoring at the national level. The format would be regular
six-monthly reports on key parameters, including physical and financial
targets, major annual reports covering all project performance aspects, and
specific reports on speclal studies.  'rhese reports would be submitted to PCU
not later than three months after the close of each period. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that, not later than September 30, 1990. PCU would
submit a proposal for setting up a project monitoring and impact evaluation
system satisfactory to IDA, which would include baseline socio-economic
surveys to collect such data as land holding patterns, production systems,
household composition, labor availability and use, employment opportunities,
and  health  and  literacy  indicators.    The  monitoring  activity  would be
reinforced through semi-annual project implementation workshops to provide a
forum for national project staff and external technical advisers to review
project implementation progress and improve project performance.
3.14     Project managers would be required  to  submit to PCU by September 30
of the preceding year annaal work plans (AWPs) for the plar. year. AWPs would
include a statement, by project component, of the specific objectives to be
accomplished during the coming year, a description of the resources (human,
financial  and  physical)  available  or  to  be  acquired  to  achieve  these
objectives, a description of how the objectives would be achieved, and an
annual budget presenting all these elements in financial terms. They would
aiso include a review of past performance and draw links between it and
proposals  for  the  future.    AWPs  would  provide  the  major  vehicle  for
communicating with the project's cofinanciers and an annual review by NPCC
would precede the AWP clearing and approval process. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that PCU would submit the first year's AWP to IDS. by April 30,
1990, and annual work plans and budgets by September 30 of each year.
Assurances were also obtained that PCU would submit to IDA not later than
March 31 and September 30 of each year and throughout the life of the project
semi-annual reports, and not later than September 30 of each year, annual
reports for IDA's review.    Technical  assistance under the bilateral program
(para 2.21) would be provided for the formulation of the monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) proposals and preparation of AWPs.
3.15     In project year 3, a major  mid-term  review would be held to assess
overall project progress, consider the need for change and, if necessary,
reallocate funds/activities between  entities, components, and sub-components.
Assurances  were  obtained   at   negotiations   that   the  National  Project
Coordination Committee would carry out a project implementation mid-term
review not later than December 31, 1992.



- 21 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Proiect Costs
4.1       .otal project  cost,  including  physical  contingencies and expected
price increases, is estimated at US$34.0 million, of which US$27.0 million, or
801, would  be  in  foreign  exchange.    Unit  price  estimates for vehicles,
equipment, fuels and materials are based on recent contracts let in Laos.
Costs of civil works for irrigation, roads and buildings are estimated from
ongoing IDA projects in the provinces concerned. Physical contingencies of
101  have  been  applied  to  civil   works  and  field  development.    Price
contingencies amount to 14.92 of total base costs plus physical contingencies,
assuming the following rates of price increase (in I):
1990     1991      1992      1993      1994
Domestic      12.0       8.0       5.0       5.0       5.0
Foreign        7.2       4.4       4.4       4.4       4.4
Project cost estimates are summarized  in  Table  1,  and detailed in Annex 1,
Tables 1-3.
4.2      All foreign technical assistance  and  overseas training would be co-
financed on a grant basis and administered by AIDAB and the French Government.
This would include a total of 47.5 person-years of long-term foreign technical
assistance, and an additional 60 person-months of short-term consultants.
Specific training requirements would be identified under the technical
assistance component and appropriate programs implemented.
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY L1
Local   Foro ga  Totsl  Local  Foreian  Total   X
-- (Kipl IIIion) =   - (Us'TmTon)    Foreign
Estimated Coa fn
Coffee Rehabilitation         890.8  2,254.3 2,635.1   0.7    4.1    4.8   8B
Irrigation RehabilItatlon     756.4  1,194.3 1,950.?   1.4    2.2   3,5   61
Upland Crop Intensification   322.2  1,567.2 1,889.4   0.6    2.8    8.4    es
Rural Roads Rehabilitation    722.8  2,063.7 2,7M6.5   1.8    3.8    6.1    74
Agricultural Rererch          810.0   608.0   818.0   0.6     0.9    1.5    62
Extensalon TraIning           369.2    348.8   700.0   0.7    0.0    1.3    49
Agricultural School           79.6    144.8   224.4   0.1     0.3    0.4   e6
P0roi ot Coordination         17.8    8C.6   C8.2   0.0    0.1    0.1    so
T chntcl Assoisance and Training n.0  4,762.0 4,829.0   0.1     0.6    8.1    98
Base Costs              3.025.6 12.868.0 15.804.2   5.6    23.4   28.9    81
Physical Contingencies        132.4    250.7  383.0   0.2     0.6    0.7   65
Price Contingencies           874.1  1,760.9 2,435.0   1.2    3.2    4.4    72
Total Project Costa    3.832.0 14.880.2 18.712.2   7.0    27.0   34.0    80
ft The proj et Is exempt from taxes and duties. Figbrs have been rounded.



- 22 -
Financing
4.3      The proposed IDA credit of US$20.2 million would finance about 592 of
total  project  costs,  including   1002   of  foreign  exchange  requirements
(US$17.2 million) other than those to be met under bilateral assistance, and
about 43Z  of  local  costs  (US$3.0   million).    Local  costs  financing is
justified by the current shortage of counterpart funds in Laos. The IDA
credit would be transferred by Government to Vientiane Municipality, and
Vientiane, Champassak, Saravane and Sekong Provinces, and the Tha-Ngone Feed
Hill Corporation, to finance civil works, vehicles, equipment, fuels and
materials.    AIMAB  would  provide  US$6.9   million  (202  of  total project
financing or 262 of foreign exchange requirements) for technical assistance
and overseas training.    The  French  Government would  provide about US3 .1
million (92 of total project cost or 11 of foreign exchange requirements) for
technical assistance and trainng. The remaining project cost of about US$3.8
million would be provided by  Government.    To facilitate project start-up in
early 1990, costs of weir site investigations, survey, detailed design and
preparation of bid documents for irrigation and the research, extension and
project  office  complexes,   and   urgently-needed  vehicles,  equipment  and
materials are being financed under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in the
amount of  US$700,000,  approved  by  IDA  in August  1989.    Details of the
financing plan are presented in Table 2.
Table 23 FINANCING PLAN
(USS million)
Government   IDA    AlDAB   France   Total
Civil works                             0.1      4.8      -        -       4.9
Vehicles, furniture and equipment       1.2      9.9      0.3      0.1    11.5
Fuels, fertilizers and materials        0.7      5.3      -        -       6.0
Technical assistance and training       -        -        6.4      2.9     9.3
Studies                                 -        0.2      -        -       0.2
Operating costs                         1.8      -        0.2      0.1     2.1
Total                              3.8     20.2     6.9       3.1    34.0



- 23 -
Procurement
4.4      Procurement in Laos  was  previously  centralized through Societe Lao
Import-Export (SLIE), attached to the Ministry of Commerce. While this agency
did acquire considerable experience in international competitive bidding (ICB)
under earlier IDA credits, there were frequent delays in the evaluation and
approval  process  by  inter-ministerial   committees.    Government  has  now
assigned direct procurement responsibility to the Ministries, provincial
authorities and pairastatals concerned, which should result in faster and more
efficient procurement, bearing in mind that many of these agencies have
already become familiar with ICB procedures.
4.5      Procurement, except for small  items  and fuels and lubricants, would
generally be on the basis of ICB.    At a minimum, tenders would be advertised
in an English lauguage newspaper in a neighboring country where international
firms are well  represented.    Contracts  for  the construction of irrigation
diversion weirs (about US$200,000 each), research and extension stations
(about US$300,000-400,000 each), expansion of the agricultural school (about
US$300,000), and works associated with the installation of the coffee
processing plant (about US$170,000 each), with a total cost of about US$4.6
million, would be let according  to  ICB.    To obtain competitive prices, the
research, extension and project office complexes at each of the two sites
would  be  constructed  under  a   single   turnkey  contract.    Feeder  road
rehabilitation would be carried out by the provinces' rural works enterprises,
as under ARDP III and APSP. Vehicles, furniture and equipment, totaling about
US$9.2 million, and agricultural inputs and materials, totaling US$2.8
million, would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages and procured by ICB
in accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.6      Miscellaneous  items  of  equipment,   materials  and  furniture,  in
packages less than US$50,000 and totaling about US$1.8 million, would be
procured under local  competitive  bidding  (LCB)  procedures.   Contracts for
spare parts with particular brands specified, amounting to about US$0.6
million, would be procured by prudent shopping on the basis of at least three
price quotations.   Fuels  and  lubricants,  amounting  to about US$2 million,
would be  procured  under  local  competitive  bidding  procedures.    For all
contracts estimated to exceed US$200,000 and representing about 60Z of value
of total contracts, prior review by the Bank would be required.



- 24 -
Table 3: PROJECT EXPENDITURES BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY a
(USS million)
Total cost
including
Category of Expenditure                   ICB        LCB   Other   contingencies
Civil works                               4.6        0.1      -          4.9
(4.6)     (0.1)               (4.8)
Vehicles, furniture and equipment         9.2        1.2      1.1       11.5
(8.3)     (1.0)    (0.6)      (9.9)
Fuels, fertilizers and materials          4.8        1.2      -          6.0
(4.3)     (1.0)               (5.3)
Technical assistance and training /b                 -        9.3        9.3
Operating costs                           -          -        2.1        2.1
Studies                                   -          0.2      -          0.2
(0.2)               (0.2)
Total                               18.6       2.9      12.5      34.0
(17.2)     (2.4)    (0.6)    (20.2)
/a  Includes physical and  price  contingencies.    Figures in parentheses are
amounts to be financed by IDA.
Lb Cofinanced by grants from AIDAB and France, using the procurement
procedures of the respective donors.
Disbursement
4.7 Disbursements would be made for:
(a) 10O of the costs of civil works;
(b)  lOOZ  of  foreign   exchange   expenditures   for  directly  imported
equipment, vehicles, spare parts, fertilizers, materials, fuels and
lubricants, or 10O2 of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
equipment, parts and materials; and 80S of the cost of imported
equipment, parts, furniture and materials procured locally; and
(c) 10O2 of the cost of studies.
4.8      Full documentation would  be  required  by  IDA to support withdrawal
applications for studies and all expenditures under contracts above US$100,000
equivalent. Disbursements for contracts of less than US$100,000 would be



- 25 -
against itemized statements of expenditures (SOEs). The documentation for SOE
expenditures would be retained by the NEPF Project Coordination Unit and made
available to IDA supervision  missions  on  request.   To the extent possible,
withdrawal applications would be aggregated '-n amounts of US$50,000 or more
prior to submission to the  Association.    Because of severe foreign exchange
constraints, prefinancing of IDA's share of project expenditures by Government
is not possible and would lead to considerable delay in procuring such items
as spare parts. Large purchases of imported goods under the project would
therefcre be financed through Letters of Credit covered by the issuance of IDA
Special Commitments. However, since this would not be practical for small
expenditures, a Special Account with an authorized allocation US$1,000,000
(representing an estimated average of four months expenditures for all
categories), would be established in US Dollars at the Banque du Commerce
Exterieur au Laos (ECEL).
4.9      A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 9, which also
includes a comparison with regional and country disbursement profiles. The
credit closing date would be December 31, 1995 and disbursements would be
completed by  April  30,  1996.    The  disbursement  schedule  is based on an
expected improvement in the rate in disbursement actually obtained under the
Agricultural Production Support Project (Cr. 1395-LA). Procurement procedures
have recently been simplified and shortened (para. 4.4). Project implementing
agencies  would  each  be  procuring  independently,  supported  by   external
technical assistance.    In  addition,  about  492 of  the  IDA allocation is
earmarked for the financing of vehicles and equipment which need to be
procured early in the project. Disbursements would also be speeded up due to
the Project Preparation Facility advane.a of US$700,000 already approved by
IDA.
Accounts and Audits
4.10     Experience under earlier IDA projects has  shown that there is a need
to strengthen the recording of project expenditures and audit procedures.
Each implementation agency would maintain records adequate to show how goods
were utilized. Records of payments against these items would be kept by the
Department of External Finance  of HEPF.    The Audit Department of MEPF is
responsible for auditing all government accounts, and would audit project
accounts, including operations of the Special Account. A training program for
Government auditors is scheduled for implementation in the coming year under
French bilateral aid.   Nine  person-months of short-term technical assistance
would also be provided by AIDAB to help strKegthen existing accounting and
audit procedures. PCU would also help to ensure that satisfactory procedures
are being followed.   The  short-term  specialists would:  (a) review existing
accounting  and  auditing  vrstems   and  procedures;  (b) determine  existing
accounting and auditing capability; and (c) identify technical assistance and
training required to introduce  these  systems.    Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that all implementation agencies would submit annual project
accounte to HEPF not later than March 31 of each year, and MEPF would submit
annual audit reports to IDA for the project on the project accounts, the
Special Account and Statements of Expenditure within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year.



- 26 -
V.  PRODUCTION, PRICING AND MARKETING, AND COST RECOVERY
Production
5.1      Rice.  incremental paddy production  amounting to about 5,000 tons
annually would be achieved mainly in Vientiane Province close to the main
rice deficit areas through project-supported activities by project year 5.
This increase takes into account planned diversification of irrigated areas
towards higher value cash crops in the dry season, but excludes an expected
reduction in upland paddy production on hillsides affected by slash-and-
burn cultivation.   Decreases  in  upland  rice  areas  would depend on the
comparative economic merits of cash cropping and although not quantified
would not exceed the incremental paddy production expected from the
irrigation rehabilitation areas.
5.2      This production  increase  would  be  obtained through irrigation,
improved seeds, fertilizers and pest control, designed to improve wet
season yields from 2.1 to 3.0 tons/ha.   In the dry season. a yield of only
2.8 tons paddy/ha has been assumed under the project as emphasis would be
placed on substituting paddy for higher value cash crops. The increase
over the without project yield of 2.2 tons/ha would be achieved from
improved water delivery alone. These measures would be applied mainly over
an area of about 5,000 ha of rehabilitated small scale gravity irrigation
schemes.
5.3      Coffee.  The long-term nature of  improvements to a tree crop such
as coffee means that production increases achieved through project-
supported activities would start off slowly as production is lost in the
initial years from stumping,  reaching  only  about   1,550 tons by project
year 5, but that this figure would increase and peak at about 7,000 tons by
project year 10. This eventual increase in production would be achieved by
rehabilitation and improved husbandry of existing plantations covering
about 7,500 ha at full development and by expansion of t.he coffee producing
area by 5,500 ha of new planting.    Average yields of 200 kg/ha (as low as
150 kglha for old trees needing stumping) would be increased to about
450-650 kg/ha by adoption of well known techniques such as pruning,
fertilizing, weeding,  mulching  and  use  of  shade  trees.    The  use of
irrigation to overcome perceived moisture stress in the dry period would be
investigated.   Priority would  be  given  to  early  recruitment of VEWs,
supported by expansion of agricultural school capacity, in order to
accelerate dissemination of technology among the coffee growers.
5.4      Other Upland Crops. Output of  other upland crops on a total area
of 11,000 ha under the project would amount to about 6,000 tons of maize
and 4,200 tons of soybeans, by project year 5. Subsequently, these figures
would increase substantially as the long-term measures designed to promote
environmentally safe multiple and rotational cropping systems in upland
areas are gradually adopted and as the effects of restored soil fertility
and improved water conservation become evident.



- 27 -
Pricing and Marketing
5.5      Rice.    Recent   Government   policy   reforms  have  deregulated
procurement prices of most agricultural commodities, except for those on
the 'strategic* list.    Paddy  is  now  freely marketed. After an initial
spell of stable prices, with free trade between surplus and deficit areas
and import liberalization, paddy prices have increased due to drought.
Rice self-sufficiency is not yet fully assured; the occurrence of drought
in 1987 and 1988 resulted in low production and Government appeals for food
aid by external donors. Incremental rice production under the project will
likely be sold mainly in the rice-deficit areas in and around Vientiane and
in the slash-and-burn regions further north, where ready markets exist.
5.6      Coffee.  The main  crop  on  the  'strategic  list', coffee can be
legally procured at farm level only by State and provincial trading
companies and licensed  traders.    Farmgate  coffee prices, currently Kips
380/kg for dried hulled beans, are set through periodic negotiations
between the State and provincial trading companies and farmers. All
companies, in turn, are obliged to sell a percentage of the coffee they
procure to the State trading company, SLIE, to fulfill its barter contracts
with the Socialist bloc, at prices (currently about Kips 720/kg for green
coffee) which are negotiated every five years.  Until recently, no licenses
had been issued to  private  traders.    Nonetheless,  the remainder of the
coffee has been sold  to  private  traders,  mainly for export to countries
outside the previous International Coffee Agreement (ICA), through Thailand
and  Singapore.    GOL   has   recently   applied  for  membership  in  the
International Coffee Organization (ICO), although the International Coffee
Agreement has expired and a new agreement is not expected in the near
future.
5.7      Poor  financial  accounting  of  the  coffee  trade,  and  lack of
comprehensive statistics on prnduction, trade and export prices clearly
constrain  development  of  the  coffee  subsector.    Under  the  project,
technical assistance would be provided    for the establishment of a system
to collect and analyze information on coffee production, pricing and
marketing, the development of a coffee pricing and marketing strategy more
responsive to quota market structures, and a quality improvement program.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would carry out
a study for the formulation of an appropriate pricing and marketing
strategy for upland crops produced under the project, with ;pecial
attention to coffee, not later than December 31, 1991.
5.8      Soybeans, Maize and  Other  Crops.    These commodities are freely
traded, but commercial activities by private traders are still limited.
Until domestic production increased recently, feedmill raw materials had to
be imported. The main Government purchaser of these commodities is TFMC,
which enters into production contracts with farmers at pre-negotiated
prices. TFMC provides the farmers working capital obtained from commercial
loans, land preparation services, farm inputs and extension advice. This
arrangement has been operating successfully under on-going IDA Credit
1395-LA. Soybeans and maize produced under the project would be purchased
under contract by TFMC, which is now buying soybeans at Kips 130/kg and
maize at Kips 50/kg.    To  expand  its  capability,  TFMC  would receive a



- 28 -
capital injection of US$2 million under the project, sufficient to service
an estimated 6,000 farmers annually.
Cost Recovery
5.9      Farm Inputs.  Recent  Government  policy  has been to decentralize
input and credit supply and to remove all subsidies on fertilizers,
insecticides and other inputs supplied  to  farmers.   Input supply and the
provision of credit under this project would complement and strengthen the
agricultural  credit  system  being   established  under  an  ongoing  IFAD
agricultural credit project.   Under  UADP,  farm  inputs  would be sold to
beneficiaries at cost, including transport and handling costs. These
inputs would  be  provided  under  production  contracts  at pre-negotiated
prices between project agencies, including provincial authorities and TFMC,
and beneficiaries. Farmers' main access to inputs has been through these
channels which have been  operating satisfactorily.  Provincial procurement
companies use production contracts as instruments to obtain short-term
commercial loans for  coffee  growers  to  cover  input  costs.   Full cost
recovery has been achieved through this arrangement under APSP. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that beneficiaries would pay the full cost of
inputs to be supplied under the project for cash or on credit, and payments
would be kept in a revolving fund for the replenishment of input supplies.
5.10     Irrigation Operation and Maintenance. Presently, there is no legal
framework in Laos for the direct recovery of irrigation operation and
maintenance costs. The indirect instrument used is the land tax which is
assessed on wet season paddy yields.    The  tax rates are 80, 100, 120 and
140 kg of paddy per ha of farm yielding less than 2.5, 2.5-3.0, 3.0-3.5,
and above 3.5 tons of paddy, respectively, in the wet season, whether under
irrigation or rainfed. There is, thus, no water charge per se in either
the wet or the dry season. Budgetary funds allocated for O&M of irrigation
schemes have also been  very  low.    GOL  hopes  eventually to formulate a
national  policy  for  irrigation   O&M   and  cost  recovery  under  ADB's
Agricultural Program Loan. At the same time, it recognizes that such a
policy can only be enforced when irrigation beneficiaries are assured of
adequate and timely water deliveries, which is not presently the case. An
appropriate  institutional   framework   needs   to   be   established  and
construction of existing schemes completed, before a fully operable system
will be in place. Finally, due to the shortage of technical personnel and
the need to address issues relating to scheme organization, funding, cost
sharing and land tenure, implementation of an O&M system for medium- and
large-scale schemes would be feasible only in the long-term.
5.11     For  the  farmer-managed  small-scale  gravity  schemes  under the
project, beneficiaries would contribute to capital costs by undertaking
distribution  canal  and  drainage  systems  improvement.    An appropriate
district- and scheme-level institutional arrangement would be developed and
training provided so that the farmer-managed scheme-level O&M organization
funded by the payment of adequate irrigation service fees would be
sustainable in the long-term. The average irrigation service fee under the
project, which would cover mainly salaries of VCAs and costs of fuels and
materials, is estimated at about Kips 3,000/ha ($5.45/ha), or equivalent to
50 kg of paddy. These costs exclude all maintenance activities which the
water user groups are capable of carrying out themselves, and provincial
and district operating costs (mainly salaries and transportation costs).
The system of payment to be devised would limit, as far as practicable, the
movement of funds beyond the lower levels of the organization. During



- 29 -
project  preparation,  project   scheme   villages   have  indicated  their
willingness to participate in such an O&M and cost-recovery system and they
have been selected for the project on this basis. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that a condition for participation under the project would
be the prior signing of an agreement between district authorities and water
user groups on the establishment of an O&M organization and the payment of
adequate irrigation 0'!M costs.



- 30 -
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
6.1      The project would help  to  reduce  rural poverty; generate export
earnings and improve food security, increase the productivity of essential
rural   infrastructure   and   agro-processing   plant   capacity;   reduce
environmental degradation; and lay the technological base for future
agricultural diversification  and  growth.    Conservation-oriented farming
systems models would be developed to arrest environmental degradation
caused by slash-and-burn cultivation on slopes, and these could eventually
be extended  nationwide.    A  replicable  and  sustainable  irrigation O&M
institutional framework and cost-recovery system would be tested and
adapted for wide-scale  use.    Smallholder  farm  incomes, particularly of
needy slash-and-burn subsistence farmers and coffee growers, would be
increased. Family nutrition would be improved through the introduction of
high-protein legume crops.   The  improvement of feeder road infrastructure
would facilitate access to supplies and markets and induce migration from
isolated hill areas to the lowlands.   Finally, provision of drinking water
at the village level would reduce water-borne infections and release
village labor, especially that of women, for more productive activity.
6.2      Value of Production.   Incremental  paddy production of 5,000 tons
in year 5 is valued  at  US$1.2  million.  Incremental coffee production of
1,550 tons in year 5 would increase to about 7,000 tons in year 10,
generating export earnings of US$12.4 million in that year. Cash crop
production of 4,200 tons of soybeans and 6,000 tons of maize by project
year 5, would represent foreign exchange savings of $2.2 million in that
year.
6.3      Beneficiaries and Farm Income.  The project would directly benefit
up to 7,500 smallholder farm families involved in coffee improvement or
stumping.  An additional  5,500  families  would  be involved in new coffee
plantings.    About  11,000  families  would  participate  in  other upland
cropping activities, and 5,000 families in irrigation rehabilitation
activities.  Improved  coffee  husbandry,  stumping  and new planting would
increase average family incomes by Kips 80,700 (US$146), Kips 152,300
(US$277)  and  Kips 238,600   (US$434)   per   ha,  respectively,  at  full
development.  Corresponding  increases  in  net  family incomes from upland
soybeans and maize production and irrigation rehabilitation at full
development would amount to Kips 43,600 (US$79), Kips 42,400 (US$77) and
Kips 88,300 (US$160) per ha,  respectively.   Additional labor requirements
under the project would mostly be provided through family labor; however, a
total of 382,500 person-days of hired  labor per year would be required for
the planted and stumped coffee areas at full development.
6.4      Impact on Government.  In addition to the strengthening of central
and provincial Government institutions for research and extension and other
aspects of agricultural development, the project would generate annual
revenues of Kips 33 million (US$0.06 million) from the tax on incremental
rice production, Kips 133 million (US$0.2 million) from the tax on



- 31 -
incremental coffee collection, and Kips 42 million (US$O.l million) from
the tax on  incremental  cash  crop  production.    The main revenue would,
however, accrue from the profit tax (at 452 of value of prefit) on coffee
expolts which would amount at full development to about US$2.8 million
annually, if the current profit of about US$0.5 per kg of coffee sold on
the barter trade is assumed.    This  tax collected would be shared between
the Central Government (502, of which 22 is earmarked for the shipping
authority) and the province that collected the coffee (50X, which is again
shared in the ratio of 60X40 between the province and the district).
Environmental Impact
6.5      A primary objective of the  project  is to develop and demonstrate
methods whereby environmental degradation on slash-and-burn slopes can be
reversed, initially on a pilot basis and, subsequently, after further
development of the extension services, on a province-wide and eventually a
nation-wide basis.   On  slopes  up  to  352,  soil  and water conservation
technology and cropping practices would be introduced, which have the
potential  to   replace   the   traditional   slash-and-burn methods  with
sustainable, conservation-oriented rainfed farming systems while offering
parallel benefits in terms of family income and nutrition. While no steep
slopes would be cropped, mechanical land preparation operations on plateau
soils would be limited to ploughing and harrowing by wheeled tractors. In
Vientiane Province, traditional manual tillage methods would be continued
on lesser slopes. On steeper slopes and badly eroded areas the project
would support research into soil management packages, including the use of
tree crops, forestry and low cost, vegetative soil retention methods. Only
flat or gently sloping land already used for slash-and-burn cultivation
would be cleared for planting coffee, soybean and other cash crops under
conservation  management  techniques.      Primary  forest  areas  would  be
excluded.     The   irrigation   rehabilitation   component  would  enhance
productivity in the valley bottoms and reduce pressure on hillsides, w-hile
the hillside management program would assist the irrigation program by
reducing siltation of irrigation structures and reducing the violence of
wet season run-off.   Rural  feeder  road  rehabilitation has been shown to
have a beneficial environmental impact under APSP because there has been a
sig-ificant migration of hill farmers to develop more permanent farms
aloigside the roads where they can take advantage of bettez communications
and market opportunities.    Finally,  in  association with development of
irrigation structures, the project would also contribute to improvement in
village water supplies, which would have a positive impact on health
conditions among beneficiaries.
Role of Women
6.6      The project would benefit women  in  the project area, whose views
on the subject were canvassed during appraisal through meeting with
representatives of local women's groups in the project area. Although the
ratio of educated women to men in the project area is still low, females
already account for a significant proportion of agricultural school
students and they are also moving out into technical positions in the
provinces-   By  increasing  the  capacity  of  the Champassak agricultural
school, the project would provide additional educational opportunities for



I  32 -
women, which would subsequently lead to expanded employment opportunities
for female VEWs  at  village  level.    The  increased enrollment of female
students and employment of female VEWs would be promoted under the project
also as a means to reach a larger number of female project beneficiaries.
Women do participate in meetings with extension workers; and many also own
coffee holdings, enjoying the same usufruct rights as do men to the land
they have developed.    Village  water  supply  improvements would ease the
daily chores of fetching drinking water and improve its quality, thus
allowing more time for productive agricultural activities and reducing the
toll of disease. Family nutrition would be improved by the promotion of
grain legumes and a greater diversity of other food crops. Provision of
coffee and rice h'!.Lers would reduce wastage and consequent loss of income,
as well as lighten the daily labor of village women in coffee and paddy
pounding.    Finally,  the  promotion  of  high  value  dry  season  crops,
particularly vegetables, under irrigation would involve more women in these
productive activities in which they are traditionally more concerned and
increase their incomes.
Ethnic Groups
6.7      Since the project would be active  in the upland areas of Laos, it
would inevitably interact with the mountain peoples who, particularly in
the northern provinces (including Vientiane), are perceived to have a
traditional resistance to outside interference and might thus resist
introduction of the conservation technologies necessary to the preservation
and enhancement of their  environment.    To avoid this, representatives of
ethnic minorities in the hills are already being recruited to provincial
services, including agriculture.    In  the  coffee producing areas, ethnic
minorities are also actively involved, both in coffee production and in
provincial and district administration.    The  project would promote these
trends, providing training and opportunities for employment of hill tribe
people as VEWs in their own communities, where their knowledge of cultural
traditions and appreciation of their importance should permit adaptation of
project recommendations to local circumstances.
Justification
6.8      Economic Analysis.  The economic  rate  of return (ERR) from total
project investments, inclusive of physical contingencies, would be about
29Z. The net present value (NPV) at 102 opportunity cost of capital (OCC)
would  be  about  US$26  million.    The  ERR  for  the  Coffee, Irrigation
Development  and Upland  Crops  components  would  be  342,  162  and 29Z,
respectively. Calculations for the ERR are shown in Annex 2, Tables 5-8.
The relatively high ERR for coffee and upland crops is related to the
nature of  the  investment.    Stumping  accounted  for  271  of  the total
incremental area of coffee and full incremental yield would be achieved
within 3  years.    Improved  husbandry  accounted  for  312  of  the total
incremental area of coffee and full incremental yield would be achieved in
2 years.  Upland crops produced  a net incremental benefit within the first
year. In order to properly stagger costs and benefits, production of
upland crops was lagped by one year behind investments. The analysis is in
1989 constant US Dollars. The project life is assumed to be 20 years, year
1 being 1990.    Full  development  would  be  achieved  by Year 10 (1999).



- 33 -
Prices of internationally traded project crops (coffee, rice, soybean,
maize, mungbean) are based on the most recent World Bank price projections
(June  1989).    Appropriate  adjustments  have  been  made  for transport,
handling, processing and quality differences. Incremental farm production
is based on most probable yields attainable with project investments
expressed in expected changes in cropping patterns and yields with and
without the project. The costs of inputs are free from duties, taxes and
subsidies. Exchange rates have been unified and aligned with the free
market rates; hence the standard conversion factor is unity. The shadow
wage rate of hired labor is assumed to be equal to the market wage rate.
6.9      Infrastructure costs covering rural  roads, research and extension
training centers, expansion of the agricultural school, and project
coordination  facilities  are  apportioned   and  allocated  to  the  three
components as shown in Annex 2,  Table  9.    Only 252 of the cost of rural
roads is included in the economic analysis as it is expected that the
community as a whole would benefit from these investments. Similarly, tne
cost of Australian and French bilateral aid is excluded from the analysis,
as the technical assistance program is expected to lay the foundation for
the future development of the country generally.
6.10     Sensitivity Analysis.  Switching  values  were  used to assess the
impact of changes in costs and benefits on the viability of the project as
a whole as well as for each of the three components. The tests showed that
the aggregate project as well as the individual components are all fairly
robust. Costs would have to increase by 1152 or benefits would have to
decline by 53Z in order to lower the ERR for the aggregate project to the
102 level of the opportunity cost of capital. The comparable changes in
costs and benefits for the three components to become non-viable at the 102
opportunity cost of capital are as follows:
Coffee                      : Costs +174Z; Benefits -642
Irrigation                  : Costs +34X;  Benefits -262
Upland Crops                s Costs +682;  Benefits -402
Changes of this magnitude in the value of costs and benefits are highly
unlikely.   Other  sensitivity  tests were  carried  out  on the aggregate
project and the three components (see Project File, Item 9). The most
critical component is Irrigation Development, where a 20Z increase in costs
coupled with a 202 decrease in benefits would reduce the rate of return to
82, although such a combination of circumstances is unlikely.   Sensitivity
analysis shows that even with a 202 decrease in price (because of continued
dependence by Lao PDR on barter arrangements with the Socialist bloc andlor
a prolonged collapse of the ICA, which would depress international market
prices), the ERR for the coffee component would fall to a still healthy
292, well above the acceptable level.
Proiect Risks
6.11     The main project risks would  be  slower than expected adoption by
farmers of measures for  coffee  rehabilitation  and improved husbandry and
conservation cropping  systemsg reluctance  of  farmers  to pay irrigation
service fees; unexpected changes in Government agricultural pricing policy;



- 34 -
and a substantial worsening of long-term international soybean and coffee
prices below current forecasts.    However,  these risks are not considered
serious. Projected farmer adoption rates of improved technology are based
on experience gained under more recent IDA projects in Lao PDR. Benefits
from sustained improved water delivery far outweigh the level of irrigation
service fees and present a strong incentive for water user participation.
Village  pazticipation  in  project   rehabilitation  activities  would  be
conditional on their prior formal agreement to contribute to OLM costs.
Concerning agricultural pricing and trade policies, GOL is strongly
committed to the reform  process  and    additional safeguards are provided
under the proposed IDA  Structural  Adjustment  Credit.    Lao coffee has a
comparative advantage and its competitiveness would be improved under the
project by grede and quality improvement. Long-term coffee prices, both in
the international mar'ket and under barter arrangements with the Socialist
bloc, are expected to constitute adequate incentives to growers. Finally,
all project activities would be supported by intensive techbnical assistance
ti.%ning.



- 35 -
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1      During negotiations, assuranceas were obtained that:
(a) by September 30, 1990, MEPF would submit a proposal for setting up a
project monitoring and evaluation system satisfactory to IDA (para.
3.13)s
(b)  PCU would submit the first year's annual work plans by April 30, 3990
(para 3.14) and subsequent annual work plans and budgets to IDA by
September 30 of the preceding year; and annual reports by September
30 of each year. and six-monthly reports by March 31 and September 30
of each year (para. 3.14);
(c) the NPCC would carry out a project implementation mid-term review not
later than December 31, 1992 (para. 3.15);
(d) all project agencies would submit annual project accounts to MEPF not
later than March 31  of  the  following  year,  and MEPF vould submit
annual audit reports to IDA for the pi-oject on the project accounts,
the Special Account and Statements of Expenditure within nine months
of the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.10);
(e) the Borrower would carry out a study for the formulation of an
appropriate pricing and marketing strategy for upland crops produced
under the project not later than December 31, 1991 (para. 5.7);
(f) inputs would be supplied by provincial project entities and TFMC at
full cost for cash or on credit, and payments would be kept in a
revolving fund for the replenishment of input supplies (para. 5.9);
and
(g) a condition for participation under the project would be the prior
signing of an agreement between district authorities and water user
groupa on the establishment of an O&M organization and the payment of
adequate irrigation service fees (para. 5.11).
7.2      A condition of effectiveness  would  be  that,  by  April 30, 1990, a
National Project Coordination Committee would be appointed, ar.4 a Project
Coordination Unit would be established at the Ministry of Economy, Plan and
Finance (para. 3.1).
7.3      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for
an IDA credit of SDR 15.9 million (US$20.2 million equivalent) to be made to
Lao PDR. The credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years' maturity.



-36-                                              Annex 1
Table 1
LAD PEOPLES DENOCTIC REPUBLIC
UPLAN  AGRICULTURE  EVTt OPHEIN PR OJECT
SUNNARY ACCONTS COST SU111R
(KIP '000)                     (US  '000)                    I Total
2 Foreign  Base
Local     Foreign       Total      Local Foreign  Total   Exchanse   Costs
_______ =e=  ==  == =  =   =__
1. INVESTmENT COSTS
A. FIELD DEVELOPHENT              149l100.4  1l341,903.9 1,491,004.4   771.1 2,439.8 2190.9            90        9
B. LAND AC8UISITION                 3,300.0            -     3,300.0      6.0        -     6.0          -        0
C. CIVIL VOMS                   1W144233.8  1,023,541.8 291679775.5 270P0.4 1,861.0 34941.4            47       14
D. VEMICLES                        92,862,0   835,758.0   928,620*0   168.9 1M519.6 1P688.4            90        6
Es EQUIPMENTt FUEL I MATERIALS   1,1574621.3 4,7069841.7 5,8649463.0 2PI04.8 8,557.9 104662.7          80       37
F. TRAINING                        22,000.0   198,000.0   220,000.0    40*0   360.0   400.0            90        1
6. SPECIALISTS
1. LONG TERN SPECIALISTS               -  3,6574500.0 3,657,500.0        - 6,650.0 6,650.0         100       23
2. SHORT TERN SPECIALISTS              -   594000.0   594,000.0         -  1e080,0  100.0B       100        4
Sub-Total SPECIALISTS                     - 4,251,500.0 4,251,500.0         - 7,730.0 7.730.0         100       27
Total INVESTMENT COST              2,569,117.5 12,357,545.4 144926,662.9 4671.1 22f46843 27,139.4         83      94
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A* statf Costs                   133,507.0            -    133,507.0   242.7        -   242.7          -        1
3, Operation and Maintenance     296,516.0   480414.0   776,930.0   539.1   873.5 1,412.6             62        5
C. Bueticiary Village Costs       26,427.5    30i662.5    574090.0    4981    55.8   103.8            54        0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                456,450.5   5119076.5   967,527#0   829.9   929.2 1,759*1            53       6
Total BASELINE COSTS                3,025,568,0 12t8689621.9 15,894,189.9 5,501.0 23,397.5 28,898.5        81      100
Physical Contingencies             132,358,4   25O0679,6   383,038.0   740.7   455.8   696.4            65        2
Price Contingncies                 674,077.2  1,760937t.0  2,45,014.2 1225.6 3,201W  7 4,427.3          72       15
Total PROJECT COSTS                 3,82,003.6 14,880,238.4 18,712,242.0 6967.3 27,055.0 34,022.3          80      118
July 18, 1989 19:40



LAO PEOPLE DCATIC RWBLIC
IF1    ICLI   DEOU    I IP ET POCT
sWmu  kent bw P,OJKt Coient
(KwP 'SO)
nmu.
Om7E EIUILITATIU             MULIT*TIN                   Wm  cow INT IAIU                                        MUL Mm   FJWITAlI
wNPM       NAE         OMS        Main UiUrn  ainwa   saws   NMa  iww  PFOD  MOMn  a.wmw swmi  vMIniu   uson
l          9     1    pow           FPCE   PRI        mE POVICE  "AM            P    1         NU         PoNC        P    1   FRIWI    NCRII     Vm
-                    -mm=coom       -          -                    -  om                                              m      -     
1. _MM oxns
A. FIEU KEWNENI                 m2,7.s   440h715.0  177474.5           295o379,6        -  122 .5 t177M0S  61041#.8
3. LN M TI                              - _  _    _  .  .  .  .                 .  .  . .
c. cm  mns                        s2.so.0    02se.o00          -     101,2o,o.-5
3. VElis                         227,425.0   1489200.0  47,300.0        47.465,0  53,00.0   11t550.0  14.0*0            -              -    1447.5   14437.5s   m775.0
E. EIMU it FULl i rA.ts          MON7500   4420715.0 125.950,0         351,560,0        -   44.14,0  132t930.5  40.700.0    1,W09,90.o  f,098,625.0  9077.O 372,497.5    297s000.0  15000.o
F.1EAINI.                               -           -          -              -         -          -          -         -              -           -          -         -            -         -
F, lawCs.
1. LIUS MN MEIU                      -           -          -              -          -          -         -         - '  '                                -         -            - ''
2.W  lE    ESN11                     -            -         -                         -                    -         -              -                                - 
9*Tota lliECIAJUTS                      '           -          -              -         -          -          -         -              -           -          -         -            '         ' 
TotlD 11TI1IN7CSIS                1t101.952s 1,134,210.0 WfO654s        1,9W449.l  s3.900.0  177,79,  2;9t764.0  0J.W41.0   I149,W950.o0  M130.5M 922.175 3.242,5    7m 0o0o 15O0O
11. 111 1WN
A. staff casts                   19,943.0    11GO5.3                   1 7.5  13,0.0    9.00           9,020.0                        -           -          -         -            -         -
3. Iwsv,n ad  iblet-.             4,400,      44000   3,83.0           31e900.0  49,500.0   764250.0  41.5900  eso5.o0
C. hwtici  Villa* Cats                 -           -         -         57,0
Total E       CII   09915           23,243.0    15,52.0   9.163.0         104.197,5  6,305.0   83,270.0  S0.600.0  39050.00                                                             -
Totda MOIWlN  a                    1125,195.5  1150,061.0  359937.5      t9061.6  117#Mo50  261,068.5 370,364.0  WO.MB    1,09,t5.0  1t113.062.5    217.5  W9.7625    297,000.0  165,000.0
PAsical C.itdne}n                  35,477.8    52,321.5  17742.5        147,936.9        -   12,209.4  17208.4  10,174.?                --                     -         -            -         -
Pies Ce tin.i                     167,992.9   190,799.9  59,424.2       415,995.9  17M6789   45959   49.944o1  26,069.5         186.4e.4   160,406.2  112,512.5  56,906.9    5298661.  t992.t
TOta PJECT  MT                     1,329,566.2 1,383,172.4 436,0o4.2     2.514.524.  1    993.   318,9727  3829516.4  177.03.4    1,36,400.4  1.m3468.7  934680.0 4461694    34996.1 194,392.1
Fovt. ExWNW_                    ll22t65.0  1,166,224.9 376,979.1      144601.7  86680.3  2653719.9 326.629.0 1533300O   1,017.205.9   897.5511   707,611.1 341,524.2    199,064.5 109.20,5
,.,iFe II, t98 19139
,u I.*It~
I ID I 
IM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
o   x1



TICIICAL AUSIANM m
PNLECT            lRUAN
AIQaLU CaOInIn
uuFAmC                                          gm auign
upmOn mIM.O                         mINISin  OF INTNTIUM.                                 1u
IV                        IV                             NINE     F    EC1SY, LEDA UNST           FKI1WI                 cmtf
M E  W  fSITOM E  (OWI    VIMTME    WDIaC                     !OL1E    7 1  AND  ASISTsaNC         DIAlRM
FPI'51   IMICIPIITT)   PR091I1)  930NCE1  93PINC             I MM   9113    PMPIN       mm1*1      *38191        TOII.      Z   bowl
A. FIEU wm.mum                                       -1-                                            -            -             -           -  1,4n04#4 tO.0 149,100.4
e. in.         I                 1,650.0 -m0--- 160                                                                                  -            3,300.e  0.0      0.0
c. op          I               t168o0.0       181P665.0   149P600,0  12303.0  123,0.0       104,s00.0            -             -           -  7,4670775.5  0.o0 216m.6
3, mon3gE                       16.5000e             -    143000  s390o00   53900.0          42t900.0      13,200.0     10451000    33.000.0    92.62000  0.0       0.0
E. E    t. FEL I PARMJ          32,500.0             -     250o00  60us50.0   60,500,0       77,000,0      M5t0.0       27,500*0           -  5.964463,0  0.1   4.0
F. WM                                  -             -                     - -                                          IIO-OO .ZIhOOO          22e010 0  o .o  0.0  0.0
1.IS i    UlllSS                    '             '           '         '          '             -            -   2,502500.0 l.15bOP*0  3657.50t.   0.0          0.0
2. m1m  MlN  umI                                 4-                     -          -                                 45.200,*   118,0.0    594,000.0  0.0         .oo
M-ToIaI WICIMEII                      '              -           -        '          '             '-   2977t70o00 1m27.o.0  4210.0  0.0                            0.0
TOM  131T    i C M                269e,o00      191665.0   24,050.0 MG35M0  237P43.0           2244000       1S9700.0   3,21970O.0 1,416930.0  14,9766629 H A   7., 3 4
11. 1131 mp
A. Kw  Cash                     967.5               -    10.3125   MM5.0    2040                   -          7.5             -           -    13w107.0  00        0.0
*. .uanJi NW b4.1000                                -    495000  104,5O0.0  104500.0                      27,5000      lkv0P0,0    32,500.0    7769.30.0  1.7 13,090.0
C.      i      iluis Cot              -             -           -         -c                   -                                                57,09O.0  0.0      0.0
Totl IEIIT 3lY9                    9,997.5             -    59,912.5 116P515.0  116,55,0              -      34,457.5     110,000.0    32.500.0    967,S27.0  1,4 13900.0
TOAlW 3LM      S                   318,497.5     191,66.0   307M92.  353,990.0  353990,0        224,46000     53,157.5   3,329,700.0 1,499,300.0 15904189.  7.4 .Wt=5.0
"atesl cut1eui_                  2183.0        19,166.5    19,910.0  12,3035   12,303.5       1040.0              -            -           -     3,08.0  0.0         0.0
Pric cgtljjj                     38754.9       27,203.8    38,255.  u46951.2   46951.2        10491.4       6,11.1      45,049.2   213.113#4  2.4Ms.0)4.2  2.9 70,112.9
ygTo       T C                     39,077.4      227.t37.3   36N0A.4  413.234,7  4134234,7    245,341.4       60,07Z,6  J3784.749.2  1.72413.4 17n29242,0  2.4 45,150.9
For"  Exdr                      247,634,0     109,931.3   231,37.0  193P34  1934301#4        15s5394*5     3,314.3   3472915.4 1,675,181.7  14HA A234   7.0 791P.0
Juls too 1WN MNt
* !I



LAO PE972  mmnc 592I3
PrvJelt Co,o,ut,s bv Yer
Totsl Inrludirg Contin9own                             Toti.s itidiri cmtorcita
(23 le")                                               (on  m0
1990      292        292        1993       1994      Total      29     l9  2m         2993   119    Totl
-                                   -                     - _            n _ e                           -_
1.     UiP     E PUN                                    20313,.9  46019.1  26.810.?  200,619-9  2079.6 2,3I4S66.7   36.1  OR2.7  V6.0   6440  456.0 2415.6
2. SWAn       1                                         229Je.0  446251.4  153dJI.2  27,135,  3a22,04.2  1,227r.4   m-.3    24  2A.4  44.3   W74 214.9
3. SM3D 9033151.51,1   45,696.   U0.305.9   9023I.3  132,27,2   436,004.7                                                   2.0 .2   2.2  164.2  220.2   792.
*.T      l =ME IUIATI2                                     53.2.0  960"472  4J3.7              8.08J   143,M992.0 3,147.747.9   9s6.4 1 24 72  4    M9. 1,204,6  5.232
K aNm TI4TWET
2. 0          1                                         257,228.7  528 .8   MOM2.9,3  60,99.6  651392.9 2.124P4.3   215.9  943.4  9. 2,73.2 l.2.6 457.
WTOA II 52T62 t23      a 113                               157,268.7  510*3.1  942,219.3  69019.16  63229 2514,.3   2.9 97.43.4  9J.7M1*.2 1100.6 4371.9
c. IFI am   aRBW
1. 137359FROM                                            37.45.4   2h6*3.6   2ht9.0   2008.6   70153   IM             .9    61.7   47.9  s5.5   36.5 24.2         2
2. 1    g IS033)                                         60.5.01  30426.4  t9eo07,2    2U13   9,275.2   3287.7               .6 ss.3   09.   .It0  270.?   19.0
3. B ONK                                                  9.52M.1  10924.09    3S999.5   67,12.0   92167  S U-t    276    2".    79i0  122.0  U2.2  U9s
4. SM3F12                                                1O.415,1   36n.9.?   47.12.1   35,226.5   47#21.9   277T035.4    19.0   67.2   IL       64.0   I9    321.9
5s T         FM  ILL                                    10427.4  M2470.1  2MS0.8  309977.4  328327  1.74.4   19.9  404.5  49.1  3a.5  597.  2241.0
sb rtdaI tLW -M           r 1111fWC                        290.,7  415M424.?  44129.6  504,959.9  57,447.0 7.749.7169   511.5  "Ls  092.2  9.1 1160.1 421-.4
t. r. Om  OMuinAn
i.   il7. 3w                                            329M..   3193.0  1.999.1  M461.7   97d07.3 J2..461.7    99   M6 27. W 327.3  402.7  35213 2,21i4
2.      1 A-9132                                        1199211.5  49,9634.  M7M,,    nfa            96.157.2 X  93   .0 2o 6,7  8s24  325.4  267.1  274.8 2699.4
. SWA        32                                          72P2.3  166.362.9   66.212.4   6236.8   M40.9   446,269.4   133.7  302219.4 1702'.9  S13.6   612.2
4. 1290 NL lm  1                                         63.23,4   66.70       M1,8.4   73n9651    77029.0   3.,    913i0  221A4  227,9  23.0   1               636.1
S. EMMA 931  2                                           22,164.6  u23 .2   23,9 162    14,51.1   s52350.1  204,            22,0  233.7   71.4   26.5   27.7   36.
8Tdo   M1 a s w         Lnn                                 9o96 1,1605661 7 hn03e90.7  42765.8  47,           . 94         1,1450.3 7,110.3  96.3  105.   V2.5 573.3
C. _    21
2. M  (OIE       9315                                   123.614,4  207M627.5   27.750   1701.    2,431.011   0747-4   2.2  377.5   S.4   20.6  2V,    17074
2. W 19MIM   1CW *TT)                                          -  2049M.03    23.01.4           -          -   MO37.3          -  m. 0 4.0          -       .   4124
3. W  2201                                               92.942.9  212,596.0   77,9096    M119.6   26,657.3   366,09.    26.0  30.5   50.7   29.0   30.3   65
3f-Tob Kr1im                                               2e2.62  624249.3   7,626.0   32A2.3   3.t9.1   9 623.0   39-0l    0                7,    57.    0.2 2,7.7
F. Em372 lTIhIEIll
1. 0132    9325                                         143t.S2  I79.0         M M7.   7M 4.2   31.3589   413734.7   2F1. 376  S.9 52               A 14.    57.0   152.3
2. F35   513                                            143J662   179.019-  20,497.9   2.094.2   3,1o.9   41234.7   261.7             9   5I.    54. 4   57.0   71.3
*-Tod  01I1151221                                          Jh7328.4  3593.0 S0 1.9,    ROM.3   62717.0 B              46 .3   5.4  IS6.9   Mil   Uh7 M?124.0 1S927
8. an-M.m13. OmM
1.  T11  W         3T5  aS fowl                         245341.4          -                                     M.  .14   46                                *   44.1
3*-TAtd *14K1     on                                       245341.4          -          -          -         -   245.34,4   446,.        -      *      -      -   4416
29.90x56 *0011T11114
1. 1RT  sr tMMT    , FM          I7 FLMUS                26M.2    7,m.1    8,M.0   80.49.2    8450.1    60,.                40.7   14.4   24.7   25.4   U.1   169.2
_____ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                                         _                         II
S-tOt  711UC    a       l623                                26tM.2    722.1    8,076.0    8.44.2         ,1         .075.t   4h07 14.4   24.7   15.4   26.1   10o2
1. _1MjU 203513 tD n        L11  A33Na  1 2             8102.4  SP77001.6  682,303.2  697507.9  7783!4.2  3.74.749.2  1,9404.4 J67A3  22.7 ,271,0 1415.2 6ht,4
2. Fm  ORSMD       4MST1                                134114.0   38179.4  342157.2  34600.3  32,319.5  127.4134   607.5  5.7  623.2  62.2   M.   3,113.
Ttabl 11T1     6ST4M11t   MS  T4 2.152.76.4   181 1121.181.                      2 4053.3 1.045,w.2 I2t1365.6  5.497.6  2.2O9,8 2,064.0 W,0u.9 12o".o 2,072.2  9*994.0
Tebl F0T  201                                              3,502474.6 s5I92,878.0 1.0081,6O.h 3,504U7.1 3h178.91I.0 28.7127,77.0  6.363 9.441. 54160.0 hOv92.2 6h507.1 34.022.3
_              _          _n     _._   _         4 _      S _. l e t                                   a -,,,
Mv 28. 2909 29119



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICE OF RICE
(Import Parity, 1989 Constant Pri-es in US$1ton)
1989    1990-4    1995-9    2000-9
Projected FOB price, Bangkok a/
1985 - 100                  203       162        167       166
1989 = 142.99               290       232        239       237
Quality adjustment for
glutinous rice (85X)                247        197       203        201
Freight and insurance                 60         60        60         60
CIF Thinaleng                        307        257       263        261
Conversion of dry paddy
to milled rice (57Z) bI             175        146       150        149
Transport and handling c/             20         20        20         20
Economic farmgate paddy price dl    155         126       130        129
Economic farmgate price 'kipslkg)    85          69        72         71
a/   World Bank Commodity Price Forecast (June 1989) for Thai 5Z broken in
constant 1985 prices adjusted to 1989 constant prices by applying MUV
index (1985-100; 1989-142.99).
bl   Processing costs are assumed equal to the value of by-products.
cl   Net figure for all internal transport, storage, and handling costs.
d/   Taxes and duties excluJed; assumed Standard Conversion Factor - 1.0.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICE OF COFFEE
(Export Parity, 1989 Constant Prices in US$Iton)
1989    1990-4    1995-9    2000-9
Projected CIF price a/
1985 - 100                 2010      1748       1914      2010
1989 - 142.99              2874      2499       2737      2874
Quality adjustment
for robusta (70S)                  2012       1749      1916       2012
Fi ight and insurance                150        1SO       150        150
FOI Savannakhet                     1862       1599      1766       1862
Transport and handling b/            180        180       180        180
Green coffee equivalent             1682       1419      1586       1682
Economic farmgate price dried
cherry  c/                         1009        851       952       1009
Economic farmgate price (kips/kg)   555         468       524        555
a/   World Bank Comodity Price Forecast (June 1989) in constant 1985 prices
for arabica as average for New York and Bremen/Hamburg markets. Adjusted
to 1989 constant prices by applying MWV index (1985-100; 1989=142.99).
b/   Net figure for all internal transport, storage and handling costs.
c!   Conversion ratio for hulling - 60?; taxes and duties excluded; assumed
Standard Conversion Factor - 1.0.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICE OF SOYBEANIMUNGBEAN
(Import Parity, 1989 Constant Prices in US$1ton)
1989    1990-4    1995-9    2000-9
Projected CIF price, Rotterdam a/
1985 - 100                  207       186       169        150
1989 = 142.99               296       26,J      242        214
Freight and insurance                 75        75         75        75
CIF Thanaleng                        371       335        317       289
Transport and handling kI             70        70         70        70
Economic farngate price
soybeans c/                         301       265       247        219
Economic farmgate price
soybeans  (kips/kg)                 166       146       136        120
Economic farmgate price
mungb.eans  (kips/kg) dl             83        73         68        60
a/   World Bank Commodity Price Forecast (June 1989) in constant 1985 prices
adjusted to 1989 constant prices by applying MUV index (1985-100;
1989=142.99).
b/   Net figure for all internal transport, storage, and handling costs.
c/   Taxes and duties excluded; assumed Standard Conversion Factor = 1.0.
d/  Assuned price of mungbean - 502 of price of soybean.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICE OF MAIZE
(Import Parity, 1989 Constant Prices in US$/ton)
1989    1990-4    1995-9    2000-9
Projected FOB price, Bangkok a/
1985 - 100                   79        64         70        73
1989 - 142.99               113        92        100       104
Freight and insurance                 50         50        50         50
CIF Thanaleng                        163        142       150        154
Transport and handling b/             20         20        20         20
Economic farmgate price cl           143        122       130        134
Economic farmgate price (kipslkg)    79          67         72        74
a/   World Bank Commodity Price Forecast (June 1989) in constant 1985 prices
adjusted to 1989 constant prices by applying MUV index (1985=100;
1989m142.99).
b/   Net figure for all internal transport, storage, and handling costs.
c/   Taxes and duties excluded; assumed Standard Conversion Factor = 1.0.



i990     399      399      591     594     59 99      941".     I 199"7 it  19W  9     2009
-   ---------- ------------ -- - ------- ---- --- -- -   -- -   - --- - --- - - - -- - - - -- -   --- -- - ---- ---   -  -------- *-  - - 
311971?a 933 583199    WWII 8131150?1011 -5341,07   577,3   315.1.7  %43.79  769.74 3037.47 173.04 14044.   31575.93  527.97   1440.26
113591  FOR 1111F9                          II.99    2.83   317.40 1059.74 707.20 8440.90 476.40 3717.00 4597.34  644.70  7037.71
,girsi now  MIMuv   MPs                        -    ff."   23U.31   Sit,70 5377.50 5*17.40 0057.40 1W.740 39,7.40  3937.40  5773.90
TOTAL. KWPITT                           -133,.47   37.3   17027 7434,73 4M4.77 47M.47 797.3' O99."9 VM07) 30033.9  39051.03
no        ?in110* mm33 TNKRYWR?T mmSTS
TOTAL. COST £bJIMTlIl  373*07,3   947. 37   94A.97 5034.93  979.07  337.74  434,95  4314,00  431.00   131.00   47.6.00
T0OTAL Co6T-CoJg                         I69.9   7339.70   934.00 3047,4*31750.30  97.70  97.50 30099."70 3233.03713.40  3215.40
TOTAL COST? 301*93 POP                    91A.O  1103.3A   494.90  317.90  700.40  449.40  4.4.40  449,40  449.40   44-9.40   449.40
TOTAL 96090T11N 499 210607119  P9T9   3105.44  43150.97  224.77 7NW.07  MOM.7  1930.34 707.41 333.4.0 7317.30  7317.90  7370.110
NET MIOJCT 9WKVIT
KY1 PUOJCT 11,11"!T                     -4439,93 -4599.33 -3710.44 .740.79 1304.313 4790.34 39006.71 A70M      47.4   7735.7   790.03
JuSt 18. I9M9  19102
Internal R_tft of                                                    . __ ___ _
...........                 .........               _13                           -   mot  BoO i_t   for   Total  Project
9369?                   20.72 M3370r  -   Incremental  aoaiIts for Total Project
ClOT  -   Imereasatal cost for Total Project
SUITTNIIP 943tF AT? 4?50
K19T0?             40,573.20    7. 4 4mt1        -53.53n
C?01               22.344.30    4P.573,7          1131.10%
9.4 Pvaaan 35oI  at 0ff 301 * PS731.79
Internal SRt. at Uttirn ,  26.73
gavi3 airmt too at9.0  9949933   24.41
SSITSIVIT  TIM
mg AS a S
Mo..33              49 PIPPPT            3971913
71lT    F117 7It7 P.4TJ1   -1541.07ff 1770.010                         OF 34.003          3113S 5
3406 CMS                                                2734,9               1131,7            23.71
TM  C      rS  m 0W810T        5.69    I Wm9h9 21L84,3                        917.37
718? Cm   7  J.o97? T           .A     2 1" 469         1740,                 77.  1           191 tI.
MES CARE  3 CM0                3*   *Ax                M3.17.                 95.41            26.41
TEST Cml  4 rma                ff  20                   2179.0                  9.524.21
13TE SCAN    3190?4 NW 302                             209.0              97 3.               27.11
Tr    Cm tS T CAM 307 07Tt     8     701      P         6t34.2                7.051            2J.04
TEST CASE  7  8133o0           tAo    I YEW8
CTOT             tP 90             0  7SJ47.6                 77.1         ?    21.61
clot             UP    M       U         57934.5         57       .72          J4.72
TEST CASE  9   VNM0             NW83 20
-  - K      CVIIIU 1         UP^   702 M5 14SIO           .4                43.ft            3.4707
TEST CAm  s0  314733           LOP9    I 16*
ClIt     *       up   I0%                19547.4              77.92              23.6m
__.____________._..__._._______.________________.._________.____
OIt t8e Sn9  t9t02 ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     *1



LAD PEOPLES DIIuIaTIC RElilIC
WLm   1LE aWJW PMOAC=
COFFEE EKYLWB N-ECOlS1C MULYSS
(tmwd   of Dl"
1990    19    1992   193   1994   199    196   197   1998            99   200ff
PF(Th-C0WF1Z
ECOUIIJC  8F WCOFFE (PRMCE/TN)         0.85    0.85   0.85   0.85   0.85   0.95   0.95   0.95   0.95   0.95   1.01
PIOUICTUN-IIWROWI   ENin?w (TIl)      12.00   98.00 290.00 515.00 72000 865.00  945.00         t85.001000.001000.  1000.00
K NEFIT-IW2OID 138?                   10.21   83.40 24679 43.27 61277 0239 899.64 93,72 952,00  952.00 1009.00
PROSCTIIU-  PLANTINS (TIN)               -        -  20.00 100.00  415.00 1085.00 2350.00 3.00 4400.00 4400.00 440000
IEFIT-E  PNITIJS                         -        -  17.02  95,10  353.17 1032.92 2237.20 3374.84 4169890 4188.80 4439.60
PIIDCTIIIN-STJPII(TON)                -9.00  -81.00 -63.00 150.00 420,00 825.00 1245.00 147,.00 190.0015500 u75.0e
IEIEFIT-STIWDIS                       -7.66  -6893  -361  127.65 357.42 78s.4 1185.24 1399.44 1456.56 1499.40 1C9.18
EIWIC PRIC  OF PM  (PRICE(/IT)         C.t3    0.13   0.13   0.13   0.13   0.23   0.13   0.13   0.13   0.13   0.13
PlODCTION JITEE    ED PAIY(TOlN)         -  360.00 se00.o324O.0 5580.00 6300.0 3.o00           -      -       -      -
EIT UTERANTED PADW                       -   45.36 1t3.40 408.24 703.08 819.00 444.60          -      -              -
IEVIT FOR COFFE                       2.55   59.83  323.60 1059.26 2026.3 3460.   4766.68 S72.00 6597.36 6640.20 7037.70
COSTS-COFF! 
[ES    I CSTS-CWFNS                  32.50  748.90 32s.40  3000 31,50   t.o"   9s.9    9.90   9.90   Q."t  o.90
IUIESTT COSTS-S0 AA                  383.10   731.0 249.40 372.20 449.90   6.60   6.60   6.60   4*60   6.60   6.60
InwESTiR  COSTS-SEK                  193.50   75.20 107.40  136.00 174.60   3.60   3.60   3.60   3,60   3.60   3.60
I9ESWTN    COSTS-COFFEE              92,40  15740 6s82,20 810.20 986*00  20.10  20.10  20.10  20.10  20.10  20.10
INSTH         COT-CEE                929.40  157540 682.20 810.20 986,00  20.10  20.10  20.10  20,10  20,10  20.10
PRUCTION COST-AR.ITATION               1.30   14.00  37.30  53,40  73.20 202.90  30.10 248.60 265.30   5.80 268.80
PRMIION COT-E  PITIN                   6.20    9.10  46.50  50.00  65.10 378.80 366.1   82.10 579.30 579.30 579.30
PRUIN COSTS-IUR    WmMh                  -        -      -       -      - 256.40  270.30 277.20  277.20 277.20 m,20
PODUCTI C -CFEE                        7.50   23.30  83.60  103.40 13830 838.10 87Oo 0 s1t0 8     t1121.60 122.30 1125.30
IFRSII           COSTS-CFFE          944,00  941.00 188.00 134.00  134.00  70.00  70o00  70.00  70.00  70.00  70.00
TOTAL Cos-CFFEE                     1880.90 2970  954.00 1047.60 1253.30 92820 957.10 1098.20 1I.90  212.40 1215.40
IET WIT-COFFEE
NET IIIEFIT-CWFFE                  -1U78.35 -2479.7 -630.40  11.66 768.09 2532.60 3W.58 4613.90 5385.46 5427.80 5S22,38
A¶wmeb. 3i 1989 17:32                                     SNITcHIE m      T 102
AISAL   SNITCHING   P46E
Interml Rd"ofl IWr4n of it Strong        STRll                 VALUE       hlUE        CI16M,|
IMC                   34.322               C               3331b.36   11,410.50    -6U
CTOTC            11410.50   31371.36       174.932
Nat Put VUalue t OCC 102   19.960.9         BBNC   a  Benefits for Coffee
Intemal Rte of Notu@   a 34R32            CTOTC  -  Total Cost for Coffeo
Camn Eawvalent Rate of Rturn   35         NBISC  -  Net atefite for Coffe



LAO fUES 8W*TIc 93IC
WM     Wic.P1E CWn3  KIAos"
illEATIO iQ~EWMIt NYMS
3lbaas. ot 3ll3,s)
1990    19n      1992       1993   94    195    196         99,7 9-1999    209
KIM-zMzMi mmiwamm
Pam O RMP00CE")                              0.13    0.13    0.u3    0.13    0.13    0.13    0.1         0.13      0.13    0.13
Fc        M nr¢ IF SU  MIIT)                 0.27    0.0.2    0 0.2    7.27    0.27    0.25    0.25    0.25        0.25    0.22
IUC  F31M U MOMOFMM                          0.13    0.13    0U3    0.13    043    0.12    0.12    0.12           0.1?    04!1
FROM=  PMUlm 0          cRO (1N3)               - 1970.00 120.00 13990.00 193M.00 ISMo.4o 1447.00 1 5313100 1   .00o 15216.00
FMI    PFM  Vani FR05CT(Nt)              103.01064.Lo 1003.00 1064.00 10643.00 10643.00 10643.00 10643.00  1063.00 10643.00
OW? F030? IT1  930.                             - 1500.22 357.43 1762.74  076.52 28.00 2000.11  1999.39  190.00  1962.06
WeI3  PM  011 03H5                        1341.02  1341l02  W41.027 1341.02  1341.02  1383-5'  1383.59  1383.59   1383.5   172.
ImUw nTM   01m  Pmm                      -1341.02   167.20  256.41   42M.72   s55   64.41  424.52   05.00   594.49  50.9
Fw          Sl3lEAlP(10I)                            33.00   14t.50   31050  655.50  1036.40  17.70  241.20   2763,60 2763.60
Wlt SDtlEtil                                    -    366   38.02   B2.28  173.71   55.9"   42.'4   97.30   652.61  605.23
FllOI  _101         010)                        -   14.B0   150.70  301.30  602.50  93.0         .30  2100.00  2410.10  2410.10
BDIEF1  _11U                                    -    3.f5   19.0P   3P.77   7P.5t  112.0J  16,78  21,49   298.05  265.11
inFT FOR 13T1ll 01        II03 1151131   -1341.02  172.B1  315.12  543.70  7M.74 1012.47  1238.04  1464.59   1575.f9  1460.6
111101  Co88S-911                          272.40  837-.0  031.0  103.70   84,80   4.90   49.90   49.0    49.90   4.9
in  ESON PM   11 P3i XT F    N6)                -        -       -        -       - 25104S0 3514.70 4016800  4016.00  40U6J
WI SEAS00 PM  031N FeD05C1 (CrT/0            0-03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03         0.03    0.03
cost It 1KM1  PM 0D  tN ltT                     -        -       -        -       -   /2.00  101.93   116.49   316.49  116.49
OU Cot                                       7.00   13."0   23.90   25.60   31.60   31.60   31.60   31.60    31.0    31.60
uy Km0I PAMl? NM  0I3EC0   I0N                  -        -       -        -       -  944,0   5SM.Z   377.64   377.60  37.60
MlY _m   P90M? 011W 0 0  (MIM)               0.04    0.04    0.04    0.04    0.04    0.04    0.04        0.0      0.04    0.04
t01140  SIM0 PA0Y 0113 P9                      -        -       -        -       -   40.59   24.36   36.24    16.24   16.24
WI  WM      1P1? 0 T3    t195   ("0)      4m.00 4775.00  4775.00 4M.00  4M.00  4775.00  477.00  47.00   O7m.00 477.00
Ut  60SEN P      0    1110  F PACtS (0 )     0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01          0.01    0.01
CDYt-Ut E6tSBI PADM  hITNO    PliO          33.43   33.43   33.43    33.43   33.43   33.43   33.43   33.43    33.43   33.4
WY am  PAD?          W  F£Cr t0 )          2B00    00  200.00  2S0-00   2      90.00 2EO.OD    280.00    209.00   2B0.00  200.00
MY 0a0100 PAD? 01116T F0L0.? (t5ST7/03)      0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01         0.01     0.91
MAL C0 -PAhW   IOJTP 30JE:T                  1.96    t.96    2.96    1.96    1. 96    1.96    1.96    1.96         1.96    1.96
TOTAL 15T PO03T 0t11 PlW5T                   7.00    13.90   20.90   25.60   31.60   145.00  157.80  164.32   164.32   164.32
TOTAL 000 P       N         IT0113 5 3 990W  3   5.39    35.39   35.39   3     5.39 11.34   15.1'   35,19    35.39   35.39
iOCENMU      C0T POT                       -2B.39  -21.49  -14.49   -9.79   -'.79   109.61  122.50       0.94  3L8.94   128.94
Sp6"3 A      lm ?                               -        -       -        -       - 2510.50 1514.70  ID16.80  4016.00  401Z.00
EOI1 t CBS                                      -        -       -        -       -  133.55   IB2.7f   -0.07   23.87  210.0p
Now u1I   (M    )                               -        -                           2510.50  3514.?0 4026.00   316.80  4016.9e
sIlow   T                                       -        -       -        -       -   42.60   5°.75   60.29    60.-2    60.'9
19FROSWUR COSTP-1P1109T30                   61.00   51.00 s  27.00    u1.00   27.00                -        -         -       -
TOTAL 6ST il1060TMlii                      307.02  067.32  043.92 1034.92  070.02  332-74  4t4.91  456.00   45.00  456.00
MET EUVITS-331311   UOWIL3TAIrI
OU  _k211                                -1640.03 -694.50 -520.79  -491.14  -09.28  679.74   023.13  19M0P.5   1119.95 1004.26
~~~~~~~~~~ ._ ....................................... .......________._._
bos  3h 1939   :1732                                      EliIIB   I5.t    T a101
691)        SItT1i,   fEI90IIT4 0
Inte,l bRt  of  9oon of Not Stns         STiEO                 VALUE        miff1       030060
SIR                   15.6BS              SOII               6,646.99    4i944t99      -!.61            BENIR  -  8enefit for Irrigation
N1R1    *  Net Benefts for itrigation
am01               4,944.09    6,46.9'         4.t42%         COTIR -  Total Costs for Irrigation
Ost Pvwt 3.11  at nCC 10: * 1M702.1
inteml RAW of Morn * 15.71
Cw, f.*v6lunt RA of Sbtun * 4.0



La PIIS           TIC WCUIC
WMIi AWaTIIE KEWLWUWE MOMLE
(mhinuas of Slats)
mo  im   m   im  19 9l9m   aot
WITs-WmS CU UIWTATUn
EaCm     mm  w SIIMNUCE/11T)             0.27    0.27   0.         2?       7 0X.5   0.22
ECDIIIC P33OF1* MM  t(lPjW)              0.12    0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12        0.13   0.13
uMimL. P111wF IO P   vm          T          -     3.t   6.O IUO*Ot 20*00 4200.004200.0 0
lAImAL MONCTION U   NAM  (TN)               -  600.0010.003000 soo .0oS   .o 61000. 06000.00
fITM FIN   EBM                              -   16.70 I.J5 445.20 M7.    1O37.0  919.0
FI PiE fUMM                                 -   73.20 219.60  3M6.00 5090   760.00 6.100
MOMWIT M  OPLAN U   MS                      -   6n.o0  36.55  611.20 I     ,   1117.0 1723.60
OM-w Car mu ILITATIU
DIISIEI COhTSI-iSMIM                   118.3   3.60   3.60   1,60   3.0          33.40   33.0
tEflEI  COS-SIAVMWE                     120.40   143.70  21.40  25.40  25*40    25.40  25.40
IlSIENT  COSTI-E                        17.20   4.20   4.20  15,20  14.20    14,20  14.20
IIlNE1iEt aCTS-IirFl4lE                 63.10   42.M0  46.20  29.20   29.20    29,20  29.20
INVESMENT CST-LMESTO  COW TIN          2S3.50   35.00  465.00  45.00 471.0           -                                                                                    :
MATL. IIM IST   COST                    321.40  23.4  154.60  103.0  102.0    102.40  102.0
901KMD  (MI)                            105,00 1050.00 2at4 .00 MM 70o0.00   7000.00 70o 0.
IJIWmlAL FUTPIOM COST-80"II              0.05    0.05   0.005   0,05   0,05       0,05   0.05
IINCE TAL PgU3TWIU C05T-M                0,04    0,04   0.04   0.04   0.04        0.04   0.04
mmEMA (A)                  uo#000  12000000 2 030.00040 0000   400,00400,0
PC0IT5 COST-Now                          5.15   51.45 137.20 240.10 343,00   343.0  343.00
PREIOCt110  IT-MIZE                     14.00   42.00   70.00  105.00 140.00   140.00 140.#0
TOTAL FP1311  CST-Utri   Calm           19.15   93.45 207.20 341.10 403.0    483.00 43.00
IIIUR*S1RTIE  UlSTH4AND CamS           573.00   721.00 131.0  124.00 115.00    6400  6400
MOTA CLT CDP A                         913.55  1103.15 49.      72.50 70.40   6.40  6.40
IT IQEFIT-WLNID mu
NET IWFIT iMUVI                       -913.55 -1013.9  -110.25   8.70  627.70   1168.00 1074.0
N1w1u  3. IM   17132                                    S-'UW   VJlIES by lo2
A.,
P"WIA      UTTIH       P1UIJlT*
In1Orf1 RBtes of Rbtum  of  t Stra                                 EVM  AJ VA         WDME                 nU"  - Net Benefits  for Upland Crops
l"IUP                 2816,12           WEI               10.104.86    6.00e.91       -40.53=             BENUC  -  Beneflts for Upland Crops
CT0lUP            6,000,91    10.104,86       U8.162             CTOTUP -  Total Costs for Upland Crops
Not Pvn. Vlu at OCC 102 * 4v095,9
InKnl Rie at R nt a *20.6U
Cem  Ezsuoint bW et Rtwo a 19.83



LAO POR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPVENT PROJECt
Apoortlonent of Infrastructure Costs to Comoononta
w ~~~~~(USU '@00)
ComDonents                       Coffee                       Irriatlon                   UIplad Crop_                       Totsl
YEARS                        YEARARS ER S                                                 YEARS
Costs                 1 2 a 4    6-20    1 2a4                            6 -20    1 2 3 4 5 a-20   1  2 a   4 6520
Rur l Road. 
1eT7la                       ^   -   -   -   -    -        48 47 23  27  23              0  94 46 0 C  48       -    144  1416 0           82   9
Cbaal       t               ]   E00521 66634 34    -                                                            -          216   66   344 -84
Sa*raanS 32668 20 262   -- --  32 6  26 26 2-
SekoL                        6  5s   6 6    6 0             -    -    -   -    -     -   -   -   -   -   -    -        6 5            a 6    6
Sub-total          90 ao7 1006 666    0           48 47 23  2723        -      9   94  46  SS 46            234 448  169  14 135    6
Research
~aklk l             U       1  341 42 22 22 22-  -   -   -   -   -                       -    -    -                 161   41  42  22 22 22
ifiaiis-ntion                       -- ---  211 33 42 22 22  22  211 3  42 22 22 22
Sub-totl          11 41 42  22 22   22             -    -    -   -    -  -    211 a33  42  22  22    22    372  074   64  4  444 4
txtsns on T   ning                                                                                                                                         s
vintlan. Ld                 -  -    -    -   -    --    260 269 42  42 42    42    20 239   42   42 42   42
Champaeeakkj               250 28 42 42 42 42-   - - -                                                          -  20 29 42 42 42 42
Sub-total         260 269 42 42  42   42           -    -    -    -    -            26029  42 42 42   42    500 57    64   64 64    4
Aariculture School le      427   -   -   -   -    -         -    -    -                                               2--   - -  -   -    -
Prolct Coordination L       16  4   4   4   4    -         154444                       1    6            6     -     47  13  13  13            -
Total                      944 041 1   134134   70         66 51 27 31            -    573 721 135 124115    64   15601713 m     0  S  0276  154
25X of total cgts chargod to prolect components
Z Uplond Crops and Irrigation apportioned on basis of ratio of 2:1
bpanslon of the agricultural school charsd entirely to coffee
Charge entirely to Uplond Crop.
Apportioned equally betwee  3 components.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM MODELS
1.       For analysis of the crop production component, four farm models
are proposed, relating respectively, to upland cropping, valley floor
irrigated paddy, coffee rehabilitation, and new coffee plantings. Except
for paddy and coffee, guaranteed markets would be established for crop
surpluses.
Upland Cropping
2.       The model developed for this subcomponent illustrates the impact
of the project on a situation where, at present, shifting cultivation on
slopes varying from nil to lOOZ or more and the concomitant deforestation,
soil erosion and loss of both fertility and soil moisture retention
capacity results in yields as low as 0.8 tonsiha of traditional upland
paddy varieties and less than 1.8 tons/ha for maize for an average area
cropped per family of about 2 ha. Labor utilization is high for a very low
return and pressure on land resources is producing an adverse trend to
shorter fallow cycles and still greater reduction of fertility. The model
assumes some upland crop production, mainly maize, intermixed with upland
rice in a pattern which equates to 1 ha of low yielding maize or soybean.
3.       Under the project, participating farmers will contract to adopt a
package of improved technology including environmentally safe cultivation
practices limited to slopes no steeper than 351, appropriate varieties of
crops such as maize and soybeans and a selection of inputs and services to
support the new cropping system. The objective is to substitute cash crops
and more appropriate food crops for upland rice and, to this end, purchase
ftom the farmer of all crop surpluses is guaranteed under freely negotiated
contracts.
4.       The model indicates that the result of adoption of the improved
technology package will be an increase in family income amounting to about
Kips 40,000 per ha and reduction of annual labor demand by about 35
person -days. Non-quantifiable benefits include an improvement in family
nutrition, stabilization of soil and vegetation on upland hillsides and a
positive outlook for development of rural communities.
Irrigated Paddy
5.       The model of the traditional irrigated rice farm is based on
current patterns of water usage. Diversion structures of limited
efficiency provide insufficient water in dry spells in the wet season and
restrict dry season irrigation to little more than 61 of wet season areas.



- 50 -                        AN=  3
Page 2 of 3
Lack of water, seed of good varieties and other inputs limlts yields to
about 2 tonsiha and there is little opportunity to develop more
remunerative cropping systems.
6.       The project would support rehabilitation of small scale gravity
diversion irrigation systems and provide a package of improved technology
to increase paddy yields in the wet season to about 3.0 tonslha. Cropping
intensity over the project area would be increased to 138Z from irrigation
alone, enabling production of grain legumes and vegetables as cash crops in
the dry season. However, in addition to the wet and dry season crops, an
intermediate season crop would be introduced, where soil and moisture
conditions are appropriate, to give a three crops a year cycle. This crop,
mainly of mungbeans, would precede the wet season paddy, either under
irrigation or in unirrigated fields with the first rains of the wet season.
7.       The result of project impact, according to the farm models, may be
measured in terms of an increase in family income amounting to Kips 88,300
per ha and an increased production of rice by 1.4 tons for sale in deficit
areas and also to relieve pressure on hill farming areas. However, the
labor demand would increase by about 30 person-days per ha which would be
provided by family labor.
Coffee Rehabilitation
8.       The coffee improved husbandry and stumping cropping models
describe a situation in which farmers cannot take full advantage of
significantly improved coffee marketing terms because old plantations have
deteriorated to the point where yields are as low as 150 kglha. Replanting
would be one answer to this problem but it is believed that in many areas a
significant improvement could be achieved by a carefully phased program of
stumping coupled with a package of improved husbandry techniques. The
project would provide inputs, tools and training through development of an
extension service and would support provincial efforts to expand production
of alternative cash crops such as soybeans to provide other sources of
income to compensate for the temporary reduction of coffee yields while
stumped trees grow back into full production.
New Coffee Planting
9.       In addition to rehabilitation of old plantations, many families
are being allotted additional land area for coffee planting and, in some
cases, whole communities are migrating to more accessible areas where road
developments provide the necessary link with markets. A separate model has
therefore been developed to illustrate the economics of participation in
new coffee plantations. The project would finance the provision of
resources for land clearing, nurseries and input packages together with
advice on good husbandry through the extension service.  Planting costs



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
would be recovered through agreements between the beneficiary and the
province and would be further offset by cultivation of paddy for domestic
consumption as an inter-row crop during the first two years of the new
plantation.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Upland Crop Intensification
Year 1   Year 2     Year 3     Year 4      Year 5
Area (cumul ha)
Soybean
Vientiane ja              30         300        800      1,400      2,000
Saravane                  30        300         800      1,400      2,000
Champassak                30         300        800      1,400      2,000
Sekong                    15        150         400        700      1,000
Total           105      1,050      2,800       4,900      7,000
Maize
Vientiane la             400       1,200      2,000      3,000      4,000
Incremental Production lb
Soybean                   63        630       1,680      2,940      4,200
Maize                    600       1,800      3,000      4,500      6,000
/a Through Tha-Ngone Feed Mill in cooperation with Province but also includes
some areas in Vientiane Municipality.
Lb With project yields of soybean: 1.0 tonslha; maize: 2.5 tons/ha.
Without project yields of soybeans 0.4 tonsiha; maize: 1.0 toniha.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Soybean and Maize - Crop Budgets at Full Development
Soybean                            Maize
Without Proiect  With Proiect   Without Project  With Project
Value of Production
Area     (ha)            1.0          1.0                1.0            1.0
Yield    (tons/ha)       0.4          1.0                1.0            2.5
Price    (kips/kg)       130          130                 50             50
Gross Value                52          130                 50            125
(kips '000)
Cash Costs (kips '000)
Land preparation          -           20.0               -              20.0
Seed                     7.8 a/       10.2 a/            1.5 b/          2.1 bl
Fertilizer                -           12.0 c/            -              12.0 d/
Fencing                   5.0          5.0               5.0             5.0
Total Cash Costs          12.8         47.2               6.5            39.1
Net Income Excluding
Family Labor            39.2          82.8              43.5            85.9
(kips '000)
Family labor            100           65                 100            70
(p.d.)
Returu to Labor          392          1273               435            1227
(kips/p.d.)
a/ 60 kg/ha at kips 130 and 170/kg, respectively.
b/ 30 kg/ha at kips 50 and 70 kips/kg, respectively.
cl 100 kg of phosphate and potash fertilizer at kips 120/kg.
d/ 100 kg of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer at kips 120/kg.



- 54 -
ANNEX a
Table 8
Year    Vear l   Year S   Year 4   Year i   SYar 1   Yer 7   Vear 8   Your e   Yer 1O  Yar 20
VE per acher (400 household)         1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0
Schesa rehabilitated                 8.0      8.0     4.0      8.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Cueul *chewsa rehabilitated          8.0      6.0    10.0    18.0    13.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    13.0
Cuunl achemus unrhabilitated        10.0      7.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Total wet season area for reheb he   4,916.0  5,0S1.0  8,021.0  5,S01.0  5,021.0  8,021.0  5,01.0  5,a01.0  8,001.0  5,021.0  8,021.0
Wet .aaon area rehabilitated he  1,041.0  1,901.0  2,941.0  3,981.0  S.021.0  5,00.0  6,001.0  5,10 0.O  5,021.0  S,021.0  5,021.0
Dry asaon arou irrigated ha       s86.0    m.0  1,186.0  i.m.0    m.o   i.0  1.0  I,M.0  1,m8.0  1,688.0  1,80.0
Wet senam area unrehabilitated ha   8,075.0  3.120.0  2,060.0  1,040.0  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
S total dry eeaaontotal wet e.on    11.9    16.7    28.7    80.6    87.6    37.6    87.6    37.6    S7.6    87.6    87.6
OaL VEY                             18.0    13.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    13.0    13.0    13.0
OAL IHi                          4,916.0  5,021.0  8,00.0  6,001.0  5,012.0    .01,0.0  5.000  8,021.0  5,021.0  5,021.0  6,021.0
CLSL "A                          4,916.0  5,001.0  5,021.0  8,001.0  8,001.0   421.0  5,01.0  5,001.0  5,001.0 5,021.0  8,021.0
* Adoption                           0.5      5.0    10.0    20.0    80.0    50.0    70.0    60.0    60.0    00.0    80.0
Adapti ng
Vet season ha                       24.6   251.1    8.1  1,004.2  i,506.8  2,810.5  8,514.7  4,016.8  4,016.8  4,016.8  4,016.8
Irrigated dry eaman ha e             2.9    41.9   118.8   S07.8   8S6.4   944.0  1,S21.6  1,810.4  1,510.4  1,810.4  1,810.4
Nan-Irrioated dry seasan he j       21.7   209.2   s8e.8   696.5   939.9  1,861.5  2,198.1  2,506.4  2,806.4  2,806.4  2,506.4
Nan-Adapting
Vet aeason h /d                  4,891.4  4,769.9  4,818.9  4,016.8  3,814.7  2,510.5  1,8506.   1,004.2  1,004.2  1.004.2  1,004.2
Irrigated dry aeaan ha JA          S60.1   796.1  1,06..2  1,280.4  1,821.6   944.0   566.4   877.6   877.6          .6   M7.6
Production - with project
Adaptino
I ung/Cawpes        0.6 T/ha a      14.6   160.7   801.5    602.5    090.8  1,806.8  2,106.8  2,410.1  2,410.1  2,410.1  2,410.1
Paddy - w*t         8.0 T/ha        73.8   452.1  1,806.8  8,012.6  4,U81.0  7,S81.5 10,154.1 12,080.4 12,060.4 12,050.4 12,050.4
Soyboea -  nrrig    1.0 T/ha A       2.9    41.9   118.6   807.6   S66.4   e44.4  1,821.6  1,510.4  1,810.4  1,610.4  1,510.4
- unirrig    0.5 T/ha /e    10.9   104.6   191.7   8468.    470-0   708.0  1,096.6  1,285.2  1,288.2  1,288.2  1,253.2
Nan-adaptins
Paddy - wet asaan    2.1 T/ha   10,271.9 10,016.8  9,489.7  8,485.8  7,860.9  S,272.1  8,168.2  2,108.6  2,106.8  2,100.8  2,108.8
Paddy - dry aseaon    2.8 T/ha   1,624.8  2,209.1  2,993.8  8,448.1  8,700.8  2,648.2  1,568.9  1,057.8  1,057.8  1,057.3  1,057.3
Productian - withut project
Paddy - not         2.1 T/ha A   10,027.8 10,027.8 10,027.8 10,027.8 10,027.5 10,027.5 10,027.5 10,Q27.5 20,027.8 10,027.5 10,027.5
- dry         2.2 T/ha if     616.0   616.0   616.0   616.0   616.0   616.0         6.0,   616.0   616.0   616.0   616.0
Incremental Production - with project
lungbeana        tons               14.0   150.7   801.8   602.5   906.6  1,806.8  2,108.8  2,410.1  2,410.1  2,410.1  2,410.1
Soybeans         tons               13.8   146.5   $10.5   685.9  1,038.4  1,727.7  2,416.2  2,768.6  2,76.6  2,.763.6  2,76
Paddy            tons            1,826.5  2,034.5  3,846.8  4,249.5  4,956.6  4,680.8  4.659.7  4,573.0  4,578.0  4,578.0  4,M.0
lI Mungbeana/capeap would be soon into the paddy fields with the first rain- and precede the met *eaaan rice crop; the ean adopting farmers
would also apply an improved poddy production packmage.
Lk Soybeso crop.
A  Soybeans wuld be s*edd Into the wet ason rice  tubblos an the residual moisture af the dryino paddy fields.
I[ Rice would be grown In the wet man according to traditional prctice; the Improved water delivery and control In the dry scason would
increas paddy yuelds to 2.8 tons/ha; unirrigated di) e*_e paddy wold be left unused.
LI 4,778 ha.
if 20 ha.



LAO POR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irriated Crop Budget at Full DeveloDment
Value of Production
Padw                              Soybean                        Munabean
Without Prolect With Proct          Without Pro oct With Prol ct Without Prol ct With Pro3ect
Season           (wIt) (Dry)   (Wt)  (Diry)              (Dry)          (Dpy)       (Intermdiate)  (IntorXiSditte)
Area    (ha)               1.0    0.05    1.00   0.06               -              0.a0           -                 0.60
Yield   (tono/ha)          2.1    2.2      8.0    2.8               -              1.0            -                 0.6
Price  (kips/kg)          60.0    60.0   60.0   60.0              127.0          127.0           57.0              67.0
Orosr   value          126.0     6.6   160.0   13.4               -             38.1            -               27.4
(kips '000
Cash Costs (kips '000)                                                                                                                          £
Saedw /                 8.6     0.2    4.2    0.6                -              8.1            -                 2.7                          n
FertilIzer   /          -       -      12.0    1.4               -              6.4            -                4.6
Water ch rge!           -       -       3.0     -                -              0.2            -                 1.4
Agricultur 1ax  8/       .      0.8     9.0    0.7               -              -              -                 -
Total Cash CoSts           9.9     0.6   26.2    2.6                -              6.7            -                 8.9
Hot Income Excluding
F xily Labor            116.1    6.1  161.8   10.6                 -             29.4            -                18.6
Fmily lubor              160       8     185      11                -             23              -                80
(p.d.)
Return to Labor          726     783    1124    962                 -           1278              -               617
(kips/p.d.J
p/ 60 kg of paddy seed per ha at kips 60/kg for unimproved and kips 72/kg for Improved *sed; 60 kg Inoculated
soybean see  par ha at khps 170/kg.
At 100 kg/he for wet seson paddy, 160 kg/ha for dry season crops at kips 120/kg and average of S0 kg/ha for                            0
Intermedlate seaon eungbeans.                                                                                                       F
/  Kips 8,000 per ha or equivalent to 60 kg paddy.                                                                                      dX
J   X of gross value.                                                                                                                 1



LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Improved Husbandry Per Province
Year                        1       2       3       4        5       6        7      8       9-20
Cumulative Area (ha)
Champassak                            50   400     900   1,400   1,800   2,000   2,100    2,200   2,200
Saravane                              50   300     600      900   1,100   1,250   1,300    1,300   1,300
Sekong                                20   100     200      300     400      450     500       500 S_ 
Total                 120   800   1,700   2,600   3,300   3,700   3,900    4,000   4,000
Incremental Area Improved (ha)       120   680     900      900     700      400     200       100      -
Total ha Improved and Yield
In year 1 to yield 300 kg/ha         120   680     900      900     700      400     200       100      -
In year 2 to yield 450 kg/ha          -    120     800   1,700   2,600   3,300   3,700    3,900   4,000
Total -               120   800   1,700   2,600   3,300   3,700   3,900    4,000   4,000
Incremental Production (tons) La    12    98       290      515     720      865     945       985   1,000
la Without project yield of 200 kg/ha.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Table 6
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Improved Husbandry - Farm Budget
Year                             0               1          2-20
Labor Inputs (p.d.)
Weeding                               25              40             35
Pruning and shade control              5              20             10
Fertilizing and mulching               0               6              6
Disease control                        0               1              1
Soil conservation                      0               1              1
Harvesting la                         28              37             50
Drying, hulling                       28               9             13
Transport                              3               3              4
Soil conservation                      2               3              3
Total (p.d.)                    91             120           123
of which:  Family labor            91             120            123
: Hired labor               0              0              0
Costs (kips '000)
Fertilizer Lb                          0            18.0           18.0
Tools                                3.0             5.0            5.0
Processing /c                        3.0            15.0           22.5
Agricultural tax /d                  3.8             6.8           10.1
Total                          9.8            44.8          55.6
Value of Production (kips '000)
Yield (kglha)                        200             300            450
Value le (kips '000)                76.0           135.0          202.5
Net Income Excluding Family Labor       66.2            90.2          146.9
(kips '000)
Return to Labor (kips/p.d.)               -17            752          1,194
/a Average of 9 kg hulled beans/p.d.
lb Kips 120/kg.
/c Kips 15/kg for year 0 and kips 50/kg for years 1 and 2.
/d 5Z of gross value.
te  Kips 380/kg per year 0, and kips 450/kg for years 1 and 2.



ANNEX 3
Table 7
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Impro'-ad Husbandry - Budget at Full Development
Value of Production
Without Project         With Proiect
Area (ha)                            1.0                   1.0
Yield (kg/ha)                        200                   450
Price (kips/kg)                      380                   450
Gross Value (kips '000)                 76.0                202.5
Cash Costs (kips '000)
Fertilizer and tools a/               3.0                 23.0
Processing b/                         3.0                 22.5
Agricultural tax c/                   3.8                 10.1
Total Cash Costs                         9.8                 55.6
Net Income Excluding Family Labor           66.2                146.9
(kips '000)
Family labor  (p.d.)                   91                  123
Return to Labor (kips/p.d.)           727                 1194
a/ 150 kg fertilizer at kips 120/kg and tools at kips 5,000.
b/ Kips 50/kg.
c/ 5Z of gross value.



LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Stumping Per Province
Year                         1     2       3       4        5        6       7        8         9     10-20
Cumulative Area (ha)
Champassak                            25   300      700   1,000   1,500   1,700   1,800    1,900    1,900   1,900
Saravane                              25   250      400      700      900   1,100   1,100    1,100    1,100   1,100
Sekong                                10    50      100      300      400     500      500       500      500      500
Total                60   600   1,200   2,000   2,800   3,300   3,400    3,500    3,500   3,500
Incremental Area Stumped (ha)         60   540      600      800      800     500      100       100      -        -
Total Area Stumped and Yield
In year 1 to yield 50 kg/ha           60   540      600      800      800     500      100       100      -        -
In year 2 to yield 200 kg/ha           -    60      540      600      800     800      500       100      100      -
In year 3 to yield 650 kg/ha           -      -      60      600   1,200   2,000   2,800    3,300    3.400   3,500
Total                 60   600   1,200   2,000   2,800   3,300   3,400    3,500    3,500   3,500
Incremental Productiora (tons) la   (9)  (81)    (63)        150      420     825   1,245    1,470    1,530   1,575
/a  Without project yield of 200 kg/ha.
OD W



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Table 9
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Stumping - Farm Budget
Year                            1          2          3        4-20
Labor Inputs (,,.d.)
Stumping                              60        40          0         0
Replacement coffee/shade trees         0        30         10          0
Weeding                               40        80         70         50
Fertilizing, pruning                  14        18         25        22
Harvesting la                         28         7         24         72
Drying, hulling, transport             9         4          9        20
Soil conservation                      4         8          7         8
Tot&i (p.d.)                  154        186       146        173
of which:  Family labor          125        125        125       125
: Hired labor             29        61         21        48
Costs (kips '000)
Hired labor lb                      11.6      24.4        8.4      19.2
Fertilizer /c                        6.0      13.5       16.0      21.0
Tools                               10.0       1.0        4.0       5.0
Processing /d                       10.0       2.5       10.0      32.5
Agricultural tax /e                  4.5       1.1        4.3      14.6
Total                        42.1       42.5      42.9       92.3
Value of Production (kips '000)
Yield (kg/ha)                        200        50        200       650
Value (kips '000)                   90.0      22.5       90.0     292.5
Net Income Excluding Family Labor       47.9    (20.0)       47.1     200.2
(kips '000)
Return to Labor (kips/p.d.)              383      (160)       377     1,602
/a Average of 9 kg hulled beans/p.d.
lb Kips 400/p.d.
/c Kips 120/kg.
/d Kips 50/kg.
le 5Z of gross value.



LAO POR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Now Plantings Per Province
Yar                            1       2       a       4       6       6       7       6       9       10       11-20
Area Planted (cumulative ha)
Chapaseak                             s0    100       500     800   1,260       -       -       -       -         -         -
Seravane                             100    300    1,000   2,000   8,000        -       -       -       -         -         -
Sekong                                50    100       S00    800   1.260        -       -       -       -         -         -
200    500    2,000  8,600   6,600         -       -       -       -        -         -
Incremental Area (ha)                  200     80     1,500   1,600   1,900       -       -       -       -         -         -
Total ha Planted and Yield
In Yer 1 to yield 0 kg/he              200    800    1,600   1,600   1,900        -       -       -       -         -         -
In Year 2 to yield 0 kg/ha               -    200       300   1,500   1,600   1,900       -       -       -         -         -
In Year 3 to yield 100 kg/he             -       -      200     300   1,600   1,600   1,900       -       -         -         -
In Year 4 to yl.ld 860 kgfha             -       -              200     800   1,600   1,600   1,900       -         -         -
In Year 6 to yiold 800 kg/ha             -       -        -       -     200     600   2,000  8,600   6,600          -         -
Total (ha)                200     600    2,000   8,600   6,500   6,500   5,500   5,600   5,600    5,500     5,600
Production (tone)                        -       -       20     100    415   1,086   2,860   8,564   4,400    4,400       4,400
0DI



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Table 11
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee New Planting - Farm Budget
Year                             1          2         3       4      5-20
Labor Inputs (p.d.)
Land clearing, lining, soil
conservation                           120         4         4       4       10
Holing, planting                           40          5        -        -       -
Weeding                                    30         60       60       50      50
Shade control                              20          5        -        3       3
Fertilizing and mulching                   20        14        18      12       12
Pruning and agobio                         10          6        6        7      12
Disease control                             -          -        -        8       8
Rice cultivation and harvest               90        70         _        -       -
Coffee harvest                              -          -        -      39       80
Other activities                           12          5        5        5      13
Total (p.d.)                           342       169        93     139      188
of which:  Family labor               300       169        93     136      149
H Hired labor                 42          -        -        3      39
Costs (kips '000)
Hired labor la                           16.8          -        -     1.2    15.6
Land preparation                         35.0          -        -        -       -
Coffee and shade seedlings lb            32.5       3.8         -        -       -
Rice seeds and fertilizer                27.6      27.6         -        -       -
Tools and materials                      15.0      10.0       5.0     5.0      7.5
Fertilizer  /c                           17.5      17.5      18.0    26.4    38.4
Processing Id                               -          -        -    17.5    40.0
Agricultural tax /e                       5.4        4.5        -      7.9    18.0
149.8      63.4      23.0    58.0   119.5
Value of Production
Coffee yield (kg/ha)                        -          -      100     350      800
Value (kips *000)                           -          -     45.0   157.5   360.0
Paddy yield (kg/ha)                     1,800     1,800         -       -        -
Value (kips '000)                       108.0     108.0         -        -
Total Value (kips '000)           108.0      108.0      45.0   157.5   360.0
Net Income Excluding Family Labor
(kips '000)                   (41.8)       44.6     22.0    99.5   242.5
Return to Labor (kips/p.d.)                 _       264       237     732   1,614
la Kips 400/p.d.
Lb Kips 25 each.
/c Fertilizer at kips 120/kg.
/d Kips 50/kg.
Le 52 of gross value.



- 63 -
.
ANNEX 3
Table 12
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee New Planting - Budget at Full Development
Value of Production
Area   (ha)                                              1.0
Yield  (kg/ha)                                           800
Price  (kips/kg)                                         450
Gross Value  (kips '000)                                    360
Cash Costs (kips '000)
Fertilizer  a/                                           42.0
Processing b/                                            40.0
Agricultural tax c/                                      18.0
Hired labor d/                                           15.6
Total Cash Costs                                           115.6
Non-Cash Costs (kips '000)
Depreciation of establishment costs e/                          5.8
Total Costs                                             121.4
Net Income Excluding Family Labor                             238.6
Family labor  (p.d.)                                      149
Return to Labor (kips/p.d.)                              1601
a/ 350 kg at kips 1201kg.
b/ Kips 50/kg.
c/ 51 of gross value.
d/ 39 p.d. at kips 400/p.d.
e/ Land preparation, hired labor, and material costs depreciated over 20
years.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
LAO POR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrlgatlon: Indicative List of Schemes /o
Cropping
Irrit bl- Arso (ha   Intensity     Comrnl-td lh             Stramf low
Dlstolet   Scheme  Wet     Dry       s()         urvey     Design            /sc)
Vang Viong      Nam Koang I      690         1SS       126         700        590             0.41
Nam Mon          856        1SO       142          as5        ag8            0.16
Nam Lao          600         57       110          600          -            0.11
NHa Koang II     400        100       125            -          -            -
Nam Ka           300        118       136            -          -            -
Nam Po           160        160       200            -          -            0.37
Nam Xong         740        400       154            -          -            4.20
Subtotal                    3.146       1.136       138
Kes;            Nam Kay/Ko        8OS        433       lea         685        685             1.86
Nam Pang         270        100       185          270          -            0.28
Nam Khat II      170         70       141            -          -            0.64
Housy Hong       200         40       120            -          -            -
Subtotal                    1.325         643       149
U. Fueng        Nam Hon         380           40       111         350        350             -
Sonakham        Nam Thun         200          70       135           -          -             -
Subtotal                      550         110       120
Total Proloct                  S.021       1- 18 38
1-o      According to following seloction criteria:
(1) existing scheme supplied by diversion of gravity streamflow;
(11) minlmum potential wet seson arsna:10 ha;
(liT) minimu  potential dry season Irrigation:40 ho;
(Iv) minimum potential annual cropping intensTty:110
(v) development Initiative Tdentified by farmers; and
farmers willing to:
- contribute labor for canal constructi-q;
- contribute labor for maintenance;
- accept group decisions on water management;
- contribute to recovery of OWM costs; and
- participate In crop Intensification scheme.



LAO PDR
UFPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irricatlon Implementation Summary
Activity           Unit   Already   To complote
Complete Pro-Project  Year 1   Year 2       Year 8   Year 4    Year 6    Note
Survey - ore                he     2,960         010       1,010        800                                Includes
Survey (cumul)              he                 3,670       4,580      6,380                                re-survey
Survey - cos*t                                14,150      23,480     18,660
Survey cost (cumul)         8                             37,580    56,140      58,410   58,140   6B,140
Design - area               ha      1,080        510       1,800        840        800                     Includes
Design (cumul)             ha                  2,490       8,790      4,480      6,280                     re-design
Design - cost               8                  5,870      14,440      7,110      8,890
Design coat (cumul)        8                              20,110     27,220     80,110    86,110   86,110
Site investigation          no                     4           2          4          a
Site Investisation (cumul)  no                                 0         10         13
Site investigation - cost  8                  26,400      18,200     26,400     19,800
Site investi. cost (cumul)  *                             39,800    88,000      85,800
1.ir constructlon           no                     a           a          4          3
Weir construction (cumul)   no                                 0         10         13
Construc'ion - cost        2                 492,440    486,180    489,990    808,160
Construction cost (cumul)   *                            978,000  1,468,590  1,776,740
Total Cost  (cumul)         8     48,220    589,780   1,127,960  1,648,640  1,064,790
Rehabilitated, wet season  ha                   1041        1901       2941       3981      6021
Ory *seon Irrigation       ha                    s8a         838       1188       15s8      1888
Cropping Intensity         X                                                                 188
Iox



LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation: Unit Cost. and Quantities
Price Components   Total
Item               Unit       Unit Price          Analysis       (US21100)    Estimated   Ttal Costs tUS3i
Kips '000  (US8 000)        W XImoe-Local quantity    ImporTd: Local  Total
Fill (haul to 8km)          m3      1,661       5,02                                   161,257                            466.8
Machin  Costs                                            43.0    1.80                           196.4
Fuel and lubrlcants                                      26.0     0.79                          118.8
Local costa                                              81.0              0.94                           141.6
Excavation                 m3         484       0.68                                    78,731                             84.9
machine .0.t                                             44.8     0.89                           29.1
Fuel and lubrlcants                                      24.6    0.22                            16.0
Locl Comte                                               30.0              0.27                            19.9
Mass Concrete               mS     60,237      91.84                                     6,106                            480.6
ported mterial                                           89.3   86.90                           188.4
Local material                                           60.7             6S.44                           288.2
Reinforeed concret          m3     97,691     177.68                                     4,016                            718.2
Pted mterial                                             60.6    90.24                          362.3
Local mterial                                            49.2             87.89                           850.9
Totel                                                                                       906.0    796.6    1701.6
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I,t



LAO POR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT MPOJECT
IrrIgation: Operation and Maintenance Costs
(US$)
Rate     Yer 1   Year 2    Yer 3   Year 4    Year 5    Total
Non-recoverable
Staff: Proj;ct Manager (        )       420       420        420       420      420        420       2,100
District CoordTnntor (4)         360       700        700     1,060    1,400      1,400       6,260
Fuel and lubricants                             6,600      6,600    7,500   12,260      12,260      43,000
Total Non-recoverabl-                           8,620      6,620     8,970   14,070     14,070      60,350
0%
Recoverable
No. of villag  canal attendants                    8         10        13       13         18
Cost of village canal attendants       240     1,440      2,400     8,120   3,120       3,120      13,200
Casual hired labor                               100        200       300      500        500       1,600
Materials: Fuel and lubricants                 3,000      6,250    10,000   12,000     16,600      46,750
Construction material              2,600      5,000     7,500   10,000     12,500      37,600
Total Recoverable                              7,040     13,850    20,920   26,620     51,620      99,050
No. of schemes constructed                           3          3         4        3
Wet season area rehabilitated             ha     1,041      1,901     2,941    3,981      5,021
OSM per ha wet season                 US$/ha       6.8       7.3        7.1      6.4        6.8
Incremntl paddy production - tons              1,826.6   2,034.6   3,846.8  4,249.5    4,963.8
Incremental paddy production - value /         176,822    271,198  446,062  668,468   660,741
Kg paddy/ha required to cover OAM cost               61         56        63       48         47                               0 X
lo Paddy at USIS 133.8/ton



- 68 -                      ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Subsector
1.       Production. Coffee is grown in several regions of Laos but the only
region of significant production is the Bolovens Plateau. Covering parts of
the four southern provinces of Champassak, Saravane, Sekong and Attopeu and
rising to altitudes of 900-1,200 m, this plateau provides excellent conditions
for coffee production with rainfall up to 3,000 mm, reasonably well-dispersed
over the year, and rich basaltic soils. Arabica coffee was established on
colonial plantations in this area 40-50 years ago but since the higher level
of technology demanded by this variety was no longer available after the
colonial era, robusta varieties have been substituted and now cover at least
902 of the estimated 23,000 ha currently under coffee, of which about 20,000
ha are still being cropped. While robusta appears to suffer no disease
problems on the Bolovens Plateau many of these trees are now over 20 years old
and, without pruning or regular care, production has declined to slightly over
200 kg/ha, giving an overall production of 4,000 - 5,000 tons per year of
green coffee.
2.       Coffee producers are farming families generally allotted 1-2 ha of
village land. Most of the labor requirement is provided by the family but
hired labor may be brought in from non-coffee producing villages for specific
tasks such as weeding. In the past, coffee producing villages tended not to
produce rice, preferring to take advantage of the 4:1 price differential in
the exchange of coffee for rice. The picture has now changed slightly under
the new, market-oriented economic conditions. While coffee prices have risen
from Kips 80 to Kips 380 per kg in 1988 and 1989, rice prices have risen
proportionally even more and the differential is now only 2.5:1. The increase
in coffee price has stimulated expansion of production by new planting and
rice is increasingly being grown as an inter-row crop during the first two
years while the coffee seedlings are small. Soybeans is also being tried as
an inter-row crop with reported success.
3.       Coffee production costs are low, reflecting the low level of
technology applied and an absence of inputs. Labor costs in the area amount
to only Kips 400/day (US$0.73) and are the main factors in the estimated
production cost of less than Kips 126/kg (US$0.23). Until recently the
combination of low prices and low productivity have resulted in an overall
lack of financial resources with which to make any significant change to
production conditions.
4.       Marketing. Coffee is purchased at the farmgate by provincial
authorities at prices set by periodic (usually annual) negotiations with the
farming community. Under the new economic system provincial authorities are
expected to establish autonomous commercial entities to trade in commodities
such as coffee. One su:h Coffee Trading Company is already in operation in
Saravane Province. The provincial authorities are free to sell to licensed
private traders (local or foreign) or to the State, but first have to meet a
quota required by the State in order to meet its own contractual obligations



ANNEX 5
- 69 -                         Page 2 of 4
barter agreements with Socialist bloc countries. Under present Government
policy, provincial trading companies are required to supply 75Z of the coffee
procured to SLIE but the actual amounts are negotiated annually between the
provinces and the Central Government.
5.       The Ministry of Trade and External Economic Relations is responsible
for coffee marketing at state level, the actual operations being carried out
by SLIE. At present the process of adaptation to the new economic system is
incomplete. A number of policy issues and organizational arrangements have
yet to be defined and as a result a number of problems affect the movement of
coffee through the marketing system. The most serious problem is that SLIE
does not receive immediate cash payment for coffee exports and is thus unable,
at times, to take up provincial production. This, in turn, leaves provincial
authorities short of cash for coffee purchases. SLIE's liquidity problems are
being addressed by the Central Government through implementation of a
financial assistance plan. Neither SLIE nor the Hinistry currently have
adequate facilities for statistical recording or accounting for coffee sales.
6.       Coffee exports have, in recent years, reflected the commercial ties
between Laos and the Socialist bloc countries. Barter arrangements, currently
pricing coffee at about US$1.60/kg, are negotiated every five years and are
due for re-negotiation in 1989. Exports to USSR, Hungary, Bulgaria and
Poland, under which robusta coffee is readily accepted, amount to 2,500-3,500
tons per year. It seems likely that the future will present opportunities for
increased sales to these markets.
7.       Exports to convertible currency markets amounting to up to 1,000 tons
in 1988 have been outside the Internationa' Coffee Agreement (ICA). Tradi-
tionally, Thailand and Singapore have been the main outlets but France has
recently imported small quantities of Lao coffee. Because LPDR has not been a
member of the ICA, the ICA market, which imports about 85Z of world coffee,
has been closed to it. In late 1988, the Lao Government applied for
membership of the International Coffee Organization (ICO). However, in early
June 1989, talks among the ICA members on renewal of the Agreement broke down
and it was decided that the ICA will be extended until September 1991 without
the quota system and that the quota system be suspended from July 4, 1989.
This news caused a sharp fall in coffee prices in the quota market. At
present, the world coffee market is free which implies that LPDR can export
any amount of coffee to what was the quota market. Because coffee export
prices under the barter agreements with the Socialist bloc are more favorable
than other markets, SLIE has been the major coffee purchaser in the current
year.
8.       Pricing. Prices offered at the farmgate, namely Kips 380/kg in 1988
and in 1989, reflect the relatively high value (US$1,600/ton, FOB Savannakhet)
obtained through barter agreements with the Socialist bloc. This price is
considerably higher than the recent level of about US$1,000/ton offered in
Singapore for non-quota robusta.  Now that the ICA's quota system has been
suspended there will be no differentials between coffee prices in the quota
and non-quota markets. Current world robusta prices, at about US$1,450/ton in
mid-July 1989, are higher than the prices in Singapore for non-quota robustas
before the suspension of the quotas. Unit export prices obtained through
barter agreements with the Socialist bloc have been considerably higher than
the non-quota robusta prices and should not change very much from the



- 70 -                        A    i 5
Page A of A
US$l,6001ton level in the near future. Thus, it seems likely that
opportunities to exploit the barter trade market will continue. Overall
average export unit values of Lao coffee, because of reasons discussed above,
should not fall from the levels of recent past as a result of the suspension
of the quota system. While the farmer expectations of continued price rises
of the order experienced in the last three years may be unrealistic, the
quality improvement to be introduced under the project should result in higher
prices &nd a farmgate price no lower than Kips 450/kg may be expected for the
duration of the UADP. This price is expected to provide a satisfactory return
to the farmer.
Studies Proposed under the Project
9.       In order to implement appropriate policies and actions aimed at the
healthy growth of the sector, several studies would be carried out under the
project:
(a) Current Marketing Channels. The study would:
- identify in detail each existing channel and analyse available
statistics relating to quantities and prices for each of the
agencies or institutions involved;
- estimate profits and taxes generated by each agent or
institution;
- identify bottlenecks in the system;
- propose remedial measures incorporating any additional
facilities required to remove bottlenecks;
- identify the appropriate channel to handle marketing; and
- identify quality improvements required to maximise marketing
opportunities and recommend measures for their implementation.
(b) Producer Price Determination Mechanism. The study would:
- examine the present system whereby prices are determined;
- examine the pricing parameters relating to each of the various
export marketing channels;
- propose mechanisms whereby market conditions may be used to
calculate equitable prices to producers; and
- employ the Bank's facilities to project future development of
pricing, revenues and taxes to be expected under the system to
be developed.
(c) Market Information and Statistics. At present, data on both
internal and external coffee market throughput, trends, pricing or
policies are very limited in Laos and no organization exists to



- 71 -                         ANNEX
Page 4 of 4
gather, record, analyse and report such information.  The project
would provide technical assistance to:
-  establish an organization and a system to collect key data for
the subsector on a regular basis;
- provide the technology to analyze and present information
required for policy formulation and de:hsions relating to
pricing and marketing; and
- suggest the requirements of such a market information facility
in terms of staffing, training and equipment.
(c) Market Familiarization Study Tours. To overcome the present lack
of knowledge and understanding of international coffee marketing
among involved personnel in both public and private sector
organizations, the project would support one or more study tours.
Key personnel would visit international organizations, such as the
ICO Secretariat, the World Bank and coffee trading corporations as
well as producers, marketing corporations, traders and government
organizations in major producing countries.



- 72 -                        A     6
Page 1 of 3
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tha-Ngone Feed Mill Corporation
1.       The Tha-Ngone Feed Mill Corporation (TFMC) is a state enterprise
under the general control of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF)
and, by decree, operates as an autonomous business entity.
2.       All the agro-processing activities of MAF were previously united
under one agency, the State Agro-Processing Society (SAPS), which was
dismantled in 1988 into smaller parastatals with more focussed objectives and
activities. TFMC was created to manage and operate the livestock feedmill and
its associated activities. SAPS' other activities, which included fish, pig,
chicken and dairy farm operations and a slaughterhouse, were assigned to other
state enterprises. Two earlier IDA credits under ARDP II and APSP supported
strengthening of SAPS' physical infrastructure and plant capacity. Plant was
provided for soybean oil extraction and leucaena leaf treatment, thus
increasing value added. Spare parts for the feedmill, trucks and preliminary
processing equipment, land preparation equipment, fertilizers and other farm
inputs were also supplied. TPMC's capability and performance were, as a
result, significantly improved.
3.       TFMC's modern livestock feedmill, with an annual capacity of over
25,000 tons of compound feed, was built over ten years ago under French
bilateral assistance. Since construction, capacity utilization has hardly
exceeded 251 due to low availability of feed raw materials which in turn
resulted from inappropriate exchange rate, pricing, subsidy and other sector
policies. A high exchange rate favored importation of feed ingredients and
created disincentives for domestic production. Recent policy reforms have
largely eliminated those distortions and nave enabled TFMC to greatly improve
its financial utlook.
4.       In addition to the livestock feedmill, TFMC also manages a feed
material production program carried out by farmers. It has established a land
preparation capacity to assist farmers to grow crops under contract. It
provides extension services and improved seed, fertilizers and other inputs,
and also hires out and sells processing equipment such as maize hullers. A
research and experimental section urdertakes cultivation and demonstration on
such crops as maize, cassava, sorghum and leucaena, all required as raw
materials for the livestock feedmill. By recent agreement with MAP, the
research activity has now been ceded to NARC.
5.       TPMC receives technical assistance supported by AIDAB under the
Lao-Australia Livestock Feeds Project aimed at developing domestic production
of feed raw materials. Five service centers have been constructed under that
project: one in Vientiane Municipality and the other four in Tourakhom, Kasi
and Muang Fueng Districts, all in Vientiane Province. Five more centers are
planned for further AID1J funding. The service centers act as collection



- 73 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
points for dche crops in which TFMC is interested, a focal point for advisory
services for farmers, and as the location for land preparation plant and
equipment, and preliminary crop processing equipment.
6.       Feedmill raw materials requirements in 1992 are estimated at 6,500
tons of maize, 1,000 tons of soybeans and 3,500 tons of dried cassava chips.
Present domestic marketed maize production does not exceed 3,000 tons per
year. Similarly, present soybean production is below 1,000 tons per year. If
future soybean production exceeds domestic requirements, TFMC has the capacity
to extract soybean oil and export the cake to Thailand and other neighboring
Countries, or to sell the untreated beans for which there is a ready export
market. Cassava is presently being promoted as a raw material for the
feedmill. Under APSP, a drying slab has been constructed and cassava handling
equipment has been provided. Other crops TFHC is keen to promote include
sorghum, sunflower and sesame, the last two of which can be processed by TFMC
to produce oil. TFMC has already demonstrated a well-organized capacity to
contract for crop purchases on a nation-wide scale.
7.       As an autonomous business enterprise already engaged in promoting a
number of upland crops as feed stocks for the livestock feedmill, TFMC is in a
key position to assist the national program of intensifying upland crop
production and the development of agro-processing as a means of import
substitution and generation of foreign exchange. To do this effectively,
however, TFMC will require further financial assistanre following termination
in June 1989 of the support being provided under Crei-.it 1395-LA.
Financial Requirements
8.       The main constraint to TFMC activity and expansion is shortage of
working capital. This already hampers activities to the extent that reserves
cannot be accummulated to finance further growth.  The alternative sources of
finance are commercial bank loans and assistance from external bilateral or
multilateral development agencies. The primary activity for which additional
working capital is required is trading in livestock feed and its raw
materials. Key harvest months purchases require a budget of about Kips 110
million per month (US$244,000). Due to a general shortage of local funds,
only about 122 of this sum (Kips 13 million) can be made available from
commercial bank loans. Cash recovery from feed sales is hampered by slow
payment by major customers, especially state farms. From purchase of raw
materials there is a 7-month cycle to receipt of payment for feed sales and,
even then, sales to government entities are often paid in coupons that are not
easily redeemable. Without increase in cash resources, TFMC's ability to
absorb crop surpluses generated by UADP will be limited. The second activity
requiring finance is the sale of production inputs and farm machinery. Credit
terms extend over one crop for the inputs and a maximum period of three years
for the equipment. This activity, in response to considerable demand, is of
substantial benefit to the task of expanding production of raw material crop.
Support under UADP
9.       To provide the additional working capital needed for continuation and
expansion of the above activities, the project would provide TFMC with
vehicles, equipment and farm inputs for re-sale to the amount of US$ 2 million



- 74-
Page 3 of 3
to be allocated according to agreed annual work programs. It is anticipated
that the allocation might be in ,he following proportions:
(a) US$ 0.5 million for procurement of inputs such as improved seed and
fertilizers for tale for cash or on short term (one crop) credit; and
(b) US$ 1.5 million for procurement of small trucks, hand tractors and
other land preparation and crop processing equipment for sale for
cash or on credit up to three years.



- 75 -
ANNEX 6
Tabie 1
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTUhE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tha-Ngone Feed Mill Corporation - Pro]ected Cash Flow
------------(Kips million)------------
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Sources
Feed sales                           880   1,100   1,320   1,540   1,760
Commercial operations                 48      72       96     100      100
Services operations                   24      24      24       24      24
Demonstration plots                   10      10       10      10       10
LALFP a/                              10       -        -       -        -
Loan b!                              220     220      220     220      220
Total                           1,192   1,426   1,670   1,894   2,114
Uses
Feed costs                           792     990   1,188   1,386   1,584
Salaries                              35      40      45       50      55
Other operating costs                 40      50       60      70      70
Financial charges                     44      55       66      77      88
Loan repayment                        83     110     128      146     164
Investments                           20      20      20       20      20
Total                           1,014   1,265   1,507   1,749   1,981
Cash in hand                         178     161     163      145     133
Cumulative                           178     339     502      647     780
a/   Lao-Australian Livestock Feed Project
bI   IDA Loan.



- 76 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feeder Road Rehabilitation: Indicative List of Roads
Province                                 Road                                      Length
(km)
Vientiane        Hin Heup - Sanakham:  Final portion                                 30
Province         Sanakham - Ban Pakgnan (Muong Net)s First portion from Sanakham   80
Ban Pakgnan - Ban Tiang: up to Nam Lik crossing                     90
Muangki - Hingkangna                                                40
Subtotal                                                                         240
Vientiane        Ban Pakton - Ban Taokai                                             37
Municipality     Ban Taokai - Ban Houaydua                                           13
Ban Nanokkhoum (R10) - Ban Hai (R13)                               100
R13 - Na Phok                                                        9
Subtotal                                                                         159
Champassak       R23: km 36 - Ban Houaychiat - Ban Mai Xalsomboun                    20
Province         Ban Houaychiat - Ban Phakhout Noi                                   12
R23: km 36 - Khot Noi                                                8
Sundry access loops                                                 15
Paksong- Ph. Dindeng                                                12
Sundry access loops                                                 10
Ban Nongkhuang - Ban Thongvay-Ban Xekatam-Ban Houaykong             20
Sundry access loops                                                 40
Subtotal                                                                         137
Saravane         Phouak Noy - link with ARDP III feeder roads                        20
Province         Daxia Noi - Ban Phokhem - Ban Chuang - R23                          15
Access roads links to ARDP III network                              60
Subtotal                                                                          95
Sekong           Thatheng - Kapu - Ban Beng                                          35
Province         Ban Mung Kan loop                                                   15
Ban Kapu - Ban Gnokthong                                            35
Sundry access loops                                                 25
Subtotal                                                                         110
PROJECT  TOTAL                                                                   741



- Il/ -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feeder Road Rehabilitation : Equipment Deployment
Vientiane    Vientiane   Champassak       Saravane        Sekong
Province    Municipality  Province        Province       Province
Source    APSP  UADP       APSP         UADP    ARDP III UADP         UADP
Bulldozer                    2    3          1           1            2    -           -
Grader                       2    1          1           1            1    1           1
Loader                       2    -          1           1            1    -           -
Dump truck                 10    -           5           5            4    3           -
Roller-pneumatic             2    -          1           1            1    -           -
Roller-steel                 -    -          -           1            1    -           1
Roller-pedestrian            -    1          -           -            -    -           -
Water truck                  2    -          1           1            1    -           1
Fuel truck                   -    1          -           -            -    -
Cargo truck with crane       -    1          -           -            -    1           -
Hydraulic crane              -    1          -           -            -    -           -
Low bed trailer/tractor    -    1            -           -            -    -           -
Backhoe/loader               -    1          -           -            -    -           -
Rock crusher                 -    1          -           1            1    -           -
Concrete mixer               -    2          -           -            -    -           -
Water pump                   -    2          -           -            -    -
Air compressor               2    -          -           -            -    -           -
Pile driver                  -    2          -           -            -    -           -
Mobile saw mill              -    1          -           -            -    -           -
Generator                    -    1         -            1            -    -           -
Mobile service unit          -    -          -           1            -    -           -
Pickup                      2    1          -            1            -    1           -
Motor cycle                  -    2          -           2            -    3           -



- 78 _
ANIEX 8
Pag 1 of 4
LAO POR
WUPUND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance M
Position                 Profi l-                               Activities
Long Torm Consultancies
External Project      Academic qualifications In a   Work closely with the National Project Coordinator,
Coordinator           relevant dlscipline and a       PCU and Provincial Projoct Monagers in the
and AIDAB Tem         minimum of 1O years of field   preparation and implemetation of annual work plans
Leader                experience of large             and budget Including procurement, eontracting,
(AIDA  aloe           agricultural sector projects   training prograz  and study tours, monitoring and
in Vi;ntinnl dIn lss developed countries    supervision.
Including extnsiveo
experience in the mnagement   Plan, progrm, supervise and monitor the project
of team  of profesionals In   related movements and performance of all AIDAB
multidisciplinary projeets.    technical asistatnco staff.
Coordinate preparation of program reports and other
documentation required by the World Bank, AIDAB, and
French Bilateral Assistance.
Financial             An administrator with           Mobilise and administer techniTcl assistance staff
Controller/           releiant academic               and assist In providing logistical support for them.
Administrator         qualifications in accounting
(AIDA   lIocated      and a siniml of 5 years         Assist PCU and provincial Implementing entities In
in Vi ntinnd        field experience In the         developing annual work plan and budgetary formts
financial control, conduct     and procedures to facilitate timely approval and
and administration of large    funding.
projects involving
multidisciplinary teams In     Establish financial control and monitoring
leos developed countrieos      procedures for proj ect componnts and train local
Familiarity with the           support staff In their application.
procuremot and disbursement
procedures of the World Bank   Maintain financial and administrative records for
and ATDAB would be an          technical assistance tem.  Prepare rports and
advantage.  The candidate      docueuntation as required.
must have computer skills.
Reoarch SpecTilists  Relevant academlc                Assist In Identification, programing,
(aj t(IDAZ LIoe tg d qualifications in agronomy       implem ntatlon and superviion of the applied
In Min H UD)     and a minimum of 6 years        research program  and In the preparation of annual
field experience in            work plans.
(b) (French located   Identifying, designing,
at son  to      eonducting and supervising      Assist In the establishment of operational
appliod reosrch for the        proeodureo for edministration, planning and
purpose of devoloping and      budgeting for the reserch station.
teting crop production
methods and related oxtension
package In less developed
*  FamTliarity with the procedures and reporting rquire ets of the World Bank, AIDAD, and French
Bilateral Asitactnce; and fluency In English or French and the ablitty t communicate
effectively In Fr nch, English and Lao would be an advantage.



- 79 -
ANNEX S
Page 2 of 4
Position                 Protil                                 Activities
countries. Ono position
(Fr ncl) *ould specialles  in  Assist in the establishment of station and field
-inTholdsr coffee              demonstrations and trials.  Establish systems to
production.  The other         record the Impct of project Interventions on
(AIDA3) would specializo  in    production inputs and outputs and on the
upland rainfed crope           environment.
Includino cereals (rice,
maixe and others), legume      Asses  troining nede  and, in consultation with the
(particularly soybean,         Tem Leader, prepare training program including
copen, mungben) *nd           on-the-Job training, shert course  and atudy tours.
CaOeava. Both would be
familiar with the development Prepare technological package for conservation
of conservation farming        farming systems, which can be implemnted on a pilot
systce, assessment of crop    basis to meet the demnds of beneficiaries on
rotations, erosion control     individual household or village levels.
(contour grass strips) *nd
establishment of data boam    Lial  closely with the Extension Specialist end
for monitoring and             Village Extension Workers to ensure consistency of
evaluation.                     reserch, extension and training.
Extension             Relevant academic               Assist in the preparation of annual work plans
Specialistn           qualifications In agriculture  including the selection of target villages  and
(a) (AIDA A. located   and/or agricu!ture             preparation of extension programs for thea.
in "in  mi       extension/training and a
minimum of 6 years field       Advise on the selection, training and deployment of
(b) (Freneh.locetd   experience In the                Village Extension Workers.
at Ban Itou)     identification and transfer
of appropriate agriculture     Asses  training needs and in consultation with the
technologies.  Two positions   Tem Leader, prepare training program inclu4;n9, as
French) would specialize In  appropriate, on-the-Job training, short courses and
ciffTs the other two           study tours.
(A!DAB4, In upland rainfed
rope (principally             Assist In the establishment of an extension system
conservation forming system   orgpnization and structure and In the development of
for rice, mize, soybean and   credit, Input supply and marketing systems
other legume) and irrigated
srope (principally rice,       Liais  closely with the Reserch Speciolists and
soybeons, mungbens).           develop field trials and demnstrations to develop
conservation farumnp technologies which can be
Introduced on a pilot basis.
Identify and develop extension methods and packages
suitable to the needs of receptive households.
Irrigation Engineer  Relevant acxdemic                Assist staff of the Irrigation Section of Vientiane
(AIDAB loc t d        qualifications In irrigation   Provinco In planning and undertaking field
t Phon Hong          engineering and a miniTm  of   investigations and In the selection and deson of
5 yers field experience In  s*hoe_  for rehabilitation.
the design and construction
supervision of email-scole     Provide guidance for construction supervision of
irrigation diversion weirs     schems included In the rehabilitation progr .
and distrlbution system In
leo  developed countries.      Assist In the preparation of annual work plans and
Experiene in training would   training of personnel In the properation of plans.
be an advantage
Assess training needs and In consultation with the
Team Leader develop training prograss Including, as
appropriate, on-the-job training, short course and
study tours In all aspects of Irrigation
Investigations, deoign and contructloin.
Provide guidance In the procuremnt of plant and
materials.
Provide guldance as required to the construction
enterprise undertaking project related work.



- 80 -
ANNEX t
Poestion                 Profil-                                 Activitis
Irrigation ON         Appropriate qualifications In Aesist the Provinae, district  a*nd villages In the
Speia1liet             irrigation engineering enda   formtion of village water user groups including
(ADDA                   Iee tininum of 6 yer.        organizational structuree and reapon ibilittles.
at Phen Mons         fil*1 experieneo In the
estabiishment, operation and   Develop  nd emonotrat  appr iotpte 0A prctices
maintenance of irrig tten       including canal lout, ue o  control structures
schemes In lO  deelopepd        aoidance of sitation, repair of structure  and
countries.  Additional          mantenane  f canel *yst no
experience In agricultural
extension, training or          Assist In the selection and training of Village
organization/management would  Canal Attendant.
be an advantage.
Assist In the selection and training of District OCM
Supervieors.
Assist In the establishment of water use procedures
and coat recovery mechanismc  that are effective and
acceptable to the water ucer group.
Identify training n       and develop training
program to ensure the sustainability of operation
and maintenance practices and
*dminiatrative/financial procedure including as
required, In-fleld training, short cours   and study
tours.
Aessit water user groups In rehabilitation and
improwement of on-form tertiary and quaternary
distribution systems.
Liaise zth the Extension 3pectilelt and Village
Extension Workers to ensure consietncy of programs
and activtites directed at frmeres nd water user
groups.
Collect baseline data and monitor the operation of
rehabiitatiton scheme to assess the effectitvnes
of OhM procedures developed.
Short Term Consultanctoe
Specialists in disciplines to be Identified from time to tim, having appropriate acadmic
qualifications and experience in application of their expertise to problem solving In the field In
lose developed countries.
(a) AIDAD
Agronomists           Specialeste In Irrigated        Assist In identiftcation of varieties end
(total 12 stff        cropping.                       cultivation and crop protection methods for crops
months)                                             suck as rice, mungbeans, soybeans and vegetables.
Specialists In rainfed          Assist In identtficatton of varietie and
cropping.                       cultivation and crop protection methods for crops
such as rice, maize, soybeans, tree fruit crops,
tea, rubber agro-forestry crops, pesture and
contour strip grss"e.
Assist In developing systems of erosion control,
cone rvation farming and enviromental protection.
Specialist, In applied         Assist In variotal testing and screening and In
reaerch.                       establishing field trials and demonstrations for
crops and conservation technology.
Specialists In extension.      Assist In developing extension methods, In training
anJ cou_nity development.



- 81-
ANNEX 8
Pag 4 of4
Position                 Protil-                              Activities
Engineer (total 6     Irrigation Engineers.         Assist In preparation of tender documents for civil
taff months)                                       work* contracts and In the evaluation of bids for
thaw.
Assist in planning and evaluation of OM systems and
progras.
Rural road specialists.       Assist In preparing contract specifications and In
planning and evaluation of construction and
maintenance program.
Rural water supply            Acsslt in design and construction planning for mall
speciallsts                   scale scheme  for construction by local labor.
Flnance and Credit   Specialists in rural credit   Assist In preparing programs for financial analysis,
(total 12 staff      and finance,                   credit  revolving funds, cost recovory, planning and
months)                                            budgeting and In monitoring the results of such
progra s.
Economists           Specialists in agricultural   Assist In planning surveys, economic analysis and
(total 6 staf        conomics.                     monitoring and evaluation of project results.
months)
Data Processors      Specialists In electronic      Assist In *ystem  analysis and In establishing data
(total 6 staff      date processing.               mangement system tog ther with appropriate
months)                                           training, budgeting nd evaluation.
Trainers (total 6    Specialists In training        Assist In the assessment of training nedns,
staff months)       managemnt.                     development and Implementation of training programs
and In establishment of evaluation methods.
(b) French Bilateral
Assistance
Agronomists          Specialists  In coffe          Assist the long-term advisers In analyzing and
(total 4 stff       production.                    resolving specitftc problem  affecting coffe
months)                                           production In relation to *oils, water requirements,
pests and disease, varitaol lmprovement, and other
arevs as Identified.
Coffee Processing
(total 5 staff      Specialists In coffee          Assist In the a#alysis of coffee processing Methods
months)             procewing technique           to be used, preparation of technical specifications
of processing equipment and bid documents
procurement, installation and operation of
equipmnt.
Marketing            Specialist In pricing and      Carry out an In-depth study of Lao marketing
(total 8 staff       marketing of coffee and other channels, *xport outlets and pricing structures; and
months)              crope                          r comend d tailed  ctions to Improve quality and
price Incentives, and *stablish statistical data
collection system for upland crops, wlth particular
attention to coffee.



- 82 -
ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance - Cost Tables
<---------------------US$ '000----------------------->
No Unit Cost   Year   1      2      3     4     5       Total
(a) AIDAB
Vehicles
4 x 4 p' kup           7       20           80     60                           140
4 x 4 wagon            2       25           50                                   50
Equipment
Office         Lump sum        SO           30     20                            50
Long Term Specialists (includes mobilisation, accommodation, etc.)
Team Leader    (p.y.) 5.5       140)
Finance/Admin  (p.y.)   2           )
Research        (p.y.)   5          )        980    980    840    840    910  4,550
Extension (2)  (p.y.)  10           )
Irrig. Eng.(2) (p.y.)  10           )
Short Term Specialists (includes mobilisation, accommodation, etc.)
Agronomy        (p.m.)  12        18)
Finance/Credit (p.m.)  12           )
Agric. Econ.   (p.m.)   6           )
EDP             (p.m.)   6          )        132    200    200    200    132    864
Engineering    (p.m.)   6           )
Training        (p.m.)   6          )
Training
Course materials         )Lump sum
Study tours /a           )      200           40     40      40     40      40    200
Recurrent Costs
Consumables              )Lump sum
)      200          40      40     40      40     40    200
Total (base costs)                                                            6,054
By calendar year                 1,352  1,340  1,120  1,120  1,122
Total (including contingencies)                                               6,881
/a Local and internatioaal.



- 83 -                            ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
-_-____________ -USs$  000----------------------->
No Unit Cost   Year   1      2     3     4      5      Total
(b) French Bilateral Assistance
Coffee Component
Vehicles
4 X 4 Pick-up      3         20         60                                   60
Long Term Specialists
Research       (p.y.)  5       140       140      140    140    140    140    700
Extension (2) (p.y.) 10        140       280      280    280   280      280   1400
Short Term Specialists
Agronomy, Processing, 12         18         36      54     54      36     36    216
Marketing
Trainins
Course materials/  Lump Sum)
Study tours /a     200    )                40      40     40     40      40    200
Recurrent Coats
Consumables            ) Lump               30     30     30      30     30    150
: Sum
Total (base zosts)                                                         2,726
By calendar year                        586    544    544    526    526
Total (including contingencies)                                            3,113
/a Local and international



- 84 -
Annex 9
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursements
Regional agricultural
IDA fiscal year                                 projects disbursements
and semester    Cumulative disbursements             profile (X)
(US$ million)      (X)      Lao PDR La    Regional
FY91
First                  0.2            1              0            0
Second                 2.9           14              8           1
FY92
First                  5.3           26             14            4
Second                 7.2           37             14           9
FY93
First                  9.2           46             43          14
Second                11.0           54             56          22
FY94
First                 12.8           63             S8           29
Second                14.5           72             64          37
FY95
First                 16.2           80             71           44
Second                18.2           90             97          52
FY96
First                 19.1           95            100          59
Second                20.2          100             -           67 lb
la From IDA Cr. 1395-LA counted as from date of effectivene.ss.
lb Full disbursement in 8 years.



- 85 -
ANNEX 10
LAO PDR
UPLAND AOR.CCULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Covornent Cash Flow L
(Kip millions)
Annual Cumulativo
Prjo3ct                palm ntu                    ReceIpt                Cash       Cash
Year     Prdolct Coots  IDA R a    nt  IDA D0sbursementS  Taxos         Flow      Flow
1           2849              -              1595           6         (748)      (748)
2           4068              -              4015          19          (24)      (772)
a           2065              -              2085          68            s8      (784)
4           2306              -              2256         177           127      (607)
6           2489              -              1210         294         (985)    (1542)
6             28              -                 -         479           456    (1086)
7             23              -                 -         748           720      (836)
8             23              -                 -         960           987       601
9             28              -                 -        1096          1073      1674
10             28              -                 -        1103          1080      2754
11-20             28            222                 -        1108           858      8612
21-40             28            444                 -        1108           Sao      4248
1 Excluding technical assistance.



- 86 -
ME  11
LAO POR
UPLAN ARICtUL1URE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
Your       Date     Duration  Mission Co Motlon             Areas of Concentration
I      April 1990    2.6     Agriculturalist          Credit effectivenes; opening
Irrigation Engineer    of Special Account;
Financial Analyst       Institutional arrang ents;
first years AWV and budgets;
procurement lists and bid
documents; estabilkhment of
projoet accounts* mbilization
of technlcal ass stnce.
I     August 1990    2.0     Agriculturalist          Procurement and disbursement;
Rural Engineer          consolidation of AWe; project
Coffee Specialist       management; feeder road rehabi-
litation; coffee nurseries;
specitications of washing
stations; vetiver nurseries.
Decmber 1990    2.0         Agoriculturalist        Irrigation procurement;
Irrigation Engineer     preparation AlPs for project
Economist               Year 2; monitoring and
evaluation proposal.
2      April 1991    2.0    Agriculturalist           Approval AWP for project
Rural Engineer          Year 2; erosion control;
Coffee Spnciallct       village water supply;
reserch and extension centers
construction; cotfee washing
station construction.
2    October 1991    2.0    Agriculturolist           Projoet year 1 annual reports,
Irrigation Engineer    accounts and audits; Irrigation
Financial Analyst       construction.
a      April 1992    2.0    Agriculturalist           ME report; approval AWPo for
Economist               project year 8.
B    October 1992    2.0     Agriculturalist          Mid-te  review; project year 2
Economist               annual reports, accounts and
IrIrigation Engineer    audits; project re-design
Coffee Specialist
4      April 1098    2.0     Aglriculturallst         Approval AlPs for project
Rural Engineer          year 4.
4    October 1998    2.0     Agriculturalist          Proj et year 8 annual reports,
Economist               accounts and audits; procurement
and disbursement; MAE report.
6      April 1994    2.0     Agriculturallit          Approval AlPs for project
Irrigation Engineer     year 5; procuremnt and
disbursemnt.
S    October 1994    2.0    Agriculturalist           Project completion and Impact
Economist               evaluation.
Irrigation Engineor
Rural Engineer



- 87 -
ANNEX 12
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
WORKING PAPERS
1.     Preparation Report of Fifth Agricultural Development Project - World
Bank/Australian International Development Assistance Bureau, March
1989.
2.     Technical Annex No. 3s  Extension Method and Project Implementation.
3.     Technical Annex No. 4:  Coffee
4.     Technical Annex No. 5:  Crop Intensification
5.     Technical Annex No. 6:  Lowland Irrigation Rehabilitation
6.     Technical Annex No. 7:  State Agro-Processing Enterprise
7.     Technical Annex No. 8:  Roads
8.     Final Report:  Compilation and Analysis of Hydrological and
Climatological Data for Preparation of Fifth ^.gricultural
Development Project, June 1988
9.     Project Cost Tables and Economic Analysis



-~~~-~
IL01
I      I ha   hi  14~II ~ilt, laltO



Chart2
LAO PDR
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implmentatlon Schedule
19im                 19i0w               1is                  1-1e9l
JIFIMIAIMIJIJIAISI0lNID J|FlIMAIMIJIJIAISIOINID J|MMJJIAISIOINID JlIllIJIJAISI0lNIDl
Fs U    __ 
A ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     A
RRWJUK EKYIOW?ATIND RDUTO
_  n n _ '- _ _    -   .   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~a0  ....          a .......
t"_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  -  -  -S= -  -  -    K- --------
TR_DRALA MSMAN
sad*448O1(E)



LAO PDR
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Agriculture
r             -  ,                 '~~~~~~~~~~~~ - I
Vice-Miniswr                     VkMinistbr                       Vice-Minister           ViceA.Ainister
pgr'cuiturai             l~~rrigation            Forestry
Irrgation
||  Hydr |lics            Foresby    |
1   Depabnent  |  t   Rebli°ns   r 1   D@paFent  |           1         D eoansnt          Deparlment
Stme Farms                  D:jr,                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Forest
Depart_er,d           M    D           _    SIDguu             _ Enterpises
0
F               Ai qgr-Chemistry                                     ONPE
Depancem           Soil Fertility                                     OP
Depafeto
Acoounts            Research                Matiais
Departemet          Departme_ Dnt
Home Product          Uvestock                  St.e
& Economics         Department              CoIsbuction
Departnent                                 A        N   I
Pr Aro-               M  Wernary                 state
I  Possing 1       SerAices    1      iConstruction
|  Dpla=et            Departrent              Agency No2 
|  OAS Exno              nfrastruetures1                       
Department  |      1 DerAitnent                               



LAO PDR
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Provincen Organizatlon Chart
I     A d
AdmWtde
Com itee
J           Conwnmce                      At=                                                                           D o  efense
S Fianc                                                                                                                    A=kSrie   eiC   
=,Ing
he Uvestock ~~Veterlmnasy              Forestry        brgto                          eerofogy      Coqeprve        Erk Mlhiner                     Finarice 
Seionon        Section                                                                      Seceen         Pla gs
______I____.____.____-_________-____.___________                 I                        Section                        Section
asbt    Dhrk    I      aai   I       oct      IAsbt       IObstkt I I O h        I
Serskes  I Serwb8s 11 Sers 11 Skes .I   s   11 Sices 11  Ss  I~~~~~~~~~~~1*



, >\  > CHINA    7 g0                                                                             HN                               CHN
20'    CHIN                                                                                    MYALAO  PEOPLE'S  )uI of    4
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EM.CRTIC,,  REUBIC. 
VIET NAM                                        ITi
'.  VIET
NAM
MYANMAR
THAILAND
r \  SOOUTH
F                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHINA
BANGKOK
l,sillffO   50        loo        9   8, Thail nd 
am~~y  
/ _ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~I ,th, F   --t
PA                                                                                                     Gulfg DEM. KAMPUCHEA   s-i)    ) at
_r                                                     South Tr d *r'
OF VIENT1,4A, IE                            NAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~trn-,I,.I0'II0o
UPLAND AGRICULTURE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a2 ASn..
DVELPENT  PRJEC
Ekesatiss in Metrs,          Pavd Pdma.y Roads
0   Seledd 7-vo I Villags  +    Aiq-.
Pwrdnc flondarfes                                                     IR     17
Intrntional Boa,drift               KILOMETERS 0      50        00o      IS0
DEM. KAMPUCHEA



_RD 2137Z
MYWA,          CHINA    102°                                                     103
MYANh^E'S                 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC    l
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
VIENTIANE REGION
PROPOSED PROIECT
r_____ I iUPLAND CROP IN;ENSIFICATION     EXISTING PAVED ROADS
AREA (above 200 meters)
A   RESEARCH/EXTENSION CENTER          E CONTOURS IN METERS
FEEDER ROAD REHABILITATION
\'N~ RIVERS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
C/>  \  9                                      -       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ay b
l~                                                            & & d_ I3
19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AWr18
-'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
(I ~~~~~~~~ ~HinheuNMGU



1BRD 21377R
9   s CHINA                           106°30'                            107V00
MYANMARE E,  7 -LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRA1-IC REPUBLIC
UPLAND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLATEAU DES BOLOVENS REGION
THAiLAND            I        PROPOSED PROIECT
COFFEE AND UPLAND CROP INTENSIFICATION AREA (above 200 M)
A    RESEARCH/EXTENSION CENTER
16'00      *    AGRICULTURAL SCHOOL UPLANDS SECTION              16'00
-<'     EXISTINC PAVED ROADS
EXISTING GRAVEL ROADS    0      10      20     30
CA;LAYWIA   f'\     -0   CONTOURS IN METERS                  KLOMETER
z 9 9 E / < ~~~~~~RIVERS_
,   >    >9NGAPORE)                  ~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                     ,_
1 06-00'          -, 1 , 
i~~~~~~~~~~~~uga  ARAVANES
. / /  106600        l         /     ~~~~1t30        Un                 Vs10



