Page  1
August 17, 1993
His Excellency
Khamsay Souphanouvong Minister of Finance Ministry of Finance
Vientiane
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Re:
Credit No. 2079 LA
Upland Agriculture Development Project
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
Kindly refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the "Agreement") entered into 
by and between the Lao People's Democratic Republic (the "Borrower") and the 
International Development Association (the "Association") dated February 23, 1990, in 
respect of the above-referenced Project.
          We are pleased to inform you that the Association agrees to amend the 
procurement arrangements for the financing of miscellaneous goods, materials and 
equipment under the Agreement, as requested in your letter dated July 23, 1993.  
Therefore, Section I, Part D (1) of Schedule 3 to the Agreement is hereby amended to 
read as follows hereinbelow.
"1. (a) Miscellaneous items of equipment, materials and furniture 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) 
per 
contract, and up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
one million 
eight hundred thousand dollars ($1,800,000), may be procured under 
contracts 
awarded on the basis of a comparison of price quotations solicited 
from a list 
of at least three (3) suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in  accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association; and (b) fuels and 
lubricants estimated 
to cost an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent 
of two million dollars 
($2,000,000) may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of local 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures 
satisfactory to the Association."
*   *   *
Kindly confirm your agreement, as the duly authorized representative of the 
Borrower, to the foregoing amendment by signing and duly dating the corresponding form 
of confirmation set forth below, and returning this amendment letter to us at your 
earliest convenience.  A signed duplicate original of this amendment letter is 
enclosed herewith for your records.  This amendment letter shall become effective, as 
of the date first above-written, once it has been fully executed by both parties 
thereto.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Director
Country Department 1
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Authorized Representative
Date:
October 26, 1993
Page  2
