Page  1
                                                  January 22, 1992
His Excellency Khamphoui Reoboualapha
Deputy Prime Minister and
Minister of Economy, Planning and
Finance Ministry of Economy, Planning and Finance
Vientiane, Lao P.D.R.
      Re:  Development Credit No 2079 Upland Agriculture Development
           Project - Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (upland
Agriculture, Development Project) between Lao People's Democratic
Republic (the Borrower) and the International Development
Association (the Association) dated February 23, 1990.  We refer
also to your letter of October 18, 1991 requesting the Association
to modify the flow of fund arrangement under the Project.
     The Association is pleased to inform you that, after due
consideration, it has agreed to amend the Development Credit
Agreement as follows:
1.    Subparagraph (d) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement is here~y deleted and replaced by the following:
      "(d) 'PSC' means the Borrower's Project Steering Committee;".
2.    The following subparagraphs are hereby added to Section 1.O2
of the Development Credit Agreement:
      "(g)  'Participating Financial Institution' and 'PFI' mean any
bank or credit institution duly established under the laws of the
Borrower which has entered into a Participation Agreement with the
Borrower;
(h)   'Participation Agreements' means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and a PFI;
(i)   'Sub-borrower' means any individual farmer, group of farmers
or owner of a light agro-processing or cottage business to which a
Participating Credit Institution has made has made a Sub-loan; and
(j)   'Sub-loan' means a loan made by a Participating Financial
Institution out of the proceeds of the Credit to a Sub-borrower to
finance a specific farm production or agro-processing activity."
3.    Section 2.02 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement i~ hereby
amended by inserting (1) the language "(1) Sub-loans under Part A.l
of the Project; and (ii)" between the words in respect of" and "the
reasonable cost of goods"; and (2) the language "Parts A.2, B, C, D
and E of" between the words "required for" and "the Project".
4.    A new Section 3.04 shall be inserted in the text of the
Oevelopment Credit Agreement and shall read as follows:
"Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Section 3.01, the Borrower shall re-lend five million four
hundred seventy thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,470,000) to
PFIs carrying out activities under Part A.1 of the Project for on
lending to Sub-borrowers, all in accordance with terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association including, without
limitation (i) interest rates sufficient to cover the PFI's
operating costs; (ii) the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the
Borrower; (iii) the provision that re-lending and on-lending
interest rates shall be annually reviewed by the Association and, if
necessary, adjusted, pursuant to procedures and criteria acceptable
to the Association; and (iv) that the goods, works and services to
Page  2
be financed under Part A.1 of the Project be purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken of relevant factors such as
time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts there for,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them."
     The table set forth in Paragraph l of Schedule 1 of the
Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
Category                   Amount of the Credit      % of
                           Allocated (Expressed      Expenditures
                           in SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(3) Fuels, ferti-
    lizer and materials             300,000          100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures
                                                     for directly
                                                     imported
                                                     items, 100% of
                                                     local
                                                     expenditures
                                                     (ex-factory
                                                     cost) and 80%
                                                     of local
                                                     expenditures
                                                     for other
                                                     items procured
                                                     locally
(4)Studies                           80,000          100%
(5) Sub-loans under               5,470,000          80%
    Part A.1 of the
    Project
(6) Refunding of
    Project Preparation
    Advance                           1,000          Amount due pursuant
                                                     Section 2.02(c) of
                                                     this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                   2,549,000
      Total                      15,900,000
    Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement is
hereby amended to read as follows:
"Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures (a) for
Categories other than Category (5) prior to the date of the
Development Credit Agreement or (b) for Category is) prior to
effectiveness of this Amendment."
7.    The heading of Part A in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement is hereby amended to read "Crop and Other Farm
Production".
8.    Part A.l of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement ~
hereby amended by deleting the word "and" between the words "crops"
and the "valley" in the second line and by adding the words "and
other farm production and processing" after the word "crops" at the
end of the paragraph.
9.    The figures "$2,000,000" and "$600,000" appearing in Part D of
Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby deleted
and replaced by the figures $300,000", respectively.
10.   All reference~ to "NPCC" Ln Schedule 4 of the Development
Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to "PSC".
Page  3
11.   Paragraph (g) of Schedule 4 is hereby deleted ln its entirety.
The semi-colon and the word ~and~ at the end of paragraph (f) are
hereby removed and placed at the end of paragraph (e) and a full
stop is hereby inserted at the end of paragraph (f).
Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 is hereby amended as follows:
"(a) the term "eligible Categories' means Categories (l), (2), (3),
(4) and (5) setforth in the table in paragraph l of Schedule l to
this Agreement.~
     This Amendment shall not become effective until (i) has been
signed by the Borrower and the Association; and (ii) evidence
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the
Association that the Borrower has entered into a Participation
Agreement with atleast two Participating Financial Institutions~.
     Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating the enclosed confirmation form and by returning
it to us for our records.
Sincerely
Callisto Madavo
Director
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By: Khamphoui Keoboalapha
Authorized Representative
Date: March 11, 1992
