Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4066 NIR 
GRANT NUMBER H172 NIR 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Public Expenditure Reform Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 13, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4066 NIR 
GRANT NUMBER H172 NIR 
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 2005, between the REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
April 21, 2005, (the Letter of Development Policy) describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to
 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in 
poverty (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of 
the Program during the execution thereof;  
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association;  
(C) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed on account of expenditures in support of the 
Program before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made; and 
(D) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
financing (the Financing) available, in one (1) tranche as hereinafter provided. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) “BCEAO” 
means 
B
anque
Centrale des Etats de l’Afrique de l’Ouest
,
the 
common central bank for the West African Francophone countries and Guinea Bissau; 
(b) 
“Cash Allocation Plan” means the Borrower’s monthly provisions for 
cash allocations to expenditures in accordance with budgetary credits; 
(c) 
“Education Sector” means the sector administered by the Borrower’s 
Ministry in charge of education; 
(d) 
“Equipment Sector” means the sector administered by the Borrower’s 
Ministry in charge of equipment; 
(e) 
“Health Sector” means the sector administered by the Borrower’s 
Ministry in charge of health; 
(f) 
“National Statistical Office” means the national statistical office 
established by the Borrower pursuant to Law No. 2004-011 of March 30, 2004;  
(g) 
“Rural Development Sector” means the sector administered by the 
Borrower’s Ministries in charge of agriculture, livestock and water and protection of the 
environment respectively; 
(h) 
“Special Program of the President” means the investment program in key 
sectors (Health, Education, Infrastructure, Rural development) financed on debt relief 
proceeds (HIPC resources) under the supervision of a steering committee established by 
Decree No. 2002-218/PRN on August 26, 2002; and 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
“Transport Sector” means the sector administered by the Borrower’s 
Ministry in charge of transport. 
ARTICLE II 
The Financing 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Financing Agreement, 
the Financing consisting of: 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,800,000) (the Credit); and 
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,800,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Financing
 
from 
the Financing Accounts in support of the Program. 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:  (i) all withdrawals from 
the Financing Accounts shall be deposited by the Association into an account in Euros 
designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the Borrower shall 
ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into said account, an 
equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management system, in a 
manner acceptable to the Association  
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Financing 
was used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said 
payment to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request 
shall be cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Financing not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
Page  5
-
4
-
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of  
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Financing Accounts or cancelled; and  
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by,  
or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each 
 
June 15 and December 15 commencing on June 15, 2015 and ending on 
December 15, 2044.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
December 15, 2024 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
 
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
Page  6
-
5
-
the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of 
the principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph 
(a) above falling six months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of 
 
five years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The Euro is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the 
General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association such 
information relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association 
may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination  
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Financing Agreement within the meaning of 
 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the nomination by the Borrower of the Director General of the National 
Statistical Office; and 
(b) 
the adoption by the Borrower, through its Council of Ministers, of 
the decree referred to in paragraph B (4) of Annex 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower in charge of finance is designated as 
the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Minister in charge of Finance 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
 
B.P. 389 
 
Niamey 
 
Republic of Niger 
 
Facsimile: (227) 73 59 34 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 (202) 
477 
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
By 
 
/s/ Amadou Sounna 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/ Mahmood A. Ayub 
Authorized Representative 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;  
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Financing during the procurement or execution of 
Page  13
-
12
-
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital B of this Agreement 
A. Budget 
Management
1. 
The Borrower has enacted a revised Budget Law (
Loi de Finances 
Rectificative
)
for fiscal year 2005 which includes allocations for the full amount 
of debt relief received under the HIPC initiative and provides substantially higher 
funding for the Health Sector, the Education Sector, and the Rural Development 
Sector (as described in Section 55 (i) of the Letter of Development Policy);  
2. 
The Borrower’s line ministries have participated in the preparation of the 
2005 Cash Allocation Plan (
Plan de Trésorerie
)
for fiscal year 2005, established 
on the basis of the 2005 revised Budget Law (
Loi de Finances Rectificative
).  A 
lettre circulaire
 reference No. 000212/ME/F/CCE dated March 3, 2005 has been 
sent by the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance to all ministries to 
indicate the changes implemented in the budget regulation process in order to 
ensure a better participation of line ministries on a quarterly basis (as described in 
Section 55 (ii) of the Letter of Development Policy); and 
3. 
The Committee in charge of the preparation of the opening balances for 
1996 has met and has provided to the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and 
Finance its report, which includes recommendations and a calendar for the 
finalization of the 1996 opening balance and the use of the management accounts 
(
comptes de gestion
)
and budget review laws (
lois de
 règlements
)
for updating the 
opening balances after 1996 (as described in Section 55 (iii) of the Letter of 
Development Policy). 
B. 
Social Sector Reforms, Poverty, Monitoring and Evaluation
4. 
The Borrower has prepared a draft decree to establish statutory rules 
applicable to new contractual health workers.  This draft decree fixes new health 
posts in the regions (as described in Section 55 (iv) of the Letter of Development 
Policy); 
5. 
The Borrower has undertaken to proceed with the better integration of the Special 
Program of the President into the budget.  A preliminary plan for this better integration 
Page  15
-
14
-
has been submitted by the Borrower to the Association (as described in Section 55 (v) of 
the Letter of Development Policy); and 
6. 
The new nationally representative household survey (extended Core 
Welfare Indicators Questionnaire 2005) has been launched by the National 
Statistical Office (as described in Section 55 (vi) of the Letter of Development 
Policy).
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Section 1.01 is amended to read: 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions 
generally applicable to development financing granted by the Association to its 
members in the form of development credit and development grant.  They apply 
to any development financing agreement providing for any such development 
finance to the extent and subject to any modifications set forth in such 
agreement.” 
2. 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
“8. “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular Development 
Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions apply, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time. Development Financing Agreement includes 
these General Conditions as applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Development Financing Agreement.” 
3. 
Paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is modified to read: 
“12. 
“Project” means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Financing Agreement, in support of which the Financing is made.” 
4. 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
“15. 
  “Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement;” 
“16.  
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association on 
its books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited;” 
“17.  
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant;” and 
“18. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account and the 
Grant Account (and “Financing Account” means, individually, the Credit 
Account or the Grant Account, as the context may require).” 
Page  17
-
16
-
5. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing”: Sections 2.01(3), 
Article V, 
 
Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01 (d), Article VIII, and Article IX. 
6. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing Accounts”: Section 2.01 (6), 
4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
7. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is amended to read the Development Financing Agreement. 
8. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 3.01. Financing Accounts
.
The amount of the Credit shall be 
credited to the Credit Account and may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
by the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in 
these General Conditions. The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant 
Account and may be withdrawn from the Grant Account by the Borrower as 
provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in these General 
Conditions.” 
9. 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Financing Accounts shall be made in the currency of the 
account specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Financing Agreement; 
provided, however, that withdrawals in the currency of the Borrower shall be 
made in such currency or currencies as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably select.” 
10. 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Financing from the Financing Accounts in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Financing Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
11. 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
12. 
The phrase “(including any development financing agreement or development 
grant agreement)” is added to Section 6.02 (a) (ii) after the words “any development 
credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the Association”; to 
Section 6.02 (c) (i) after the words “any development credit agreement” and before the 
words “with the Association”; and to Section 7.01 (b) (i) after the words “any other 
Page  18
-
17
-
development credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the 
Association.”   
13. 
Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the several 
installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after the date of such 
cancellation.” 
14. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Financing Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Financing Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
15. 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
 
