                    Document of
                 The World Bank


                                              Report No: 56443 v1




              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                      ON A

         PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                        OF
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
               LOAN (February 19, 2002)


                     TO THE

              GOVERNMENT OF INDIA


                  August 27, 2010
                                      ANNEX 3
                   Extension of Closing Date - Restructuring Paper

   INDIA -- UTTAR PRADESH WATER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
                        P050647 (CR. 3602-IN)

1. The closing date for India, Uttar Pradesh Water Sector Restructuring Project
   (P050647) [Cr. 3602-IN] will be extended from October 31, 2010 until October 31,
   2011.

2. The UPWSRP has had several noteworthy achievements. The project helped the state
   create one of the first State-level water resources agencies in India, as well as a state
   water resources regulator. Their mandate covers all water-using sectors including the
   irrigation sub-sector. The project helped provide technical assistance and support to
   provide a legal basis for Water User Associations (WUA) and held WUA elections.
   Recommendations of a detailed institutional study on one of the oldest departments in
   India ­ the UP Irrigation Department (UPID, with about 100,000 employees) was
   conducted as part of the project and adopted by the Government of UP. An integrated
   planning decision support system and strategic basin environmental and social
   assessment were conducted for the overall Ghagra-Gomti basin in eastern UP to
   improve a more holistic consideration of basin issues in planning. Computers and an
   enterprise management system were introduced into the UPID. Irrigation and
   drainage systems were rehabilitated in the pilot Jaunpur Branch basin using modern
   surveys (one of the largest in the country) and designs to provide a template for
   modernizing the 12 million hectares of surface irrigated land served by UPID. The
   original project objectives continue to be achievable. More detailed information is
   provided in the Memorandum to the Country Director.

3. On May 31, 2010, the World Bank received a request from the Department of
   Economic Affairs (DEA) for support for a UPWSRP Phase 2. In response, the World
   Bank sent a positive response back to DEA and the Government of UP for a Phase 2
   Project. A Phase 2 Project was identified in the original UPWSRP Project Appraisal
   Document. A special component (Component E) was, in fact, included in the project
   explicitly for the preparation of Phase 2 activities. The proposed extension is
   necessary to bridge the period between the UPWSRP and the proposed Phase 2
   project. It is proposed that a portion of the remaining IDA savings be utilized for (a)
   project preparation and (b) financing of any remaining outstanding critical contracts
   and certain institutional development activities that extend beyond the current project
   closing date. These activities will provide all necessary information, studies, and
   costs to allow the Phase 2 Project to be appraised. In addition, it will ensure that the
   Phase 2 Project is in a state of readiness for implementation at the time of
   effectiveness. This will include primarily the hiring of consultancies to prepare
   detailed surveys, designs, and bidding documents for the first year investments. This
   approach was determined to be the most pragmatic solution to utilize the likely
   project savings and bridge the two operations. The Borrower has submitted a detailed
   action plan for this 1-year extension period.


                                             2
4. This will be the fourth extension of the project.




                                             3
