RESTRICTED
Report No. P-532
FILE CO-PY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE STATE OF UGANDA
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
April 6, 1967



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AN\D RECCMENDATION CF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE STATE CF UGANDA
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit herewith the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to $10.0 million to the State of Uganda to finance part of the cost of a
program for the expansion and improvement of buildings and equipment for
general secondary education.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        Uganda became an independent country in October 1962 and joined
the Bank and IDA in, September 1963. In November 1965 the International
Development Association received a request from the Uganda Government for
an.education credit to expand and improve buildings and equipment for
general secondary education. Prior to the request a UNESCO representative
had assisted the Uganda Government in the preparation of the project. The
appraisal mission which visited Uganda during November and December 1965
assisted the government authorities in improving the project.
3.        Formal negotiations took place in ulashington in October 1966.
The Uganda delegation wTas led by the Honorable J.S. Luyimbazi Zake, Minister
of Education, and included representatives of the Ivlinistry of Education and
the Treasury.
4.        This is the first education,project proposed for IDA financing in
Uganda, as well as the first IDA credit. While still a British protectorato
Uganda received one loan from the Bank amounting to $8,4 million..  The
status as of February 28, 1967 was the following:
(US$ million.)
Year   No.     Borrower            Purpose         Amount   Undisbursed
1961   279-UG   Uganda           Electric Power      8-
Total (less cancellations)            8.4
of which has been repaid           0.9
Total now outstanding                 7.5
Amount sold:                8.3
of which has bee.n repaid  0.9      7.4
Total now held by Bank                Ool
This loan is guaranteed by the United Kingdom.



PART II   DESCRIPTION OF THIE PROPOSED CREDIT
10.       The main characteristics of the proposed development credit are
as follows:
Borrower:                  State of Uganda
Purpose:                   To help finance the construction and
equipment of 39 general secondary
schools.
Amount:                    Various currencies equivalent to $10.0
million.
Amortization:              50 years, including 10-year period of
grace, in semi-annual installments
beginning September 1, 1977 and ending
March 1, 2017.
Service Charge:            3//4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
11.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Education Project - Uganda"
(TO-541b), dated April 5, 1967, is attached.   (No. 1)
12.       The project is for the construction. of new and expansion. of
existing general secondary schools and the purchase of furniture and equip-
ment. The project's estimated total cost including allowances for con-
tingency is $14.3 million. The proposed credit of $10.0 million, would cover
foreign exchange costs estimated at $3.4 million equivalent and local
currency costs of approxim.ately $6.6 million.equivalent, leaving $i.3 million
equivalent to be financed by the Government of Uganda. The Association
would thus finance about 70% of the project cost.   Though considerable
local cost financing is involved, I believe that, in. view of Uganda's sub-
stantial needs for financial resources, both external and internal, and
the efforts of the Government to improve its fiscal performance (see
paragraph 24), IDA would be justified in financing this proportion of the
project cost.
13.       Of the total cost including furniture and equipment, 45% is for
academic buildings, 19% for student hostels, 19% for staff housing, 10%
for site works, and 7% for professional and supervisory services.
14.       The project would consist of:
(a) the construction of 24 new general secondary schools,
23 of which are on sites that before 1965 were used
for intermediate education and one on a completely
new site, to include academic facilities, stude.n.t
hostels and staff houses;



- 4 -
(b)  the construct-ion of additional facilities in 15 existing
general secondary schools, to include the items mentioned
under (a), and
(c) the necessary furniture and laboratory equipment.
15.       The project would be Lmplemented during 1967-70 and the schools
in the project fully utilized by 1972.
16.       For the purpose of administering and supervising the execution
of the project and to assure necessary coordination with other agencies,
the Government has established within the Ministry of Education a "project
unit" headed by a project manager and staffed with two architects and an
accountant, all acceptable to the Association. The Government has also
agreed to employ a qualified and experienced firm of architects to under-
take the architectural and engineering services required.
17.       Enrollment in secondary education is low compared with many
other developing countries.   Existing secondary school facilities are not
adequate to meet the estimated manpower need and a major expansion is
called for. To meet manpower requirements in the period 1966-1972, and
to allow for normal replacements in the labor force, Africanization, the
increasin,g intake of students for higher education, dropouts and repeaters
at various levels, it is estimated that a total output of about 33,000
from secondary schools would be required during the period. Without an
expansion, of facilities, the output would amount to only about 18,000.
The project, together with more intensive utilization of existing facilities,
is designed to fill the gap. By 1972 the proposed project will increase
the output from general secondary schools by up to 3,500 per year, which
will meet a considerable part of the manpower demand at this level in the
1970's. It would also raise the general standard of secondary schools and
broaden. the curriculum by adding science subjects and practical courses.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.       Copies of the draft Development Credit Agreement between, the
State of Uganda and the Association, and the Recommendation. of the Committee
provided for under Section l(d) of Article V of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association relating to the project are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
19.       The proposed Development Credit Agreement is in the form generally
used for education,projects.   In, order to insure that land and buildings
will be available for the purposes of the project (Section 4.02), the
Gover.nment has entered into agreements with various church groups who own some
of the schools to be improved and expanded under the proposed credit.



PART V - THE ECONOKY
20       A report entitled "Current Economic Position, and Prospects of
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda" (No. AF-35, dated September 13, 1965), was
circulated to the Executive Directors in connection with a loan for East
African. Railways and Harbours (No. 428-EA). A memorandum updating the
economic information. on Uganda kNo. AF-53) was circulated to the Executive
Directors on October 27, 1966 (R 66-141): significant developments which
have taken place since then. are summarized below, and basic data on the
economy are attached (No, 2). An Economic Ilission visited Uganda during
October-December 1966 and its report, which is currently under preparation.,
is expected to be circulated by mid-year.
21.       Uganda's national accounts have recently undergone a revision.
and hence the figures, which are set out in the attached Basic Data, are
not comparable with those in the earlier memorandum (AF-53). The revised
national accounts indicate that, during the period 1960-65, Uganda's gross
domestic product at constant 196h prices grew at an average rate of nearly
4.0 percent. This growth rate conceals marked variations in individual
years, arising from fluctuations in, earnings from the country's two main
exports (coffee and cotton), and adverse weather conditions. Thus, in
the period 1960 through 1962, GDP at constant prices remained virtually
stagnant, followed by a marked increase in 1963 through 1964, when it
grew at 7.8 percent.  In 1965 the growth of GDP again, slowed down.to 4.3
percent.
22.       In,recent years, the uneven economic performance of Uganda has
also stemmed from the difficulties faced by the Government in dealing with
the complex tasks of economic developmsnt.  Rapid Ugandan.ization has
created some inevitable transitional problems in the fun,ctioning of the
Government and parastatal agencies, particularly because of the continued
expansion of the range of public se:^vices. Though an inflow of technical
assistance might prove helpful in ove coming this problem in. the short-
run, it is clear that an. appr'priate long-qterm solution, will have to take
the form of a systematic build.iup of the educational system, in order to
insure the supply of qualified Ugandans at all levels of activity and, in
particular, the middle level. The proposed credit is expected to make a
significant contributio.n towards the augmentation. of Uganda's manpower
resources.
23.       A major factor in the economy is the producer price level for
coffee and cotton lint.  In. the latest economic memorandum (AF-53) it was
noted that the Price Assistance Funds (i.e. the Funds intended to help
stabilize producer prices) of the Coffee an,d Lint Mlarketing Boards were
almost exhausted by early 1966. The main reason for this was that nearly
the whole of the current coffee and cotton, export proceeds (less admini-
strative expenses) were paid out to producers and at the same time the
Government continued to draw export taxes on, these commodities from the
balances accumulated over the past years in the two Price Assistance
Funds. Hence, export taxes became a charge on the past savings - rather
than the current receipts - of the two Funds. A second factor was the



use of the Funds to enable African cooperatives to purchase cotton ginneries
nd coffee pulperies from non-Africans.  In general, producers' prices
were closely related to export prices, and hen.ce the occasional payment
of prices somewhat higher than export prices was n.ot a significant factor
in the depletion of the two Funds.  The virtual exhaustion. of the two Funds
underlined the urgent need to review policy concerning the two crops, and
also the institutions charged with the respon.sibility for implementing it.
In 1966 the Government appointed two Committees of Inquiry into Cotton
and Coffee, with wide terms of reference. On the basis of the recommendations
of the Committee on cotton, the Government has taken the bold step of
reducing the producer price of cotton. to 40 cents per pound in the current
crop year, from 60 cents per pound in the preceding crop year. No action.
has yet been taken in relation to coffee, presumably because of the
expectation that the Coffee Marketing Board will have a small surplus
in. the present year (after payment of export taxes), following its success
in.selling large coffee stocks in. the no.n-quota markets. To a lesser
extent, the fact that coffee prices to producers were reduced in, 1965 and
unchanged in. 1966 has perhaps led to a reluctance to cut the price further
in the present year.  For the future, the Government has stated its firm
intention to maintain. nroducers' prices at a level consistent with world
market prices for these commodities. The implications of this policy
either for export taxes or the Price Assistance Funds are not clear. The
producer price of cotto.n at 40 cents per poun.d is very close to the world
market price and hence does not leave a margin for an, export tax on. this
commodity.  However, in relation to world coffee prices, the producer price
in Uganda will still enable the Governmen.t to collect an. export tax on.
this commodity. Though the two price Assistance Funds will continue, it is
inevitable that their role in price stabilization will be drastically reduced.
2h.       Government financial performance has been somewhat uneven. in the
period 1960-65, culminatin,g in, 1965/66 in a large overall deficit amounting
to about £12.5 million. A deficit on this scale could be sustained only
by drawing down cash balances and reserves to a rather low level. However,
the 1966/67 budget has provided for a surplus in the recurrent account
of £5.5 million, (£7.7 million in.cluding n.on-recurrent revenue), mainly
by introducing new taxes and increasing rates of some of the existing taxes,
and also by holding down, recurrent expenditures.  Present indications are
that the Government will, in. fact, achieve a recurrent budgetary surplus
in 1966/67, though the actual size of the surplus may be somewqhat smaller
than. estimated. Moreover, while the development budget for 1966/67
shows an, estimated expenditure of £19.68 million, the actual amount
of capital expenditure is likely to be about £13.0 million0   The recent
action of the Government in. the budgetary field shows a recognition of
the need to mobilize increasing amounts of domestic capital to finance
development expenditure, though the total fin.ancing picture suggests that
external assistance will be required o.n a large scale to bring about
accelerated econ.omic development.
25.       The previous memorandum (AF-53) forecast an. improvement in the
balance of payments situation,, which had given much cause for conrcern in,
the period immediately prior to 1966/67. It was observed that, although



a deficit was likely in the current account balance of payments, this would
ba offset by a net capital inflow.   While public capital is likely to flow
in as projected, there appears to have been a continued outflow of private
capital, particularly to Kenya. Though private capital transfers outside
East Africa are subject to exchange control regulations, the interim cur-
rency agreement between Uganda and Kenya makes it possible to transfer
capital between. the two countries.
26.       Uganda's total external debt (including undisbursed amounts and
its notional one-third share of EACSO debt) stood at £76.0 million ($212.8
million) on. June 30, 1966. The ratio of debt service payments to estimated
receipts in. the curren,t account balance of payments in, 1966 was about 4.6%.
Though Uganda's potential for long-term growth and diversification suggests
that there may be a margin for incurring additional debt on. conventional
terms, the rather gloomy outlook for increased coffee export earnings (on
which the economy is heavily dependent), the low per capital income (about
$106), the probability of further substantial borrowing on conventional
terms for EACSO services, and the need to raise large amounts of external
capital to implement the national development program lead to the con-
clusion that a proportion of Uganda's external debt should be on.non-
conventional terms.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
27.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
Resolution. No.
Approval of a Developmen.t Credit to the State of Uganda
(Education Project) in an. amount equivale.n.t to U.S. $10,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit
to the State of Uganda in. an amount in various currencies
equivalen.t to ten million United States dollars (U.S.
$10,000,000) to mature on. or prior to March 1, 2017, to
bear a service charge at the rate of three-foLrths of
one percent (3/h of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such
other terms an,d conditions substantially in accordance
with the terms an.d conditions set forth in, the form of
the Development Credit Agreement (Education Project)
between the State of Uganda and the Association, which
has been.presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
Presiden.t
Attachments                                   by J, Burke Knapp
Washington, D. C.
April 6, 1967



