Report No. PIC4706
Project Name              Eritrea-Road Sector Engineering Project (RSEP)
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Infrastructure
Project ID                ERPA44651
Borrower                  Government of the State of Eritrea (GOE)
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Construction (MOC)
Contact: Mr. Eyob Ghirme, General Manager
Road Transport Construction Dept, P.O. Box 841,
Asmara, Eritrea.
Phone:   (291 1) 18 20 17
Fax:   (291 1) 12 06 61
Date of this PID          January, 1997
Appraisal                 November, 1996
Projected Board Date      March, 1997
1.   Country and Sector Background.   Eritrea is a new country which
became a member of the Bank Group in July 1994, after 3 decades of war -
from which inherited a shattered economy, an infrastructure damaged by
the war and neglected maintenance, a neglected social sector, large
numbers of refugees, and limited institutional capacity. The project,
which includes 2 infrastructure studies and institutional capacity
building, has been formulated by GOE to address many of these issues.
2.   Project Objectives.   The infrastructure component includes: (i)
Bridges have received very little maintenance for many years and many
were destroyed or damaged during the civil conflict. A national bridge
condition survey and strength analysis study with the objectives of
identifying a national bridge rehabilitation, construction and
maintenance program, and establishing bridge inspection and analysis
capacity within the Road Transport Construction Department (RTCD); and
(ii) a feasibility study, environmental impact assessment and detailed
engineering design of 2 main roads serving the Gash Setit region, with
the objective of identifying economically justified prioritized road
rehabilitation and/or new construction, to serve as a spur to economic
growth and poverty alleviation and to facilitate the development of
rain-fed agriculture development, refugee resettlement, and access to
health and educational services in the South West of Eritrea.
The technical assistance and capacity building comprises 3 separate
components: (i) contract administration; (ii) spare parts management and
procurement; and (iii) upgraded mechanic skills. (i) The contract
administration TA and training component objective will establish,
within RTCD, a civil engineering contract administration capability
which is essential, if the policy of contracting out construction and
maintenance to the private sector is to be successful; (ii) The spare
parts management component will review and up-date management and
procurement systems to improve the availability of spare parts, and
thereby plant and equipment equipment availability; (iii) The skills



upgrading component will train RTCD's senior mechanics, electricians and
equipment operators essentially through on-the-job training. The
component will result in the rehabilitation/repair of 40 items of heavy
equipment which are currently grounded and staff suitably qualified to
better maintain and operate the existing construction equipment. In
addition, mechanic and plant operator trainers will be trained to
continue the skills' upgrading program.
3.   Project Description.   The project includes the detailed design for
both the Keren-Barentu-Tessenei and Barentu-Mendefera primary roads, to
standards based on a feasibility study and environmental impact
assessment. The two roads are considered as a network serving Western
Eritrea and there may be the potential for substantial traffic
diversion.
The national bridge condition survey and structural analysis will survey
all bridges on the network, not covered by the road study, and, using
non-destructive testing, will assess their structural strengths,
permissible loadings, and rehabilitation needs. The findings will be
presented as a prioritized program for bridge maintenance,
rehabilitation and reconstruction.
In order for road construction and maintenance works to be undertaken by
contract, the RTCD of the Ministry of Construction (MOC) must establish
a contract administration capacity. This will require recruitment and
training of RTCD engineers, together with development of standard
contract documents and recommended contract administration organization,
systems and procedures.
While it is Government policy to contract out civil works, the capacity
of the private sector is limited and force account activity will
continue to be necessary for some years. There is also need to improve
systems within RTCD to ensure efficient procurement of spares, provide
adequate estimates for budgeting, and improve the monitoring and control
of both spares and equipment.
The vocational training institutes in Eritrea produce basic mechanics
without the specialist skills needed for the maintenance of heavy
equipment and plant. The project will finance training/upgrading of
RTCD mechanics, mainly through supervised on-the-job training. The
basis of the training will be the repair and overhaul of about 40 units
of currently grounded heavy plant and equipment over a 12 month period.
Two master mechanics and an expert on electrical systems are to provide
two 6 month courses to a total of about 32 mechanics. There will also
be some classroom instruction and equipment and operator training. The
project will fund the technical assistance, specialized equipment as
necessary, and spare parts. The project is to finance the training of
one equipment operator trainer (in Eritrea) and three mechanic and one
electrical trainers (overseas training), to facilitate the
sustainability of the in-house training instigated under the project.
A small mechanic training facility, comprising: two classrooms and a
small training workshop, will be constructed within the main RTCD
compound. These civil works will be funded by GOE.
- 2 -



4.   Project Financing.   Project financing will be in the form of an IDA
Credit for the foreign costs of the project, approximately 88 percent of
the total costs, and GOE will finance the local costs.
5.   Project Implementation.   The project will be implemented by RTCD.
The project design is simple, essentially consisting of three
consultancy contracts. The Head of Engineering, RTCD, will act as the
overall project coordinator as well as taking direct responsibility for
the engineering studies and the contract administration TA component.
The Chief Warehouse Manager will be responsible for the procurement TA
component, and the Head of Technical Services and Training for the
skills' upgrading TA component.
6.   Project Sustainability.   With the exception of the roads' study,
the project components are designed as sustainable capacity building.
The bridge study will include training of RTCD staff in both the
condition survey and strength analysis operations, including load
testing of structures; the trained staff will form the nucleus of a
bridge inspectorate within RTCD. The contract administration component
is specifically designed to train RTCD engineers in contract
administration, resulting in the establishment of an RTCD contract
administration section. The implementation of improved of spare parts'
procurement systems and practises will include training and supervised
experience in the use of the revised systems. The skills' upgrading
component includes the training of trainers specifically for sustaining
the program.
7.   Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.    The
only completed Bank project in Eritrea is the multi-donor Recovery and
Rehabilitation Project for Eritrea (RRPE), which included a road
component consisting of: (i) the upgrading of the Asmara - Massawa
road, funded by the European Union; and (ii) the construction of
maintenance depots at Karen and Barentu by IDA. The project was rated
as highly satisfactory in realizing the implementation and development
objectives, reflecting 'genuine government commitment' to successful
project implementation. The draft IDA Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) recommended that future projects have: (i) clearly defined
objectives and implementation methodologies; (ii) implementation
indicators; and (iii) a Project Management Unit (PMU), responsible for
implementation supervision, coordination of donors, procurement and
overall project management support. The proposed project has: clearly
defined objectives; clear implementation methodologies; and
implementation indicators for each component. A Project Management Unit
is not considered necessary as: (i) The project is very simple; (ii) the
project components are essentially independent; and (iii) there are no
multi-donor project components. GOE appointment of a suitably qualified
project coordinator is, however, considered essential.
8.   Poverty Category.   Not applicable.  The infrastructure studies and
RTCD capacity building are necessary for the subsequent improvement of
the road network. The IDA Participatory Rural Assessment Study
identified isolation and the lack of road links as major constraints to
poverty alleviation. The project thus prepare the base for future
poverty alleviation.
9.   Environmental Category.   Category "C".  No significant
-3 -



environmental issues are associated with this project; the only civil
works is the small training facility, adjacent to the existing RTCD
maintenance workshop in Asmara. The proposed roads' study includes a
full environmental study for a potential Category "A" project.
10. Program Objectives Category. This project is designed in
accordance with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) road sector
objectives for infrastructure strengthening and institutional capacity
building. The direct project objective is environmentally sustainable
development (EN).
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 14, 1997.
- 4 -



