Document of
The World- Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7244-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 133.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
June 3, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The CFA franc (CFAF) is pegged to the French franc (FF) at the rate of 1 FF = 100 CFAF
Average exchange rate
Fiscal Year          US$1 = CFAF
1995                  518.6
1996                  501.8
1997                  541.1
METRIC SYSTEM WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric             US Equivalent
1 meter (m)            3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)           2.47 acres (a)
1 kilogram (kg)            2.21 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ARC                Attestation de Reservation de Cale (loading certificate)
AFD                Agence Fran,aise de Developpement (French Development Agency)
BEAC               Banque des Etats de l 'Afrique Centrale (Regional Central Bank)
BICEC              Banque Internationale du Cameroun pour I 'Epargne et le Commerce
BICIC              Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et I'Industrie du Cameroun
BOT                Build-Operate-Transfer
CAMAIR             Cameroon Airlines
CAMSUCO            Cameroon Sugar Company
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CDC                Cameroon Development Corporation
CFAF               CFA franc
CIMA               Regional Treaty on Insurance
CNCC               National Shippers' Council
CNPS               Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance Sociale (National Social Insurance Fund)
CNR                Compagnie Nationale de Reassurance (National Insurance Company)
Vice President          Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director        Serge Michailof, CD7
Sector Manager          Luca Barbone, AFTM3
Task Team Leader        Brendan Horton, AFTM3



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Abbreviations (continued)
COBAC             Commission Bancaire de I 'Afrique Centrale (Banking Commission)
CTS               Comite Technique de Suivi (Technical Supervision Committee)
ESAF              Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (IMF)
FIMAC             Financement d 'Investissements de Micro-Realisations Agricoles
et Communautaires
FNE               Fonds National de l 'Emploi (National Employment Agency)
HEVECAM           Heveas du Cameroun (Rubber Cameroon)
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IMF               International Monetary Fund
MINEF             Ministere de l 'Environnement et des Forets (Ministry of Environment and
Forests)
MINEFI            Ministere de l 'Economie et des Finances (Ministry of Economy and
Finance)
NGO               Non-governmental Organization
ONADEF            Office National du Developpement des Forets
ONPC              Office National des Ports du Cameroun (National Ports Office of
Cameroon)
PFP               Policy Framework Paper
PNFVA             Programme National de Formation et de Vulgarisation Agricole (National
Program for Agricultural Training and Adult Education)
PNGE              Plan National de Gestion de l 'Environnement (National Environmental
Administration Program)
PNVA              Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole (National Agricultural
Extension Program)
PSA               Programme de S&curite Alimentaire (Food Security Program)
PSU               Programme Social d'Urgence (Emergency Social Program)
REGIFERCAM        Regie Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun (National Railway)
ROAD FUND         Fonds Routier, established by Law 96-07 du 8 avril 1996 portant
protection du patrimoine routier national company
SAC II            Second Structural Adjustment Credit
SDA               Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SIC               Societt Immobiliere du Cameroun (Cameroon Housing Company)
SNEC              Societt Nationale des Eaux du Cameroun (Cameroon Water Supply
Company)
SOCAPALM          Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies (Cameroon Palm oil Company)
SOCAR             Societe Camerounaise d'Assurance et de Reassurance (Insurance
Company)
SODECOTON         Societe de Developpement Cotonnier (Cotton Development Company)
SONEL             Societe Nationale d'Electriciti (National Electricity Company)
SRC               Societe de Recouvrement des Creances (Credit Recovery Company)
UNCTAD            United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Contents
1. ADJUSTMENT EFFORTS, 1986-PRESENT ...................................................                                                                                    I
A. BACKGROUND AND CURRENT CONCERNS ....................................................1
B. MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS ...................................................                                                                    4
2. THE NEXT PHASE OF ADJUSTMENT ...................................................                                                                                        5
A. LESSONS FROM  PAST ADJUSTMENT EXPERIENCE AND CREDIT DESIGN ..................                                                      ................................. 5
B. THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ...................................................                                                                                              6
1. Overallframework for promoting growth and reducing poverty ...................................................                                                      6
2. Transport sector ...................................................                                                                                                7
P orts   ....... .. ................................... ..................... ........................................... ..................................... .. ... ......... .. 8
R o ads   ....... .. ........ ... ... .. .................. ... ..................... .................................................... ..............................   I10
Railways ...I.........I...................................................I.......                                                        ................. I I
Air Transport ................................................................................ 12
3. Privatization ............................................................................. 13
4. Financial sector .................................................                                               ;                                                 15
5. Forestry sector.16
3. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT                                                                                          .19
A. CREDIT AMOUNT, DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES, IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING .19
B. RATIONALE FOR THE CREDIT.19
C. LINKS TO THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY .20
D. BENEFITS AND RISKS.22
1. Benefits.22
2. Risks.22
4. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS.23
5. RECOMMENDATION.23
Annex A: SUmmarY of COnditiOnalitieS.24
Annex B: Letter of Development Policy.28
Poverty Reduction Strategy Statement.54
Port Sector Reform Program..6................................. 26
Annex C: Policy Matrix.76
Annex D: Supplemental Credit Data Sheet.                                                                                                                                  84
Attachments I to VI:.85



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Cameroon
Amount:        IDA Credit SDR 133.5 million, US$180 million equivalent
Terms:         Standard IDA terms with 40 years' maturity
Program
Description:   Cameroon's next phase of adjustment aims to lay the groundwork for a
substantial increase in economic growth-to more than 5 percent a year-in
order to create jobs (especially for the young) and reduce poverty. The
adjustment program will focus on consolidating and deepening reforms in four
areas: the transport sector, the privatization program (public utilities and agro-
industries), the financial sector, and the forestry sector. Several development
objectives have been identified. In the transport sector: to substantially lower
transport costs and increase the availability and quality of services, both
internationally and domestically. In public utilities: to increase the availability
of telecommunications, water, and electricity and the efficiency of service
providers. In the agro-industrial sector: to unleash the sector's potential to
produce exports as well as supplies for the domestic market. In the financial
sector: to develop a stable, sound, and efficient financial sector, boost public
confidence in the financial system, and increase its capacity to finance
productive economic activity. In the forestry sector: to promote sustainable
exploitation of Cameroon's forests, preserve ecological stability, promote
economically efficient, high value added, unsubsidized processing industries,
and encourage all stakeholders to participate in forest conservation and
management.
Benefits:      Successful implementation of the adjustment program envisaged under this
credit would help provide the enabling environment and direct support needed
to achieve growth and poverty reduction objectives. The adjustment program
will reduce opportunities for corruption and increase transparency.
Restructuring the port of Douala and changing management will remove
entrenched interests. Removing the State from the banking sector and the
management of public utilities will substantially reduce rent seeking. In
forestry, a new system for granting concessions and ensuring the
implementation of land use management plans will make more transparent a
process that in the past harbored serious abuses. As a result of the forestry tax
reform, Cameroon, and especially forest communities, should capture a larger
share of the resource rent.



ii
Risks:         The main risks are that the reform program will falter because of political
opposition, lack of commitment to reforms, or institutional weaknesses.
Government commitment to economic reform and poverty reduction has
increased in the past two years, as evidenced by the successful implementation
of the SAC II. The current administration increased its strength in Parliament
in the recent elections, and a committed group is leading policy reforms. The
reformers must deliver tangible benefits to the general public if they are to
prevail.
As with previous programs, implementation will be in the hands of the
Technical Supervision Committee (Comite Technique de Suivi, or CTS),
which is managed by the secretary general of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance (MINEFI)-himself a former deputy minister and a committed
reformer. Because the reforms envisaged under the credit are complemented
by those under the ESAF, actions will be monitored by both the IDA and the
IMF. IDA and other donors (France, European Union) also expect to provide
Technical Assistance as needed. To guard against inadequate implementation,
the proposed credit will release resources only when reforms are effective, not
when they are promised.
Staff Appraisal
Report:        None required
Estimated
Disbursements:  The credit would have two cross-sectoral tranches, as well as four floating
sectoral tranches linked to the completion of agreed actions in the transport
sector (one tranche), the privatization program (two tranches), and the forestry
sector (one tranche). The first cross-sectoral tranche (US$50 million) would
be released on effectiveness, and the second (US$26 million) in late 1998 or
early 1999. The four sectoral tranches (US$26 million) would then be
available for release, in any order, upon completion of the package of reforms
to which they are attached. They are expected to be disbursed before the end
of FY00.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 133.5 MILLION (US$180 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation for a Third
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III) to the Republic of Cameroon for SDR 133.5 million, the
equivalent of US$180 million. The credit would be on standard IDA terms, with an amortization
period of 40 years. The credit would have two cross-sectoral tranches, as well as four floating
sectoral tranches linked to the completion of agreed actions in the transport sector (one tranche),
the privatization program (two tranches), and the forestry sector (one tranche). The first cross-
sectoral tranche would be released on effectiveness, and the second in late 1998 or early 1999.
The four sectoral tranches would then be available for release, in any order, upon completion of
the package of reforms to which they are attached.
2.    The proposed credit is the second of the two policy credits discussed in the Country
Assistance Strategy presented to the Board in February 1996, and again in the Country
Assistance Strategy update discussed on March 12, 1998 (Report IDA/R98-14). The first credit
(Cr. 2813-CM) has been fully disbursed following fully satisfactory implementation in mid-1997
of the public finance and financial sector restructuring components (Reports IDA/SecM97-374
and IDA/Sec97-391). The proposed credit is the centerpiece of IDA's Country Assistance
Strategy and of the Government's Reform Program, outlined in the attached letter of
development policy and the Policy Framework Paper (1997-99) distributed to the Executive
Directors in July 1997 (Report No. SecM97-679).
3.    During the Board discussion of the Country Assistance Strategy update, Executive
Directors commended the Government for its achievements, especially in improving
macroeconomic performance, restructuring the banking sector, and privatizing state enterprises.
They noted that Cameroon stands at a crucial juncture, and stressed the need to maintain the
momentum of reforms to ensure further growth and poverty reduction. While several directors
welcomed the proposed lending program, others perceived Cameroon as a reluctant adjuster and
expressed concern about the size of the SAC III then being prepared. The structure and size of
the proposed operation respond to these concerns. The amount proposed-US$180 million
equivalent-is fully justified by Cameroon's recent progress on stabilization and adjustment, by
its external financing requirements over the next two years, and by the scope and complexity of
the proposed reforms.
1.    ADJUSTMENT EFFORTS, 1986-PRESENT
A.   BACKGROUND AND CURRENT CONCERNS
4.    Stabilization and adjustment performance. Cameroon fell into deep crisis in 1986,
when large external shocks, coupled with economic mismanagement, led to the most overvalued



2
exchange rate in the CFA franc zone. Policymakers, slow to recognize the depth of the country's
crisis, tried to restore international competitiveness through internal deflation from 1988 to 1993.
This policy failed, leading to a severe depression, a 50 percent drop in per capita income, and a
collapse in the integrity of the civil service following 50 percent nominal salary cuts in 1993.
Economic policies have improved since the 1994 devaluation, however. Stabilization and
adjustment are firmly under way. Growth has reached 5 percent, inflation has fallen to about 2.1
percent in FY98, the external current account deficit is about 2 percent of GDP, and the overall
budget deficit is about 2.1 percent of GDP (Box 1). Moreover, the primary budget surplus rose
from 0.9 percent of GDP in fiscal 1993 to 5.4 percent in fiscal 1996 and 5.8 percent in fiscal
1997. These primary surpluses, among the world's highest, enabled the authorities to repay
external debt and reduce arrears on non-reschedulable debt totaling US$450 million (about 5
percent of GDP) in 1996-97-despite having received no official external financial support.
These efforts essentially normalized relations with external creditors. Recent years have also seen
impressive progress on structural reforms (Box 2).
Box 1: Cameroon's macroeconomic indicators, fiscal 1993-98
92/93  93/94  95/96  96/97  97/98
A. Growth rates
GDP growth                          -3.2   -2.5    5.3    5.1    5.0
GDP deflator                         2.0   11.0    5.4    2.7    1.3
Inflation (12-month average)        -3.7   12.7    6.4    4.3    2.1
B. Shares of GDP
Current account (incl. grants)      -5.2   -4.2   -2.4   -1.4   -2.4
Govemment revenue                   13.7   10.1   14.3   15.1   15.5
Overall fiscal balance              -6.3   -9.2   -1.8   -1.0   -2.1
Primary balance (excl.
foreign-financed investment)         0.9    0.8    5.4    5.8    5.6
C. Debt service
As a % of exports                   47.7   57.2   55.3   42.0   38.9
As a % of Govemment revenue         11.2   95.8   39.0   32.8
Box 2: Cameroon's recent structural reforms
Tax reform             Import duties and a VAT-type turnover tax were introduced in February 1994. Between
(1994, 1996-present)  1996 and 1998 export taxes on nonforestry agro-industrial products were cut from 15
percent to 10 percent. They will be reduced to 5 percent as of July 1, 1998.
Trade and             External trade: Nearly all nontariffbarriers on exports and imports were eliminated
commierce (1994-      immediately after the 1994 devaluation. International maritime transport was fully
present)              liberalized in December 1997. Internal commerce: The Labor Code was liberalized and
price controls were eliminated. Coffee and cocoa trade has been completely liberalized.
Forestry              A new forestry code was introduced, and forestry taxes are being revised-for example, by
(1994--present)       cutting implicit subsidies to processing industries and auctioning cutting rights.
Civil service (1990,    All ministries have been restructured and employment reduced by 20,000 through
1993, :1996-present)  retirement, voluntary departures and retrenchment programs.
Public enterprises    Key loss-making units have been closed. The main rubber company was privatized in late
(1994-.present)        1996, and the shipping company in early 1997. Intemational competitive bidding for the
largest palm oil producer began in December 1997, and for the national water company in
April 1998.
Banking               The sector has been successfully restructured, with profitability restored and prudential
(1996-present)        ratios satisfied. Insolvent banks have been closed, and the only remaining Government
owned bank is now under private management.
Petroleum             The National Oil Company was audited in 1997. Downstream, petroleum pump prices are
(1997-present)        adjusted each month in line with international crude prices. Imports of refined petroleum
products are to be liberalized at end-June 1998.



3
5.    Poverty reduction. Despite these achievements, poverty remains widespread. About
half the population lives below the poverty line of 148,000 CFAF (US$250) a year. Progress on
poverty reduction has been limited in recent years in part because of lackluster growth
performance, and in part because of the financial burden caused by the restoration of
macroeconomic balances and the improvement of relations with external creditors, which has put
a serious strain on public resources. Unemployment and underemployment are high, and many
rural and urban residents lack access to primary schooling, health care, and safe water. Poverty
reduction efforts have also suffered from the weak institutional capacity and the inadequate
delivery systems for core infrastructure and social services.
6.    The strategy for poverty reduction in Cameroon must thus encompass two areas:
increased and sustained growth, and greater effectiveness of public expenditures in areas that are
key for lifting people out of poverty, mainly the social sectors and basic infrastructure. The
Government is developing a national poverty reduction strategy along these lines, based on
consultation with and participation by all segments of society. The strategy, including detailed
sectoral action plans, is expected to be adopted towards the end of FY99. To this end, a draft
poverty reduction strategy statement has been elaborated during the preparation of SAC III and is
attached to the Government's Letter of Development Policy. The proposed Credit, by addressing
key structural impediments to higher growth, and by fostering a better use of public resources, is
an integral part of the poverty reduction strategy.
7.    Governance, transparency, and corruption. The Government, recognizing that poor
governance, lack of transparency, and widespread corruption severely impede private investment
and effective poverty reduction, has begun to address them. On the governance front, the 1996
Constitution should enhance political participation and make the Government more accountable
to Parliament. At the economic level, a General Statute for Public Enterprises has been adopted,
setting the stage for better governance and accountability. Credit recovery laws have been
revised to accelerate the recovery of loans from delinquent bank borrowers. And delinquent
borrowers have been barred from obtaining commercial bank credits, providing goods and
services to the State, and participating in the privatization program (Cameroon is the only
francophone country to have adopted such measures). On the transparency front, the National
Oil Company's accounts were audited for the first time in 1997; such reports will now be made
each year. Fully transparent procedures are also being used for privatization. After a lapse of
several years, the Official Gazette is being published again. Finally, the authorities plan to
completely revise public accounting systems, an essential step for collecting the basic
information essential to transparency. On the corruption front, efforts are being made to reduce
its scope and incidence and to punish offenders. Immediately after his appointment in September
1996, the new minister for economy and finance tightened financial controls in his ministry. In
addition, several senior officials in MINEFI have been removed. The newly appointed minister
of control for the state (the Ministry is somewhat akin to the U.S. General Accounting Office)
recently took strong measures of a similar nature within her department. And in March 1998 the
top management of the port of Douala and his deputy were replaced. Looking forward, the
Government is working with the United Nations Development Program and other donors to
increase decentralization, reform the judiciary, strengthen public administration and financial



4
management, and enhance popular participation in formulating and implementing public policy.
This program will be presented to donors in late 1998.
8.    Environment. Cameroon has extensive natural resources and biodiversity, and steps are
being taken to sustainably manage and protect these resources. More uniform implementation of
recent provisions to increase transparency in the use of forestry resources is a particular concern.
Continued economic growth will require strengthening environmental management capacity in
the public sector, including through an extended dialogue with stakeholders and civil society and
a regulatory framework that provides clear and transparent rules for private investors and local
communities. The strategy for developing such capacity, described in Cameroon's National
Environmental Management Plan, is being implemented both centrally and through decentralized
sectoral and regional institutions, with donor support. Further institutiona]L strengthening is
required in several areas-for exarnple, environmental information collection and management,
and ports, roads, and oil sector development (especially related to the Chad-Cameroon oil
pipeline - for which a technical assistance project is currently under preparation).
9.    Donor support for adjustment. Based on Cameroon's adjustment record and the
achievements of 1996-97, the IMF approved a three-year ESAF on August 20, 1997, to be
supported by three Annual Arrangements (about SDR 54 million each). In October 1997 the
Paris Club proviided Cameroon with a three-year flow rescheduling package providing 50 percent
relief in present value terms. It also agreed in principle to consider a 67 percent debt stock
reduction in 2000, provided that Cameroon maintains satisfactory relations with all Club
members in the interim and that the IMF program remains on track. If 5 percent annual growth is
sustained and the Paris Club agrees to a 67 percent debt stock reduction in 2000 (the decision
point for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative), external debt is considered to be
broadly manageable from then on. By 2003 debt service would account for 23 percent of
Govermnent revenues, the net present value of debt to exports would be 148 percent, and annual
debt service would be 16 percent of exports.
10.   These developments have led other bilateral and multilateral creditors-notably France,
the European Union, and the African Development Bank-to resume assistance to Cameroon.
The mid-term review of the FY98 ESAF was successfully completed, leading to the release of
the second tranche in early April 1998. The review of the third quarter has also just been
completed. All quantitative and structural benchmarks were met except non-oil revenues which
were about one percent below target. The IMF currently expects to present the second Annual
ESAF Arrangement for FY99 to its Board in September 1998.
B.    MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
11.   Medium-term prospects. The current Policy Framework Paper scenario, which takes
into account East Asia's downturn, projects real GDP growth to average between 5.0 and 5.3
percent during 1997-2000, resulting in real per capita income increases of only 2.0-2.5 percent a
year. With oil production declining, the non-oil sector will have to grow faster than overall GDP.
Similarly, slowdowns in oil exports and revenues will need to be compensated by higher non-oil
revenues. By 2000, total Government revenues are expected to reach 17.9 percent of GDP,



5
compared with 15.1 percent in 1996-97. Although a high primary surplus will still be required
for sizable debt service payments, the surplus is expected to drop to 5.4 percent of GDP in fiscal
2000 to accommodate higher-priority public spending, including investment. Investment should
increase from 16.6 to 20.1 percent of GDP during the program period. National savings is
expected to increase from 15.4 to 17.9 percent of GDP, implying that the current account deficit
will rise from 1.2 percent of GDP in 1996-97 to 2.1 percent by the end of the program period.
12.   Financing requirements. Cameroon's cumulative current account deficit is projected to
reach CFAF 428 billion over the three-year program. The country's total financing requirement
is projected to be CFAF 2,485 billion, with more than half going to amortization and arrears
repayments. The financing gap, after committed foreign aid, grants, and private investment, is
CFAF 1,559 billion. Expected financing consists of CFAF 1,020 billion in debt rescheduling
from the Paris Club (October 1997 rescheduling), CFAF 131 billion from the IMF's ESAF,
CFAF 123.5 billion from other bilateral and multilateral donors, and CFAF 195 billion from
IDA, including SAC II, the proposed SAC III, and IDA reflows for the three-year period. Thus
about two-thirds of the financing burden is borne by official bilateral creditors in the form of debt
rescheduling. IDA's share is about 12.5 percent, and the IMF's, about 8.5 percent. This implies a
residual financing gap of CFAF 91 billion. Of this, CFAF 55 billion is expected to be financed
through debt rescheduling by non-Paris Club official creditors on the same terms as those
granted by the Paris Club in October 1997. Thus financing will have to be sought for the
remaining CFAF 36 billion (about US$60 million). A portion of this will come from the
privatization program, which is a major component of the Government's reform program.
2.    THE NEXT PHASE OF ADJUSTMENT
A.   LESSONS FROM PAST ADJUSTMENT EXPERIENCE AND CREDIT DESIGN
13.   The next phase of Cameroon's adjustment aims to lay the groundwork for a substantial
increase in economic growth-to more than 5 percent a year-in order to create jobs and reduce
poverty. Higher growth is within the country's reach, and is required to significantly increase per
capita incomes and create employment opportunities for the rapidly growing young labor force.
The adjustment program will focus on consolidating and deepening reforms in four areas: the
transport sector, the privatization program, the financial sector, and the forestry sector. The
adjustment program will be cast in the overall Country Assistance Strategy framework for
promoting growth and reducing poverty by consolidating the benefits of the 1994 devaluation,
promoting a competitive and efficient private sector, and raising the incomes and productivity of
the poor. This will require maintaining appropriate macroeconomic policies and public finance
management, strengthening incentives and the regulatory framework, and fostering institutional
development.
14.   Experience with Cameroon's past adjustment experience points to five lessons which
have influenced the design of the proposed credit. The first is the importance of having a
credible macroeconomic framework. This issue was addressed during the preparation of the PFP
and ESAF in 1997, where the objective has been to set ambitious yet realistic fiscal targets to
enable Cameroon to restore its relations with external creditors, while trying to increase key



6
development expenditures. The second lesson is that poverty has to be brought to center stage of
the reform agenda, and that poverty reduction requires not only more public expenditures but
also major structural reforms. As mentioned, a comprehensive poverty reduction strategy is
being developed, and should be adopted before the end of FY99. The Credit will require as a
general condition the maintenance of a satisfactory overall framework for growth and poverty
reduction, rather than just a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. Third, enhancing growth,
while protectijng the environment, requires aL deepening of structural reforms in the four areas
identified (transport sector, privatization, financial sector and forestry sector). Fourth, it is vital
to reward outcomes rather than inputs and/or promises. Hence, the Credit uses a combination of
cross-sectoral and sector specific floating tranches. The first two tranches are cross-sectoral in
nature, and are the essential building blocks for the attainment of the desired sectoral outcomes,
that are the objiect of the four sector specific floating tranches. These will be released in any order
but only when the reforms have been attained. And last, it is essential that the Government has
ownership of the reform program and commitment to the implementation of the reforms. In this
context, the Government's Adjustment P.rogam is described in the attached Letter of
Development Policy (Annex B) and Policy Matrix (Annex C). The Letter also contains, as an
Attachment, a draft poverty reduction strategy statement, which will be adopted by Government
and published before the end of 1998. It will also form the basis of the global poverty reduction
strategy which the Government will prepare and adopt before the end of FY99.
B.    THE ADJIUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.    Overall framework for promoting growth and reducing poverty
15.   Macroeconomic framework and public finances. Using appropriate policies, the
program will maintain a competitive exchange rate to control inflation and provide resources for
priority spending. On the revenue side, the focus will be on better mobilization, especially of
non-oil revenues, mainly through improved adLministration of trade and internal taxes and further
reductions in unjustified exemptions. On the expenditure side, efforts will continue to increase
the quality and level of capital and recurrent expenditures in key development programs-
agricultural research and extension, forestry and development, physical infrastructure, primary
health and education-that are key for the implementation of a poverty reduction strategy. Steps
will also be taken to reform social security (see the section on the financial sector, below) and
implement an arrears settlement program. Under the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC
II), Government arrears to suppliers incurred before June 30, 1993, were securitized through the
issue of Government bonds at 1-3 percent interest with maturities of 2-12 years. Arrears have
continued to accumulate, however, and pose significant problems for the private sector
(especially smaill and medium-size enterprises). Thus the new arrears settlemLent program will
settle debts inctrred until June 30, 1997.
16.   Incentives and the regulatory framework. A  recently created competitiveness
committee will be the focal point for a public-private dialogue on measures needed to strengthen
the business environment, such as lowering transactions costs and eliminating disincentives to
investment. One area requiring careful attention is the judiciary, where inefficiencies severely



7
hinder business development. In addition, the adjustment program will revise the investment
code and export processing zone legislation. Export taxes, currently 10 percent on key
agricultural products, will be reduced to 5 percent on July 1, 1998 (except on forestry products),
and are expected to be repealed in July 1999. Other fiscal disincentives to exports will also be
eliminated. A new competition law will be adopted. And remaining nontariff barriers will be
eliminated, particularly on petroleum imports. In the social sectors the focus will be on removing
regulatory barriers to the provision of health and education in outlying provinces, revising the
regulatory framework for the import and distribution of essential and generic drugs, and
eliminating regulatory barriers that artificially inflate the price of textbooks.
17.    Institutional development. Accelerating growth and reducing poverty will require
reforming existing institutions and developing new ones, especially for improved access to
primary health care and education and basic infrastructure (potable water, sanitation, transport
services). The adjustment program will focus on the measures needed to improve public services
while decentralizing service delivery; to target underserved regions and groups; and to strengthen
public-private partnerships-including articulating Government responsibilities and facilitating
service delivery by the private sector, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and local
communities.
18.    Key conditionalities. The release of all tranches will be conditioned on the maintenance
of an appropriate macroeconomic framework for the exchange rate, inflation, and public finance
management. Specific public finance and poverty reduction conditions are summarized in Box 3.
Box 3: Key conditionalities for macroeconomic management and poverty reduction
Macroeconomic management          Poverty reduction
Board      *  Presentation to the National
presentation  Assembly of a-draft Budget Law for 1998-
99 with appropriate dispositions for the
sources and mechanisms of financing for
the Road Fund
Second                                      *  Adoption and publication of
tranche                                     poverty reduction strategy
statement and an initial action plan
2.     Transport sector
19.   The overall development objective for the transport sector is to ensure that it contributes
to growth and poverty reduction through much lower transport costs and more widely available,
higher-quality services, both internationally and domestically. The critical constraints concern
the regulatory framework and the inefficiency of the main public service providers. The
adjustment program calls for regulatory, institutional, and management reforms in the port
sector, maritime transport, road maintenance, and rail transport. These reforms will include
implementation of the recommendations of the Transport Sector Environmental Assessment
being carried out under IDA's Transport Sector Project.



8
Ports
20.   The port of Douala suffers from two major problems. First, it is the most expensive in
West Africa. Its tariffs are three times those in Abidjan, and port clearance for imported
containers takes 20-25 days-much longer than elsewhere on the coast. Secondly, the National
Ports Office of Cameroon (ONPC) failed to dredge the channel on a regular basis over the last
ten years, so that the channel has been two meters shallower than it should have been. This
shortcoming limited the size of vessels that could call at Douala, as well as the cargoes that could
be loaded, so hindering exports and imports.
21.   Objectives. Based on the conclusions of a November 1997 Roundtable organized by the
Ministry of Transport and attended by public and private stakeholders, the Government has
adopted a port restructuring strategy to be implemented over the next two to three years. The
strategy's primary objectives are to lower costs and shorten the average time required to move
goods through, the port of Douala, thus bringing the port closer to international standards, and to
put into place an effective strategy for ensuring sustainable dredging over the long term. These
goals will be achieved by reforming the regulatory and institutional framework, simplifying and
modernizing trade procedures, and rehabilitating the port of Douala. In addition, a new
management tieam will be installed and public-private partnerships will be promoted, increasing
private investment and reducing opportunities for rent seeking.
22.   Constraints. The current regulatory and institutional framework is not conducive to
efficient port operations and management. The National Ports Office of Cameroon (ONPC) is
poorly managed-its operating costs are high and it performs functions that are normally handled
by the private sector. It does not consult adequately with operators and users when planning and
executing investments, and it is not held accountable for its actions. Port infrastructure and
superstructures are poorly maintained, partly because contractual arrangements discourage
private investment. And over the years the ONPC has maintained an unsustainable investment
plan, with overly costly projects that are neither economically nor financially viable.
23.   Cumbersome trade and especially customs procedures further undermine port efficiency.
Although collection of customs revenues has improved, underlying procedures remain
unchanged. These problems are exacerbated by, among other things, weak human resources,
corrupt port transactions, an outdated computer system, and inconveniently located customs
buildings. This situation weakens the competitiveness of Cameroon and surrounding countries-
Chad and the Central African Republic-served by the port of Douala.
24.   Strategy to alleviate constraints. Regulatory and institutional reforms will focus on
establishing a National Port Authority whose functions will be limited to security, environmental
control and protection as well as management of port public assets. All industrial and
commercial activities as well as superstructure maintenance, and to the extent possible port
services will be transferred to the private sector following an agreed timetable. Furthermore,
management autonomy will be granted to each port and the National Port Authority will not
manage seconclary ports. To lower costs and port tariffs, the Port Authority will prepare a
performance plan that includes, inter-alia, measurable performance indicators and an investment



9
plan. Port orientation committees, on which port users will have majority representation, will be
created in each port to ensure complete consultation on port competitiveness, including tariff
setting and investment programming. The recommendations of these committees will be
communicated to the Ministry of Transport, and other administrations as needed.
25.    Efforts to lower costs and simplify and modernize trade procedures will seek to minimize
collusion and abuse of market power on the part of the port authority and port operators; and to
adopt measures with the objective of shortening clearance times in the port of Douala to seven
working days for containerized imports and two working days for containerized exports.
26.    Adoption of the port of Douala's priority investment program has been initially subject to
overall oversight by Government authorities, and has taken into account the views of port
operators and users and external financing agencies who are expected to contribute to its
financing. The three-year program includes a short-term emergency program. Efforts will focus
on preserving port superstructure and equipment, improving security, simplifying and
modernizing international trade procedures, and improving port access through a multiyear
dredging contract to deepen the channel and maintain it at the agreed depth. The program will
include environmental assessment and mitigation plans.
27.    Maritime transport. In November 1997, to introduce competition and lower the costs of
international maritime transport, Parliament eliminated all cargo sharing arrangements as well as
corresponding levies paid to the Shippers' Council. The law became effective in March 1998.
During the next stage the Shippers' Council will be restructured to promote international trade,
defend shippers' interests, and obtain revenues from fees instead of taxes.
28.    Key conditionalities. The port component of the proposed credit will be conditioned on
agreed actions prior to Board presentation, release of the second tranche, and release of the
transport sector floating tranche (Box 4).
Box 4: Key conditionalities for ports and maritime transport
Board           *   Adoption of a port reform and rehabilitation plan and implementation timetable
presentation    *   Liberalization of maritime transport
Second tranche   *   Adoption and promulgation of laws and decrees with the effect of (a) establishing a National
Port Authority entrusted exclusively with security, police and environmental control and control
and protection functions and the management of port public assets; (b) permitting autonomous
management of each port; (c) permitting the transfer of industrial and commercial activities as
well as superstructure maintenance to the private sector; (c) permitting the establishment of a
Consultative Orientation Committee in each port, with a majority of port users; and (d) making
provision for adequate transitional arrangements with respect to the above.
* Establishment of the Consultative Orientation Committee for the Port of Douala, and
appointment of its members
*   Satisfactory execution of a rehabilitation plan for the Port of Douala - in particular, dredging
work started on access channel
Transport sector  *   Completion of institutional and regulatory reform measures in the Port Sector
floating tranche  *   Completion, for the port of Douala, of the transfer to the private sector of all commercial and
industrial activities (warehousing, stevedoring, freight-forwarding, consignment) as well as port
services (maintenance of superstructure, towage, pilotage, berthage, ice manufacturing, and
maintenance of maritime navigational aids) on a competitive basis in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association
*   Satisfactory progress towards reduction of port clearance times in the Port of Douala for
containerized merchandise to 7 working days for imports and 2 working days for exports



10
Roads
29.   Cameroon's roads are in appalling shape. Scarce resources have been squandered-
dispersed across too many programs for political reasons, held to cumbersome procurement
procedures, and undermined by a lack of programming procedures, transparency, and
accountability in road maintenance. The situation has been exacerbated by systematic recourse to
road maintenance by force account (that is, works executed by the Ministry of Public Works),
which lacks transparency and is extremely inefficient and prone to abuses. Rural roads-which
account for half of the network-have been almost entirely abandoned. Rural roads have been
built by disparate agencies and lack clearly defined owners and maintenance budgets.
30.   Objectives. The main development objective for roads is to improve the quality and
efficiency of maintenance to prevent further deterioration, thereby lowering the cost and
improving the quality of road transport. Reforms will restore to efficient use a large part of the
road network, benefiting poor rural populations as well as the modem agro-industrial sector.
31.   Constraints. Current weaknesses result primarily from a lack of sustainable financing
and from deficient management and implementation capacity in the Ministry of Public Works,
which has overall responsibility for road maintenance. On the financing side, only about CFAF
20 billion (US$40 million), half the amount required to maintain the network, is budgeted for
road maintenance each year. But in 1996-97 actual payments amounted to just CFAF 4 billion
because provincial treasuries lacked sufficient funds. Thus huge arrears have developed,
deterring the development of private sector road maintenance.
31.   Strategy to alleviate constraints. The authorities plan to manage the road network on a
commercial basis and to privatize most maintenance. This strategy will require reorganizing the
Ministry of Public Works (strengthening its planning and programming capacity while reducing
the road maintenance staff) and creating a Road Fund with input from road users on how user
fees are spent. In addition, contractors and communities will need to be trained to incorporate
environmental considerations into road maintenance.
32.   Road user fees will be incorporated directly into the retail price of gasoline and diesel.
The corresponding revenues will be deposited by petroleum product distribution companies into
the Road Fund account at the Central Bank without transiting by the Treasury. The Central Bank
will immediately transfer the funds to the Road Fund's Commercial Bank Account. The Road
Fund will be subject to commercial accounting, and financial and technical audits will be
performed by external, independent auditors. In addition, the Road Fund will be commercially
managed, with a board composed primarily of road user representatives responsible for
approving the road budget. The Road Fund manager, to be selected by the board, will approve
road contracts. Establishment of the Road Fund will require two steps. First, publishing the
implementation decrees for Law 96-07, which fixes the organization and functions of the Road
Fund and its associated code of procedures. And second, in the 1998-99 Budget Law, the special
tax on petroleum will be decomposed into two distinct components: the petroleum excise tax
component, which will go into the general budget, and the road user charge component, which



11
will be deposited directly into the Road Fund. The Road Fund will become operational on July 1,
1998, well in time for the start of the next road maintenance season in November.
33.    The Road Fund will not cover all roads at the beginning. Indeed, a plan needs to be
developed for rural road maintenance. This plan should involve local communities and
Governments in the planning and design of works as well as in the execution of road
maintenance. The new road maintenance strategy should also define cost sharing rules between
the Road Fund and local Governments and set a ceiling for Road Fund allocations to rural roads.
34.    Key conditionalities. The road management component of the proposed credit will be
conditioned on agreed actions prior to Board presentation, effectiveness, release of the second
tranche, and release of the transport sector floating tranche (Box 5).
Box 5: Key conditionalities for road management
Board        *  Inclusion in the draft 1998/99 Budget Law of
presentation   dispositions, acceptable to IDA, concerning the sources
of and mechanisms for financing the Road Fund
Effectiveness   *  Publication of a decree defining the organization,
and functioning of the Road Fund
Second       *  Road Fund operational, in particular as regards the
tranche      transfer of the full proceeds of the Borrower's road
user fee to the Road Fund
Railways
35.    Rail transport is provided by one publicly owned company, REGIFERCAM. This setup
has severely undermined the efficiency of rail transport services-entailing significant economic
costs and imposing restrictions on the volume of traffic, especially to and from northern
Cameroon which increases road traffic. REGIFERCAM also generates significant financial
obligations for the state in connection with the financing of its investment program.
36.    Objectives. There are two main development objectives for the railway sector. First, to
improve the efficiency, sustainability, and quality of rail transport services, which are crucial for
domestic agriculture (especially cotton and forestry) as well as for trade with Chad. Second, to
eliminate the burden REGIFERCAM deficits place on public finance. In addition, the railway
will have a major role to play in transporting pipes and equipment during the construction of the
Chad-Cameroon pipeline. Appropriate arrangements will be needed to ensure proper handling of
environmentally hazardous cargoes (oils, chemicals, and so on) and proper control of pollution in
workshops (in particular, disposal of waste lubricants).
37.    Constraints. The restructuring of REGIFERCAM, initiated in 1989, was followed by a
performance contract transforming it into a fully autonomous commercial entity. Its regulatory
framework was redefined, and its workforce was cut from 6,400 in 1989 to 3,550 today.
Although the quality of service improved, in 1994 it became clear that this approach would not
succeed because of the restrictions imposed on REGIFERCAM as a public enterprise.



12
38.    Strategy to alleviate constraints. Thus the Government, with the full support of
REGIFERCAM managemrent, has decided to concession railway activities to the private sector.
A  strategic shareholder in the concession company is being selected through a competitive
process launched in july 1996. In May 1998, the most successful bidder was invited to negotiate
the concession agreement. The concessionaire is expected to take over rail operations in late 1998
or early 1999.
Box 6: Railway sector key conditionalities
Before Board   Invitation issued to designated strategic
Presentation    investor ir. the concession company to finalize
the concession agreement
Air Transport
39.    Long-haul air services are provided by Air France, Swiss Air, Sabena, and Cameroon
Airlines (CAMAIR). Regional service providers include CAMAIR, Air Afrique, Ethiopian
Airlines, Air Gabon, and Nigeria Airways. Domestic services traditionally have been provided
solely by CAMAIR, which has a de facto monopoly under the current regulatory framework.
CAMAIR services, both domestic and international, are infrequent and notoriously unreliable.
The company uses just 15 of the 42 international traffic rights that it is entitled to exploit on
behalf of their owner, the Government of Camreroon. International prices are high; domestic
prices are low. CAMAIR has been badly managed for years, is bankrupt,' and does not have the
financial resources needed to modernize its fleet, which consists of one 747-200 Combi and two
25-year-old 73'7-200s. It recently wetleased two 737-300s.
40.   Until now  the Government has sought to protect CAMAIR  at any cost, using the
regulatory framiework to achieve that end. Other companies have been prevented from providing
domestic services, which has contributed to the isolation of outlying regions, especially in the
north. Requests for international charters to bring in tourists are systematically refused,
undermining the sector's development.
41.    Objective. The Government's development objective for air transport is to increase the
availability of competitively priced air services, both domestically and internationally, while
improving safely standards.
42.    Constraints. The main constraints to the realization of this objective are the inadequate
regulatory framework and the excessive protection of CAMAIR.
43.    Strategy to alleviate constraints. Several steps, described in the July 1997 Policy
Framework Paper, are being taken to achieve the objective for air transport. First, the civil
aviation code is being revised to enforce competition in the sector and increase security in air
transport. Seconid, the Government plans to increase competition in the sector, and to auction to
private providers the traffic rights to the 27 international and regional routes not being exploited
I   Camair's accotnts were last audited in fiscal 1996. At that time its debts totaled US$77 million and it had a negative net
worth of US$20 million. Operating and financial losses are estimated to be about US$S8 million.



13
by CAMAIR. To that end, the Government will need to renegotiate bilateral agreements so that
companies other than CAMAIR can be nominated as official carriers on these routes. Winners
will also be able to provide domestic services within Cameroon. Third, CAMAIR will be
privatized to gain the capital and management expertise it needs to be an effective and
competitive provider of air services.
3.    Privatization
44.   Objectives. All of Cameroon's utilities and agro-industrial enterprises continue to be
publicly owned. Efforts to privatize public utilities have two development objectives: improving
the availability and quality of service (which is far below the Sub-Saharan Africa average) in
telecommunications, water, and to a lesser extent electricity; and increasing the efficiency of
companies with poor financial performance and high costs. Privatization is expected to
significantly increase international competitiveness, and so enhance the profitability of private
investment. Moreover, better water services will benefit public health. The privatization of agro-
industrial enterprises should unleash the sector's potential to boost exports as well as supplies
for the domestic market. Thus these efforts will increase production and employment in rural
areas, where most poverty is concentrated. In short, privatization will contribute to poverty
reduction.
45.   Social concerns. Although preliminary studies have found that the redundancies resulting
from privatization will generally not be large, financing must be provided to cover severance
payments and other costs. Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) and the European Union
are willing to finance some of these costs; complementary financing will come from privatization
proceeds. Another issue concerns the provision of social services (education and health) by agro-
industries operating in remote areas.  The recent privatization of Heveas du Cameroun
(HEVECAM) demonstrated the willingness of private operators to take over such social service
activities, and the Government plans to include similar requirements in future bidding
documents.
46.   Constraints. Regulatory constraints. Public utilities are monopolies, and policy
formulation, regulatory and operational issues are not clearly separated. Prices are subject to
Government approval and are not based on sound economic principles, resulting in large
distortions. Competition in agro-industrial enterprises is also constrained by Government policy.
In the palm oil subsector, external tariffs make imports noncompetitive at world prices, and the
five largest companies are organized in a cartel that fixes local prices at unjustifiably high levels.
In the cotton industry, new producers are prohibited from entering the sector in order to protect
SODECOTON, the highly vertically integrated public enterprise and this lack of competition has
resulted in prices to farmers significantly lower than in other countries. Institutional constraints.
Public utilities and large agro-industries continue to suffer the effects of the 1986-94 depression
that has led to substantially reduced investments. In addition, lack of market driven strategies,
insufficient maintenance, political interference, and poor management-all weaknesses directly
related to public ownership-have caused a deterioration in the delivery and availability of
services. Ownership must be transferred to the private sector in a fair and competitive manner to
attract the capital flows and sound management required to modernize these companies.



14
47.    Strategy to alleviate constraints. The privatization program  for public utilities will
increase competition, reform the regulatory framework, and change ownership and management.
New regulations for electricity and telecommunications will be submitted to Parliament to foster
competition and define technical and connectivity standards. Water regulations will be part of the
concessioning contract to be signed to complement the recently revised water code, which
mainly addresses issues related to public health. A multisectoral regulatory agency will be
created to ensujre smooth and fair implementation of these regulations. All these actions will be
implemented prior to the transfer of ownership. In agro-industries, barriers to entry must be
lifted and undue external protection removed to increase efficiency and attract new operators-
particularly foreign investors with capital and production and marketing know-how. This pro-
competition reform will be completed by the sale of the four largest remaining public enterprises
(SOCAPALM, SODECOTON, CDC, and CAMSUCO) to mobilize the investments required to
finance a large replanting and extension program.
48.    Key conditionalities. The privatization component of the proposed credit will be
conditioned on agreed actions prior to Board presentation, release of the second tranche, and
release of the two privatization floating tranches (Box 8). Note that this Box includes conditions
pertaining to the privatization of one bank (BICEC) and two insurance companies (SOCAR and
CNR); these are discussed in the financial sector component of the reform program (see below).
49.    Outcornes. The proposed reform will privatize or place under private management the
largest remaining public enterprises. More than half the assets of public enterprises will be
divested, and over two years 34,000 employees will be transferred to the private sector.
Privatization of water, telecommunications, and electricity utilities will increase investment in
facilities and expand service at lower cost to both commercial users and the general public-
including low-income groups now lacking adequate services. Better services are a precondition
for new investment by commercial and industrial consumers. Privatization is also expected to
stem  the losses incurred by the water company (SNEC) and increase cost recovery in the
electricity (SONEL) and telecommunications companies. Privatized agro-industries should see
sharp increases in investment, output, and employment over the next several years, as the
recently privatized Hevecam indicates.
=_________   Box 8: Key conditionalities for privatization
Board          *  Issue of tender invitations for the privatization of SOCAPALM,
presentation   CAMSUCO, SNEC, CNR, and SOCAR.
Second tranche  *  Promulgation of required laws and implementation decrees for
electricity and telecommunications on the basis of a privatization
strategy acceptable to IDA;
* All steps taken to merge INTELCAM and the commercial activities
of  the  Department  of  Telecommunications  into  a  new
Telecommunications Company (CAMTEL).
First          *  Issuance of invitations to negotiate to the successful bidders of the
privatization    tenders for SOCAPALM, CAMSUCO, SNEC, the second mobile
floating tranche  telephone license operator, BICEC, and SOCAR.
Second         *  Issuance of invitations to negotiate to the successful bidders of
privatization  CDC, SONEL, CAMTEL, and CNR.
floating tranche



15
4.     Financial sector
50.   Cameroon's financial sector fell into deep crisis in the late 1980s. An attempt to
restructure in the early 1990s failed because of poor design and partial implementation,2 and by
1994 most institutions were essentially bankrupt. In 1995 the Government launched a new
reform program. The first phase, supported by SAC II, sought to strengthen bank regulation and
restructure banks, and was to be followed by financial deepening. The restructuring program,
completed in August 1997, completely restructured three banks, liquidated two others (with
depositors and shareholders sharing the losses), restructured the Credit Recovery Company
(SRC), and prohibited delinquent borrowers from further borrowing and from bidding for public
procurement or privatization. Government debts to banks were securitized, and all payments
have been made in a timely fashion. As a result all large banks now meet prudential solvency and
liquidity ratios, and have registered healthy profits. Two small banks continue to experience
financial difficulties, but they have agreed with the Bank Supervision Commission (COBAC) on
a restructuring plan. Two new commercial banks (including Citibank) have received operating
licenses.
51.   Objectives. A stable and efficient financial sector is required for balanced growth, private
sector development, and poverty reduction. Current reforms are designed to consolidate the
rehabilitation of commercial banks, and proceed with financial deepening through the
development of financial intermediation of proximity, reform of the social security, restoration of
a sound insurance industry and development of financial markets together with other BEAC
member countries.
52.   Constraints. Institutional constraints. The public ownership of some institutions
impedes sound commercial management. Nonbank financial intermediaries remain in poor
financial shape. And some financial cooperatives (the alternative to banks for small or rural
customers) face serious financial problems. In fact, their difficulties, which stem from financial
mismanagement and an inadequate regulatory and supervisory framework (see below), threaten
the sustainability of the bank restructuring program. The insurance industry is also in dire straits,
and does not provide the services needed to support production and commerce. A recent audit by
the regional insurance supervisor, CIMA, found that none of the 13 public and private insurance
companies meets prudential norms. Several are beyond restructuring. The public reinsurance
company, CNR, is also in a difficult situation, having accumulated large debts to foreign
reinsurers and to domestic insurance companies. The social security institution, CNPS, plagued
by large contribution arrears (CFAF 200 billion), nonperforming Government debt (CFAF 249
billion), and high operating costs, is insolvent and illiquid. As a result subscribers are unable to
draw benefits. Private firms often must provide benefits to their employees in place of the CNPS,
effectively forcing them to pay twice. Thus insurance companies and the social security
institution are not intermediating risk, mobilizing financial savings, or providing long-term
2   Restructuring occurred in the absence of a stable macroeconomic framework. Lacking safeguards, the Government quickly
defaulted on its debt. Regulatory issues were ignored, and no action was taken against delinquent borrowers. The
incomplete restructuring program was based on old audits and lacked sufficient funds to clean up banks' balance sheets.



16
financing to the economy. Cameroon has no capital markets, and the absence of an institutional
mechanism to trade securities impedes privatization, as investors need an exit mechanism.
53.    Regulatory  constraints. Banking  services have  not been  fully  liberalized. Fixed
commissions hinder competition among commercial banks. Financial cooperatives are not
properly supervised or regulated. They can start operations based on a simple authorization from
the Ministry of Agriculture and are not required to provide information on their operations. The
lack of adequate supervision enables many cooperatives to operate while virtually bankrupt, thus
endangering the savings entrusted to them. Social security legislation is outdated. A regulatory
framework for issuing and trading securities is lacking. The financial system requires judicial
support in enforcing contracts and recovering bad debt. Although legal texts have improved,
serious problems remain with the process and enforcement of court decisions.
54.    Strategy to alleviate constraints. To address these weaknesses, during the next phase of
adjustment the Government plans to consolidate the gains from bank restructuring-especially
the return of confidence in the banking system, as evidenced by the increase in deposits-and to
proceed with financial sector deepening. Among the measures to be taken: full liberalization of
bank commissions; privatization of the remaining public sector bank, BICEC; privatization of the
two insurance companies, SOCAR and CNR; support COBAC and CIMA in the implementation
of their prudential regulation.
55.    Key conditionalities. The financial sector component of the proposed credit will be
conditioned on agreed actions prior to effectiveness, release of the second tranche, and release of
the two privatization floating tranches (Box 9 ).
Box 9: Key conditionalities for the financial sector
Effectiveness    *  Publication of a Presidential Decree subjecting all financial and
savings cooperatives to COBAC supervision and the establishment of new
ones to the agreement of MINEFI after approval (avis conforme) by
COBAC.
First privatization   *  Issue of invitation to negotiate to the successful bidder for the tenders
floating tranche    to privatize BICEC and SOCAR.
Second           *  Issue of invitation to negotiate to the successful bidder for CNR
privatization    privatization tender.
:floating tranche
5.     Forestry sector
56.    Cameroon is richly endowed with tropical humid forests that could help achieve higher
growth and alleviate poverty. In 1996-97 forestry output grew by 20-25 percent, and exports of
logs and processed timber increased by more than 40 percent. Forestry is important for creating
jobs, complementing related economic activities (such as transport), and providing fiscal
revenue. Yet recent growth has been neither sustainable nor efficient, and has failed to generate a
commensurate increase in fiscal revenues.
57.    Objectives. The Government has four objectives for forestry: promoting rational and
sustainable exploitation of Cameroon's forests; preserving ecological stability; promoting



17
economically efficient, high value added, unsubsidized processing industries; and encouraging
the participation of all stakeholders in forest conservation and management. Recent efforts to
achieve these objectives have focused on revising incentives and regulations. The 1994 Forestry
Code, for example, calls for the auction of cutting rights and the establishment of forest land use
and management plans. Since 1995 taxes have been revised to ensure that Cameroon captures a
larger share of resource rents and that incentive mechanisms promote sustainable management
and efficient industrialization. While progress has been made, problems remain that constrain the
realization of the above objectives. The proposed reforms will promote sustainable exploitation
of forestry reserves, lead to the efficient and nonsubsidized transformation of logs, and yield
stable employment, higher fiscal receipts, and larger returns to populations living in forest zones.
58.   Constraints. Rational and sustainable management as well as ecological preservation of
production forests are severely handicapped by the absence of appropriate incentives and
institutions for endorsing and monitoring management plans. In addition, no procedures are in
place for community forests, and local populations are not involved in their management-even
though the relevant areas (nonpermanent forests) are being allocated for small-area annual
harvesting permits (known as ventes de coupe). Moreover, lower export taxes are applied to logs
used for industrial processing than to those that are directly exported, which may encourage the
establishment of industries that can survive only because they have access to raw timber at
preferential prices, resulting in significant lower forestry revenue. Such problems will worsen as
domestic processing grows (log exports are to be prohibited after 1999). Revenue losses could be
avoided by replacing export taxes with domestic levies, essentially levying the same stumpage
fee (taxe d'abattage) on all logs, processed or not, regardless of their destination. Such reforms
have encountered strong opposition from vested forestry interests, who argue that subsidized
access to raw materials is essential to existing firms and future growth. Finally, the Government
has started to auction cutting rights, but in the ventes de coupe and especially in the October 1997
allocation of concessions, the specified allocation criteria have not been fully respected. Bidders
are supposed to be preselected based on minimum technical qualifications, and the award is
supposed to go to the highest prequalified bidder. But concessions were awarded to the highest
bidder in only 10 of 25 cases. In most cases (16 of 25) concessions were awarded to the most
technically qualified bidder. In other cases concessions were awarded to bidders with low
technical rankings and low bids. The authorities contend that in some cases noncompliance with
the law resulted from their belief that the highest bids were unrealistic; in other cases the awards
were politically motivated. Some industrial operators have argued that the auctions leave losing
bidders with insufficient access to the timber they need to run their factories. The operators
consider this unfair because they agreed to invest in Cameroon on the understanding that they
would be guaranteed long-term access to raw timber. Thus the auction system, as currently
operating, is seen by some as worsening the business environment and increasing uncertainty,
and needs to be revised. Accordingly, the Government and IDA have agreed to review the
allocation system and to take corrective measures as necessary.
59.   Strategy to alleviate constraints. The adjustment program will attempt to solve these
problems. First, it will implement an institutional framework with appropriate incentives for the
approval of and compliance with management plans, including monitoring and enforcement
mechanisms, and designate areas in nonpermanent forests for future community forests. As part



18
of these efforts sector institutions, in particular ONADEF, will be reviewed and adjusted as
necessary. Second, the program will consolidate tax reforms to reduce dependence on export
taxes as a means of recovering resource values (rents) and cut subsidies to inefficient domestic
processing. Export taxes will need to be reduced and domestic levies increased, requiring a
substantial improvement in administration and recovery of domestic levies. On the trade front,
the desirability of maintaining the export ban after 1999 will be reviewed. Third, the program
will improve the allocation mechanism for cutting rights and concessions and reduce the scope
for political interference. Provisions will be made for an independent and transparent validation
of auction ouitcomes, and for their publication. New concessions and ventes de coupe will be
awarded on the basis of the results and recommendations of the joint review.
60.     Key conditionalities. The forestry component of the proposed credit will be conditioned
on agreed actions prior to Board presentation, release of the second tranche, and release of the
forestry sector floating tranche (Box 10).
Box 10: Key conditionalities for forestry
Board         *   Annulment of provisional concessions awarded in late 1997 for which the
presentation  awardees have not signed provisional agreements or paid the financial guarantees
and deposits in accordance with the Forestry Code and its implementation decrees;
*   Letter addressed to IDA agreeing (i) to undertake a joint review of the 26
concessions awarded in late 1997; (ii) to take corrective measures as necessary;
and (iii) to grant new concessions and annual harvesting permits (ventes de coupe)
on the basis of the results and recommendations of the joint review;
*   Launching of a tax control for forestry companies;
*   Publication of the manual of procedures and norms for the management of
community forests.
Second        *   Adoption of regulations defining the revised selection criteria for the
tranche       adjudication of annual harvesting permits (ventes de coupe) and concessions and
establishing a third-party validation mechanism for these by an independent
observer selected;
*   Adoption of a strategy satisfactory to IDA for the apportionment of areas
which may be awarded as concessions, taking into account requirements for
sustainable forestry land-use management;
*   Establishment of a forestry tax revenue enhancement program for improving
the assessment and recovery of forestry taxes (stumpage fees and forestry
____________     royalties).
Forestry      *   Official publication of a system of procedures for the approval and monitoring
floating      of land use management plans;
tranche       *   Establishment of a guarantee system to ensure compliance with land use
management plans;
*   Award of contracts to one or more private operators, based on intemational
competitive bidding, for supervision of concessionaires' land use management
plans and the reinforcement of MINEF's capacity in this area;
*   Completion of a technical audit of the forestry sector to assess its economic
and tax potential;
*   Presentation to the National Assembly of reforms for industrialization and
forestry taxation on the basis of said audit;
*   Selection of areas to be reserved as community forests;
*   Clarification of ONADEF's mandate and sources of funding, with its statutes
revised accordingly.



19
3.    THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A.   CREDIT AMOUNT, DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES, IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
61.   The proposed credit is for SDR 133.5 million (US$180 million equivalent). It would be
disbursed in six tranches: two would be cross-sectoral; and four would be linked to the
completion of agreed actions in the transport sector (one tranche), the privatization program (two
tranches), and the forestry sector (one tranche). The first cross-sectoral tranche would be released
on effectiveness, the second upon completion of agreed reforms, probably in early 1999. The
four sectoral tranches would then be available for release, in any order, upon completion of the
package of reforms to which they are attached. Conditionalities are summarized in Annex A. In
addition, general conditions for the release of all tranches include a viable macroeconomic
framework for growth and poverty reduction consistent with the objectives of the program, and
satisfactory execution of the adjustment program.
62.   Disbursements will follow the Bank's simplified procedures for adjustment operations,
will not be linked to specific purchases, and will have no procurement requirements. IDA will
deposit proceeds in an agreed Central Bank account, and may request an audit thereof at any
time. Proceeds used for ineligible purchases will have to be returned to IDA or the account.
Reuse for eligible purchases will be permitted. MINEFI will be responsible for administering the
credit.
63.  Implementation of the adjustment program will be monitored by an interministerial
committee chaired by the Minister of State for Economy and Finance. The committee will be
responsible for monitoring and evaluating progress on the program's various components,
relying on input from participating ministries and institutions. The program's day-to-day
supervision will be the responsibility of the Comite Technique de Suivi (CTS), which is chaired
by the secretary general of MINEFI. IDA will monitor implementation of the program through
regular supervision missions and Resident Mission participation in CTS meetings. In addition,
privatization and transport reforms will be supported by IDA-financed technical assistance
projects as well as by assistance from other donors (in particular, the European Union and
France). Implementation of the forestry component will benefit from the IDA Forestry and
Environment Project now being prepared, and from continued bilateral assistance provided to the
Ministry of Environment and Forests by the Canadian International Development Agency. There
will be close liaison with the IMF regarding supervision of macroeconomic performance.
B.   RATIONALE FOR THE CREDIT
64.   Cameroon has implemented important reforms in the last few years, but sustaining the
program and reducing poverty will require considerable resolve and effective management on the
part of Government. Recent economic achievements and efforts to increase transparency and
strengthen governance have enhanced credibility of the Government's reform program, which is
expected to create substantial employment and provide the revenues needed to finance poverty
programs and develop needed human resources. Poverty remains a daunting challenge, however,
and reducing it will require not only higher growth but also better implementation at the sectoral,



20
project, and institutional levels, as well as greater emphasis on human resource development.
This will require developing mechanisms for more effective participation by communities and
beneficiaries, increased feedback and accountability to them, and reduced scope for corruption
and rent seeking.
65.    IDA, as a leading partner in the reform process, is playing a key role in the development
of a  more  coherent approach  to  poverty  alleviation. This  approach  rests  on  strong
macroeconomic performance but also requires the reform  of incentives and institutions, the
formulation of policies for delivering essential public services, and the development of more
responsible environmental policies. The proposed credit supports this deepening of the
adjustment strategy towards accelerated growth and poverty reduction, by emphasizing improved
long term competitiveness through transport sector reform, privatization, deepening of financial
sector refoirm, as well as revision of regulations and incentives to promote sustainable resource
use.
66.    IDA has also played a central a role in mobilizing financing to cover Cameroon's external
financing needs, which on a balance of payments basis is estimated at 2 percent of GDP over the
next two years. Yet, IDA itself will provide about 13 percent of Cameroon's total financing
package, including debt relief.
C.     LINKS TO THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
67.    The proposed credit is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy discussed
with the Executive Directors in February 1996 and the Country Assistance Strategy update
presented in March 1998. All trigger poirnts referred to in the Country Assistance Strategy have
been realized (Box 11), with a poverty reduction strategy now being prepared. The proposed
credit is also fully consistent with the Policy Framework Paper prepared by the IMF and the
Cameroonian authorities as part of the preparation of the ESAF approved in August 1997.
Box 11: IDA trigger points for Cameroon's lending program, fiscal 1996-98
Fiscal year                        Trigger point
1996        *  Agreement with the IMF and IDA on a Policy Framework Paper,
leading to an ESAF program in 1996
*  Completion of financial sector reform (privatization of banks and
sharp improvement in loan recovery)
*  Major progress in civil service reform
*   Satisfactory implementation of fiscal 1996 budget and adoption of
satisfactory fiscal 1997 budget
1997        *  Completion of civil service reform
*  Satisfactory implementation of privatization program
*  Reform of the legal framework for private sector developmient
1998        *  Adoption of satisfactory poverty reduction program, in agreement
with donors and NGOs, and defining of concrete action plans for
addressing poverty
*  Improvement in portfolio implementation and perfbrmance,
particularly with regard to audit reporting and financial management 
68.    As reported in the Country Assistance Strategy update, macroeconomic management has
improved substantially since 1996. In FY96, the share of expenditures allocated to social



21
services rose, though the quality and efficiency of services remain far from satisfactory.
Financial sector reform has progressed well, and bank restructuring was essentially completed in
mid-1997. There has also been significant progress in civil service downsizing, though deeper
structural reforms are needed to improve the quality of public services. A good start has also
been made on privatization. The framework for private sector development has improved,
particularly as regards credit recovery and liberalization of maritime transport.
69.   Still, little progress has been made on poverty alleviation beyond the direct effects of the
1994 devaluation, which mainly benefited producers of tradable agricultural commodities. The
poor have suffered disproportionately from continued weaknesses in public expenditure quality
and management, and social safety nets have disintegrated. Effective poverty reduction requires
not only more and better public spending, but also structural reforms. Hence the need for the
Government's national poverty reduction strategy, which is expected to be ready by the end of
FY99. Adoption of this strategy will be a specific condition for the release of the second tranche
of the proposed credit. In the meantime, the proposed credit, like its predecessor (SAC II),
contains specific actions to reduce poverty, including changes in the fiscal 1999 budget,
measures to lower transport costs, and improve road maintenance and rail transportation,
privatization of utilities (especially water supply) and agro-industries, improved regulation of
nonbank financial intermediaries, and forestry reforms.
70.   Although improving, IDA's Cameroon portfolio remains weak. There is no easy solution
to problems of portfolio management, since most of the causes are rooted in public sector
weaknesses. In fiscal 1994 the entire portfolio was canceled except for two projects considered
crucial to alleviating poverty. IDA is trying to improve portfolio performance by establishing
quality assurance teams, transferring portfolio management responsibility to the field,
strengthening the Resident Mission, conducting annual portfolio performance reviews, and
ensuring that all new investment projects are easy to implement. In the last year, implementation
of those TA projects which are essential to the success of the proposed Credit, has significantly
improved.
71.   As noted in paragraph 62, implementation of the proposed credit is in the hands of the
Comite Technique de Suivi (CTS), which is managed by the secretary general of MINEFI-
himself a former deputy minister and a committed reformer. Because the reforms envisaged
under the proposed credit are complemented by those under the ESAF, actions will be monitored
by both IDA and the IMF. The IMF is taking the lead on monitoring macroeconomic
performance, where the main challenge is to ensure sufficient mobilization of non-oil revenues
(this is a quantitative benchmark under the ESAF). On the sectoral front, implementation should
be enhanced by IDA-financed technical assistance projects. Technical assistance is also expected
from France, the European Union, and Canada, who are also significant stakeholders in the
reform process.



22
D.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
1.    Benefits
72.   The sectoral objectives and expected outcomes of the proposed credit are summarized in
the preceding sections. The overriding message is that successful implementation of these
reforms would provide the enabling envirornment and direct support needed to accelerate growth
and reduce poverty. Poverty reduction is central to IDA's strategy for Cameroon; the proposed
credit will help achieve it by creating jobs, raising incomes, empowering civil society, and
allocating resources to those in need. Improved governance will further contribute to efforts to
respond to the needs of the poor. Building on the significant changes in management and policy
positions noted earlier, the reforms will substantially reduce the opportunities and incentives for
rent seekinig in restructured institutions (such as the port authority and privatized enterprises),
and in the verification of accounts and collection of taxes (in the petroleum and forestry sectors,
among others).
2.    Risks
73.   The main risks are that the refonn program will falter because of (i) macroeconomic
deficiencies, (ii) lack of Government commitment to reforms, or (iii) institutional weaknesses.
74.   On the macroeconomic front, the main risk is that revenues might be less than projected,
because of a decline in oil prices and/or mismanagement, which would undermine the authority's
ability to adequately service their external debt and finance badly needed development
expenditures. This risk is mitigated by the fact that macroeconomic mnanagement, which is
closely monitored by the IMF, has improved considerably over the last two years. Furthermore,
IMF program targets contain built-in adjusters to take account of volatility in international prices,
especially of oil-prices. At the same time, the IMF is focusing on measures to improve the
collection of non-oil revenues, which is essential given the structural changes the economy is
going through. SAC III also supports inmportant reforms in the forestry sector, which should
increase its contribution to the budget.
75.   Government commitment to economic reform and poverty reduction has clearly increased
in the past two years, as evidenced by the successful implementation of SAC II. Moreover, the
current adrninistration increased its strength in Parliament after the recent elections, and a
committed group is leading policy reforms. However, the reformers must deliver tangible
benefits, in terms of poverty reduction, to the general public if they are to prevail. In this
context, the Program will provide direct benefits to the public, such as better quality of transport,
improved availability of water, electricity and telecommunications, improved security of deposits
in financial intermediaries, and better management of natural resources including retention, by
locally concerned communities, of a larger share of the benefits of their utilization.
76.   The risk of program failure because of inadequate implementation capacity will be
handled by the provision of technical assistance as needed in the context of IDA's ongoing TA
operations, or by other donors associated vvith the program.



23
4.  COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
77.   The adjustment program has been discussed and prepared in close collaboration with the
IMF through the Policy Framework Paper and ESAF processes. France and the European Union
have been involved in the development of transport reforms, especially port restructuring, road
management, and the financial sector. All three agree on the main reforms. IDA and the IMF
will update the Policy Framework Paper in collaboration with Government in June 1998.
5.  RECOMMENDATION
78.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
June 3, 1998
Attachments



AANNEXES$



24                        ANNEX A
Page 1 of 4
SUMMARY OF CONDITIONALITIES
General conditions for any tranche releases are that IDA must be satisfied that (a) the
macroeconomic policy framework for growth and poverty reduction is consistent with the
objectives of the Program; and (b) satisfactory progress has been achieved in the carrying out of
the Program.
I.    CONDITIONS OF BOARD PRESENTATION
A.   Transport
*  Port sector: Adoption of a port sector reform plan and detailed action program aiming
at improving the performance and competitiveness of Cameroonian ports, especially
the Port of Douala;
*  Road maintenance: Presentation to the National Assembly of a draft Budget Law for
1998-99, acceptable to IDA as regards sources of and mechanisms for financing of
the Road Fund (i.e. road user charges).
B.    Privatization
3 Publication of the tender documents for the privatization of SOCAPALM,
CAMSUCO and SNEC; and
- Invitation issued to designated strategic investor in the railway concession company
to finalize the concession agreement.
C.   Forestry
-  Annulation of those provisional concessions adjudicated in October/November 1997,
for which the winners have not signed a provisional agreement or paid financial
guarantees/deposits in accordance with the Forestry Code and its implementing
regulations;
* Confirmation of Government's willingness to: (i) initiate, no later than end June, a
joint review with IDA of the 26 concessions whose adjudication was notified in late
1997; (ii) take corresponding corrective measures as necessary; and (iii) grant new
concessions and/or annual harvesting permits (ventes de coupe) on the basis of the
results and recommendations of the joint review.
II.   CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
A.   Macroeconomic Framework
* Consistency of the macroeconomic policy framework with the objectives of the
program on the basis of indicators agreed with IDA (paragraph 20 of the Letter of
Development Policy).



25                        ANNEX A
Page 2 of 4
B.    Transport
* Road maintenance: publication of a decree, acceptable in form and substance to IDA,
defining the organization and functioning of the Road Fund.
C.   Firnancial sector
* Publication of a decree subjecting all financial and savings cooperatives to COBAC
prudential rules and the establishment of new ones to an agreement issued by the
Ministry of Economy and Finance after approval (avis conforme) by COBAC;
III.   BEFORE RELEASE OF SECOND TRANCHE
A.   Transport
* Promulgation of the required laws and their implementation decrees which have the
effect of: (a) establishing a National Port Authority entrusted exclusively with
security, police and environmental control and protection functions (fonctions
regaliennes) and the management of public port assets; (b) permitting the autonomous
management of each port, the transfer of industrial and commercial operations and
superstructure maintenance to the private sector; and the establishment of
Consultative Port Orientation Committees with a majority of port users; (d) making
provision for adequate transitional arrangements with respect of the above;
* Establishment of the Consultative Orientation Committee for the port of Douala, and
appointment of its members;
* Satisfactory implementation of the port of Douala rehabilitation program in
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Association; and in particular the start
up of dredging works of the Douala access channel under the terms of the multiyear
dredging contract satisfactory to the Association; and
* Implementation of operations of the Road Fund in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, including in particular the transfer of the full proceeds of the road user
fee to the Road Fund.
B.   Privatization
* Adoption of a privatization strategy for electricity and telecommunications
satisfactory to the Association and within said strategy, adoption and promulgation of
required laws and implementation decrees in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association; and
* Completion of all necessary legal action to merge INTELCAM and the commercial
activities of the Department of Telecommunications within the Ministry of Posts and



26                        ANNEX A
Page 3 of 4
Telecommunications into a telecommunications company established under the
Cameroonian law (CAMTEL).
D.   Forestry
*  Adoption of regulations (i) defining detailed revised selection criteria for the award of
forestry concessions and annual harvesting permits (ventes de coupe) and (ii)
providing for a clear validation mechanism of the adjudication process of the awards
by an independent observer, selected in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
*  Definition of a strategy satisfactory to the Association, for the apportionment of areas
which may be awarded as concessions, taking into account requirements for
sustainable forestry land-use management; and
*  Implementation of a forestry tax revenue-enhancement program, in form  and
substance satisfactory to the Association, aimed at improving the assessment and
recovery of forestry tax (stumpage fee and forestry royalty).
IV.   BEFORE RELEASE OF THE TRANSPORT SECTOR FLOATING TRANCHE
The Port Sector
*  Completion of institutional and regulatory reform measures related to the port sector;
*  With respect to the port of Douala, completion of the transfer to the private sector of
all commercial and industrial activities (warehousing, stevedoring, freight-
forwarding, consignment) as well as the following port services (maintenance of
access and superstructure, towing, piloting, berthing, ice manufacturing, maintenance
of maritime navigational aids), on a competitive bidding basis, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association; and
*  Realization of progress satisfactory to the Association to achieve on average, for a
period of three consecutive months, the following performance indicators for port
clearance of containerized merchandise in the port of Douala: seven working days for
imports and two working days for exports.
BEFORE RELEASE OF THE FIRST PRIVATIZATION FLOATING TRANCHE
* Issuance of the invitation to the successful bidders for the tenders for the privatization
of BICEC, CAMSUCO, the second mobile telephone license operator, SNEC,
SOCAPALM and SOCAR, respectively to enter into negotiations;



27                        ANNEX A
Page 4 of 4
V.   BEFORE RELEASE OF THE SECOND PRIVATIZATION FLOATING TRANCHE
* Issuance of the invitation to the most successful bidders for the tenders for the
privatization of CAMTEL, CDC, CNR and SONEL, respectively to enter into
negotiations.
VI.   BEFORE RELEASE OF THE FORESTRY SECTOR FLOATING TRANCHE
* Publication in the Official Gazette (Journal Officiel) of a regulatory text, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, governing the procedures for the approval
and monitoring of land-use management plans;
*  Establishment of a guarantee system to ensure compliance with land-use management
plans, satisfactory to the Association;
* Award, on the basis of international competitive bidding, of contracts to one or more
private sector operators for the supervision of the implementation of land-use
management plans and for the reinforcement of MINEF's capacity in this area;
.  Completion of a technical independent audit of the forestry sector to assess its
economic and tax potential;
*  Submission to the National Assembly of reforms, satisfactory to the Association,
concerning industrialization and forestry taxation on the basis of the results and
recommendations of the above-mentioned audit;
.  Selection of areas to be reserved as community forests, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association; and
*  Revision of ONADEF's statutes, in order to clarify its mandate and sources of
financing, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.



28                           ANNEX B
Page 1 of 26
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.   INTRODUCTION
1.    After eight years of recession and internal adjustment, which led to heavy
sacrifices on the part of the population, the Cameroonian economy generated real growth
following the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994.
2.    Building on this reversal, the Government undertook macro economic and
structural reforms aimed at putting the economy on the path to sustained growth and
poverty reduction. This reform and adjustment effort received the support of the
international financial community in the form of two standby agreements with the IMF,
respectively in March 1994 and September 1995, an emergency credit and other World
Bank financing, and aid from the European Union, France and other bilateral partners. In
the event, failure to implement the agreements prevented the achievement of the hoped
for results.
3.    Concerned to reinforce its adjustment effort and the credibility of its economic
recovery policies the Government adopted a staff monitored program with the IMF for
the 1996/97 fiscal year and had furthermore put in place a second structural adjustment
credit (SAC II) with the World Bank. Despite the delays experienced in implementing
certain reforms, a critical mass of structural reforms was carried out through the end of
June 1997 which led to the release of the two remaining tranches of SAC II. During the
period a major transformation took place in the economic situation. Notably, the
budgetary situation improved and made possible a normalization of relations with foreign
creditors due to an exceptional payment from internal resources of $ 454 million, the
equivalent of 5% of GDP. Furthermore, transparent privatizations were completed, thus
providing evidence of Government's commitment to reform.
4.    Based on this performance, the Cameroonian authorities started discussions with
the services of the IMF and World Bank with a view to concluding an ESAF agreement
based on the Policy Framework Paper for the period 1997-2000. This three year program
supported by the ESAF was, in fact, approved by the Board of the IMF on August 20,
1997. The mid-term review for the first year indicated that the program was on track.
All the performance criteria and structural and quantitative benchmarks of the program
were met by the end of December 1997.
5.    The present Letter of Development Policy (LDP), which supports the third
structural adjustment credit (SAC III), represents a reinforcement of the Government's
three year program. It lays out in detail the structural reforms which Cameroon proposes
to implement as part of its economic and social strategy for the period 1998-2000, with
the objectives of: (i) consolidating the macro-economic framework and competitiveness
of the economy, and, (ii) establishing the bases and creating the conditions which will



Letter of Development Policy        29                           ANNEX B
Page 2 of 26
permit a growth rate in excess of 5% to be achieved and to have a significant impact on
employment, supply of adequate basic social services, rehabilitation of infrastructure and
reduction of poverty. Reduction in poverty is, in effect, the major challenge facing the
country after a decade of recession, and is the objective of the entire economic and social
policy of the Government in the coming years.
6.    Growth, competitiveness and reduction of poverty are thus the key immutable
objectives of Government's medium-term economic and social policy. The present Letter
of Development Policy lays out the strategies and policies which the Government intends
to implement in order to realize its objectives and to bring about the indispensable
qualitative leap forward for the economic takeoff and social progress. The Letter is
organized as follows: (i) recent performance of the economy; (ii) framework for the
policies of growth and poverty reduction; (iii) policies for improving the investment
environment, privatizations and development of the private sector; (iv) structural reforms
which the Government intends to implement in the key sectors of the economy (notably
transport, forestry, and the financial sector) with the aim of reinforcing competitiveness
and the accelerating growth on the one hand, and promoting a rational and sustainable
development of the forests while protecting the environment on the other hand.
7.   ]Finally, measures are envisaged in the current LDP to remove a certain number of
constraints which limit growth. They are indicative of the resolve of Government to
acquire the indispensable means to ensure the success of its reform program.
2.   iRECENT PERFORMANCE OF THE ECONOMY
8.    The improvement in economic performance, which started in the 1994/95
budgetary exercise and which continued in 1995/96, was sustained during the 1996/97
exercise. For the exercise ending on June 30, 1997, the 5% real rate of growth of GDP
was maintained. This satisfactory outcome was based on the healthy growth of exports
and the petroleum sector.
9.    Total exports rose by 10.9% in volume and 19.6% in value between 1995/96 and
1996/97, mainly driven by sales of logs, natural rubber, raw cotton, and crude oil. In
contrast, declines were registered in the exports of coffee, cocoa, fresh bananas, and
aluminum.
10.  ][mports rose by 22.7% in volume between 1995/96 and 1996/97 and by about 23%
in value. The share of equipment and intermediate consumption products showed a clear
rise reflecting the rise in investment and production.
11.  Inflation on an average monthly basis fell to 4.2% in 1996/97 versus 6.4% for the
preceding budgetary year. The household consumer price index is expected to fall below
3% for the 1997/98 budget year.



Letter of Development Policy        30                           ANNEX B
Page 3 of 26
12.   Concerning public finances, the results of the 1996/97 budget year were in the
main satisfactory with some divergent outcomes. Budgetary receipts rose to CFAF 767
billion, including the proceeds of privatizations of public enterprises. The relatively high
level of petroleum prices and the minor decline in output resulted in budgetary receipts of
CFAF 204 billion, of which CFAF 187 billion in the form of royalties paid to the
Treasury from the National Petroleum Company (SNH).
13.   The evolution of certain fiscal receipts, particularly customs duties, were
relatively favorable. However, their yield was not sufficient to compensate for the short-
fall in indirect taxes.
14.   Current primary budgetary expenditures (i.e. excluding interest) rose to CFAF
392 billion in 1996/97, of which CFAF 213 billion for personnel. Investment expenditures
at CFAF 69 billion remained low compared with requirements.
15.   During the 1996/97 budget year some CFAF 218 billion, equivalent to 4.4% of
GDP, was paid on account of external debt, entirely from internal resources. This
extremely important effort made without any foreign financing, demonstrates the
determination of the authorities to reestablish normal relations with the international
financial community.
16.   The monetary situation in Cameroon since July 1996 was characterized by rising
monetary demand, a significant normalization of credit to the private sector and an
improvement in the external accounts of the Central Bank. Rising deposits in the
commercial banks is evidence of the return of confidence on the part of economic
operators following the restructuring of the key banking institutions.
17.   The improvement in the economic and financial situation is based in large part on
the structural reforms which the Government implemented in the following areas: (i)
liberalization of activities in all economic sectors including petroleum: (ii) reform of
public enterprises with important privatizations such as the National Shipping Company
(CAMSHIP) and HEVECAM in the agro-industrial sector; (iii) rehabilitation of the
financial sector, with emphasis now being placed on the restructuring of the insurance
sub-sector following the success achieved in the banking sub-sector; and, (iv) the reform
of the civil service which has accelerated as regards the reduction of personnel.
3.    GENERAL FRAMEWORK FOR GROWTH AND POVERTY REDUCTION.
18.   The main thrust of Government strategy for consolidating growth and reducing
poverty are:
* Reinforcement of the competitiveness of the economy based on export-led
growth;
* Consolidation of the dialogue, the coordination and the complementarity of
actions between the public and private sectors;



Letter of Development Policy        3 1                          ANNEX B
Page 4 of 26
* Equitable distribution of the benefits of growth, in the context of a significant
improvement in the living conditions of the least privileged; and
* Improvement in efficiency and productivity of the public administration.
3.1   Consolidation of the macro-economic framework
19.   The Government intends to maintain a stable macro-economic framework which
is a prerequisite to achieving its growth objectives of its medium-term economic and
financial program and consequently to effectively reduce poverty. The macro-economic
objectives of Government actions over the medium term remain those set forth in the
economic and financial framework document for the period July 1, 1997 to June 30,
2000.
20.  In consultation with the IMF and World Bank the Cameroonian authorities will
establish by end August 1998 the objectives and the measures to be implemented for the
second year of the ESAF program. These objectives and measures follow directly from
the good performance registered since the beginning of the program. In this context.
special emphasis will be placed on finding ways to consolidate public finance
performance with a view, notably, to provide the resources necessary to realize the
objectives of social policy.
3.2   Poverty Reduction Strategy
21.   The great rise in poverty during the years of economic declines poses today an
important social problem for Cameroon. Poverty manifests itself in various forms: low
consumption, precarious housing, unacceptably low access to essential social services
(potable water, medical care, basic education), aggravation of unemployment, and
deterioration of infrastructure and social facilities. This scourge is expanding in the urban
zones where 22% of the population lives below the poverty threshold. It remains more
widespread in the rural zones with an average incidence of 55%. Employment problems
hit young graduates the hardest, they experience about a 33% rate of unemployment. An
important disparity may be noted between the rural areas where only 3.5% are
unemployed compared with 21.7 % in cities. In particular in Douala and Yaounde, these
rates are respectively 23.6% and 30.6%. The unemployment rate is 23.9% for women
and 20.4% for men.
22.   The main social indicators illustrate the degradation of average living conditions,
which has adversely affected economic growth. The Government has made the rapid and
sustained reversal of this situation one of the major objectives of its economic and social
policy.
23.   The policy which the Government intends to pursue for effectively reducing
poverty combines the necessity of reconciling economic and social performance.
Government strategy is conceived in the medium and long term as follows:



Letter of Development Policy        32                           ANNEX B
Page 5 of 26
*  strong sustained and equitable growth;
*  incorporating systematically and effectively the objective of poverty reduction
in all macro-economic and sectoral policies;
*  a participative strategy which efficiently involves all social partners;
*  empowerment and increased role of women in the battle against poverty
notably in income producing activities, and
*  protection of the environment.
24.   The Government believes these main policy lines are essential to implement its
anti poverty strategy. Annex 1 of the present letter contains a draft Policy Framework
Paper pertaining to the government poverty reduction strategy which will be the basis of
an official Statement before December 1998.  On the basis of this Statement the
Government intends to engage all economic and social partners, as well as the interested
donors, in order to elaborate a comprehensive poverty reduction strategy incorporating
detailed sectoral action plans.
25.   The key actions which the authorities are committed to supporting consist of the
following: (i) ameliorating the quality of basis services (health, education and potable
water) and to facilitating access to these services by the poor, with measures to correct
regional and disparities and with particular regard to the education of girls; (ii) raise the
output and productivity of the poor in the agricultural sector; (iii) reinforcing the capacity
of all concerned including the poor themselves especially women; (iv) increase
opportunities for employment by promoting high labor intensity programs; (v)
rehabilitating basic economic infrastructure (notably, main roads, rural feeder roads,
bridges, storage and conservation); and (vi) carrying out specific actions in favor of
structurally vulnerable groups such as children, the handicapped, and the aged. In this
regard, the Government will place great importance on the reform of social security
system when it restructures the National Social Security Agency (CNPS).
IV IMPROVING THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT, ENHANCING
COMPETITIVENESS AND PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION
26.   The devaluation of the CFA franc combined with the deep structural reforms
implemented by the Government over the last three years, have largely restored the
competitiveness of Cameroon economy. However, these improvements are still fragile
and need to be strengthened by putting in place a stable macro-economic environment
and deepening structural reforms. The Government remains determined to pursue its
objective of creating an efficient and competitive market-based economy. To achieve that
objective, Government strategy over the next years will be aimed at: (a) reinforcing the
public/private dialogue through the recently created competitiveness committee; (b)
promoting competition; (c) deepening taxation and incentive reforms; (d) increasing the
pace of the privatization program with priority given to public utilities and agro-



Letter of Development Policy          33                             ANNEX B
Page 6 of 26
industries, (e) pursuing financial sector restructuring; and, (f) improving the judiciary
performance with special emphasis on business conflict resolution.
4.1 Privatization
27.   The privatization program implemented by the government seeks to accelerate
growth ancl create employment opportunities by attracting new investments. Specifically,
it is aimed at:
* addressing current bottlenecks as regards availability and quality of services
provided by public utilities in the water, transport, electricity and
telecommunications sub-sectors, by attracting core investors and operators
that will provide the financing required for rehabilitation and capital
expansion;
* promoting competition in these sectors to reduce costs and tariffs;
* quickly unleashing the under-exploited growth potential in the agro-industry
and utilities sectors thus leading to accelerated growth.
28.   Results achieved so far by public utilities and agro-industries have been
disappointing and do not contribute to the economic development of the country.
Performance indicators of public utilities in Cameroon are far behind those of other
similar sub-Saharan Africa countries. This situation represents a bottleneck for
Cameroonian private operators. Measured in term of percentage of the total population,
access to telecommunication services (0.5%) and water (1.2%) are low. Other services
such as mobile telecommunications are still a public monopoly while they have been
liberalized in most countries world-wide.
29.   Inefficient management of these companies, combined with poor performance
with respect to billing and collection, has led to the deterioration of their financial
situation that does not allow these companies to finance the much needed rehabilitation
and extension investments required. None of these companies is able to meet market
demand. In the telecommunication sector, unmet demand stands at 50% of the current
number of lines; in the water sector, the inability of the national company to expand its
services has led to a 25% decrease in the average customer's consumption; in the
electricity sector, increased demand linked to the economic growth of the country cannot
be satisfied, thus leading to numerous power outages.
30.   In addition, and besides the limited availability of services, costs and tariffs are
high, resulting not only from poor management performance but also from the lack of
competition.
31.   In the agro-industry sector, despite an overall improvement in the financial
performances of the public enterprises, due to the devaluation of the CFA franc, some of
these companies are still characterized by: (a) under-utilization of available acreage; (b)
aging plantations that will call for large replanting programs; (c) low yield and



Letter of Development Policy       34                          ANNEX B
Page 7 of 26
productivity; (d) undue protection; and, (e) weak commercial performance as measured in
term of prices obtained on the international commodity market.
32.   Since 1996-1997, the government has privatized three large public enterprises:
HEVECAM (a rubber plantation), REGIFERCAM (the national railways company) and
CAMSHIP (the national shipping company). From December 1997 to April 1998,
invitations for tender or investor pre-qualification processes have been launched and bids
are currently being analyzed for the following companies: SOCAPALM (palm-oil),
CAMSUCO (sugar plantation) and SNEC (the water production and distribution
company).
33.   Over the next two years, the privatization program will be expanded to include the
sale or concessioning of the following companies or activities: SODECOTON (cotton)
and CAMEROON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (bananas, palm-oil, rubber, tea)
for which preparatory studies are fairly advanced, SONEL (electricity), CAMAIR (the
national airline), the telecommunication activities resulting from the merger of
INTELCAM (international telecommunications) and of the Directorate of
Telecommunication (local communications). The scope and complexity of this program
should not be underestimated in the sense that it will lead to the sale of roughly 50% of
the public enterprise sector assets and to the transfer to the private sector of 35,000
employees. In addition, based on progress achieved in implementing this reform,
additional companies might be offered for sale.
34.   With respect to the public utilities, the Government does not want to simply
transform public monopolies into private monopolies. To that end, the proposed reform is
not only aimed at selling shares and having the private operators financing the required
investments, but also at setting-up a framework conducive to investment and competition.
In addition to the transfer to the private sector of the operations of these companies with
well defined targets regarding level and quality of services, the proposed reform will lead
to: (a) the adoption, prior or in parallel to the privatization itself, of regulatory
frameworks conducive to competition and creating level playing fields for all the
operators especially in the electricity and telecommunications sector; and, (b) the creation
of efficient regulatory agencies.
35.  In the telecommunication sector, the Government will submit to the Parliament in
June 1998 a revised law to define new policies in the sector and the dispositions
applicable to the various services (licensing, authorization and declaration). One of the
major goal of the reform is to immediately fully liberalize value-added services and to
introduce competition in all market segments. To that end, a first step after the adoption
of the law, will be the launching of an international tender to create a second mobile
network with its own access to international telecommunication. This is expected to
occur before end June 1998.
36.  In parallel, the merger and reorganization of the public company in charge of
international telecommunications with the telecommunications Directorate in charge of



Letter of Development Policy         35                            ANNEX B
Page 8 of 26
the local telecommunications in the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, will be
completed and will result in the creation of a new company. Postal activities will be also
corporatized. Implementing decrees regarding the setting-up of the regulatory agency,
the interconnection requirements and tariffs formula will be promulgated before the end
of 1998 so that the privatization process can start, in December 1998, in the context of a
modernized legal and regulatory framework.
37.   In the water sector, the pre-qualification process for suitable investors was
launched by end April 1998. Due to the relatively low number of customers and the
difficult financial situation of the company, the Government is asking bids for a single
concession where responsibility for investment will be transferred to the private operator
with however, different modalities in the small towns compared to Douala and Yaounde.
The Government intents to complete the transaction by end 1998. A new water code has
been prepared and will be submitted to the Parliament in June 1998 to address public
health issues. This new law will set forth the specific requirements to be fulfilled by the
new investor included in the concession contract that will be approved and enforced by
decree.
38.   As regards electricity, the Government has hired the International Finance
Corporation to help define new policies in the sector and design the privatization strategy.
One of the major objective of that transaction is to ensure that the new operator(s) will be
able to meet the additional demand, evaluated to 170 Mwh, resulting from the increased
capacity of the Aluminum smelting plant. To that end, various options are being
considered including opening-up the sector to various investors and using BOT (Build
Operate Transfer) or BOO (Build Own Operate) mechanisms. In order to allow such
approaches, a new regulatory framework twill be adopted before the end of 1998 prior to
the sale of the company scheduled for early part of 1999.
39.   At the end of the program, out of the three main functions of the government -
policy formulation, regulatory functions and operator, the government vvill essentially
remain involved in the area of policy formulation while operations will be transferred to
the private sector and new regulatory systems will be implemented. When required, the
new regulatory frameworks will call for the creation of regulatory and supervision
agencies.
40.   With respect to agro-industries, reduction in tariff protection and non-tariff
barriers to entry, as well as of export taxes, will be a central part of the program. In the
cotton sector, where only one company operates, the objective will be to define
mechanisms gradually allowing new investors to enter the industry without destroying
the results achieved so far in terms of increase in production and poverty alleviation
through the current integrated (filiere) model.
41.   All the companies, public or private, currently operating in the palm-oil sector are
organized in a cartel and set prices together. One of the objectives of the privatization of
agro-industries is to put an end to such situation, to reduce non tariff barriers and thus to



Letter of Development Policy        36                           ANNEX B
Page 9 of 26
lead to increased competition and efficiency. The bidding process for the privatization of
SOCAPALM has been launched in December 1997 and the three bids received are
currently being evaluated. A second round of bidding will be launched by end May and
the final financial bids will be received by end June 1998. One of the specific goal of that
transaction is to ensure that plantations will be developed (currently only 45% of the
acreage are in production), and that, given the age of the plantations, large scale
replanting will take place in a competitive environment leading to reduced prices to
consumers.
42.  In the cotton sector, where only one company (SODECOTON) operates with a de
facto monopoly on cotton seed purchase, the industry will be gradually opened to
competition and developed. The privatization strategy currently under formulation for
SODECOTON, will include the review of the legal and ownership issues pertaining to
the company and will be aimed at: (a) keeping the links between the farmers and the
ginneries that have permitted the establishment of a successful credit scheme, (b)
introduce competition in the transformation of cotton seeds and, (c) lead to an increase in
prices paid to farmers that are low compared to other African countries.
43.   The  privatization  process  of  the  CAMEROON   DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION has started in January 1998 with the beginning of the preliminary
diagnosis and evaluations. Given the size of the company (13,500 employees and 120,000
acres in production), its regional importance and the sensitivity of that transaction in the
specific context of the region, the government intends to implement the overall process
with determination but also caution. As in the case of SOCAPALM, the objective of this
privatization is to ensure that production will increase quickly while social services such
as health and education benefits provided by the company will not be interrupted.
44.   Finally, in the sugar sector, CAMSUCO, the public company, is bankrupt and
production which had reached a high of 45,000 T in the past has now dropped to less than
4,000 T. The objective of the privatization/liquidation process which was launched in
March 1998 is to sell the assets to an investor who will restart production. The
Government intends to complete this transaction before end December 1998.
45.   The example of HEVECAM, privatized in late 1996, which has resulted in little
less than a year by more than 30 percent growth in production and employment as well as
by an investment which aims at practically doubling the acreage under cultivation
provides a good illustration of the benefits to be expected from privatization.
4.2  Improving the Judiciary
46.   An efficient and fair judiciary system is a prerequisite in order to promote and
secure investments. The government is well aware of this necessity. This is why an in-
depth reform of the judiciary has been launched with the objective of ensuring a fair
treatment to all and in particular as regards contract enforcement.



Letter of Development Policy         37                            ANNEX B
Page 10 of 26
47.   The signing of international agreements such as OHADA and CIMA aimed at
harmonizing business regulations in the subregion, reflects the willingness of the
Cameroonian authorities to improve the business environment, increase transparency and
to promote business development in all countries of the subregion.
48.   The proposed reform of the judiciary will call for: (a) institutional reforms; (b)
improvement in the working conditions of the judiciary staff; (c) implementation of
training programs and capacity building; and, (d) modernization in the way court clerks
operate in order to speed-up publication and enforcement of judgments.
49.   Institutional reforms linked to the adoption of the new Constitution calls for a
comprehernsive review of laws and regulations that has already started in order to adapt
the judiciary to the new environment set-up by the Constitution. In that context the laws
and regulations related to the following will be reviewed and amended: (a) organization
and operation of the Supreme Court, (b) creation of administrative and public accounting
courts, (c) creation of a Superior Council of Magistrates, (d) adoption of revised statutes
for magistrates and court clerks, and (e) administrative organization of the courts.
50.   Given the institutional reform curTently underway and the increasing amount of
litigation being brought before the courts, strengthening the staff of the judiciary and
capacity building are priorities that will have to be addressed by increasing the number of
clerks and support staff in the courts and, in parallel, implementing a large scale training
policy. In that area, the Government has already moved forward with the re-opening of
the training sessions for court clerks and other para-legal profession, and the recruitment
of 140 new magistrates over the next three years.
51.   Improving the working conditions of the staff is also a clear priority. There is a
need to improve the environment in which judiciary staff operate in order to allow them
to work with dignity in the strict respect of the laws and deontology. To that end, the
Government intends to: (a) provide the judiciary with adequate means of work
(rehabilitation of buildings, computers and other office equipment), (b) increase salaries
and improve carrier development, (c) strengthen the Inspectorate General of Services in
the Ministry of Justice in its functions of control and supervision and, (d) implement
efficient disciplinary policies.
52.   Legal information is a critical part of a good judicial system. The regular
publication of the Official Gazette, diffusion and dissemination of laws and legal codes,
publication of court decisions and jurisprudence are essential tools that contribute to the
information and on-site training of magistrates and other judiciary staff. To that end, and
in the very short-term, the Government intends to rehabilitate and build new libraries,
computerize a court decision data base and publish the main decisions of the Supreme
Court on a regular basis. Regular resumption of the publication of the Official Gazette
since 1996 is also an important step towards dissemination of laws. All these actions are
aimed at speeding-up and enforcing court decisions and will thus contribute to restoring
confidence in the judiciary. The implemnentation of these measures will require the



Letter of Development Policy         38                            ANNEX B
Page 11 of 26
mobilization and participation of all the actors in particular the magistrates, judiciary
assistants and clerks and other para-legal professions.
4.3   Liberalization, dialogue with the private sector and promotion of competition
53.   In order to establish a permanent and competitive market economy, the
Government is committed to taking actions targeted at reforming trade policy, further
liberalizing economic activities, reinforcing the dialogue with the private sector and
reforming the competitive framework within different sectors of the economy. In that
context,
*  non-tariff barriers have been removed, notably by the elimination of
quantitative import restrictions and import/export licenses;
*  price and administrative control of margins have been abolished except for
five products and services produced by public and private monopolies (water,
electricity, the National Port Office of Cameroon, maritime transport
auxiliaries, and public passenger transport);
*  the distortions created by preferential fiscal regimes have been eliminated and
most enterprises which benefited for these regimes have been reverted to
common law status; and,
*  the liberalization of the petroleum sector is well advanced.
The government has reinforced its dialogue with the private sector, a priority in managing
the transition to an economy based on private sector performance. In this light the
government will consult closely with private operators in the elaboration of its economic
programs and policies. Furthermore, a Competitiveness Committee was created in
December 1997. In order to deal with more specialized issues, a Trade Facilitation
Committee (FAL) to simplify and modernize foreign trade procedures and a system of
port orientation consultative committees to implement the port reform are being
established.
54.   The government is determined to follow up these actions. The reform of the Free
Trade Zone Regime has been undertaken as well as the renegotiation of Establishment
Conventions for the remaining companies still benefiting from this kind of scheme. With
the passage of the of the 1998/99 Finance law, the government will replace the turnover
tax (TCA) with a value-added tax (TVA), in order to better neutralize the impact of
internal indirect taxes on trade.
55.   Within the framework of the policies of economic liberalization that are being
implemented, the Government intends to establish an environment that will enable sound
competition between economic operators and limitation and/or penalization of anti-
competitive practices. To this effect, a law has been prepared and discussed with the
private sector and other partners. It will be submitted for approval to the National
Assembly by the end of 1998.



Letter of Development Policy        39                           ANNEX B
Page 12 of 26
56.   The Government will also establish clear and precise regulations in the domain of
competition law that conform to international norms, as defined by WTO, in order to (a)
create an institutional framework that will stimulate growth and development; (b)
reinforce the efficiency of enterprises; and (c) ensure the protection and well being of
consumers.
Regional Integration and Export Promotion
57.   Cameroon has always given great importance to sub-regional integration. In this
context, it has played a vital role in the establishment of UDEAC and CEMAC, whose
principal objective is to achieve greater coordination of economic policies for member
states.
58.  In concert with the authorities of other UDEAC member states, Cameroon has
instituted a common external tariff (TEC) in order to significantly reduce the level of
import taxation and simplify product classification. The number of import duties and
taxes has been significantly reduced. A few temporary tax surcharges have been adopted
to assist local industries to adjust to this new environment. These surcharges will be
completely repealed by the year 2000. As of January 1, 1998, the preferential tariff
(TPG) that is applied to inter-regional trade has been reduced to zero.
59.  In order to improve the comrpetitiveness of exports, the Government is
progressively reducing commodity export taxes. Rates have been reduced from 15% in
1995/96 to 13.5% in 1996/97 and to 10% in 1997/98. For the period 1998/99, the
government proposes to reduce this rate to 5% in the framework of the Finance law. The
overall objective remains to completely eliminate the export taxes.
60.   The development of exporting to members of CEMAC will be encouraged by the
implementation of the interstate transport procedures (TIPAC) whose objective is to
facilitate commerce by establishing a simple and harmonized transport system.
V.   SE4CTORAL POLICIES
5.1   Transport Sector
61.   The competitivity of Cameroon's economy has been affected by the inefficiency
of the transport sector because of numerous institutional weaknesses and because of the
poor performance of public enterprises managing railways, air transport, commercial
shipping, ports, urban transport, and leasing of road maintenance equipment. In
addition, road infrastructure development has been confronted with a number of
problems, notably: (i) lack of sustainable resources for its maintenance; (ii) road
maintenance executed inefficiently through the force account system; and (iii) lack of a
multi-year framework for the programming of road works. These weaknesses have
generated high transport costs and caused a decline in the quality of transport services.



Letter of Development Policy        40                           ANNEX B
Page 13 of 26
62.  In light of this picture, in 1996 the Government adopted a vast reform program for
the transport sector which is currently in active implementation. The program aims at
improving the performance of the sector so that it can contribute fully to the improvement
of the competitiveness of the economy as a whole, poverty reduction and environmental
protection. It emphasizes the involvement of the private sector in the management of the
sector, and will spur competition through liberalization. The specific objectives of the
reform are: (i) to significantly reduce the transport costs both domestically and
internationally; (ii) to improve the supply and the quality of transport services; and (iii) to
increase the performance of public enterprises in the sector.
63.   Measures already taken by the government to improve the performance of the
sector include:
 the reduction of certain costs and tariffs in the port of Douala, a decision taken
after consultations between the Administration and port users;
*  the liberalization of maritime transport by the elimination of all national
preferences and the abolition of all agreements preserving cargo shares to
national shipping companies; a consequence of this measure has been the
abolition of charges and authorizations hitherto required by the National
Council of Cameroon Shippers (CNCC);
*  the development of private urban transport services by instituting a more
liberal regulatory framework, and streamlining urban traffic management;
*  the implementation of a road maintenance strategy whose focus is on
upgrading the priority road network, including: (i) the privatization of road
maintenance, (ii) the promotion of small and medium-sized businesses in the
road sector, and (iii) the mitigation of road maintenance impact on
environment;
*  the adoption of a law instituting a road fund;
.  the adoption of an action plan aimed at rendering the Douala port more
competitive, and
*  the concessioning of railway activities.
64.   The Government intends to pursue these efforts with the primary objective of
significantly reducing transport costs and to improve the supply and quality of transport
services.
65.  In the context of its economic program, the Government intends to accelerate and
intensify reforms notably in the following areas: ports, maritime transport, road
management, railway and air transport.
5.1.1. Port Reforms
66.  In the port sector, the Government has adopted an action plan which it intends to
implement in the next three years (1998-2001). The plan comprises the following five
components:



Letter of Development Policy         41                            ANNEX B
Page 14 of 26
* institutional reform,
* dredging of the access channel to the port of Douala, and of timber and fishing
basins,
* rehabilitation of infrastructure in the port of Douala,
* improvement of port management,
* reduction of port costs and clearance times.
For each of the five components, a detailed action plan defining objectives and measures
to be taken, responsibilities, timing, as well as indicators, is attached to this LDP (Annex
2).
67.   Institutional reforms are intended to:
* render the port sector more competitive by:
0  adopting and promulgating a new port law; (expected in late 1998)
0  distinguishing functions relating to security, police, and environment
control and protection (missions regaliennes) from commercial and
industrial activities;
0  restructuring state entities intervening in the port sector
* render the management of ports autonomous, through the new Port Law, by:
0  establishing a National Port Authority entrusted exclusively with
security, police and environment control and protection functions
(fonctions regaliennes) and the management of port public assets;
0  establishing, in each port, a Consultative Orientation Committee with a
majority representation of port users;
0  continuing state divestiture by the transfer of port industrial and
commercial operations and of superstructure maintenance to the
private sector, by way of competitively awarded concessions or
contracts; (to be completed by about March 2000)
0 establishing a framework for competition in port delivery service.
Dredging of the Port of Douala
68.   The strategy adopted for the medium term is to carry out dredging on a permanent
basis in order to maintain a depth of -6.5rn with the possibility to deepening to -7.50m,
instead of deepening the channel through the construction of calibration dikes. The latter
method which has a much higher capital cost does not offer any significant advantages.
Dredging will be carried out under a three-year contract by a private operator recruited
through an international competitive process, which is about to begin. Contract works are
expected to begin in the last quarter of 1998..



Letter of Development Policy         42                            ANNEX B
Page 15 of 26
Rehabilitation of infrastructure in the Port of Douala
69.   The Government has adopted a priority investment program for the rehabilitation
of infrastructure in the port of Douala. The program is limited to the following
operations:
* rehabilitation of superstructures pertaining to berths, yards, roads and
warehouses;
* rehabilitation of the timber terminal (construction of dolphins - ducs d 'albe -,
rehabilitation of the timber park);
* rehabilitation of container terminal yards;
* moving the floating dock to a definitive site.
-In addition, the Government has included in the priority program the launching of a study
to upgrade the port master plan.
70.   In order to implement the Douala port rehabilitation plan with immediate effect,
the Government, in agreement with interested partners, has adopted an emergency
program covering certain priority operations for which funding has been identified,
namely:
- sustainable dredging of the access channel to the port of Douala, rehabilitation
of roads and warehouses, maintenance by the port authority of maritime
signalization aides;
- rehabilitation of berths and yards, including timber and container terminal
yards, the rehabilitation or construction of warehouses, the construction of
dolphins, and signalization aids, by donors and private operators.
Improving Port Management
71.   Measures will be taken to improve port management and reduce the recurrent
costs of the port authority. Port performance objectives, comprising measurable
indicators, will be adopted to this effect within the framework of a Performance Plan
which is expected to take effect as of July 1, 1999. The government will adopt a
transition action plan defining the duration and modalities of managing the transition
toward: (i) the autonomous management of each port; (ii) complete takeover of industrial
and commercial activities by the private sector; (iii) the establishment of the different
consultative orientation committees.
Reducing Port Costs and Clearance Times
72.   The action plan for reducing port costs and dwell times is already in execution.
Port tariffs have been reduced by some 10%. The Government will pursue the actions
taken to further reduce costs and dwell times. Thus, on the basis of a cost reduction plan,



Letter of Development Policy        43                           ANNEX B
Page 16 of 26
which will be prepared before December 1998, measures will be taken to reduce dwell
times for containers in the Douala port to 7 working days for imports and to 2 working
days for exports. Moreover, procedures will be simplified through the establishment of a
single window (guichet unique).
5.1.2. Maritime Transport
73.   The Government will consolidate its policy of liberalization in the maritime
transport sector by assessing measures already taken, as well as measuring their impact as
perceived by of private operators. Work is currently underway to reorient the mission of
the National Council of Cameroon Shippers (CNCC) to safeguarding the interests of
shippers and to contributing to the promot:ion of international trade.
5.1.3. Management of Road Assets
74.   With respect to road management, a priority network of about 25,000 km was
adopted to take into account the financing capacity of road maintenance. Within the
context of this priority network, the Government's road maintenance policy seeks to
achieve:
- progressive privatization of road maintenance execution, as well as privatizing
the management of road maintenance equipment;
* adoption of a sustainable rural r oad maintenance strategy
* integration of environmental protection in the execution of road programs.
75.  In this regard, the Government has decided to establish a Road Fund in order to
ensure sustainable financing of road maintenance.  The principles underlying the
finctioning of the fund are: (i) financing through road use recovery costs; and (ii)
involving road users in the management of the Fund. Consequently, a road user charge
will be established with effect from the 1998/99 Fiscal year, and incorporated into retail
price of gasoline.
5.1.4. Railway Transport
76.   The concessioning process for railway activities, currently under way, will be
completed. The new concessionaire is expected to take over railway operations by March
1999. Particular emphasis will be placed on the payment of social costs and on the
concrete modalities of implementing the concession. One of the objectives which the
Government expects from the concessioning of railway activities is the execution of an
investment program to rehabilitate fixed installation and mobile equipment.
5.1.5. Air Transport
77.   With regard to Air Transport, the Government's objective is to improve coverage
of Cameroon internally, regionally and internationally, while improving the quality of



Letter of Development Policy         44                            ANNEX B
Page 17 of 26
services and security. For this purpose, the following reforms will be implemented in the
course of the Program: (i) with respect to legislative and regulatory reforms, the civil
aviation code will be revised to establish real competition in the sector and to strengthen
compliance with security measures; (ii) the Ministry of Transport will be strengthened to
allow it to better control and supervise air transport activities, (iii) CAMAIR, which is
currently on the privatization list, will be submitted to the new competitive environment.
In the latter regard, commitments taken by the Government within the framework of its
medium term economic program, supported by the ESAF, will be respected.
5.2   Financial Sector
78.   The Government reaffirms its will to pursue the restructuring of the financial
sector, as an essential link in the chain of economic activity. A solvent and efficient
financial sector is indeed necessary to ensure a balanced growth, the development of the
private sector and the fight against poverty. Constraints of an institutional or regulatory
nature still weigh on the development of certain areas of the financial sector of
Cameroon. It is the case in particular of insurance companies, the numerous savings and
loans co-operatives, and the social security institution "Caisse Nationale de la Prevoyance
Sociale" (CNPS). The Government intends to lift the obstacles to the effective and
efficient operation of the financial sector.
79.   The Government carried out a significant program of bank restructuring during
1996/97. At the end of this program, three banks had been restructured with the
participation of their private and public shareholders, while two banks were put in
liquidation. Today, all the large banks are solvent, liquid and profitable. In addition, the
Cameroonian banking sector was enriched by the arrival of two new banks, CITIBANK
and the Commercial Bank of Cameroon (CBC).
80.   In line with its policy to limit its participation in the capital of banks and to
disengage itself from their management, the Government will complete the privatization
of BICEC. To this end, either an agreement will be concluded with the operator with
whom discussions are in progress, or an invitation to tender will be launched before the
end of the year 1998. The objective of the Government is to complete the disengagement
of the State during the year 1999.
81.   Within the framework of its policy of promotion of private initiative and
particularly of SMEs/SMIs, an essential vector in the pursuit and fight against poverty,
the Government intends to support the development of appropriate financing
mechanisms. These mechanisms, which are the object of feasibility studies, include, inter
alia, private leasing companies and term lenders as well as specialized co-operatives and
venture capital firms.
82.   The monetary situation, through the rise of the money supply and the
reconstitution of the external assets translates the recent efforts made in bank
restructuring. In order to set the banks viability on solid ground, the Government will



Letter of Development Policy        45                           ANNEX B
Page 18 of 26
continue to support the Banking Commission of Central Africa (COBAC) in its banking
supervision mission and in particular through the enforcement of the banking prudential
rules.
83.   The authorities reaffirm their will to set up a financial market in order to improve
the mobilization of saving and to widen the sources of financing of companies.
Accordingly, a suitable regulatory framework will be designed, and Government will
continue the dialogue for the development of a regional financial market.
84.   Cleaning up micro-finance is one of the government's priorities. To this end,
savings and credit cooperatives will be subjected to a specific set of financial and
prudential regulations, under the control of capitalized COBAC.  Moreover, their
operating licenses will henceforth only be granted by the monetary authority (MINEFI)
after non-objection by COBAC. A regulatory text to this effect has been prepared and
will be adopted before the end of June 1998.
85.   The Government intends to work. within the BEAC to eliminate the maximum
borrowing rate and the minimum saving rate. The Government will carry out, before
December 31, 1998, the last payment to the "Trust Fund" set up to guarantee the in-fine
payment on Government securitized debt estimated at approximately FCFA 4 billion.
86.   With the ratification of the regdional treaty on insurance (traite CIMA), the
authorities will pursue the restructuring of the insurances sector and will complete the
restructuring/privatization of the two public insurance companies, SOCAR and CNR.
After that of SOCAR, the invitation to tender for the privatization of CNR will be
launched in June 1998. At the same tirne, the legal cession by which the insurance
companies operating in Cameroon must reinsure at CNR 15 % of the policies issued will
be abolished with the privatization of this company. In return insurance companies
operating in Cameroon have agreed to participate in the capital of new CNR if it is taken
over by an reassurer of international reputation. The Government will guarantee part of
the obligations of the old CNR with respect to the cedants. Following the audits carried
out by the regional Commission of control of insurance, all the private companies either
will be restructured, or liquidated. The government is committed to facilitate the
implementation of the decision of CIMA.
87.  In order to strengthen the promotion of a new ethics in the conduct of economic
activity, the Government will continue to penalize delinquent borrowers through
measures defined previously and which include prohibition of: (i) access to the bank
credit, (ii) ,participation in the privatization program, and (iii) participation in the tenders
for public procurement. The privileged instrument of this policy is the "Societe de
Recouvrerrlent des Creances du Cameroun (SRC). An annual objective of recovery is
assigned to the SRC. For 1998/99, this objective stands at 11 billion francs CFA. In order
to guarantee equity in the reimbursement of claims on SRC, it will receive from
Government an instruction with precise rules for the reimbursement of creditors of
various liquidations. With regard to BMBC, the approach consists in: (i) reimbursing all



Letter of Development Policy        46                           ANNEX B
Page 19 of 26
claims lower than 400 000 francs CFA within the framework of convention with the
European Union, and (ii) carrying out the payment of the amounts higher than this
threshold by tranches depending on amounts recovered at the pro-rata of claims. For other
liquidations, the recovered amounts will be distributed between creditors in proportion to
their claims. This strategy will be largely explained to the public within the framework of
Government communication strategy calling upon all medias. The Government intends to
close all bank liquidations at SRC and reorientate this organization towards recovery
activities. This new SRC, using its acquired expertise, will offer its services in particular
to the commercial banks and will be able, in the long term, to be privatized.
88.   The Government attaches a particular importance to social security reform. The
existing structures having been unable meet the needs of the beneficiaries. The
Government set up a Steering committee with a mandate to prepare an action plan for the
reform of the social security by the end of December 1998. This action plan aims on the
one hand to improve the structures of CNPS, and on the other hand to lead to a
comprehensive reform of the social security system in Cameroon. In the short run, the
Government will proceed, with the assistance of the World Bank and the ILO, with the
cleaning up of the files, an intensive recovery of overdue contribution and an update of
the financial statements of the CNPS.
5.3   Forestry
89.   Since 1991, Cameroon has been undertaking deep reforms in the forestry sector.
These have led to the adoption of policies are fully compatible with international
standards for sustainable management. A new forestry code was adopted in 1994 and its
implementation decrees in 1995. Zoning plans have also been prepared.
90.   The principal objective sought by the government in the application of this new
forestry policy, which has been in effect since 1994, is rational and sustainable forestry
management in order to: (a) preserve the ecological stability of productive forestry
systems, including protected areas and national parks; and (b) to improve the contribution
of the forestry sector to Cameroon's development through optimal recovery of the
resource value (rent recovery) and the promotion of efficient and high value
industrialization in economic terms. These objectives should be attained through: (i) the
implementation of sustainable management systems for production forests (including
utilization activities with low ecological impact); (ii) the effective participation of
forestry communities in the forestry management; (iii) the effective adoption of a
regulatory and incentives framework for rational management of the primary resource;
(iv) adoption of investment incentives to promote efficient forestry industries taking due
account of the need for environmental protection; (v) the reinforcement of transparency
and competition in the procedures for the attribution of concessions and harvesting rights;
(vi) clear definition of roles and actors in the sector and the reinforcement of the different
institutions responsible for monitoring, evaluation, and application of forestry policy; and
(vii) rational management of biodiversity.



Letter of Development Policy         47                            ANNEX B
Page 20 of 26
5.3.1 Sustainable management
91.   In the area of sustainable management, the principal objective will be to establish
a regulatory and institutional framework for better monitoring, evaluation and supervision
of the execution of forestry management plans, with the assistance of competitively
selected private sector operators. To this end, the government intends to take measures
aimed at: (a) definition of the role of institutions involved in the process of
implementation and monitoring of forestry management plans; (b) establishing a joint
mechanism ("m&canisme paritaire") for the approval of management plans; (c) regular
monitoring of concessions by systematic independent inspections; (d) insuring the
appropriate delimitation (decoupage) of new concessions in taking account of the
requirements of sustainable management as well as of economic and ecological
constraints (optimal concession size, and rotation period).  Concerning community
forests, the government will adopt a manual for procedures and norms for their attribution
and management.
5.3.2 Community forestry
92.   The government wishes to ensure that local forestry communities adhere to and
adopt the principles of good forestry management. To this end, it intends to implement
the community forestry component of the forestry policy which aims at: (i) the
participation of these communities in the benefits of forestry utilization; (ii) the
attribution of certain 'forestry blocks' in multiple use forests ("forets du domaine
national") to local communities on the basis of simplified management plans. To do this,
the modalities for ensuring that forestry communities receive a fair share of forestry taxes
will be clarified and implemented during 1998-99. Forests which can be assigned to local
communities will be identified and be declared ineligible for allocation of annual
harvestin,g permits
5.3.3 Forestry taxation and industrialization
93.   Forestry tax policy must aim at promoting rational and sustainable use of forestry
resources, and in that framework, trying to ensure that the sector's overall contribution to
the economy is in line with its potential. This will require shifting more of the fiscal
burden upstream. To that end, the government intends, inter-alia, to: (a) improve the
recovery of the stumpage fee and the forestry royalty; through improved cooperation
between the Ministry of Forest and the Ministry of Economy and Finance, as well as the
establishtnent of a revenue securisation program (programme de sicurisation) (b)
undertake a tax verification of forestry enterprises for 1996-97 and the first semester of
1997-98; in order to normalize the fiscal situation of these firms; and (c) undertake an in-
depth technical audit (study) to assess the optimal economic and fiscal potential of the
sector. On the basis of the results of the study, forestry taxes will be revised in 1999/2000
with a view in particular to setting appropriate rates of export taxes on logs and processed
goods, in order to promote competitive and economically efficient high valued added
industrialization.



Letter of Development Policy         48                            ANNEX B
Page 21 of 26
5.3.4 Modalities for Allocating Concessions and cutting rights
94.   Concerning the modalities for attribution of cutting rights (concessions and annual
cutting permits), the government has begun to use the competitive market based
procedures required by the Forestry Code.  In order to improve the transparency and
competition, the Government has decided to reinforce these dispositions. To this end, it
will undertake, together with key partners, a review of the technical criteria for the
evaluation of bids, and include, to the extent necessary, parameters that would discourage
speculation and better reflect the interest of existing industries. In the future, calls for
bids will use the new criteria agreed on following the review. The Government will also
reinforce the technical subcommittee responsible for bid evaluation by adjoining to it a
financial specialist. In addition, the government intends to adopt new modalities for the
attribution of cutting rights and to introduce an independent mechanism for reviewing
reporting the results of the adjudication process. This mechanism will take the form of
the participation, in the technical subcommittee and the Ministerial Committee
responsible for attribution of cutting rights (as well as its technical subcommittee for bid
evaluations), of an independent lawyer responsible for the elaboration and presentation of
a report attesting as to whether or not the established procedures have been properly
followed.
5.3.5 Biodiversity
95.   The government intends to adopt a national strategy for biodiversity management
and conservation, as well as for the valorization of non-wood products.
5.3.6 Institutional Reforms
96.   On the institutional front, the government will undertake actions bearing mainly
on (a) clarifying the role of the various actors and institutions involved in the
establishment and monitoring of forestry management plans, in particularly ONADEF
and the Ministry of Environment and Forestry; (b) the restructuring of ONADEF so as to
permit it to fulfill its mission and to define its sources and levels of financing; and (c) the
reinforcement of the capacity of the Forestry Administrations, the private sector and
ONGs, as well as of training programs within the appropriate training institutions.
VI.   Accompanying Measures
97.   Achieving faster and more equitable growth on the basis of coherent
macroeconomic, sectoral and social policies would be a more easily attainable objective
if some of the constraints faced by the economy were properly identified and eliminated,
or at least alleviated. This applies particularly to the social costs of structural reforms, the
burden of debt on public finances, the inadequacies of public administration management,
as well as the issue of governance and corruption.



Letter of Development Policy         49                            ANNEX B
Page 22 of 26
98.   Those constraints, in addition to the instability of international economic
conditions and the decline of the country's petroleum revenues, are now the particular
focus of the authorities' attention. The government with the support of the international
financial community is determined to meet the challenges that these constraints entail.
6.1   External Debt
99.   Cameroon has concluded an agreement with the International Monetary Fund in
August 1997 for an Extended Structural Facility in support of its economic and financial
mediunm term program for the period 1997/98 to 1999/2000. This agreement has
permitted the government to obtain a restructuring of its debt with bilateral creditors at
the Paris Club, on Naples terms implying a debt reduction of 50% in present value terms.
100.  As of June 30 1997, public external debt was equivalent to 80% of GDP, while
scheduled debt service represented 50% of export proceeds and 75% of budgetary
receipts. The authorities are still concerned by the burden of this debt on the public
exchequaer, on the balance of payments and ultimately on economic growth as well as by
the resulting crowding out of public expenditures for the social sectors and its impact on
poverty. Following the Paris Club meeting, the authorities plan to initiate negotiations for
the restructuring of commercial debts with the London Club. Preliminary discussions
have been initiated to that effect with the creditors' lead bank and an effort to reconcile
the figures is under way. An official request will be submitted to the commercial banks
as soon as negotiations with the IMF and the Bank are completed regarding the second
year of the government's three year program.
101.  To successfully complete that operation the Government will have to mobilize
considerable resources, of the order of CFAF 30 billion, to meet the immediate costs of
economic restructuring. For this purpose, the Government counts on the support of its
traditional international partners, including the World Bank and the International
Monetary Fund.
102.  Despite the debt alleviation measures already obtained or expected in the near
future, the Government remains preoccupied by the weight that the external debt
represents for the public finances. This raises the problem of the sustainability of the debt
for Carneroon. The Government therefore plans to seek additional alleviation measures,
including debt stock reduction measures within the framework of the Plaris Club, as well
as eligibility to the HIPIC.
6.2   Internal Debt
103.  The internal debt is one of the most serious obstacles to the resumption of
econonmic activity. The social dimension of the debt and, directly or indirectly, its impact
on poverty levels, is inescapable and so is the pressure it exerts on the management of
public finance. Total internal debt is estimated (before audit) at CFAF 1400 billion,
equivalent to 27% of GDP. In the last two years the Government has settled part of the



Letter of Development Policy         50                            ANNEX B
Page 23 of 26
debt by cash repayments or through securitization. This concerns debts to banks and
commercial arrears as of June 30, 1993. The audit of debts as of June 30, 1997 will be
completed by July 31, 1998. The settlement of the internal debt cannot be assured though
traditional methods used so far and a new strategy will have to be designed and
implemented with assistance from the World Bank as part of a specific project for that
purpose. The Government intends to adopt such new a strategy and the corresponding
action plan before the end of 1998.
6.3   Social costs of the reforms
104.  The implementation of the public enterprise reform has entailed important social
costs that the enterprises have been unable to meet within a reasonable time frame in
view of their own difficult position. This situation is a major obstacle for the fulfillment
of this important component of the structural reform program, namely the rehabilitation
and privatization of public enterprises. The government is aware that urgent action is
needed to resolve this sensitive part of Cameroon's internal debt. It is important in this
respect to properly assess the social costs of structural reforms, to permit a correct
appreciation of the constraints involved and thus design the necessary accompanying
measures in pursuit of the twin objectives of overall economic rehabilitation and poverty
alleviation.
105.  Specifically the Government's objectives are: (i) to as smoothly as possible
complete the reform of public enterprises already under way; (ii) assist in the
redeployment in the economy of dismissed workers; (iii) reduce poverty; and (iv) re-
establish social peace among the workers. The social dimension will therefore be taken
into account in the design of the restructuring and privatization strategies of the public
and para-public enterprises. In that spirit, the actions in support of the creation of new
enterprises by former employees together with the effort to subcontract services with
them, which have been initiated as part of the restructuring of REGIFERCAM and SNEC
will be developed. Similarly, the Fonds National de l'Emploi will be closely associated
to measures,. such as support to micro-enterprises, aiming at reintegrating dismissed
workers into the active labor force. Finally, regarding the social services previously
provided by the public enterprises, the Government will see to it that they are continued
by the firms taking over those enterprises, as in the case of the HEVECAM operation.
106.  The objectives pursued by covering the social costs linked to the rehabilitation of
the public sector and the implementation of accompanying measures stem from an overall
strategy including a complete inventory of all the components of those costs, an audit
aimed at verifying such inventory, the design of an appropriate regulatory framework for
meeting and then actually settling those costs. This operation is part of the overall
financial operations of the State and must therefore be consistent with the macroeconomic
framework. It must also be consistent with the government's adopted strategy for the
settlement of the internal debt. In covering the relevant social costs, priority will be given
to those enterprises being privatized or liquidated. Regarding the enterprises which



Letter of Development Policy        51                           ANNEX B
Page 24 of 26
remain iin government's hands, the measures already agreed for settling ithe relevant social
costs will definitely be implemented but only within the restructuring plans approved by
the government.
6.4   Modernizing government's management tools
107.  The key to successful implementation of the government medium term economic
and financial program lies in rapidly mobilizing internal resources, particularly non-
petroleum revenue, and in effectively controlling expenditure.
108.  This fiscal requirement in turn is strictly linked to the existence of an adequate
legal and regulatory framework, simplified and transparent procedures, the availability of
modern equipment and sufficient human resources of proven competence.
109.  In this respect, the government has for some years been implementing a vast
program for the rehabilitation of fiscal administrations, with its own as well as and
external financial resources. Despite these efforts, the means available remain
insufficient, particularly regarding administrative management tools and computerization
of management information systems. Costs are very high and budgets severely
constrained. In view of the results to be expected from the modernization of management
tools in terms of reduced fraud, improved service and lower costs, the effort has to be
maintained particularly where application of new methods are under way, namely in the
Customs, Taxes, Treasury (cash management) and Budget administrations. For the near
term, the objective is to ensure full coverage by year 2000 of all those services where
application of computerization has been undertaken. Thereafter a modernization program
will be designed and implemented with assistance from external donors within the
framework of a specific budgetary reform project.
110.  Beyond modernization of computerized information systems, efforts must
continue to provide Government administrations with appropriate equipment, particularly
as regards buildings -- new construction and rehabilitation, furniture and vehicles.
Ultimately, the success of the three year program being supported by the international
financial community will depend to a large extent on the modernization of management
systems of the financial administrations aimed at improving assessment and payment of
taxes, as well as reducing tax and customs fraud, and ensuring better overall tax revenue
performance. To that effect the authorities have also started a project for real estate
assessments ("cadastre") in order to modernize real estate taxation. Implementation of
this project will depend on timely and adequate support being available.
111.  Regarding human resources, the authorities are aware that the reforms being
undertaken require better design and utilization of the new legad and regulatory
instruments and of the relevant computerized systems. It is therefore necessary to develop
short and long term training programs for the relevant personnel. This is particularly the
case for the implementation of the VAT; training sessions have to be programmed for
those in charge of daily management of this tax, personnel in tax and customs



Letter of Development Policy        52                           ANNEX B
Page 25 of 26
administrations as well as in the Treasury and other units responsible for the execution of
the Budget with a view to reducing fraud and evasion and thereby improving overall
fiscal performance.
112. For several years now the Government has been carrying out an ambitious
program for civil service reform with support from the World Bank, the European Union
and France. This program has two main objectives: improving the efficiency of public
administration on one hand, better control over personnel numbers and over the wage bill
on the other hand. The first phase of this program has been completed. As of December
31, 1997, 5055 persons have left the civil service. About another 1200 are expected to
leave by end June 1998, and 1452 more will depart between July and December 1998.
113.  One important component of this program is the reduction in numbers of
employees. One objective is a qualitative improvement of personnel in public
administrations and delivery of better services at lower cost. The legal status and
employment conditions of employment in the Civil Service have been revised to that
effect. The concept of job description ("poste de travail") has been established to better
match personnel qualifications and job requirements. The government also seeks to more
widely instill the concept of "public service" into the daily functioning of the
administration. The Government intends to deepen these reforms with a view to
ultimately having in place a Civil Service which is modern and efficient.
114.  The Government is aware that the productivity of the civil service also depends on
the system of incentives. In that respect, the salary and grading structure are being
reviewed to make it more attractive. Other incentive measures have to be reactivated
(medals, promotions within grades...) inasmuch as the state of public finances permit.
Also, the Systeme Informatise de Gestion Integree des Personnels et de la Solde
(SIGIPES) -- Computerized Integrated Personnel and Compensation Management
System -- being put in place will allow for a better management of personnel files and
improve the planning of personnel requirements.
6.5   Good governance and fight against corruption
115. Good governance reflects the manner in which government power is used. The
core content of the ongoing reforms in Cameroon is witness to the political determination
to bring about needed change and to make good management the affair of everybody.
116. Good governance essentially comprises: (i) clear legislation understandable by all,
(ii) a strong, credible judicial system, (iii) transparent and rapid decision making
processes, (iv) possibility to prosecute all reprehensible action.
117.  The determination to continue with major structural reforms, which imply large
institutional changes, is part of this option of promoting efficient economic and social
management that is essential to economic development. In this view, the State is called
upon to limit itself to core functions such as defense, police, security and facilitator of



Letter of Development Policy        53                           ANNEX B
Page 26 of 26
development without however sacrificing its concerns for regulation and social
protection.
118.  Through its reform program, the Government intends to reinforce transparency in
all key sectors of the economy. To this end, it intends to undertake every year an
independent external audit of the National Petroleum Company (SNH). For the latest
fiscal year, which closed on June 30, 1997, this audit was completed to the satisfaction
of all parties concerned and its recommendations are currently being implemented. The
Government intends to pursue similar initiatives in the forestry sector and other public
enterprises. In addition, in the recent past, these governance efforts have focused on
replacing key personnel in influential positions within key public Administrations (Debt
Management Agency, Tax Directorate, Customs Administration, Treasury, etc.) as well
as the Port of Douala.
119.  Also, it is necessary to take note of (i) the withdrawal of the State from productive
sectors, thus relying on the private sector and private initiative as the locomotive of
economic development; and, (ii) the panoply of reform measures that have been taken to
improve the policy and incentive framework for investment.
120.  The Government, with support from  UNDP, has initiated a good governance
progranm. A major public information program has begun which emphasizes the reform
of public sector management through the introduction of management by objectives and
results.
121.  As part of this reform, the Ministry of Economy and Finance is now making every
effort to pay suppliers 90 days after billing, and has instituted a regular payment schedule
for the payment of suppliers (every ten days). Thus all suppliers now should be paid no
more than 100 days following the billing date. In the same sense, further improvements
are to be made in public procuremernt procedures and their supervision. Finally, the
establishment of the Road Fund will normalize payments in this important area (and in
particular eliminate arrears).
122. The reactivation of the Controle Superieur de I'Etat (State Oversight Office),
the wage policy and the modernization of management information and computer
systems, which is imminent, will provide the State with much more effective means to
fight corruption.



54                  Annex B, Attachment I
Page I of 13
CAMEROON POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
STATEMENT
I.    Objective
The Government is strongly committed to launching an effective fight against poverty in
Cameroon.
II.    Strategy
Poverty reduction is based above all on (a) attaining sustainable economic growth thatis
both equitable and significantly higher than population growth; (b) redirecting a much larger
share of public resources toward socio-economic development in order to improve the capacity of
the poor to participate in the growth process and thereby improve their well-being; and (c)
implementing specific actions in favor of women and vulnerable groups of the population, such
as children, the elderly and the handicapped.
The success of this strategy will depend on strengthening the partnership among the
public and private sectors, NGOs and civil society as regards the definition of objectives, actions
and the instruments of implementation.
III.   Key Areas
The'priorities concern the following key issues:
-     Growth: promoting agricultural production, with an emphasis on food
production; providing support for the informal urban sector; increasing the
production and productivity of the poor; and providing employment
opportunities, particularly through labor-intensive programs.
-     Public resources: investing in human capital, health and nutrition, potable water,
education, basic economic infrastructure and management of the environment
-     Specific actions: implementing-actions to benefit women and vulnerable groups.
IV. Prerequisites for Success
The success of the poverty reduction strategy will depend on:
-     effective participation of the poor
-     collaboration among all participants
-     the commitment and resolve of the authorities
-     improving public and private implementation capacity
-     improving the quality and management of public affairs
-     decentralization of decision-making
-     availability of financial resources, specifically official development assistance
-     systematic poverty monitoring
-     implementation and systematic evaluation of poverty reduction activities.



54 A             Annex B, Attachment I
Page 2 of 13
1.    Cameroon has always shown a deep concern for the well-being of its people.
That is vvhy the country adheres to the provisions of the universal Declaration for Human
and Civil Rights. This resolve was reiterated by Cameroon's Head of State at the World
Summit on Social Development held in Copenhagen on March 6-12, 1995, where he
declared that, "social development is the end-goal of true economic growth. It is a
question of equity, a prerequisite for national solidarity. But it is also an essential
condition for the maintenance of peace, harmony and social cohesion, without which
there can be neither development nor progress." A number of proposals and initiatives
were adopted at the Summit--including the 20/20 Initiative, which recommends that 20%
of national budgets and 20% of official development assistance be earmarked for
financing essential social services. Carneroon shares that goal.
2.  For that reason the Head of State has dedicated his current mandate (1997-2004) to
the sustained reduction of poverty, with the goal of substantially improving the living
standards of the people in general and that of the poor and vulnerable groups in particular.
3.  This resolve is demonstrated by the strong mobilization of all members of the
Government.  It should lead to concrete actions promoting the participation and
involvement of all parties, including the targeted groups.
4.  The present statement accordingly expresses the firm  commitment of the
Government to effectively carry out the fight against poverty.
I.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT
1.1. - IIISTORICAL BACKGROUND
5. Camneroon, which has long been a lower-middle-income country, has gone through
three economic phases since independence.
6.  The first period, which lasted until 1985/86, consisted of two distinct stages with
different determinants of growth. The first stage (1960-79) was characterized by real
growth of between 3% and 5% per year. This growth was driven by the agricultural
sector and agro-industries, and to a lesser degree by the construction and public works
sectors. The second stage was marked by the emergence of the petroleum sector in
1979/80 and an increase in agricultural production. As a result the real growth rate
increased to 7% in 1985/86. This remarkable progress increased public expenditures on
basic social services. In fact, these expenditures more than doubled between 1980/81 and
1986/87.
7.  These important achievements in the social sectors should, ideally, have been better
targeted toward vulnerable. To do this, the Government had intended to consolidate the



55               Annex B, Attachment I
Page 3 of 13
gains made and promote a better allocation of resources with the overall objective of
reducing social inequalities and regional disparities.
8. Unfortunately, beginning in 1986/87 Cameroon was faced with a serious economic
crisis that, together with measures taken in the context of economic and financial reform
programs, deeply affected the living conditions of the people. This period, which lasted
until 1993/94, was characterized by negative growth rates on the order of 3% to 4% per
year, resulting in very high social costs to the population. A restrictive budgetary policy
had a very unfavorable effect on the resources allocated to the social sectors. The
contraction in employment linked to the closing or restructuring of enterprises in the
public, parapublic and private sectors, as well as a recruitment freeze in the civil service,
led to a rise in unemployment during the crisis period.
9. Through the double effect of the CFA franc devaluation of January 1994 and the
positive results of the earlier reforms, economic growth began to recover in 1994. The
growth rate was 3.3% in 1994/95 and continued to rise to its current rate of 5%. The
return to positive economic growth has led to some improvements in the standard of
living and should set the stage for the Government to introduce economic and social
policies aimed at poverty reduction.
1.2. - STATE OF POVERTY IN CAMEROON
10. The state of poverty in Cameroon is well documented, thanks to numerous studies
commissioned by the Government with the support of various donors: the household
budget/consumption survey (1983/84); the demographic and health survey (1991); the
World Bank Poverty Assessment for Cameroon (1995); the Cameroon household survey
(1996); and the Social Development Report (1997). All these studies testify to the fact
that the fight to reduce poverty is at the center of attention of the Cameroonian
authorities. These studies also allow the Government to better target poverty reduction
efforts.
11.  Today, poverty is manifested in different forms, mostly in lower revenues and
consumption, higher unemployment and lack of access to essential social services such as
education/training, health and nutrition, and water and sanitation as well as environmental
management. These problems are on the rise in urban areas, where nearly 22% of the
population lives below the poverty line. In rural areas the average poverty incidence is
55%. A degradation of economic and social infrastructure has accompanied the increase
in poverty. This degradation could not be contained because of limited overall resources
which, moreover, had to be allocated first and foremost to servicing the large public debt.
12.   Personal incomes have fallen sharply as a result of the decline in producer prices,
loss of employment in the private and parapublic sectors and wage decreases in the public
sector in 1993. During 1984-96 per capita income fell by 52% in Yaounde and 31% in
Douala (Cameroon's two largest cities). In rural areas, farmers' incomes, already



56               Annex B, Attachment I
Page 4 of 13
structurally low, further collapsed primarily because of the absence of support from the
Stabilization Fund of Basic Product Prices (CSPBD); from 1989/90 onward the financial
condition of the National Office for Marketing of Basic Products (ONCPB) did not allow
it to function as it had in the past. The income decline negatively affected household
consumption, which fell by 22%.
13.   On the employment front, the economic recovery was not automatically followed
by the generation of new jobs because enterprises chose to increase labor productivity.
Accordingly, unemployment is a major preoccupation since it affects nearly 22% of the
active population, and in Yaounde and Douala it has reached 31 % and 24%, respectively.
Unemployment in rural areas is below 4% because of self-employment in agriculture.
The main characteristics of unemployment are its concentration among the young (37%
in the 15 to 29 age group) and the important disparities between men and women in urban
areas, as well as between regions. In cities, 24% of active women are unemployed
compared to 20.4% of the men. Finally, the labor market is characterized by the
predormtinance of the informal sector, which employs the majority of the poor. One of the
aggravating facts in the unemployment situation is the mismatch between the education
system and the requirements of the labor market, which explains in part the
unemp]Loyment of graduates.
14.  In education, the situation is still strongly influenced by sociological and regional
factors. Important disparities persist between the northern and southern parts of the
country, where rates of access to education are 37.3% and 94%, respectively. The overall
rate of scholarization in Cameroon is 73%.
15.   The situation also remains disturbing in health. An important accomplishment
was made under the expanded vaccination program, which raised the vaccination rate for
infants between 12 and 59 months from 27% in 1991 to nearly 40% in 1996. However,
these figures hide big disparities since 41% of children from poor households have never
been vaccinated. Maternal mortality is still high (4.3 per 1000), as is infant mortality (52
per 10000).
16.   Concerning nutrition, a good part of the population suffers from caloric deficiency
(consuming less than 2,400 calories daily). Some 25% of children under 5 years have
retarded growth; 14% are weight deficient; and 4% are emaciated.
17.   As regards water and sanitation, only 31.2% of households have access to potable
water. The sanitation system is in an embryonic stage in towns, lacking treatment of
waste water and solid waste. Many potable water supply plans were cLesigned without a
sanitation component, and latrines remain the most common form of human waste
disposavl. The implementation of sanitation plans developed for Yaounde, Douala,
Bafoussam and 22 other secondary towns have been delayed due to difficulties in
mobilizing financial resources.



Annex B, Attachment 1
Page 5 of 13
18.   As to gender issues: the importance of the economic role of women is evident
from the fact that they represent around 70% of the labor force in the agricultural and
informal sectors. But women face numerous constraints, particularly regarding access to
credit and land in some regions. This limits their productivity and makes their physical
work much more burdensome, because they cannot acquire mechanized equipment.
Moreover, women are less educated than men, and this impedes their access to training,
information and technology.
19.   With regard to the environment, persistent poverty leads to intensive exploitation
of soils and irrational use of wood as a source of energy (77.4% of households use wood
as their primary energy source). This accelerates deforestation, especially in the Sudano-
Sahelian zone (which is already threatened by desertification) and in the high plateau of
the West (which is subject to strong demographic pressures).
20.   According to surveys, the perceptions of the poor on this set of problems vary by
region; in general, availability of adequate food appears to be the major preoccupation.
II. ACTIONS TO REDUCE POVERTY
21.   Aware of the consequences of the crisis and the effects of some adjustment
measures, the Cameroon authorities have tried to avoid aggravating social problems since
the first structural adjustment program in 1989. These efforts were incorporated in
numerous projects and programs such as the Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA),
the National Program for Agricultural Training and Adult Education (PNFVA) and the
framework for the deregulation and liberalization of the economy (designed to facilitate
private initiatives) that has been in place since 1993.
22.   On the economic front, the recent economic turnaround has allowed the
authorities to initiate improvements in the overall socio-economic situation. Real
economic growth has grown from 3.3% in 1994/95 to more than 5% in 1996/97, a pace
that should be maintained in 1997/98. The policy of liberalizing prices and trade,
coupled with the monetary adjustment in 1994, has improved economic competitiveness
and increased traditional exports, thus increasing producers' incomes and employment
opportunities (mainly in the rural sector). In fact, producer prices for cacao, coffee and
cotton have risen more than 50% since 1993/94. These gains have been consolidated by a
reduction in export taxes on agricultural products from 15% in 1994/1995 to 10% in
1997/1998. These taxes, which are highly regressive in real income terms, are projected
to decline further to 5% as of July 1, 1998.
23.   Budgetary improvement has made it possible for the Government to increase
salaries, investments and social expenditures. The share of the budget allocated to
education and health in 1997/98 is 12.8% and 7%, respectively, compared to 10% and
5.8% in 1995/96. Moreover, efforts have been made to increase credits for construction,



58               Annex B, Attachment 1
Page 6 of 13
equipment and improved operation of schools, particularly in regions with low
scholatization rates. In addition, an average annual inflation rate of 3% helps maintain
the purchasing power of households. Nevertheless, the servicing of foreign debt prevents
spending from being increased to levels that would cover minimum basic needs.
24.   The implementation of structural reforms has permitted some reduction of
unemployment through new productive investment and the associated creation of jobs,
notably in the modem sector. For example, the recent privatization of HEVECAM,
among other positive results, has generated 1,500 new jobs in just over a year. The
successful restructuring of the banking sector has opened possibilities for the
establishment of new lending institutions and consequently of increases in skilled
employment as well as increased availability of credits to economic operators.
25.   On the sectoral front, the Government has initiated many activities to address
poverty reduction in Cameroon.
26.   Agriculture. The Government has introduced the Food Security Program (PSA)
and the National Program for Agricultural Training (PNVA) to promote food self-
sufficiency and raise rural incomes. Various support instruments, specifically investment
funds for agricultural community micro projects (FIMAC) and a pilot project for
decentialized rural credit, as well as agricultural credit unions, have been established to
increase the rural population's access to credit.  In addition, the Government is
implementing the "Integrated Project to Combat Poverty in the Extreme Northern
Province." Key features of the project are distribution of credits to farmers for the
implementation of micro projects, growth in agricultural production and productivity, and
construiction of basic economic infrastructure (rural routes, bridges, warehouses, stores).
27.   Employment. The National Employment Agency (FNE), set up in 1990, and the
Emergency Social Program (PSU), operational since 1994, are some of the instruments
set up under the framework of the Social Dimensions of Adjustment Project. Despite the
drying up of multilateral and bilateral resources to support these programs, the
Government has kept them alive. The National Employment Agency has implemented
self-employment programs (1600 small projects so far), professional training programs
(more than 7000 trainees) and placement programs for the unemployed (nearly 22,000
persons out of 60,000 registered). This tool has played a very important role in the
integration of the poor into the labor market. The Emergency Social Program (PSU)
provides financing to implement labor-intensive sanitation projects in Yaounde and
Douala. Eight thousand persons have participated in this program since 1994.
28.  In addition, in view of the size and growth of unemployment the Government has
reviewed many legal texts and regulations with a view to making the labor market more
flexible and capable of creating jobs. These activities include work on the Labor Code
and the new Investment Code and the setting up of Industrial Free Zones. To better



Annex B, Attachment I
Page 7 of 13
combat unemployment, the Government is about to finalize a document on national
employment policy.
29.   Health. The new policy pertaining to primary health care, as well as the programs
to expand vaccination and distribution of essential medicines, are increasing access to
basic health care for a large part of the population. The opening of the National Center
for the Supply of Essential Medicines (CENAME) will lead to a decrease in the price of
medicines while improving quality. (This refers to generic medicines supplied by
hospitals.) The Health, Nutrition and Fertility Project, now being implemented, aims to
improve health coverage (by providing construction and equipment for health districts)
and adopt appropriate policies for nutrition and birth control.
30.   Education activities aim, among other goals, at improving the quality of public
education and increasing the availability of education (both public and private) as well as
community and parent participation in school management.  In this context, the
framework law on education was voted in March 1998. The school map project is about
to be finalized, as is a recruitment program for 5,000 teachers for primary schools that
will give children from poor households easier access to education infrastructure and
improved teaching.
31.   Potable water and electric power. The Government has introduced subsidized
pricing to ensure some minimum water and electricity consumption by those with low
incomes, and in particular the poor. With a view to providing potable water to the
majority of the population, the Government has launched water supply programs in
secondary towns. and is constructing wells and boreholes throughout the country,
especially in the northern regions, the South and the East. Projects for other regions,
assisted by the African Development Bank, are at the identification stage. Many other
partners are providing assistance in the framework of the village water supply program.
32.   The sanitation situation has always been of concern to the authorities. In Douala
and Yaounde household waste collection was for a long time handled by a subcontractor
(HYSACAM) controlled by the municipalities. The economic crisis and diminished state
resources led to the cancellation of this company's activities. In addition, the rapid
urbanization of the two cities led to the area served growing rapidly beyond the servicing
capacity of the company. After the 1994 devaluation the state introduced the Emergency
Social Program to alleviate these problems and create employment. This structure is only
provisional and does not have the means (material or financial) to ensure the success of
its mission.
33.   Environment. The Government has adopted a program for sustainable human
resource development that explicitly takes the environment into consideration as it
provides for meeting needs without squandering natural resources. Moreover, Cameroon
can take pride in being the only country in the sub-region with a National Environmental
Action Plan (PNGE). The objective of the PNGE is to develop policies, strategies and



60               Annex B, Attachment 1
Page 8 of 13
actions for environmental protection and rational management of natural resources for
sustainable development. Several projects are underway, specifically the Climate Change
project, Ozone Depletion project, and Gulf of Guinea Marine Ecosystem project.
Another project will soon be implemented to combat desertification of the Sudano-
Sahelian zone.
34.  In conclusion, the poverty reduction actions implemented by the Cameroon
authorities have produced mixed results. The actions that have yielded good results have
in common clarity of strategy, good targeting of objectives, effective participation of all
actors and beneficiaries, good coordination of activities by the various partners and
availability of implementation capacity and adequate financial resources. Those actions
that have failed have suffered from deficiencies in implementation capacity and lack of
active participation on the part of beneficiaries.
35.   The Cameroon authorities will make use of these lessons in pursuing and
implementing future actions, particularly those already included in the matrix of the
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1997/1998-1999/2000.  This comprehensive
document includes actions oriented toward poverty reduction in the fields of
employment, health, education and environmental management. As envisaged in the PFP
and with the goal of promoting employment, the National Policy on Employment is being
developed and the procedures for its adoption are underway. Furthermore, along with the
elimination of obstacles to job creation, fiscal incentives are being introduced to facilitate
the recruitment of young graduates by enterprises. The human resources development
strategy aims at improving the quality of education and increasing enrollment rates by
targeting underscholarized zones and groups. The school map is also under preparation.
CENAME is operational and is making generic medicines accessible to the poor at
affordable prices.
36.   Cameroon's authorities are aware that the above measures are insufficient for
eradicating poverty. Major constraints persist, namely: (a) insufficient economic growth
relative to strong demographic pressure; (b) lack of financial resources to cover priority
expenditures for socio-economic development given the heavy debt service burden; (c)
low level of productive investment; and (d) weak human capacity in some fields.
III. POLICY AND STRATEGY FOR POVERTY REDUCTION
37.   The present strategy declaration focuses on significant poverty reduction through
strong and sustainable growth; increased productive investment; higher productivity and
incomes; more efficient allocation of public expenditures; and structural and institutional
reforms, all while holding inflation in check. The benefits of growth will be directed
toward the social sectors that are the key to reducing poverty, such as employment,
health, education and training, water and sanitation, and basic economic infrastructure.



61                Annex B, Attachment I
Page 9 of 13
Specific actions will be taken in favor of women and the most neglected groups of the
population.
38.   To achieve its goals, the Government is trying to reconcile economic and social
objectives. A key idea is to strengthen the capacity of the poor in order to integrate them
into the production cycle. Cameroonian authorities, together with other partners and the
beneficiaries, also wish to promote actions that will provide the poor with access to
minimum essential social services. As a result the strategy is based on the following:
i)    achieving strong and sustainable growth;
ii)    promoting productive investments by the private sector;
iii)   increasing public investment in the social sectors and economic
infrastructure;
iv)   systematically and effectively incorporating the poverty reduction
objective into all macro-economic and sectoral policies;
v)    ensuring a participatory approach and the effective involvement of all
concerned;
vi)   empowering and increasing the role of women in poverty reduction
activities, especially income-generating activities;
vii)  promoting environmental protection.
39.   The key actions that the authorities have already committed themselves to
supporting are:
*     Improving the quality of and access to basic social services (health care,
education, drinking water) and eliminating regional disparities, specifically in
girls' education
Increasing the production and productivity of poor farmers. The attainment of
these objectives depends on increasing productive investments and spending on
agricultural research and extension.  Particular attention will be paid to
strengthening women's skills in order to raise their productivity, especially in
food crops
*     Increasing job opportunities through labor-intensive programs and strengthening
professional training
Rehabilitating basic economic infrastructure. This implies better maintenance or
rehabilitation of roads and bridges, which reduce isolation and facilitate the
movement of agricultural produce to consumption centers in towns. Similarly,
conservation and storage infrastructure will be developed to assure continuous
provisioning of consumption centers and to reduce post-harvest losses
*     Implementing specific actions in favor of vulnerable groups, such as children, the
handicapped and the elderly.
40.   At the macro-economic level, the goal is to consolidate and accelerate economic
growth through the measures envisaged in the Economic and Financial Program of the



62               Annex B, Attachment I
Page 10 of 13
Governrent (1997/98-1999/2000), some of which have already been introduced. The
actions included in the Letter on Development Policy supporting the third Structural
Adjustment Credit will contribute to this growth. Among the more important measures
having a direct impact on poverty reduction, mention should be made of the privatization
of agro-industrial enterprises (SOCAPALM, SODECTON, CAMSUCO and CDC),
which will contribute to increased employment (as has already happened in the case of
HEVECAM). Forestry sector reform will benefit rural forestry communities
(communautes riveraines) by creating additional jobs and generating income. The
Douala port reform will improve the transportation system by lowering economic costs
and by opening up internally isolated regions. NGO participation in the potable water
program and mobilization of funds for the implementation of this important project will
have a positive effect on the living conditions of the population. All these measures aim
at significant poverty reduction.
41.   Restructuring of public expenditures will lead to a better and larger allocation of
resources to essential social services. ][n this sense, mobilization of domestic resources
from privatization and official development assistance should make possible increases in
social spending in line with and even exceeding the goals of the 20/20 Initiative. In the
same manner, the restructuring of Carneroon's foreign debt and its imnpact on public
finances will free up additional resources for essential social services.
42.   At the sectoral level, in agriculture Government objectives focus on improving
agricultural productivity, increasing producers' incomes and strengthening the structures
and capacities of operational extension services. Actions that have already been initiated,
specifically credit availability for poor farmers in the framework of SDA (FNE,
PRODEC), FIMAC and NGOs, will be reinforced. At the same time the Government
will pursue its program for restructuring and training in agriculture (PNVFA) and Food
Security (PSA).
43.  In health the aim is to eliminate disparities in access to primary health care and to
extend the availability of health facilities to all segments of population. Thus the capacity
of the National Health Service (NHS) will be increased and the new geographic
distribution of facilities will take into account not only their financial profitability but
also the size and needs of local populations. The existence of numerous facilities in the
same area is a source of waste and inefficiency. Therefore special emphasis will be
placed oni locating district hospitals nearer to population centers and creating "para-
pharmacies" (propharmacies) run by the populations themselves. Finally, measures will
be adopted to attract private sector providers and involve NGOs in the health care sector.
In 1996, the Government adopted a framework law (Loi Cadre) on the basis of its Sector
Policy Declaration of 1992.
44.   Concerning potable water, the issue is essentially to improve the living conditions
of the poor and their health status by providing safe drinking water. This requires
strengthening the capacity of local communities to coordinate and manage local water



63                 Annex B, Attachment 1
Page 11 of 13
supply programs (water-point programs). In addition, the authorities will ensure that
there is a better coordination of efforts that target specific local needs.
45.   Regarding sanitation, the Government is currently analyzing the offers of several
private sector sanitation providers with the aim of introducing a functioning and
sustainable system. In this connection, it is essential to resolve the thorny issue of
financing. A solution may lie in selling waste to a specially selected agency that would
be responsible for transforming it into a marketable product.
46.   Concerning housing, the measures to promote social housing under the framework
of the Building Society of Cameroon (SIC) and the Mission for Studies of Urban and
Rural Development (MAETUR) will be reoriented toward the poorest populations.
Technologies that are based on locally produced materials will be promoted through
specific actions.
47.   In education, it is important to eliminate regional disparities, as well as
inequalities between urban and rural areas and between boys and girls. In the latter case,
incentives will be introduced in order to enroll more girls. In addition, every effort will
be made to forestall a further decline in primary school enrollments. The teacher
evaluation system will be revised, while mid-career training courses for teachers will be
introduced in order to improve their skills and the quality of teaching. The authorities
will seek to improve the coordination of education financing efforts of all social partners
with a view to reducing the costs of access to the education system as far as possible. In
order to achieve optimum cost levels, the teacher labor force will be restructured at all
levels, and construction costs reduced by using local resources when possible. The
current disparities in the availability of resources between the different levels of
schooling (primary, secondary) requires adjustment and reallocation of expenditures, as
well as the allocation of resources on the basis of specific teacher positions.
48.   Regarding employment, the Government hopes to accelerate job creation and
reduce unemployment to single digits. The following measures will be taken:
improvement of the economic, social and political environment to develop job
opportunities in the private sector, with an emphasis on rural areas and favoring
small and medium-size enterprises;
*     improvement of the financial system  to better adapt to the financing and
investment needs of producers;
*     revision of public investment policy toward labor-intensive works;
*     improvement of the training-employment balance through reform of the education
system and better professional training;
*     provision of hiring incentives to enterprises for the recruitment of young people
and women;
*     measures to safeguard existing jobs;



64                Annex B, Attachment 1
Page 12 of 13
programs for re-employment/retraining of people who have lost their jobs due to
public sector restructuring.
49.   As regards women's issues, efforts will focus on improving their capacities in
general, and especially raising productivity in agriculture; and eliminating obstacles
resulting firom lack of access to education, land and credit. In particular, in an effort to
ease the physical burden of their work, the Government will facilitate access to
appropriate technologies at a low cost.
50.   As regards environmental management, the results are so far encouraging and the
Government will stress the following:
- revision of environmental legislation and regulations and adoption of uniforrn
norms;
strengthening of the institutional framework, which will require precise and
harmonious distribution of tasks among different participants and good
coordination of their efforts;
reinforcement of the participation of local communities in environmental
protection and natural resource management;
acknowledgment of the right of citizens and associations to protect the
environment.
IV. P]REREQUISITES FOR IMPLEMENTATION AND SUCCESS
51.   To guarantee the success of the poverty reduction strategy, the Government will
seek the full participation and involvement at every level of all social partners so as to
assure that the strategy is clear, objectives are well-grounded, and beneficiary groups are
carefully targeted.
52.   The authorities will take all necessary measures for the satisfactory execution of
the strategy and corresponding action plans. Systematic monitoring and evaluation will
be introduced in order to provide all the necessary information on performance and on the
elaboration of new measures as needed.
53.   In order to assure as wide a participation as possible of the basic population in the
program, and its adherence thereto, the Government will accelerate the process of
decentralization already underway.
54.   Capacity-building initiatives for public administrations and beneficiaries will be
strengthened or initiated as needed.
55.   The authorities will pay special attention to the reduction and elimination of the
disparities and exclusions that are often the source of social and political tension.



65               Annex B, Attachment I
Page 13 of 13
56.   The Government will solicit support from the international community for the
implementation of the action plans. It will mobilize official development assistance on
conditions compatible with poverty reduction objectives. In particular, debt conversion
programs should be introduced in order to make more resources available for poverty
reduction programs.
57.   The Government reconfirms its strong commitment to carry out the steps outlined
in the present Statement. It hereby solicits the active participation of all partners,
domestic and foreign.
58.   The dialogue with all of these partners will lead to the elaboration of action plans
for poverty reduction. This dialogue, which opened on March 23, 1998, will continue in
the coming months.
59.   The strong mobilization of the entire Government is testimony to its commitment
and determination to ensure the adoption of a comprehensive strategy and sectoral action
plans for combating poverty in Cameroon before the end of 1998.



66                Annex B, Attachment 2
Page I of 10
PORT SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
I.    Background and Sectoral Objectives
1.    The competitiveness of Cameroon's economy has been affected by the
inefficiency of the transport sector because of numerous institutional weaknesses and
because of the poor performance of public enterprises managing commercial shipping,
ports, railways, air transport, urban transport, and road maintenance equipment. In
addition, road infrastructure development has been confronted with a number of
problems, notably: (i) lack of sustainable resources for its maintenance; (ii) road
maintenance executed inefficiently through the force account system; and (iii) lack of a
multi-year framework for the programming of road works. These weaknesses have
generated high transport costs and caused a decline in the quality of transport services.
2.    In light of this assessment, the Government adopted in 1996 a vast reform
program for the transport sector, which is currently in active implementation. The
program aims at improving the performance of the sector so that it can contribute fully to
the improvement of the competitiveness of the economy as a whole, to poverty reduction
and to environmental protection. It emphasizes the involvement of the private sector in
the management of the sector, and the promotion of competition through liberalization.
The specific objectives of the reform are: (i) to significantly reduce transport costs both
domestically and internationally; (ii) to improve the supply and the quality of transport
services; and (iii) to increase the performan, ce of public enterprises in the sector.
II.   Progress Achieved
3.    Maritime transport was liberalized in December 1997. This led, in the first
quarter of 1998, to: (a) the effective elimination of all national preferences and the
abolition of cargo-sharing arrangements that reserve a certain share of maritime transport
cargo to national shipping lines; (b) the abolition of all cargo loading authorizations that
shippers had to obtain from the Shippers' Council, which specified which vessel import
and export cargoes were to be loaded on; and (c) the elimination of all taxes, charges, and
other obligatory contributions that had been formerly required to be paid to the Shippers'
Council (CNCC).
4.    In February 1998, the Authorities published a Ministerial Instruction reducing
loading and transit fees at the port of Douala, in order to reduce the costs of clearing
goods.
5.    In May 1998, the Government has adopted a plan of action, summarized in the
present document and the attached policy matrix, which aims at restructuring the port
sector and rendering the port of Douala competitive. It is a far-reaching reform that
emphasizes the involvement of operators and users in its management and in the
execution of commercial and industrial activities. The reform is expected to help redefine



67                Annex B, Attachment 2
Page 2 of 10
and limit the functions of the port authority to security, police, environment control and
protection, and management of public assets. Other key areas of reform concern:
reduction of port transaction costs, sustainable dredging of the access channel, port
management on commercial lines, and the improvement of the security of goods and
persons. This new management strategy emphasizes the importance of good investment
planning, especially that all projects should be economically and technically justified, and
involve much more private sector participation.
III.   Port Strategy
6.    The port strategy aims at improving the overall competitiveness of the economy,
notably by reducing port transaction costs, improving infrastructure and port
performance. The reforms relate to five (5) areas:
* institutional reforms;
* sustainable long-term dredging of the access channel to the port of Douala,
including timber and fishing basins;
rehabilitation of the port of Douala;
improving port management;
* reducing port costs and transit times
A detailed action plan (in matrix form) defines objectives, actions to be taken,
responsibilities, timing and measurable indicators.
111.1 Institutional Reforms
7.    The two main objectives of the institutional reforms are: (i) to limit the functions
of the port authority to security, police, environment control and protection (fonctions
regaliennes) and management of port public assets, and (ii) to transfer all commercial and
industrial activities to the private sector. To reach this objective, the Government will
undertake the following measures:
A. Adopt and promulgate, by end-1998, a Port Law (a) establishing a National
Port Authority entrusted exclusively with the functions of security, police,
environment control and protection, and management of port public assets, (b)
defining the legal status of the National Port Authority, (c) making provision
for the management of industrial and commercial activities and the
maintenance of ports to be transferred to private entities, by way of
concessions, (d) making provision to establish in each port a Consultative
Orientation Committee, and (e) making provision for a transition framework
toward the new institutional set-up;
B. Adopt a transition action plan relating to the above which clarifies the
duration and modalities of (a) the transition to the autonomous management
of each port, (b) the transfer to the private sector of all commercial and



68                Annex B, Attachment 2
Page 3 of 10
industrial activities, as well as other port services, (c) the establishment of the
Port Authority and of the Consultative Orientation Committees (expected to
be in place no later than Januaiy 1999 in the case of Douala);
C. Evaluate the existing legislative and regulatory framework (Law no. 95/89 of
01/30/95 and its implementing regulations), and propose corrective measures
to adapt it to the new reforms, including the establishment of a framework
conducive to competition in maritime transport and in port transactions;
D. Complete, by about March 2000, the transfer to the private sector of all
activities of a commercial and industrial nature (warehousing, stevedoring,
freight-forwarding, consignment) as well as the followving  services:
maintenance of access and superstructures, towing, piloting, berthing, ice
manufacturing);
E. Implement the transition action plan following an agreed timetable;
F. Implement other institutional measures during the Program period; and
G. Ensure that the dredging of the Douala port access channel is sustainable on a
long-term basis.
2.    Sustainable Dredging of the Douala Access Channel
8.    The rehabilitation of the access channel is of paramount importance for ships and
for the economy.
9.    Sustainable dredging would generate substantial savings as regards maritime
transport costs as a result of faster vessel turn-around times, reduced waiting for high
tides to access the channel, reduced waiting time at berth, and reduced stop-over time. In
addition, it will be possible to remove the current restrictions of the amount of cargo that
can be transported into and out of Douala on each vessel, as this is dependent on the
depth of the channel.
10.   The medium term strategy is to ensure that the depth of the channel is maintained
at a depth of at least 6.5 meters, and that the channel is gradually deepened to 7.5 meters.
It is much most cost efficient to deepen the channel through dredging th[an through the
construction of calibration dikes. Deepening through calibration dikes would require a
great deal more capital and offer no significant advantages. Dredging will be carried out
under three year contracts by a private operator recruited through an international
competitive process currently being launched for the first such contract. The dredging
works to be undertaken in the context of this contract should begin in the last quarter of
1998. Until then, dredging services will continue to be provided by the existing
contractor.



Annex B, Attachment 2
Page 4 of 10
3.    Rehabilitation of the Port of Douala
11.   The Port of Douala is in need of major maintenance and rehabilitation, and
accordingly, the Port Restructuring Program contains a Priority Investment Program.
This will focus on (i) maintenance needed to ensure the preservation of existing
installations; (ii) reducing port transit costs; (iii) improving nautical access; and (iv)
improving the security of goods and persons. Investments pertaining to commercial and
industrial activities will be financed by the private sector. All projects will have to be
economically and technically justified, as well as provide for adequate environmental
protection. Projects should avoid the Port Authority exceeding its debt-service and
borrowing capacity.
12.   On the basis of this strategy, a priority investment program has been adopted for
the port of Douala, comprising maintenance dredging financed by the internal resources
of the Port Authority, (ONPC) and otherwise limited to:
* the rehabilitation of superstructures pertaining to berths, yards, roads and
warehouses;
* rehabilitation of the timber terminal (construction of dolphins, rehabilitation
of the timber park);
rehabilitation of container terminal yards; and
* moving the floating dock to a definitive site,
An emergency program has been identified from within the priority investment program
as follows:
1. Sustainable dredging of the Douala access channel and of timber and fishing
basins, rehabilitation of roads and warehouses, and the maintenance of
nautical security equipment, which will be financed by the internal resources
of the Port Authority; and
2. Rehabilitation of berths and yards, including timber and container terminal
yards, rehabilitation or construction of warehouses, the construction of safety
dolphins, and maritime signalization aids, which will be financed by donors
and the private sector.
4.    Improving Port Management
13.   Reforms to improve port management aim at:
* Establishing an autonomous National Port Authority whose legal status will be
defined by the New Port Law. The port authority will be entrusted only with
functions of security, police, environment control and protection (fonctions
regaliennes), and management of port assets (optimum use and development of
port space, facilitation of administrative and customs procedures). The Port



70
Anne-x B, Attachment 2
Page S of 10
oversees operational coordination of all port activities; it will have the right to
conclude concessions and service contracts with private sector providers. It will
be the conceding authority.
*  Entrusting the exploitation (optimum use of berths, warehouses and yards) and
port maintenance (public common portions such as roads, yards, fences and public
lighting) to various private entities by way of concessions, with public service
obligation clauses, concluded with the port authority and,
*  Establishing in each port, a consultative orientation committee (CCO) whose main
function will be to provide advice and opinions on major decisions regarding the
life and activities of the port. The CCO also advises on certain decisions taken or
to be taken by port operators or unions ("syndicats") that are likely to affect the
life and activities of the port. It will serve as a real port community with majority
private sector representation. In this capacity, it will be the consulting organ of all
port actors including the port authority, and will facilitate the exchange of
information of a general nature.
5.    Reducing Costs and Transit Tinmes in the Port of Douala
14.   The intended objective is to render the Douala port competitive, by drastically
reducing transaction costs, simplifying administrative and customs procedures by, inter-
alia, establishment of a single window (guichet unique) and reducing cargo transit times.
15.   To achieve the objective, the Government intends to: (i) adopt between September
and Deceniber 1998, a strategy and an action plan including an implementation timetable,
aiming at: (i) significantly reducing port transaction costs during the program period, and
(ii) simplifiying and modernizing international trade procedures in order to reduce cargo
transit times at the Douala port to seven (7) working days for imports and two (2)
working days for exports.



Republic of Cameroon                                Detailed Action Plan for the Port Sector
Area                Objectives                    Actions                              Timetable        Indicators       Conditionalities
A. Institutional   Improve efficiency and  Adoption of the round table recommendations      December '97   Prime Minister's
reform             competitiveness of the                                                                  Letter
Port of Douala        Clarification of missions                          December '97
- security, police and environment control and protection
missions (missions regaliennes)
-commercial and industrial activities (Private Sector)
Adoption of the port sector reform action plan       May '98                        Before board
Reform action
Establishment of the restructuring steering committee  June '98   plan adopted
Steering
Committee
operational
Limnit port sector public  Adoption and promulgation of a law: (a) creating a  December '98   Law adopted and    Tranche 2
entities to sovereign  National Port Authority entrusted with security, police,         promulgated
activities (missions  environment control and protection functions (missions            Implemnenting                            -
regaliennes)          regaliennes) and management of public patrimony, (b)              decrees signed
defining the legal form of the Port Authority, and (c)
permitting (i) the transfer to the private sector of all
industrial, commercial and maintenance activities
through concessions and services contracts, (ii) the
creation in each port of consultative orientation
committees and, (iii) the implementation of transition
measures while the whole institutional reforrn is
progressing
Rendering autonomous  Adoption of a transition action plan defning the                  Transition action    Trhe 2
each port with the    duration and the steps and modalities to complete: (a)    December '98   plan adopted
transfer of revenues  the autonomous management of each port, (b) the
and corresponding     transfer to the private sector of all industrial and
obligations           commercial activities and other port services, and, (c)
the establishment of the Port Authority and of the Port
consultative orientation committees



Republic of Cameroon                              Detailed Action Plan for the Port Sector
Ares               Objectives                    Actions                            Timetable       Indicators      Conditionaiities
Completion of the transfer to the private sector of all  March 2000    Concessioning and  Transport floating
commercial and industrial activities (warehousing,             service contracts   tranche
handling, freight forwarding, consignment) and of the          signed
following services: maintenance of access and
infrastructures, towage, piloting, berthing, and ice
manufacturing factory and maintenance of maritime
navigational aids.
Revision of the existing laws and regulations to adapt
them to the new environment
Implementation of the tmsition action plan       Tifming to be   The National Port
defined in the Authority and the
lw   consultative
lw   orientation
c-ommifttes are
operational
New port
management
entities are
operational
B Dredging       Improve the access    Pursue implementation of the current contract to reach  May 1998    Official
channel to the port of   depth of -6,5 m                                            publication of the
Douala and reduce                                                                    depth
dwelling time        Evaluation of current contractor performance and   June 1998    Evaluation report
implementation of a mechanism to ensure that the               completed
-6.5 m depth will be secured before a new contract is
signed                                                         Dredging has         Tranche 2
Signature with a private operator of a multiyear contract   November 98 started
for the dredging of the access channel to maintain a -6.5
m depth with requesting a -7.5 m depth                                                              '4
Publication of the depth of the access channel                 Official
From February publication ofithe
1999 on    depth



Republic of Cameroon                               Detailed Action Plan for the Port Sector
C. Rehabilitation   Improvement in port
of Douala port    infrastructures        Implementation of the emergency rehabilitation action
plan financed by ONPC including:
the multiyear dredging contract to secure a       Nov           Dredging works      Tranche 2
-6.5m depthi                                      No  8 Oct   have started
01
Tranche 2
the rehabilitation of roads and warehouses                      Rehabilitation
works have started
the preventive maintenance of maritime signals    Nov 98 Oct   Maintenance          Floating tranche
2000       completed
dredging of the access channel to -6,5 m          Nov 98 - Oct   -6.5 m depth
200  attained and
published
dredging the logging and fishing basins             10/31/98    Dredging works
have started
rehabilitation and maintenance of the superstructures  10/31/98
(berth, roads, warehouses)
service contracts
rehabilitation of the logging terminal            From March   signed
1999 on
construction of dolphins (ducs d'albes)
From March   service and
rehabilitation of timber yards                      1999 on     concession                                W
contracts signed
From July
Moving the CNIC floating dock to its permanent      1999 on
location
-  evaluation of CNIC financing capabilities to make    December 98   Assessment results
sure that it will meet the financing requirements            adopted



Republic of Cameroon                               Detailed Action Plan for the Port Sector
-  Search for financing                        1       a        Financing available
I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~Fromilanuary
1999 on
-  Moving the docks                                 19o June 2001  Don its new
Rehabilitation and maintenance of the container
terminal (public works- first phase of the modemization         service and
program)                                          From March   concession
1999 on     contracts signed
update of port development plan                                 updated plan
Completed by   available
March 2000
D. Management                            Implementation of a contractual framework including a  March 99  Contractual
improvements                             port sector performance plan with monitorable                   framework adopted
indicators                                                      and performance
plan signed
Above indicators are met                            Sept. 99/    Evaluation report
Sept.00
E. Reduction in
port elearance tine  Increase the        Adoption of a strategy to reduce port costs including
and costs          competitiveness of the   specific objectives and indicators related to: (i)  December 98   Strategy adopted
Port of Douala:       administrative costs, (ii) tax costs, (iii) operators costs,     and enforced
reduction of port     (iv) port congestion, (v) port security
clearance times and
costs
Implementation of the above strategy               January 98    * The Port is open
24 hours a day,                    b  A
seven days a        
week
* Export taxes
repealed
* Fixed costs
repealed



Republic of Cameroon                                Detailed Action Plan for the Port Sector
Streamlining procedures and reducing clearance time  September
1998-2000
Streamlined
procedures adopted
and enforced
Clearance time for    Floating Tranche
containerized goods
reduced to 7
working days for
imports and two
working days for
exports
LA



SAC III - PROGRAM POLICY MATRIX (ALL SECTORS)
L POVERTY REDUCTION
Poverty reduction     Adoption and implementation  Publication of a poverty alleviation strategy declaration including a  Decemrber 31, 1998
of a  global strategy  for preliminary action plan
poverty reduction
Adoption of the poverty alleviation strategy                     April 30, 1999
Adoption of a new statutes for NGOs participating in poverty reduction  June 30, 1999
actions
Increasing budgetaxy allocations for social sectors               1998-2000
Facilitate  access  for  the  Launch a public information campaign for the use of generic drugs  1998-2000
population to generic and
essential drugs at affordable
costs
Improving access of rural and  Adoption of a strategy to increase water supply and develop sewage systems  1998-2000
urban  population  to  basic  in urban and rural areas
services
IL. SOCIUL SECTORS
Education             Human resource development  Adoption of an education strategy to improve quality and increase school December 31, 1998
access with priority given to the poor and regions with low enrollment rates
Adoption of an education development plan including a timetable for the December 31, 1998
promulgation of the implementing decrees of the Education framework law
Increase access to basic health  Adoption, in agreement with Donors, of an action plan to implement health  September 30, 1998    t
services                   districts and monitor their operation                                                  C  Z
Adoption, in agreement with Donors, of an action plan for the management December 31, 1998  Z
of health districts
OaC



Anea                   Obfrtie                     Measures and,A ns                                                   Tim     : ab e
III. IMPROVING BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT AND PROMOTING PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Agro-industries        Unleashing  sector  growth  Adoption of a privatization strategy for CDC                        July 31, 1998
privatization          potential   by   increasing
investment and employment in  Launching the invitation to bid for CDC                           December 31, 1998
rural areas and thus reducing
poverty; developing exports    Selection of the most successful bidder and issuance of the invitation to  July 31, 1999
negotiate for CDC
Adoption of a privatization strategy for SODECOTON                 June- September 1998
Launching the invitation to bid for SODECOTON                      December 1998 - February
1999
Selection of the most successful bidder and issuance of the invitation to  June-September 1999
negotiate for SODECOTON
Selection of the most successful bidder and issuance of the invitation to  October 30, 1998
negotiate for SOCAPALM
Selection of the most successful bidder and issuance of the invitation to  September 30, 1998
negotiate for CAMSUCO
Public Utilities      Improve   availability   and  Adoption of a new law a regulatory framework in the telecommunication  June 30, 1998
quality  of services; reduce  sector to open-up the sector and promote competition
costs and facilitate access of
the poor to services; remove
barriers  to  competitiveness
caused by public enterprise
inefficiency
Extension of cellular telephone  Launching the invitation to bid for a second cellular operator  June 30, 1998
service
Selection of the most successful bidder and issuance of the invitation to  December 31, 1998  
negotiate for the second cellular operator                                              CD
ooCQ
2



Privatization of fixed network  Promulgation of a decree to create CAMTEL, a new telecommunication  June 30, 1998
services                    company resulting from the merger of INTELCAM and of the commercial
activities of the Telecommunication Directorate within the Mmistry of Post
and Telecommunication
Launching the invitation to bid for CAMTEL                       December 31, 1998
Selection of the most successful bidder and issuance of the invitation to  June-September 1999
negotiate for CAMTEL
Privatization of water supply    Adoption of a new regulatory framework for the water sector  June 30, 1998
Call for tender issued for the final round of bidding of SNEC     September 30, 1998
Selection of the most successful bidder and issuance of the invitation to  March 31, 1999
negotiate for SNEC
Privatization  of  electricity  Adoption of a new sectoral strategy for the electricity sector and of a  December 31, 1998  00
supply                      privatization strategy for SONEL.
Promulgation of a new legal and regulatory fiamework for the sector  December 31, 1998
Invitations to bid issued for SONEL                              March 31, 1999
Selection of the most successful bidder and issuance of the invitation to  October 31, 1999
negotiate for SONEL
Public/private dialogue   Improve dialogue with private  Pursuance of a continuous dialogue with the private sector to reduce  1998-1999
sector                      transaction costs
Making the competitiveness committee operational                  December 31, 1998
Judiciary             Improving   the  judiciary  Improving working conditions in the court system                  1998-2000            a
environment and ensuring fair
enforcement   of  business  Adoption and implementation of an action plan to strengthen capacity in the  1998-2000  o
contracts                   Judiciary                                                                              o 
3



Reinforce judicial inspection                                       1998 - 2000
Ensure publication of court decisions                               1998 - 2000
Modernization of the operations of the clerks of the courts to speed-up court  1998-2000
decisions and their enforcement
Promotion of           Reducing goods and services    Promulgation of a competition law and implementation of its dispositions in  December 31, 1998
competition and        costs and eliminating        order to improve economic efficiency and exports and to eliminate non
Liberalization         distortions                  competitive practices
Adoption of a revised investment code to eliminate distortions related to  1998/-1999
Industrial Free Trade Zone incentives
Reduce cost of public utilities (water, telecommunications, electricity)  See privatization
Liberalization of petroleum products to reduce factor costs         June 30, 1998
Improving     external Develop exports              Implementation of the sub-regional transport reform (TIPAC)          1998-1999
competitiveness
Reduction in export taxes rates from 10% to 5%                      July 1, 1998
IV. TRANSPORT SECTOR REFORM
Port reform            Reduction of port clearance  Consultation with Port Community and donors on preparation of port sector  November 1997
time and costs; improvement reforms (Douala Round Table)
of port services quality
Adoption of a port sector reform strategy including a detailed action plan  June 30, 1998
addressing the following issues: (a) institutional reform, (b) sustainability of
dredging, (c) infrastructure rehabilitation, (d) management improvement
and, (e) reduction of port clearance costs
Limit port authority role to  Adopt and promulgate a law: (a) creating a National Port Authority  November-December 1998
core state activities (missions  entrusted with security, police, environment control and protection
regaliennes)                 functions (missions regaliennes), and (b) permitting (i) autonomous                           Z
management of the ports, (ii) transfer to the private sector of all industrial,
commercial and maintenance activities and, (iii) creation of consultative                 o
port orientation committees.                                                               o 
4



Adoption of an implementation plan with respect to the above    December 1998
Promulgation of the implementing decrees for the above law      January-July 1999
Creation of the consultative port orientation committee for the port of December 1998 - January
Douala                                                          1999
Completion, for the Port of Douala, of the transfer to the private sector of all March 2000
commercial activities (warehousing, stevedoring, freight forwarding,
consignment, as well as the following services (maintenance of access and
superstructure, towing, piloting, berthing, ice manufacturing, maintenance
of maritime navigational aids)
Improve maritime access to the  Signature of a multiyear contract to secure the depth of the access channel November-December 1998
Port of Douala             of the Port of Douala at -6.50 m with the objective of attaining -7.50 m;
and beginning of the dredging works
Execution of the Port of Douala rehabilitation program, including the  Nov. 1998- Oct. 2001
emergency program
Improve port management    Establishment of contractual framework and performance plan for Port March 1999
Authority
Reduce clearance delays in the  Adoption of an action plan to reduce clearance time of containerized goods  Sept. - Dec. 1998
Port of Douala             in the Port of Douala to 7 working days for imports and 2 working days for
export
Simplification of trade procedures and reduction of clearance times  Sept. 1998 - Sept. 2000
Establishment of the single window (guichet unique) in the port of Douala   1998/1999
Air transport        Improving   air  transport Adoption and promulgation of an appropriate law (Civil aviation code) to  December 31, 1998
services                   complement the current framework and to approve multi-designation in the
use of air traffic rights
Issuance of the bids for the privatization of Camair            1998-1999           CD
Road Transport        Improve road maintenance.  Promulgation of a decree to define the organization and the operating rules  June 30, 1998
of the Road Fund
5



sAre~'      {     W      ject i                   Measures sad ; tnsE                                                 mE :, ::::.... . .....i:
Adoption of a road user fee and direct funding mechanisms for Road Fund   June 30, 1998
Rail Transport        Improve quality of service  Entry into force of contractual agreement with new railway activities  December 1998
concessionaire
V. FINANCIAL SECTOR
Financial Sector      Withdrawal of the State from   Completion of the negotiations with the current Manager for the purchase of December 31, 1998
financial institutions      shares of BICEC or issuance of bids for privatization of the bank
Selection of the most successful bidder and issuance of the invitation to March 31, 1999
negotiate for the privatization of BICEC
Selection of the most successful bidder and issuance of the invitation to January 31, 1999
negotiate for the privatization of SOCAR
Issuance of the bids for the privatization of CNR                 June 30, 1998
Selection of the most successful bidder and issuance of the invitation to  January 31, 1999
negotiate for the privatization of CNR
Improve access of SMEs to  Adoption of a strategy to facilitate SME/SMI access to credit through the  March 31, 1999
credits                     development of private leasing, long-term  financing institutions and
specialized fnancial cooperatives
improve regulatory framework  Subject saving and loan cooperatives to specific regulations under COBAC  June 30, 1998
for  non   bank  financial and the creation of new such cooperatives to licensing by the monetary
intermediaries              authority after consent (avis conforme) by COBAC
Guarantee   repayment   of Payment of an appropriate amount by government into the offshore trust December 31, 1998
principal of securitized debt to  fund.
restructured banks
Improve   recovery   from  Assignment of a recovery target - CFAF 1 Ibillion - SRC for FY99   July, 1998
delinquent bank borrowers
Definition of operating rules for SRC in order to ensure equal treatment of August 31, 1998
all creditors of banks under liquidation
6



Closure of all bank liquidations and transformation of SRC into a 1998-2000
specialized recovery company
Rehabilitatie   the    Social Adoption of anaction plan to improve CNPS efficiency and to implement a  December 31, 1998
Security System             global reform of social security in Cameroon
VI. FoREsrRY SECTOR
Forestry Sector       Improve         adjudication  Launching a joint review of the forestry concessions granted in November June-July 1998
mechanisms for the attribution  1997
of concessions and annual
harvesting permits          Adoption of new regulations to defne detailed criteria for the award of December 31, 1998
forestry concessions and to appoint an independent observer as member of
the forestry concession adjudication commissions
Adopt appropriate modalities for the delimitation of concessions taking December 31, 1998
account of the requirements of sustainable management, as well as
economic and ecological constraints                                                        S
Improve collection of forestry  Implementation of a mechanism to securitize forestry taxation proceeds  September 30, 1998
taxes
Launching of a tax audit of the forestry companies for 1996-1997 and the  June 30, 1998
first semester 1997-1998
Improve   regulatory   and  Adoption of a new regulatory framework to supervise land-use management March 31, 1999
institutional framework for the  plans
monitoring and supervision of
land use plans
Awarding of contracts on a competitive bidding process to one or more  September 30, 1998
private operators for the supervision of the implementation of the land- use
management plans and to strengthen this capacity within the Forestry                      >
Ministry                                                                               S
ffq 
Establish tax and incentives  Launching of an economic and tax audit of the forestry sector   September 30, 1998    ' t
regime to promote rational and
sustainable  resource   use  Adoption of revised taxation regime for the forestry industry    July 1999               n
7



:: "           :         . bjec::ve  M':::rs a:d Al                                            T-: - -
and efficient industrialization
Promote community forestry    Defnition of the areas to be declared as community forests        September 30, 1998
Clarify ONADEF's role       Revision of ONADEF by-laws to clarify its mandate and its financing  June 30, 1999
sources
VII. OTHER MEASURES TO SUPPORT THE SUCCESS OF THE PROGRAM
Financing  the  social Establish        appropriate  Completion of an assessment of social costs                       September 30, 1998
costs     of      the  severance   packages   and
privatization    and  "reinsertion"  programs  for Launching an audit of social costs                                   December 31, 1998
restructuring of public  laid-off employees.
enterprises
Adoption of a strategy to mitigate social costs linked to public enterprise  March 31, 1999
restructuring and privatization
Internal Debt          Adoption and implementation  Completion of an audit of the internal commercial arrears outstanding on  July 31, 1998
of a strategy for the payment June 30, 1997
of internal arrears                                                                             December 31, 1998
Adoption of a global strategy for the settlement of internal arrears
8



84
ANNEX D
Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of key processing events
Time taken to prepare:   8 months
Project prepared by:     Government and IDA
Appraisal:               April-May 1998
Negotiations:            May 22-26, 1998
Board Presentation:      June 23, 1998
Closing date:            December 31, 2000
The Task Team Leader is Brendan Horton, AFTM3. The Task Team Members are as
follows: Macroeconomics: Richard 'Westebbe, Angele Whittaker, AFTM3; David
Tchuinou, AF3CM. Transport: Kingson Apara, AF3CM; Michel Audige, Jaffar
Bentchikou, Karim-Jacques Budin, AFTT2. Privatization: Eric Boucheny, AFTP1.
Financial Sector: Andre Ryba, AF3CM. Forestry: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh, Vicente Ferrer,
Claude Heimo, AFTA2; Clotilde Ndomb, AF3CM. The Country Lawyer is Claudine
Morin, LEGAF. The macro sector manager is Luca Barbone, AFTM3. The Country
Director is Serge Michailof. The Director's senior operations analyst is Connie Luff.
The country team assistant is Myriam Morgan, AFTM3.



SJ3N3IVH3VIV



85                                                   Aftachment 1
Page 1 of 3
Cameroon- Key Economic Indicators
Base Case
Actual                     Estimate                 Projected
Indicator             1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product               100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100,0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculturea                        26.6   27.3   38.7   39.2   40.2    40.9    41.3    42.0    42.8    43.3
Industrya                           25.1   24.0   23.0   23.3   22.0    19.7    19.1    18.4    17.7    17.1
Services'                           41.0   41.5   32.4   30.7   35.0    30.9    30.6    30.5    29.9    34.9
Total Consumption                     81.0   82.5   82.1   84.9   86.3    85.7    84.3    82.5    80.6    79.0
Gross domestic fixed                  14.3   16.6   15.3   14.5   15.7    16.6    18.0    19.0    20.1    20.5
investment
Government investment                2.7    1.8    1.3    1.2    0.5        1.0     2.0      2.7     3.6     3.7
Private investment                  11.6   14.7   14.0   13.3   15.2    15.6    16.0    16.3    16.5    16.7
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                       20.2   17.0   22.1   25.8   24.2    26.6    29.1    29.7    30.4    30.9
Imports (GNFS)                        14.7   16.0   19.5   20.7   20.5    22.4    23.8    22.8    21.8    20.8
Gross domestic savings                19.0   17.5   17.9   15.1   13.7    14.3    15.7    17.5    19.4    21.0
Grossnationalsavingsc                 14.6   13.3   15.1   12.5   11.1    10.8    13.0    15.4    17.8    19.9
Meemorandum items
Gross domesticproduct               12072  11143   6154   8274   8936    9450    8750    9463   10181   11018
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per            910    760    630    600    650        650     668      706     743     791
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1980
prices)
Gross domestic product at         -3.1%   -3.2%   -2.5%    4.4%    5.0%    5.1%    5.0%    5.2%    5.3%    5.3%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income              -3.0%  -17.3%   -6.3%    6.7%    4.0%    2.5%    6.1%    9.6%    8.7%    8.3%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1980 prices)
Gross domestic product at          -5.9%   -6.0%   -5.3%    1.4%    2.0%    2.1%    2.0%    2.2%    2.4%    2.4%
market prices
Total consumption                 -4.3%  -14.3%  I10.90/.  1.4%    2.2%   -0.6%    0.4%    2.8%    1.9%    2.4%
Private consumption                -2.4%  -13.1%  -11.0%    1.9%    3.8%   -2.5%    0.2%    2.9%    1.9%    2.5%



86                                                     Attachment 1
Page 1 of 3
Cameroon- Key Economic Indicators
Base Case
Actuial                     Estimate                  Projected
Indicator              1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture'                         26.6   27.3   38.7   39.2   40.2    40.9    41.3    42.0    42.8    43.3
Industrya                            25.1   24.0   23.0   23.3   22.0    19.7    19.1    18.4    17.7    17.1
Services'                            41.0   41.5   32.4   30.7   35.0    30.9    30.6    30.5    29.9    34.9
Total Consumption                      81.0   82.5   82.1    84.9   86.3    85.7    84.3    82.5    80.6    79.0
Gross domestic:fixed                   14.3   16.6   15.3   14.5   15.7    16.6    18.0    19.0    20.1    20.5
investment
Government investment                 2.7     1.8    1.3    1.2    0.5         1.0     2.0     2.7      3.6      3.7
Private investment                   11.6   14.7   14.0   13.3   15.2    15.6    16.0    16.3    16.5    16.7
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)k'                       20.2    17.0   22.1   25.8   24.2    26.6    29.1    29.7    30.4    30.9
Imports (GNFS)                         14.7   16.0   19.5   20.7   20.5    22A         23.8    22.8    21.8    20.8
Gross domestic savings                 19.0   17.5   17.9   15.1   13.7    14.3    15.7    17.5    19.4    21.0
Grossnational savingse                 14.6   13.3   15.1   12.5   11.1    10.8    13.0    15.4    17.8    19.9
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product               12072  11143   6154   8274   8936    8450    8750    9463   10181   11018
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per             910    760    630    600    650          650     668      706     743     791
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1980
prices)
Gross domestic product at           -3.1%   -3.2%   -2.5%    4.4%    5.0%    5.1%    5.0%    5.2%    5.3%    5.3%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income               -3.0%  -17.3%   -6.3%    6.7%    4.0%    2.5%    6.1%    9.6%    8.7%    8.3%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%o, calculated
from 1980 prices)
Gross domesticproduct at           -5.9%   -6.0%   -5.3%    1.4%    2.0%    2.1%    2.0%    2.2%    2.4%    2.4%
market prices
Total consumption                   -4.3%  -14.3%  -10.9%    1.4%    2.2%    -0.6%    0.4%    2.8%     1.9%    2.4%
Private consumption                 -2.4%  -13.1%  -11.0%    1.9%    3.8%    -2.5%    0.2%    2.9%    1.9%    2.5%



87                                                    Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
Cameroon- Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Base Case
Actual             Estimate                          Projected
Indicator             1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Current account surplus (+)          -2.9   -3.5   -6.6   -3.0   -5.3        6.5     6.9     7.5     8.3      9.4
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                   3.4    2.8    3.4    1.1    0.9    -0.5        1.0     0.6      1.3     1.2
Foreign financing                     8.4    0.1   20.5   -1.7    8.2    -5.9    -1.5    -1.3    -2.9         1.7
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP(atcurrentmarket               24.7   17.4   20.5   18.0   12.9    17.5    17.5    17.5    17.5    17.3
prices)
Growth of M2 (%/6)                    0.7  -30.5   27.9    6.1  -20.7    46.8        6.4     7.4     7.4      7.4
Private sector credit growth /       -2.6  105.9   70.3  -22.9   78.9    34.0  -238.4   806.2   528.8   -80.2
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1980 =100)
Merchandise export price            106.1   83.2   86.6   98.6   98.5    63.0    60.7    60.0    59.4    29.5
index
Merchandise import price             91.9   92.3   92.3   92.3   92.3    92.3    92.3    92.3    92.3    92.3
index
Merchandise terms of trade          115.5   90.1   93.8  106.7  106.7    68.2    65.8    64.9    64.4    31.9
index
Real exchange rate                  107.0   99.4   66.8   63.2   59.7    56.1    57.8    57.8    57.8    57.8
(US$/LCU)l
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                1.4%   -3.7%   12.7%   26.9%    6.4%    2.0%    0.7%    2.5%    2.4%    2.1%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                       -1.3%    2.0%   11.0%   15.8%    5.4%    2.7%    1.4%    2.5%    2.0%    2.8%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$1LCU denotes appreciation.



88                                    Attachment II
Page 1 of 2
Cameroon at a glance                                                                8121197
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan     Low-
Cameroon    Africa  Income       Development dlamond-
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        13.7      600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                              610      490      500                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                8.4      294    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                         2.9      2.7       1.7
Labor force(%)                                           ..     2.6       1.7     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           per                          enprimary
capita\                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)               45        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        57.      52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                56       92       69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              14       ..        ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   0       47       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   37        43       34
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   89       72      105            -     Cameroon
Female                                               493       78      112                  Low-income group
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985     1995      1996
GDP (billions US$)                            2.8      8.1      8.0       9.0     Economic ratios*
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                20.0      24.9     14.5      16.1
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP           22.7      33.4     25.9      23.9              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   17.1     26.8     20.6      19.4
Gross national savings/GDP                   10.8     20.3     12.4      13.7
Current account balancelGDP                  -8.0     -4.0     -2.1      -2.4
Interest paymentslGDP                        0.6       1.7      2.1       1.7     Savings    I  Z             Investment
Total debt/GDP                               15.3     36.2    115.6    103.2      Svn
Total debt servicelexports                    6.8     15.5     40.9      38.5
Present value of debtGDP                       ..       ..   107.9       94.1
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..   407.2    379.6
Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995     1996  199745
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 4.6      -2.9      3.3      5.0       5.3            -Cameroon
GNP per capita                      1.7       0.3     -1.0      3.9       3.3                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      16.1      2.0      -1.8      6.3       3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                  1975     1985      1995     1996      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                  29.1     22.1     42.5      44.3     30
Industry                                     18.2     36.8     25.3      24.3     20 -
Manufacturing                              10.3      11.8     10.8     10.9      10o            A
Services                                     52.6     41.1     32.2      31.5      0
-20
Private consumption                         72.0      64.2     70.8      72.7    -20
General govemment consumption                10.9      9.0      8.6       7.8
imports of goods and services                25.5     31.6     19.7      20.6              -     GDl    --GDP
197545  1986-96      1995     1996      Growth rates of exports and Imports (X)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   4.9      0.7       2.0      5.0    10
Industry                                     18.4     -5.5     -0.4       5.5    10
Manufacturing                              13.8      -1.0      2A4      7.7      5-
Services                                      7.6     -3.5      1.5       2.7      o
Private consumption                          5.5      -3.1      7.2       7.8    -5            92   93          95   9e
General govemment consumption                 6.8     -4.7      0.9      4.2    -i\
Gross domestic investment                     1.7     -8.0     -6.6      12.6    -15
Imports of goods and services                10.8     -1.2     -0.7      13.2
Gross national product                        4.1      2.4       1.9      7.1           -EXpOrtS         Imports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Attachment II
89                                        Page 2 of 2
Cameroon
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1995     1996       InflaUon (%)
Domesffc pricess
(% change)                                                                         30 -
Consumer prices                              13.6      11.5     26.9       6.4     20
ImplicitGDP deflator                          6.0      11.2     17.0       4.5     10
Government finance no'
(% of GDP)                                                                                 91   92           94   95   96
Current revenue                                 ..    21.0      12.9      14.4    -10
Current budget balance                          ..      9.5      -3.8     -1.9                   GDP def.       CPI
Overall surplus/defidl:                        ..      -1.6     -4.9      -2.8
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996       Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
(millions US$)
Total exports (fob)                           512     2,339     1,662    1,721     2,500
Fuel                                       #NIA     1,535      454       330
Cocoa                                      #N/A       226      256       276     2,000
Manufactures                               UNIA       128      137       192      1 500
Total imports (ci)                           #N/A    1,231     1,392     1,483    K1F,hFhF
Food                                       #NbA        92      222       248
Fuel and energy                            #N/A         8        8         9       500
Capital goods                              UN/A       382      460       440        0-      -     -
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..     126       121       121           90  91  92  93  94   95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                           96        81       83                  m Exports     l Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..     131       149       146                                               1
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(millions US$)                               1975     1985      1995      1996     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 648    2,725    2,059    2,159        1
Imports of goods and services                 730    2,573     1,572    1,857      0
Resource balance                              -82      153       488      302    -1  so90   91   92   93   94    5   9s
-2
Net income                                   -202      -488     -668      -595     23
Net current transfers                          62       10         9        74     4
Current account balance,                                                           -5
before official capital transfers          -221      -325     -171      -220    -4
-7
Financing items (net)                         203      363       185      302      *8
Changes in net reserves                        18       -38      -13       -82    *9
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)         #N/A         0        13        13
Conversion rate (Ioca/JS$)                  222.4    471.1    518.6    501.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          420    2,946     9,203     9,323
IBRD                                         50      287       639      576
IDA                                          50      227       512      645                             A: 576
Total debt service                             45      432       863       861
IBRD                                         4        35       140      135
IDA                                           0        3         8        9         G:1198
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               0        0         0         0                                    B: 645
Official creditors                           56       94      -195       100
Private creditors                            48      -253      -94      -133
Foreign direct investment                     0        0         0        0                                C:
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0         0                  D: 619
World Bank program
Commitments                                  22      159        86      254      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursemnents                               37       50        68       163     B - IDA   D - Other mulilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0       16        92        93     C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                    37       34       -24       70
Interest payments                             4       22        56        51
Nedtransfers                                 33       12       -80        19
Development Economics                                                                                                 8/21/97



90                                             Attachment III
Cameroon Social Indicators
Latest single year                 Same regionlincome group
Sub-Saharan
1970-75        1980485        1990-96              Africa   Low-income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)               7.4           10.0            13.7              596.4        3,236.2
Growth rate (% annual average)                    2.7            2.7            2.9                 2.7            1.8
Urban population (% of population)                 26.9           35.7           45.5                31.7           29.1
Total fertility rate (births per woman)             6.0            6.1             5.5                5.6            3.2
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                             ..           40.0
Urban headcount index                              ..           44.4
Rural headcount index                              ..           32.4
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                               340             780            610                490            490
Consumer price index (1987=100)                     28              82            158                266            275
Food price index (1987=100)                          ..             93             81
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
(% of income or consumption)
Lowest quintile
Highest quintile
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                  ..             ..            1.0                  ..            1.5
Education (% of GNP)                               ..            3.0            3.1                 5.3            3.6
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)             ..            0.9            0.2
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                             69
Male
Female
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                             32              36             41                 44             75
Urban                                           77             46              71                 63             80
Rural                                           21             30              24                 34             72
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                            ..             31             51                 56             80
DPT                                                ..             50             48                 55             81
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                 ..             ..             15
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                             46             47              56                 52             63
Male                                            44             46              55                 51             62
Female                                          47             49              58                 54             64
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)                119             80              54                 91             68
Under 5 (perthousand live births)                215            172             102                147             94
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                    544            489             413                448            231
Female (per 1,000 population)                  452            415             341                376            206
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)                  ..           430             500
World Development Indicators N998 CD-ROM, World Bank.



91                                Attachment IV
Page 1 of 2
Cameroon - Bank Group Program Summary, FY 1998-2000
Proposed IBRD/IDA Base-Case Lending Program, FY 1998-2000O
Strategic rewardsb  Implementationb
FY           Project                                 US$(M)        (HIM/L)         risks (HIMIL)
1998 AG.EXT.&RES. SUPPORT                               15.0          M                M
IUT DOUALA (LIL)                                   4.8          L                 L
SAC II IDA REFLOWS                                18.1          H                 H
SAC III                                          200.0          M                 L
Subtotal                            237.9
1999 BASIC ED.IMPROV.PROJ                               20.0          H                M
CHAD/CAM PIPE (CAM)                               70.0          M                 L
PET. TA/OIL SECTOR                                 5.0          M                 L
RAILWAY CONCESSION.                               10.0          H                 L
Subtotal                            105.0
2000 FORESTRY/ENVIRONMENT                               10.0          M                M
INFRASTRUCTURE                                    30.0          H                M
Subtotal                             40.0
Total, FY 1998-2000             382.9
a. This table presents the proposed program for the next three fiscal years.
b. For each project, indicate whether the strategic rewards and implementation risks are expected to be high (H),
moderate (M), or low (L).
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 05/27/98



92                             Attachment IV
Page 2 of 2
Cameroon - IFC and MIGA Program, FY95-98
Past
Category                      1995         1996          1997         1998
IFC approvals (USSm)'                      0.00          0.00        20.00         75.00
Sector (%/)
0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Mining & Minerals                          0.00          0.00        100.00       100.00
TOTAL                                  100.00       100.00        100.00       100.00
Investment instrument (%)
Loans                                  0.00         0.00        100.00       100.00
Equity                                 0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Quasi-Equity b                         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Other                                  0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
TOTAL                                     100.00       100.00        100.00       100.00
MIGA guarantees (USSm)                       .47         0.00         0.00          0.00
MIGA commitments (US$m)                    0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
aExcludes .AEF projects.
'Includes quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 05/24/98



Attachment V
93
Cameroon - Selected Indicators of
Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
Indicator                                              1995        1996         1997         1998
Portfolio Assessment
Number of Projects under implementationa                  8            9           8            7
Average implementation period (years)b                 4.24         3.36        3.72         3.93
Percent of problem projectsa, c
by number                                       62.50        33.33       87.50        57.14
by amount                                       74.97        20.91       94.47        33.56
Percent of projects at riska, d
by number                                       83.33        62.50      100.00       100.00
by amount                                       94.33        77.54      100.00       100.00
Disbursement ratio (%/O)e                              8.26         8.63        6.42         7.35
Porfolio Management
CPPR during the year (yes/no)                           No           No          Yes          Yes
Supervision resources (total US$)                    397.31       750.77      680.77       429.14
Average Supervision (US$project)                      49.66        83.42       85.10        61.31
Memorandum item                                    Since FY80     Last five FYs
Projects evaluated by OED
by number                                             47               15
by amount (US$ millions)                          1620.90          943.60
Percent rated U or HU
by number                                           48.94           86.67
by amount                                           59.52           85.87
a. As shown in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (except for current FY)
b. Average age of projects in the Bank's country portfolio.
c. Percent of projects rated U or HU on development objectives (DO) and/or implementation progress (IP).
d.  As defined under the Portfolio Improvement Program.
e. Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the beginning of the
year: investment projects only.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)on 05/27/98



Status of Bank Group Operations in Cameroon
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                  and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                   disbursements a/    Supervision Rating bl
Project ID    Credit       Year              Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                          IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj             Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 79
Active Loans
CM-PE-376     IBRD 31850  1990  GOVT OF CAMEROON                   AGRIC.EXT.TRAINING           21.00        0.00            0.00          2.67       2.66       0.00       S             S
CM-PE-400      2SRD 33880  1992  GOVT. OF CAMEROON                  FOOD SECURITY               23.00        0.00           10.60          1.07      10.06      -1.01       U             U
CM-PE-35599   IDA 27030   1995  GOVERNHENT                         TRNSPT SECTOR T. A.           0.00       10.20            0.00          2.87       3.40       0.00       S             S
CM-PE-411     IDA 26840   1995  GOVERNMENT                         HLTH/FERT/NUTRITION           0.00       43.00            0.00         35.83      17.23       0.00       U          -  U
CM-PE-41553   IDA 28820   1996                                      PE/TA                        0.00       12.60            0.00         10.35       6.63       0.00       S             U
CM-PE-393     IDA 28690   1996  GOVERNMENT                         TRANSPORT SECTOR              0.00       60.70            0.00         55.71       7.49       0.00       U             U
CM-PE-39856   IDA 28133   1998  GOVT OF CAMEROON                   SAC II                        0.00       18.10            0.00         17.39      12.51      13.86       S             S
Total                                                                                           44.00      144.60           10.60        125.89      59.98      12.85
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Totai Disbursed (IBRD and IDAI:                  44.25            1,619.78            1,664.03
of which has been repaid:                  2.95              658.59              661.54
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 181.34              969.58            1,150.92
Amount sold                      :                0.00               13.45               13.45
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               13.45               13.45
Total Undisbursed               :               125.89                 .05              125.94
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901?, August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
S rt
OQ Gt
00
Generated by the Operations Information System (0(S) on 05124198



95
Attachment VI
Page 2 of 2
Cameroon
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-98
(In IJS Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1979                  Alucam                  0.00     .93    0.00    0.00    0.00      .93    0.00    0.00
1986                  CICAM                   2.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.09    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/94/97            Pecten Cameroon        36.56    0.00    0.00  109.67   30.56    0.00    0.00   91.67
1994/96               AEF Proleg               .86    ..48    0.00    0.00      .86     .48    0.00    0.00
1994/96               AEF United Trspt         .76    0.00    0.00    0.00      .76    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  AEF Comp Avicole         .29    0.00    0.00    0.00      .29    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Notacam              .75    0.00    0.00    0.00      .75    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   41.31    1.41    0.00  109.67   35.31    1.41    0.00   91.67
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998                  PECTEN - MOKOKO        75.00    0.00    0.00  190.00
Total Pending Commitment:          75.00    0.00    0.00  190.00
Generated by the Operations Infonmation System (OIS) on 05/24/98



