Report No. PID6517
Project Name                     Cameroon-Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Non-sectoral
Project ID                       CMPA54443
Borrower                         Republic of Cameroon
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy and Finance
Date this PID prepared           April 29 1998
Project Appraisal date           May 4, 1998
Projected Board date             June 25, 1998
A.      Country Background.
1.      Cameroon, the largest Central African economy of the CFA zone, was spared
the shocks of the early 1980s since its crude oil extraction, though small,
was growing. But starting in 1985 three major shocks exposed the underlying
weakness in economic structure and policy. First, sharp declines in coffee,
cocoa and oil prices led to a 60 percent deterioration in the external terms
of trade by 1988; second, oil output began to decline sharply; and the real
exchange rate appreciated by 60 percent between 1985 and 1988, thus reducing
Cameroon's external competitiveness. Initially, Cameroon attempted to adjust
internally by reducing producer prices and public expenditures, including a
50% cut in civil service wages, however the internal adjustment strategy could
not restore the conditions for growth. By 1993, per capita GDP had declined
by 50 percent, even more so amongst lower income producers of export crops
such as coffee and cocoa. Public utility services declined markedly, due to
lack of investment and mismanagement in the publicly owned companies.
Government cut basic health and education funding leading to major decline in
delivery systems and school enrollment.
2.      Following the devaluation of the CFAF in January 1994, there was a return
to growth. An IDA Economic Recovery Credit and IMF Standbys supported the
post devaluation measures. Cameroon, however, did not reap the full expected
benefits. Failure to meet program objectives led to the breakdown of several
IMF-supported programs and the Government was unwilling to tackle the
structural distortions impeding growth. Justifiably, Cameroon continued to
have the reputation of being a "reluctant reformer".
3.      However, a major cabinet reshuffle in September 1996, brought a team of
players with true determination to tackle the economy's fundamental problems.
IDA's Second Structural Adjustment Credit, approved by the Board in January
1996, set the stage for a renewed reform effort. Policy and economic
management began to benefit from the able interventions of a technocratic
Prime Minister and a decisive, politically powerful Finance Minister. An
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) was approved by the IMF Board
in August 1997, and a PFP was negotiated with the Bank and the Fund. The
possibilities of sustained reform have been further enhanced by recent
governmental changes following peaceful legislative and presidential elections
held, respectively, in May and October 1997. The ruling party gained a number



of seats and so obtained an overall majority in the Assembly. President Biya
was reelected after two major opposition parties decided to boycott the
elections.
4.      The President appointed a new government in early December 1997, which
consolidates the position of the coherent reformist group which emerged in
late 1996. The Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, and their economic team
remain in place, while other reformers have been promoted to high level
positions. Of perhaps equal significance is the fact that longtime opponents
of reform, largely responsible for the failed macroeconomic and structural
adjustment programs, have been replaced by younger technocrats in favor of
change. The President has, initiated a policy of opening and intensifying
dialogue with opposition groups. The leader of one of the major parties which
boycotted the election has been brought into the Government as Minister of
State for Commerce and Industry.
B.      Recent Economic Performance
5.      Growth.   Following the devaluation, economic growth turned positive for
the first time in a decade, reaching 5 percent in 1995-96 and 1996-97.
Inflation has been reduced from 30 percent in the first year following the
devaluation to 4.3 percent in 1996-97. Non-oil exports have grown at up to 14
percent in volume terms. Gross national savings has risen from 11 percent of
GDP in 1993-94 to 15.6 percent in 1996-97, while gross domestic investment has
risen from 15.3 to 16.9 percent of GDP. On the monetary front, the growth
rate of credit to the private sector has risen steadily to 7 percent in 1996-
97 whereas credit to the public sector grew at about 2.5 percent per year.
6.      Budget.   Revenues increased from 10.1 percent of GDP in 1993-94 to 15.1
percent in 1996-97. During the same time period, non-interest expenditure was
contained in the range of 8.9 to 9.3 percent, so that the primary surplus
(excluding foreign financed investment) has risen from 0.8 percent of GDP in
1992-93 to 5.4 percent in 1995-96 and 5.8 percent in 1996-97. These large
primary surpluses, which are amongst the highest in the world, enabled the
authorities to make large external debt service payments and reduce external
arrears on non-reschedulable debt totaling US$450 M (about 5 percent of GDP)
during 1996-97, even though they received no external financial support from
multilateral and bilateral donors.
7.      External debt.   In October 1997, the Paris Club provided Cameroon with a
three-year flow rescheduling package providing 50 percent relief in present
value terms on arrears (excluding late interest) as of September 30, 1997 and
of maturities falling due from October 1997 to August 2000 on debt not
previously rescheduled or previously rescheduled on non-concessional terms.
Paris Club Creditors also agreed in principle to holding a meeting on debt
stock reduction in the year 2000 providing that: (a) Cameroon maintains
satisfactory relations with all Club members; and (b) the IMF program remains
on track. On the assumption that growth is sustained at 5 percent per annum,
and the 67 percent debt stock is agreed to by the Paris Club in 2000, which is
the decision point for the HIPC initiative, external debt is considered to be
broadly manageable from that point on. By 2003 debt service would constitute
23 percent of Government revenues, the NPV of debt to exports would be about
148 percent and annual debt service would be 16 percent of exports. These
ratios are well within the HIPC sustainability margins. Only a major external
trade shock would be likely to alter this conclusion.
- 2 -



8.      Structural reforms.   On the structural front, substantial reforms have
been made since 1994. Virtually all NTBs have been eliminated on exports and
imports (the notable exception is petroleum imports). Internally, the coffee
and cocoa trade has been completely liberalized. Import duties have been
rationalized and a VAT type turnover tax introduced. Export taxes have been
reduced from 15 to 10 percent, except for forestry products. A new forestry
code has been introduced, forestry taxes are being revised in an
environmentally sound manner, with a notable attempt to reduce implicit
subsidies to inefficient processing industries. The Labor Code has been fully
liberalized. A reform of the civil service has been initiated, with a decline
in the overall level of employment of about 20,000 in the last six years
including 4,500 departures in the last eighteen months alone. A number of key
loss-making public enterprises have been closed. On the privatization front,
the main rubber company was sold to an Asian investor in late 1996, in a fully
transparent manner. The new company has substantially increased investment
and employment. The banking sector has been successfully restructured,
profitability restored and prudential ratios satisfied. Insolvent banks have
been closed, and publicly owned banks are now under private management.
9.      Poverty reduction. Despite these achievements, poverty remains
widespread. About half the population lives below the poverty line of 148,000
CFAF (US$250) a year. Progress on poverty reduction has been limited in recent
years in part because of lackluster growth performance, and in part because of
the financial burden caused by the restoration of macroeconomic balances and
the improvement of relations with external creditors, which has put a serious
strain on public resources. Unemployment and underemployment are high, and
many rural and urban residents lack access to primary schooling, health care,
and safe water. Poverty reduction efforts have also suffered from the weak
institutional capacity and the inadequate delivery systems for core
infrastructure and social services.
10.     The strategy for poverty reduction in Cameroon must thus encompass two
areas: increased and sustained growth, and greater effectiveness of public
expenditures in areas that are key for lifting people out of poverty, mainly
the social sectors and basic infrastructure. The Government is developing a
national poverty reduction strategy along these lines, based on consultation
with and participation by all segments of society. The strategy, including
detailed sectoral action plans, is expected to be adopted towards the end of
FY99. To this end, a draft poverty reduction strategy statement has been
elaborated during the preparation of SAC III and is attached to the
Government's Letter of Development Policy. The proposed Credit, by addressing
key structural impediments to higher growth, and by fostering a better use of
public resources, is an integral part of the poverty reduction strategy.
C.      The Country's Adjustment Program.
11.     The goals of the Government's economic program for the medium term aims
at establishing the basis for a substantial acceleration in the growth of the
economy above 5 percent, in order to have a significant impact on employment
creation and poverty reduction. A higher growth rate is well within the
country's potential and is needed to impact upon per capita incomes and to
create significant employment opportunities for the rapidly growing young
labor force. The adjustment program will focus on consolidating and deepening
reforms in four areas: (a) the transport sector; (b) the privatization
program; (c) the financial sector; and (d) the forestry sector. The
-3 -



adjustment program will be cast in the overall CAS framework for promoting
growth and poverty reduction through (a) consolidating the benefits of the
devaluation; (b) promotion of a competitively efficient private sector; and
(c) improving incomes and productivity of the poor. This will require actions
in macroeconomic and public finance management, the incentives and regulatory
framework, and institutional development.
D.      The Proposed Credit:
12.     The proposed credit is for US$180 million. It would be disbursed in six
tranches: two would be cross-sectoral; and four would be linked to the
completion of agreed actions in the transport sector (one tranche), the
privatization program (two tranches), and the forestry sector (one tranche).
The first cross-sectoral tranche would be released on effectiveness, the
second upon completion of agreed reforms, probably in early 1999. The four
sectoral tranches would then be available for release, in any order, upon
completion of the package of reforms to which they are attached.
Conditionalities are summarized in Annex A. In addition, general conditions
for the release of all tranches include a viable macroeconomic framework for
growth and poverty reduction consistent with the objectives of the program,
and satisfactory execution of the adjustment program.
13.     Disbursements will follow the Bank's simplified procedures for adjustment
operations, will not be linked to specific purchases, and will have no
procurement requirements. IDA will deposit proceeds in an agreed Central Bank
account, and may request an audit thereof at any time.
14.     Implementation of the adjustment program will be monitored by an
interministerial committee chaired by the Minister of State for Economy and
Finance. The committee will be responsible for monitoring and evaluating
progress on the program's various components, relying on input from
participating ministries and institutions. The program's day-to-day
supervision will be the responsibility of the Comite Technique de Suivi (CTS),
which is chaired by the secretary general of MINEFI. IDA will monitor
implementation of the program through regular supervision missions and
Resident Mission participation in CTS meetings. In addition, privatization and
transport reforms will be supported by IDA-financed technical assistance
projects as well as by assistance from other donors (in particular, the
European Union and France). Implementation of the forestry component will
benefit from the IDA Forestry and Environment Project now being prepared, and
from continued bilateral assistance provided to the Ministry of Environment
and Forests by the Canadian International Development Agency. There will be
close liaison with the IMF regarding supervision of macroeconomic performance.
E.      Benefits and Risks
15.     Benefits:   Successful implementation of the adjustment program envisaged
in SAC III would provide the enabling environment and direct support to
achieve growth and poverty reduction objectives. The transport sector reform
program should have a significant beneficial impact on the cost of
international and domestic transport. The privatization program is expected
to lead to an increase in the availability and quality of key public utilities
(water, electricity and telecommunications); as well as increase in the
competitiveness of agricultural enterprises with attendant positive effects on
employment. The deepening of the financial sector reforms is expected to
further increase public sector confidence in the financial system leading to
- 4 -



an increase in its capacity to finance productive economic activity. The
forestry sector reforms should lead to more sustainable development of
forestry resources, and a higher level of rent capture by Cameroon with a
greater share going to local communities.
16.     The new adjustment program will help reduce the opportunities for
corruption, while improving transparency. The removal of the State from the
banking sector and the management of public utilities will substantially
reduce rent seeking. The restructuring of the Port of Douala and changes in
management will remove entrenched vested interests. In forestry the new
system of verifiable granting of concessions and ensuring the implementation
of land use plans will make more transparent a process which in the past
contained serious abuses. Government insistence on tax audits in forestry and
independent verification of receipts should greatly improve collections from
this major national resource.
17.     Risks:  The main risks are that the reform program will falter because
of (i) macroeconomic deficiencies, (ii) lack of Government commitment to
reforms, or (iii) institutional weaknesses.
18.     On the macroeconomic front, the main risk is that revenues might be less
than projected, because of a decline in oil prices and/or mismanagement, which
would undermine the authority's ability to adequately service their external
debt and finance badly needed development expenditures. This risk is
mitigated by the fact that macroeconomic management, which is closely
monitored by the IMF, has improved considerably over the last two years.
Furthermore, IMF program targets contain built-in adjusters to take account of
volatility in international prices, especially of oil-prices. At the same
time, the IMF is focusing on measures to improve the collection of non-oil
revenues, which is essential given the structural changes the economy is going
through. SAC III also supports important reforms in the forestry sector,
which should increase its contribution to the budget.
19.     Government commitment to economic reform and poverty reduction has
clearly increased in the past two years, as evidenced by the successful
implementation of SAC II. Moreover, the current administration increased its
strength in Parliament after the recent elections, and a committed group is
leading policy reforms. However, the reformers must deliver tangible benefits,
in terms of poverty reduction, to the general public if they are to prevail.
In this context, the Program will provide direct benefits to the public, such
as better quality of transport, improved availability of water, electricity
and telecommunications, improved security of deposits in financial
intermediaries, and better management of natural resources including
retention, by locally concerned communities, of a larger share of the benefits
of their utilization.
20.     The risk of program failure because of inadequate implementation capacity
will be handled by the provision of technical assistance as needed in the
context of IDA's ongoing TA operations, or by other donors associated with the
program.
Contact Point:
Brendan Horton, TM
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
- 5 -



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 12, 1998.
- 6 -



